[u'De novo Identification of DNA Modifications Enabled by Genome-Guided Nanopore Signal Processing', ['Marcus H Stoiber', 'Joshua Quick', 'Rob Egan', 'Ji Eun Lee', 'Susan E Celniker', 'Robert Neely', 'Nicholas Loman', 'Len Pennacchio', 'James B Brown'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Advances in single molecule sequencing technology have enabled the investigation of the full catalogue of covalent DNA modifications. We present an assay, Modified DNA sequencing (MoD-seq), that leverages raw nanopore data processing, visualization and statistical testing to directly survey DNA modifications without the need for a large prior training dataset. We present case studies applying MoD-seq to identify three distinct marks, 4mC, 5mC, and 6mA, and demonstrate quantitative reproducibility across biological replicates processed in different labs. In a ground-truth dataset created via in vitro treatment of synthetic DNA with selected methylases, we show that modifications can be detected in a variety of distinct sequence contexts. We recapitulated known methylation patterns and frequencies in E. coli, and propose a pipeline for the comprehensive discovery of DNA modifications in a genome without a priori knowledge of their chemical identities.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094672', [], [u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'Co-occurring eQTLs and mQTLs: detecting shared causal variants and shared biological mechanisms', ['Brandon Pierce', 'Lint Tong', 'Maria Argos', 'Farzana Jasmine', 'Muhammad Rakibuz-Zaman', 'Golam Sarwar', 'Md. Tariqul Islam', 'Hasan Shahriar', 'Tariqul Islam', 'Mahfuzar Rahman', 'Md. Yunus', 'Muhammad G. Kibriya', 'Lin S. Chen', 'Habibul Ahsan'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Inherited genetic variation impacts local gene expression and DNA methylation in humans.  Expression and methylation quantitative trait loci (cis-eQTLs and cis-mQTLs) often occur at the same genomic location, suggesting a common causal variant and shared mechanism.  Using DNA and RNA from peripheral blood of Bangladeshi individuals, we use co-localization methods to identify 3,695 eQTL-mQTL pairs that are likely to share a causal variant.  Using partial correlation analysis and mediation analysis, we identify >500 pairs with evidence of a causal relationships between expression and methylation (i.e., shared mechanism) with many additional pairs that we are underpowered to detect.   These co-localized pairs are enriched for SNPs showing opposite effects on expression and methylation, although a many affect multiple CpGs in opposite directions.  Evidence of shared SNP-age interaction also supports shared mechanisms for two eQTL-mQTL pairs.  This work demonstrates the pervasiveness of co-regulated expression and methylation traits in the human genome.  This approach can be applied to other types of molecular QTLs to enhance our understanding of regulatory mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094656', [], [u'University of Chicago;', u'University of Illinois at Chicago;', u'UChicago Research Bangladesh;', u'BRAC;', u'ICDDR,B']]
[u'10 Simple Rules for Sharing Human Genomic Data', ['Manuel Corpas', 'Charlotte Whicher', 'Nadezna V Kovalevskaya', 'Tom Byers', 'Amanda A McMurray', 'Fiona GG Nielsen', 'Varsha K Khodiyar'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'These 10 Simple Rules have been developed from our combined experiences of working with human genomic data, data repositories and data users. We do not claim that these rules will eliminate every possible risk of data misuse. Rather, we hope that these will help researchers to increase the reusability of their human genomic data, whilst also ensuring that the privacy of their subjects is maintained according to their consent frameworks. Many of the principles presented are also applicable to other types of clinical research data, where participant privacy is a concern.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094110', [], [u'Repositive;', u'Springer Nature']]
[u'Cross-species functional diversity within the PIN auxin efflux protein family', ["Devin Lee O'Connor", 'Mon Mandy Hsia', 'John Vogel', 'Ottoline Leyser'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'In plants, directional transport of the hormone auxin creates auxin concentration maxima and paths of transport that provide positional, polarity, and growth regulatory cues throughout development. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the polar-localized auxin transport protein PIN-FORMED1 (AtPIN1) is required to coordinate development during flowering. However, Arabidopsis has a derived PIN family structure; the majority of flowering plants have retained a clade of PIN proteins phylogenetically sister to PIN1, the Sister-of-PIN1 clade (SoPIN1), which has been lost in the Brassicaceae, including Arabidopsis. Based on PIN localization in the grasses Brachypodium distachyon and Zea mays, which have both SoPIN1 and PIN1 clades, we previously proposed that the organ initiation and vein patterning roles attributed to AtPIN1 were shared between the SoPIN1 and PIN1 clades in grasses. Here we show that sopin1 and pin1b mutants have distinct phenotypes in Brachypodium and thus the two clades are not functionally equivalent. sopin1 mutants have severe organ initiation defects similar to Arabidopsis atpin1 mutants, while pin1b mutants initiate organs normally but have increased stem elongation. Heterologous expression of Brachypodium PIN1b and SoPIN1 in Arabidopsis atpin1 mutants provides further evidence for functional distinction between the two clades. SoPIN1 but not PIN1b can complement null atpin1 mutants, while both SoPIN1 and PIN1b can complement an atpin1 missense allele with a single amino acid change. The different localization behaviors of SoPIN1 and PIN1b when heterologously expressed in Arabidopsis provide insight into how PIN accumulation at the plasma membrane, tissue-level protein accumulation, transport activity, and interaction, all contribute to the polarization dynamics that distinguish PIN family members. Combined, these results suggest that the PIN polarization and trafficking behaviors required for organ initiation differ from those required for other PIN functions in the shoot, and that in most flowering plants these functions are split between two PIN clades.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/089854', [], [u'Sainsbury Laboratory University of Cambridge, Cambridge UK.;', u'USDA-ARS Western Regional Research Center, Albany, CA.;', u'U.S. Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek, CA.']]
[u'Dynamically controlled light delivery over large brain volumes through tapered optical fibers', ['Ferruccio Pisanello', 'Gil Mandelbaum', 'Marco Pisanello', 'Ian Oldenburg', 'Leo Sileo', 'Jeffrey Markowitz', 'Ralph Peterson', 'Andrea Della Patria', 'Trevor Haynes', 'Mohamed Emara', 'Barbara Spagnolo', 'Sandeep R Datta', 'Bernardo Sabatini', 'Massimo De Vittorio'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Optogenetics promises spatiotemporal precise control of neural processes using light.  However, the spatial extent of illumination within the brain is difficult to control and cannot be adjusted using standard fiber optics.  We demonstrate that optical fibers with tapered tips can be used to illuminate either large brain volumes or dynamically selectable subregions. Remotely adjusting the light input angle to the fiber varies the light-emitting portion of the taper over several millimeters without movement of the implant.  We use this mode to activate dorsal versus ventral striatum of individual mice and reveal different effects of each manipulation on motor behavior.  Conversely injecting light over the full numerical aperture of the fiber results in light emission from the entire taper surface, achieving broader and more efficient optogenetic activation of neurons when compared to the standard flat-faced fiber stimulation. Thus, tapered fibers permit focal or broad illumination that can be precisely and dynamically matched to experimental needs.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094524', [], [u'IIT Lecce;', u'HHMI, HMS;', u'IIT and University of Salento, Lecce;', u'HMS;', u'Harvard Medical School, Howard Hughes Medical Institute;', u'Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia; University of Salento, Lecce']]
[u'The Bayesian-Laplacian Brain', ['Semir Zeki', 'Oliver Y. Chen'], u'December 15, 2016.', u"We discuss here what we feel could be an improvement in future discussions of the brain acting as a Bayesian-Laplacian system, by distinguishing between two classes of priors on which the brain's inferential systems operate. In one category are biological priors (\u03b2 priors) and in the other artefactual ones (\u03b1 priors). We argue that \u03b2 priors are inherited or acquired very rapidly after birth and are much more resistant to varying experiences than \u03b1 priors which, being continuously acquired at various stages throughout post-natal life, are much more accommodating of, and hospitable to, new experiences. Consequently, the posteriors generated from the two sets of priors are likewise different, being more constrained (i.e., precise) for \u03b2 than for \u03b1 priors.", u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094516', [], [u'University College London;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Two independent modes of chromosome organization are revealed by cohesin removal', ['Wibke Schwarzer', 'Nezar Abdennur', 'Anton Goloborodko', 'Aleksandra Pekowska', 'Geoffrey Fudenberg', 'Yann Loe-Mie', 'Nuno A Fonseca', 'Wolfgang Huber', 'Christian Haering', 'Leonid Mirny', 'Francois Spitz'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'The three-dimensional organization of chromosomes is tightly related to their biological function. Both imaging and chromosome conformation capture studies have revealed several layers of organization: segregation into active and inactive compartments at the megabase scale, and partitioning into domains (TADs) and associated loops at the sub-megabase scale. Yet, it remains unclear how these layers of genome organization form, interact with one another, and contribute to or result from genome activities. TADs seem to have critical roles in regulating gene expression by promoting or preventing interactions between promoters and distant cis-acting regulatory elements, and different architectural proteins, including cohesin, have been proposed to play central roles in their formation. However, so far, experimental depletions of these proteins have resulted in marginal changes in chromosome organization. Here, we show that deletion of the cohesin-loading factor, Nipbl, leads to loss of chromosome-associated cohesin and results in dramatic genome reorganization. TADs and associated loops vanish globally, even in the absence of transcriptional changes. In contrast, segregation into compartments is preserved and even reinforced. Strikingly, the disappearance of TADs unmasks a finer compartment structure that accurately reflects the underlying epigenetic landscape. These observations demonstrate that the 3D organization of the genome results from the independent action of two distinct mechanisms: 1) cohesin-independent segregation of the genome into fine-scale compartment regions, defined by the underlying chromatin state; and 2) cohesin-dependent formation of TADs possibly by the recently proposed loop extrusion mechanism, enabling long-range and target-specific activity of promiscuous enhancers. The interplay between these mechanisms creates an architecture that is more complex than a simple hierarchy of layers and can be central to guiding normal development.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094185', [], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'MIT;', u'Institut Pasteur, CNRS;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Institut Pasteur']]
[u'ISCA1 and CRY4: An improbable proposition', ['Tobias Hochstoeger', 'Simon Nimpf', 'David Keays'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'In their recent manuscript Xie and colleagues argue that pigeon ISCA1 and CRY4 act as a magnetic protein biocompass asserting that they have unambiguously proved that these two proteins interact and form a complex with unique biophysical features. We do not think the evidence presented in their manuscript supports this conclusion. Firstly, we show that for all of their experiments Xie and colleagues employed the incorrect sequence of CRY4, which did not include the functionally critical C-terminal tail. Secondly, we demonstrate that both CRY4 and ISCA1 are broadly expressed in all pigeon tissues, lacking the spatially restricted expression pattern that would one would except from a specialised sensory molecule. We conclude that ISCA1 and CRY4, even if they do interact in vivo, are highly unlikely to form a functional protein biocompass.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094458', [], [u'IMP']]
[u'A magnetic protein compass ?', ['Michael Winklhofer', 'Henrik Mouritsen'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Qin et al. (A magnetic protein compass, Nature Materials 15, 217-226, 2016) claim that "MagR is the first known protein that carries an intrinsic magnetic moment at ambient temperature". We show here that the claim must, unfortunately, be fundamentally wrong.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094607', [], [u'University of Oldenburg']]
[u'Vitrification after multiple rounds of sample application and blotting improves particle density on cryo-electron microscopy grids.', ['Joost Snijder', 'Andrew J Borst', 'Annie Dosey', 'Alexandra C Walls', 'Anika Burrell', 'Vijay S Reddy', 'Justin M Kollman', 'David Veesler'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Single particle cryo-electron microscopy (cryoEM) is becoming widely adopted as a tool for structural characterization of biomolecules at near-atomic resolution. Vitrification of the sample to obtain a dense distribution of particles within a single field of view remains a major bottleneck for the success of such experiments. Here, we describe a simple and cost-effective method to increase the density of frozen-hydrated particles on grids with holey carbon support films. It relies on performing multiple rounds of sample application and blotting prior to plunge freezing in liquid ethane. We show that this approach is generally applicable and significantly increases particle density for a range of samples, such as small protein complexes, viruses and filamentous assemblies. The method is versatile, easy to implement, minimizes sample requirements and can enable characterization of samples that would otherwise resist structural studies using single particle cryoEM.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094623', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Washington;', u'The Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'Development of Narrow Spectrum ATP-competitive Kinase Inhibitors as Probes for BIKE and AAK1', ['Rafael M. Counago', 'Alison D. Axtman', 'Hatylas Azevedo', 'David H. Drewry', 'Jonathan M. Elkins', 'Opher Gileadi', 'Cristiano R. W. Guimaraes', 'Alessandra Mascarello', 'Carrow I. Wells', 'Timothy M. Willson', 'William J. Zuercher'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Understanding the structural determinants of inhibitor selectivity would facilitate the design and preparation of kinase probes. We describe a pair of matched compounds differing only by one degree of saturation but showing dramatic differential activities at select kinases. We utilized x-ray crystallography and computational analysis to rationalize the basis of the differential activity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094631', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'Universidade Estadual de Campinas;', u'UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy;', u'Ache Laboratorios Famaceuticos SA;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Mathematical constraints on FST: biallelic markers in arbitrarily many populations', ['Nicolas Alcala', 'Noah A Rosenberg'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'FST is one of the most widely used statistics in population genetics. Recent mathematical studies have identified constraints on FST  that challenge interpretations of FST  as a measure with potential to range from 0 for genetically similar populations to 1 for divergent populations. We generalize results obtained for population pairs to arbitrarily many populations, characterizing the mathematical relationship between FST , the frequency M of the more frequent allele at a polymorphic biallelic marker, and the number of subpopulations K. We show that for fixed K, FST  has a peculiar constraint as a function of M, with a maximum of 1 only if M = i/K for integers i with floor(K/2) \u2264 i \u2264 K-1. For fixed M, as K grows large, the range of FST  becomes the full closed or half-open unit interval. For fixed K, however, some M < (K-1)/K always exists at which the upper bound on FST  is constrained to be below 2\u221a2-2 \u2248 0.8284. In each of three migration models---island, rectangular stepping-stone, and linear stepping-stone---we use coalescent simulations to show that under weak migration, FST  depends strongly on the allele frequency M when K is small, but not when K is large. Finally, using data on human genetic variation, we employ our results to explain the generally smaller FST  values between pairs of continents relative to global FST  values. We discuss implications for the interpretation and use of FST.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094433', [u'Genetics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Cell cycle dynamics of chromosomal organisation at single-cell resolution', ['Takashi Nagano', 'Yaniv Lubling', 'Csilla Varnai', 'Carmel Dudley', 'Wing Leung', 'Yael Baran', 'Netta Mandelson Cohen', 'Steven Wingett', 'Peter Fraser', 'Amos Tanay'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Chromosomes in proliferating metazoan cells undergo dramatic structural metamorphoses every cell cycle, alternating between a highly condensed mitotic structure facilitating chromosome segregation, and a decondensed interphase structure accommodating transcription, gene silencing and DNA replication. These cyclical structural transformations have been evident under the microscope for over a century, but their molecular-level analysis is still lacking. Here we use single-cell Hi-C to study chromosome conformations in thousands of individual cells, and discover a continuum of cis-interaction profiles that finely position individual cells along the cell cycle.We show that chromosomal compartments, topological domains (TADs), contact insulation and long-range loops, all defined by ensemble Hi-C maps, are governed by distinct cell cycle dynamics. In particular, DNA replication correlates with build-up of compartments and reduction in TAD insulation, while loops are generally stable from G1 through S and G2. Analysing whole genome 3D structural models using haploid cell data, we discover a radial architecture of chromosomal compartments with distinct epigenomic signatures. Our single-cell data creates an essential new paradigm for the re-interpretation of chromosome conformation maps through the prism of the cell cycle.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094466', [u'Genomics'], [u'The Babraham Institute;', u'Weizmann Institute;', u'Babraham Institute']]
[u'Diversity patterns across 1,800 chloroplast genomes of wild (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) and cultivated rice (O. sativa L.)', ['Peter Civan', 'Terence A. Brown'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Cultivated Asian rice (O. sativa L.) comprises several groups with distinct ecological requirements and culinary uses. While the two subspecies of O. sativa - indica and japonica - have been subjected to a multitude of genetic and genomic analyses, less is known about the origins and diversity of the agronomically marginal groups - aus and aromatic rice. Here we reconstructed complete chloroplast genomes of over 1,800 accessions of wild and cultivated rice, including 240 aus and 73 aromatic varieties, and analysed the haplotype diversity of the taxonomic groups. We confirm the deep phylogenetic divergence between the main chloroplast haplotypes of japonica and indica, and reveal unique profiles of chloroplast diversity in aus and aromatic rice. Our results indicate that the latter two groups are not simple derivatives of indica and japonica, respectively, but originated from independent and/or reticulate domestication processes. Absence of phylogeographic patterns in the wild distribution of chloroplast haplogroups did not allow firm conclusions about geographic origins and the role of inter-group gene flow. Nonetheless, our results suggest that the domestication of indica, japonica, aus and aromatic rice operated on genetically different gene pools and followed different dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094482', [u'Genomics'], [u'School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Manchester']]
[u'Model-based branching point detection in single-cell data by K-Branches clustering', ['Nikolaos K. Chlis', 'F. Alexander Wolf', 'Fabian J. Theis'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Motivation: The identification of heterogeneities in cell populations by utilizing single-cell technologies such as single-cell RNA-Seq, enables inference of cellular development and lineage trees. Several methods have been proposed for such inference from high-dimensional single-cell data. They typically assign each cell to a branch in a differentiation trajectory. However, they commonly assume specific geometries such as tree-like developmental hierarchies and lack statistically sound methods to decide on the number of branching events.\nResults: We present K-Branches, a solution to the above problem by locally fitting half-lines to single-cell data, introducing a clustering algorithm similar to K-Means. These halflines are proxies for branches in the differentiation trajectory of cells. We propose a modified version of the GAP statistic for model selection, in order to decide on the number of lines that best describe the data locally. In this manner, we identify the location and number of subgroups of cells that are associated with branching events and full differentiation, respectively. We evaluate the performance of our method on single-cell RNA-Seq data describing the differentiation of myeloid progenitors during hematopoiesis, single-cell qPCR data of mouse blastocyst development and artificial data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094532', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Helmholtz Zentrum Muenchen ICB']]
[u'Single-channel in-Ear-EEG predicts the focus of auditory attention to concurrent tone streams and mixed speech', ['Lorenz Fiedler', 'Malte Woestmann', 'Carina Graversen', 'Alex Brandmeyer', 'Thomas Lunner', 'Jonas Obleser'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Conventional, multi-channel scalp electroencephalography (EEG) allows the identification of the attended speaker in concurrent-listening (cocktail party) scenarios. This implies that EEG might provide valuable information to complement hearing aids with some form of EEG and to install a level of neuro-feedback. To investigate whether a listeners attentional focus can be predicted from singlechannel hearing-aid-compatible EEG configurations, we recorded EEG from three electrodes inside the ear canal (in-Ear-EEG) and additionally from 64 electrodes on the scalp. In two different, concurrent listening tasks, participants (n = 7) were fitted with individualized in-Ear-EEG pieces and were either asked to attend to one of two dichotically-presented, concurrent tone streams or to one of two dioticallypresented, concurrent audiobooks. A forward encoding model was trained to predict the EEG response at single EEG channels. We found that all individual participants attentional focus could be predicted from single-channel EEG response recorded from short-distance configurations consisting only of a single in-Ear-EEG electrode and an adjacent scalp-EEG electrode. The responses to attended and ignored stimuli reveal differences consistent across subjects. In sum, our findings show that the EEG response from a single-channel, hearing-aid-compatible configuration provides valuable information to identify a listeners focus of attention.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094490', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Luebeck, Department of Psychology, Luebeck, Germany;', u'Eriksholm Research Centre A/S, Oticon, Denmark;', u'Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences, Leipzig, Germany']]
[u'A computational method for detection of structural variants using Deviant Reads and read pair Orientation: DevRO', ['Shumaila Sayyab', 'Nima Rafati', 'Miguel Carneiro', 'Herve Garreau', 'Goran Andersson', 'Leif Andersson', 'Carl Johan Rubin'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Background: Next generation sequencing (NGS) technology has made it possible to perform high-resolution screens for structural variants. Computational methods for detection of structural variants utilize paired-end mapping information, depth of coverage, split reads, or some combination of such data. The available methods are particularly designed to detect structural variants in single genomes or multiple genomes in a pairwise manner. The aim of this study was to develop a bioinformatics pipeline for detection of large structural variants using multiple pooled populations.  Results:  Here we describe the method "DevRO", developed to enable identification of structural variants using short insert paired-ends and long-range mate-pairs.  DevRO uses paired-end mapping information from both types of libraries for identification of inversions, deletions and duplications followed by read depth information to screen for copy number variants. DevRO can detect structural variants in multiple populations without the need for pairwise comparisons. It uses a combined approach based on (i) paired-end mapping and (ii) depth of coverage that gives power to the study as compared to traditional methods that are based on either of these. DevRO is also designed to detect deletions in the reference assembly, which is an added functionality as compared to available methods. Conclusion:  We report a bioinformatics pipeline "DevRO" for detection of structural variants using paired-end mapping and depth of coverage methods tested on sequencing reads from multiple pooled rabbit populations. This method is useful when large numbers of populations have been re-sequenced as compared to traditional methods that can detect structural variants in a pairwise manner.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094474', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences;', u'Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University;', u'CIBIO/Inbio, Centro de Investigacao em Biodiversidade e Recursos Geneticos, Universidade do Porto;', u'INRA, UMR1388 Genetique, Physiologie et Systemes d Elevage, F-31326 Castanet-Tolosan, France;', u'Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala']]
[u'A coarse-graining, ultrametric approach to resolve the phylogeny of prokaryotic strains with frequent recombination', ['Tin Yau Pang'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Introduction\nHomologous recombination happens when a foreign DNA segment replaces a similar segment on the genome of a prokaryotic cell. For a genome pair, recombination affects their phylogenetic reconstruction in multiple ways: (i) a genome can recombine with a DNA segment that is similar to the other genome of the pair, thereby reducing their pairwise sequence divergence; (ii) a genome can also recombine with a segment from an outgroup-genome and increase the pairwise divergence. Most phylogenetic algorithms cannot account for recombination; while some do, they cannot account for all effects of recombination.\n\nResults\nWe develop a fast algorithm that takes recombination into account and reconstructs ultrametric-trees. Instead of considering individual positions of genome sequences, we use a coarse-graining approach, which divides a genome sequence into short segments. For each genome pair considered, our coarse-graining phylogenetic (CGP) algorithm enumerates the pairwise single-site-polymorphisms (SSPs) on each segment to obtain the pairwise SSP-distribution; we then fit each empirical SSP-distribution to a theoretical SSP-distribution. We test the performance of our algorithm against other state-of-the-art algorithms on simulated and real genomes. For genomes with a substantial level of recombination, such as E. coli, we show that the age of internal nodes calculated by CGP is more accurate than those predicted by other algorithms, while the reconstructed tree topology is at least as accurate.\n\nConclusion\nWe develop a phylogenetic algorithm that accounts for recombination. It predicts ultrametric-trees more accurately than alternative algorithms, and is also substantially faster than the current state-of-the-art algorithms in recombination-aware phylogenetic reconstruction.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094599', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Heinrich-Heine-University Duesseldorf']]
[u'Single-cell transcriptomes of fluorescent, ubiquitination-based cell cycle indicator cells', ['Michael Bottcher', 'Tsukasa Kouno', 'Elo Madissoon', 'Efthymios Motakis', 'Imad Abugessaisa', 'Sachi Kato', 'Harukazu Suzuki', 'Yoshihide Hayashizaki', 'Takeya Kasukawa', 'Piero Carninci', 'Timo Lassmann', 'Jay Shin', 'Charles Plessy'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'We used a transgenic HeLa cell line that reports cell cycle phases through fluorescent, ubiquitination-based cell cycle indicators (Fucci), to produce a reference dataset of more than 270 curated single cells. Microscopic images were taken from each cell followed by RNA-sequencing, so that single-cell expression data is associated to the fluorescence intensity of the Fucci probes in the same cell. We developed an open data management and quality control workflow that enables users to replicate the processing of the sequence and microscopic image data that we deposited in public repositories. The workflow outputs a table with metadata, that is the starting point for further studies on these data. Beyond its use for cell cycle studies, We also expect that our workflow can be adapted to other single-cell projects using a similar combination of sequencing data and fluorescence measurements.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/088500', [u'Genomics'], [u'RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies;', u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'Telethon Kids Institute']]
[u'MECAT: an ultra-fast mapping, error correction and de novo assembly tool for single-molecule sequencing reads', ['Chuan-Le Xiao', 'Ying Chen', 'Shang-Qian Xie', 'Kai-Ning Chen', 'Yan Wang', 'Feng Luo', 'Zhi Xie'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'The high computational cost of current assembly methods for the long, noisy single molecular sequencing (SMS) reads has prevented them from assembling large genomes. We introduce an ultra-fast alignment method based on a novel global alignment score. For large human SMS data, our method is 7X faster than MHAP for pairwise alignment and 15X faster than BLASR for reference mapping. We develop a Mapping, Error Correction and de novo Assembly Tool (MECAT) by integrating our new alignment and error correction methods, with the Celera Assembler. MECAT is capable of producing high quality de novo assembly of large genome from SMS reads with low computational cost. MECAT produces reference-quality assemblies of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Arabidopsis thaliana, Drosophila melanogaster and reconstructs the human CHM1 genome with 15% longer NG50 in only 7600 CPU core hours using 54X SMS reads and a Chinese Han genome in 19200 CPU core hours using 102X SMS reads.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/089250', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Sun Yat-sen University;', u'School of Computing, Clemson University, Clemson']]
[u'Biodiversity of Tropical Forests', ['Anna Tovo', 'Samir Suweis', 'Marco Formentin', 'Marco Favretti', 'Jayanth R. Banavar', 'Sandro Azaele', 'Amos Maritan'], u'December 15, 2016.', u"The quantification of tropical tree biodiversity worldwide remains an open and challenging problem. In fact, more than two-fifths of the global tree population can be found either in tropical or sub-tropical forests, but species identities are known only for \u2248 0.000067% of the individuals in all tropical forests. For practical reasons, biodiversity is typically measured or monitored at fine spatial scales. However, important drivers of ecological change tend to act at large scales. Conservation issues, for example, apply to diversity at global, national or regional scales. Extrapolating species richness from the local to the global scale is not straightforward. Indeed, a vast number of different biodiversity estimators have been developed under different statistical sampling frameworks, but most of them have been designed for local/regional-scale extrapolations, and they tend to be sensitive to the spatial distribution of trees, sample coverage and sampling methods. Here, we introduce an analytical framework that provides robust and accurate estimates of species richness and abundances in biodiversity-rich ecosystems, as confirmed by tests performed on various in silico-generated forests. The new framework quantifies the minimum percentage cover that should be sampled to achieve a given average confidence in the upscaled estimate of biodiversity. Our analysis of 15 empirical forest plots shows that previous methods have systematically overestimated the total number of species and leads to new estimates of hyper-rarity at the global scale, known as Fisher's paradox. We show that hyper-rarity is a signature of critical-like behavior in tropical forests, and it provides a buffer against mass extinctions. When biotic factors or environmental conditions change, some of these rare species are more able than others to maintain the ecosystem's functions, thus underscoring the importance of rare species.", u'/content/early/2016/12/15/088534', [u'Ecology'], [u'Univerity of Padova;', u'University of Padova;', u'University of Maryland;', u'University of Leeds']]
[u'Patterns of temporal and enemy niche use by a community of leaf cone moths (Caloptilia) coexisting on maples (Acer) as revealed by metabarcoding', ['Ryosuke Nakadai', 'Atsushi Kawakita'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'The diversity of herbivorous insects is often considered a function of host plant diversity. However, recent research has uncovered many examples of closely related herbivores using the same host plant(s), suggesting that partitioning of host plants is not the only mechanism generating diversity. Herbivores sharing hosts may utilize different parts of the same plant, but such resource partitioning is often not apparent; hence, the factors that allow closely related herbivores to coexist are still largely undetermined. We examined whether partitioning of phenology or natural enemies may explain the coexistence of leaf cone moths (Caloptilia; Gracillariidae) associated with maples (Acer; Sapindaceae). Larval activity of 10 sympatric Caloptilia species found on nine maple species was monitored every 2-3 weeks for a total of 13 sampling events, and an exhaustive search for internal parasitoid wasps was conducted using high-throughput sequencing. Blocking primers were used to facilitate the detection of wasp larvae inside moth tissue. We found considerable phenological overlap among Caloptilia species, with two clear peaks in July and September-October. Coexisting Caloptilia species also had largely overlapping parasitoid communities; a total of 13 wasp species belonging to four families attacked Caloptilia in a non-specific fashion at an overall parasitism rate of 46.4%. Although coexistence may be facilitated by factors not accounted for in this study, it appears that niche partitioning is not necessary for closely related herbivores to stably coexist on shared hosts. Co-occurrence without resource partitioning may provide an additional axis along which herbivorous insects attain increased species richness.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094417', [u'Ecology'], [u'Center for Ecological Research, Kyoto University']]
[u'Perturbed human sub-networks by Fusobacterium nucleatum candidate virulence factors', ['Andreas Zanzoni', 'Sherazade Braham', 'Lionel Spinelli', 'Christine Brun'], u'December 15, 2016.', u"F. nucleatum is a gram-negative anaerobic species residing in the oral cavity and implicated in several inflammatory processes in the human body. Although F. nucleatum abundance is increased in inflammatory bowel's disease subjects and is prevalent in colorectal cancer patients, the causal role of the bacterium in gastrointestinal disorders and the mechanistic details of host cell functions subversion are not fully understood. \nWe devised a computational strategy to identify putative secreted F. nucleatum proteins (FusoSecretome) and to infer their interactions with human proteins based on the presence of host molecular mimicry elements. FusoSecretome proteins share similar features with known bacterial virulence factors thereby highlighting their pathogenic potential. We show that they interact with human proteins that participate in infection-related cellular processes and localize in established cellular districts of the host-pathogen interface. Our network-based analysis identified 31 functional modules in the human interactome preferentially targeted by 138 FusoSecretome proteins, among which we selected 26 as candidate virulence factors, representing both putative and known virulence proteins. Finally, 6 of preferentially targeted functional modules are implicated in the onset and progression of inflammatory bowel's diseases and colorectal cancer.\nOverall, our computational analysis identified candidate virulence factors potentially involved in the F. nucleatum - human cross-talk in the context of gastrointestinal diseases.", u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094136', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Inserm - Aix Marseille University']]
[u'The Stone Age Plague: 1000 years of Persistence in Eurasia', ['Aida Andrades Valtuena', 'Alissa Mittnik', 'Ken Massy', 'Raili Allmae', 'Mantas Daubaras', 'Rimantas Jankauskas', 'Mari Torv', 'Saskia Pfrengle', 'Maria A. Spyrou', 'Michal Feldman', 'Wolfgang Haak', 'Kirsten I. Bos', 'Philipp W. Stockhammer', 'Alexander Herbig', 'Johannes Krause'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Molecular signatures of Yersinia pestis were recently identified in prehistoric Eurasian individuals, thus suggesting Y. pestis might have caused some form of plague in humans prior to the first historically documented pandemic. Here, we present four new Y. pestis genomes from the European Late Neolithic and Bronze Age (LNBA) dating from 4,500 to 3,700 BP. We show that all currently investigated LNBA strains form a single genetic clade in the Y. pestis phylogeny that appears to be extinct today. Interpreting our data within the context of recent ancient human genomic evidence, which suggests an increase in human mobility during the LNBA, we propose a possible scenario for the spread of Y. pestis during the LNBA: Y. pestis may have entered Europe from Central Eurasia during an expansion of steppe pastoralists, possibly persisted within Europe until the mid Bronze Age, and moved back towards Central Eurasia in subsequent human population movements.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094243', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History;', u'Ludwig-Maximilians-University;', u'Archaeological Research Collection, Tallinn University;', u'Department of Archaeology, Lithuanian Institute of History;', u'Department of Anatomy, Histology and Anthropology, Vilnius University;', u'Independent researcher;', u'Institute for Archaeological Sciences, Archaeo- and Palaeogenetics, University of Tuebingen']]
[u'Integrating proteomics and selected reaction monitoring to develop a non-invasive assay for geoduck reproductive maturation', ['Emma B. Timmins-Schiffman', 'Grace A. Crandall', 'Brent Vadopalas', 'Michael E. Riffle', 'Brook L. Nunn', 'Steven B. Roberts'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Geoduck clams (Panopea generosa) are an increasingly important fishery and aquaculture product in the United States while also holding essential ecological roles. These long-lived clams are highly fecund, but sustainable hatchery production of genetically diverse larvae is hindered by the lack of sexual dimorphism, resulting in asynchronous spawning of broodstock, unequal sex ratios, and low numbers of breeders. Assays of gonad physiology could indicate both sex and maturation stage. Proteomic profiles were determined for three reproductive maturation stages in both male and female clams using data dependent acquisition (DDA), or whole proteome profiling, of gonad proteins. Gonad proteomes became increasingly divergent between males and females as maturation progressed. The DDA data was used to develop targets analyzed with selected reaction monitoring (SRM) in gonad tissue as well as hemolymph. The SRM assay yielded a suite of indicator peptides that can be used as an efficient assay to non-lethally determine geoduck sex and maturation stage pre-spawning. These results lay the foundation for the development of field-based tools to assess reproductive status in marine mollusks.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094615', [u'Physiology'], [u'Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98105;', u'Department of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98105;', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98105']]
[u'Shared Nearest Neighbor clustering in a Locality Sensitive Hashing framework', ['Sawsan Kanj', 'Thomas Bruls', 'Stephane Gazut'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'We present a new algorithm to cluster high dimensional sequence data, and its application to the field of metagenomics, which aims to reconstruct individual genomes from a mixture of genomes sampled from an environmental site, without any prior knowledge of reference data (genomes) or the shape of clusters. Such problems typically cannot be solved directly with classical approaches seeking to estimate the density of clusters, e.g., using the shared nearest neighbors rule, due to the prohibitive size of contemporary sequence datasets. We explore here a new method based on combining the shared nearest neighbor (SNN) rule with the concept of Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH). The proposed method, called LSH-SNN, works by randomly splitting the input data into smaller-sized subsets (buckets) and employing the shared nearest neighbor rule on each of these buckets. Links can be created among neighbors sharing a sufficient number of elements, hence allowing clusters to be grown from linked elements. LSH-SNN can scale up to larger datasets consisting of millions of sequences, while achieving high accuracy across a variety of sample sizes and complexities.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/093898', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CEA-LIST;', u'CEA']]
[u'Rigid geometry solves \u201ccurse of dimensionality\u201d effects: an application to proteomics', ['Shun Adachi'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Motivation: Quality of sample preservation at ultralow temperatures for a long term is not well studied. To improve our understandings, we need an evaluation strategy for analyzing protein degradation or metabolism at subfreezing temperatures. In this manuscript, we obtained LC/MS (liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry) data of calculated protein signal intensities in HEK-293 cells to monitor them. \nResults: Our first trial for directly clustering the values has failed in proper arrangement of the sample clusters, most likely by the effects from \u201ccurse of dimensionality\u201d. By utilizing rigid geometry with p-adic (I-adic) metric, however, we could succeed in rearrange the sample clusters to meaningful orders. Thus we could eliminate \u201ccurse of dimensionality\u201d from the data set. We discuss a possible interpretation for a group of protein signal as a quasiparticle Majorana fermion. It is possible that our calculation elucidates a characteristic value of a system in almost neutral logarithmic Boltzmann distribution of any type.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094391', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Kyoto University']]
[u'Dynamic flexibility in striatal-cortical circuits supports reinforcement learning', ['Raphael T. Gerraty', 'Juliet Y Davidow', 'Karin Foerde', 'Adriana Galvan', 'Danielle S Bassett', 'Daphna Shohamy'], u'December 15, 2016.', u'Complex learned behaviors involve the integrated action of distributed brain circuits.  While the contributions of individual regions to learning have been extensively investigated, understanding how distributed brain networks orchestrate their activity over the course of learning remains elusive. To address this gap, we used fMRI combined with tools from dynamic network neuroscience to obtain time-resolved descriptions of network coordination during reinforcement learning. We found that reinforcement learning involves dynamic changes in network coupling between the striatum and distributed brain networks. Moreover, we found that the degree of flexibility in whole-brain circuit dynamics correlates with participants learning rate, as derived from reinforcement learning models.  Finally, we found that episodic memory, measured in the same participants at the same time, was related to dynamic connectivity in distinct brain networks. These results support the idea that dynamic changes in network communication provide a mechanism for information integration during reinforcement learning.', u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094383', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'Harvard University;', u'New York University;', u'UCLA;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'A Reaction-Diffusion Model for Radiation-Induced Bystander Effects', ['Oluwole Olobatuyi', 'Thomas Hillen', 'Gerda de Vries'], u'December 15, 2016.', u"We develop and analyze a reaction-diffusion model to investigate the dynamics of the lifespan of a bystander signal emitted when cells are exposed to radiation. Experimental studies by Mothersill and Seymour 1997, using malignant epithelial cell lines, found that an emitted bystander signal can still cause bystander effects in cells even 60h after its emission. Several other experiments have also shown that the signal can persist for months and even years. Also, bystander effects have been hypothesized as one of the factors responsible for the phenomenon of low-dose hyper-radiosensitivity and increased radioresistance (HRS/IRR). Here, we confirm this hypothesis with a mathematical model, which we fit to Joiner's data on HRS/IRR in a T98G glioma cell line. Furthermore, we use phase plane analysis to understand the full dynamics of the signal's lifespan. We find that both single and multiple radiation exposure can lead to bystander signals that either persist temporarily or permanently. We also found that, in an heterogeneous environment, the size of the domain exposed to radiation and the number of radiation exposures can determine whether a signal will persist temporarily or permanently. Finally, we use sensitivity analysis to identify those cell parameters that affect the signal's lifespan and the signal-induced cell death the most.", u'/content/early/2016/12/15/094375', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Alberta']]
