[u'Report of Partial findings from the National Toxicology Program Carcinogenesis Studies of Cell Phone Radiofrequency Radiation in Hsd: Sprague Dawley\xae SD rats (Whole Body Exposure)', ['Michael Wyde', 'Mark Cesta', 'Chad Blystone', 'Susan Elmore', 'Paul Foster', 'Michelle Hooth', 'Grace Kissling', 'David Malarkey', 'Robert Sills', 'Matthew Stout', 'Nigel Walker', 'Kristine Witt', 'Mary Wolfe', 'John Bucher'], u'May 26, 2016.', u"The US National Toxicology Program (NTP) has carried out extensive rodent toxicology and carcinogenesis studies of radiofrequency radiation (RFR) at frequencies and modulations used in the US telecommunications industry. This report presents partial findings from these studies. The occurrences of two tumor types in male Harlan Sprague Dawley rats exposed to RFR, malignant gliomas in the brain and schwannomas of the heart, were considered of particular interest, and are the subject of this report. The findings in this report were reviewed by expert peer reviewers selected by the NTP and National Institutes of Health (NIH). These reviews and responses to comments are included as appendices to this report, and revisions to the current document have incorporated and addressed these comments. Supplemental information in the form of 4 additional manuscripts has or will soon be submitted for publication. These manuscripts describe in detail the designs and performance of the RFR exposure system, the dosimetry of RFR exposures in rats and mice, the results to a series of pilot studies establishing the ability of the animals to thermoregulate during RFR exposures, and studies of DNA damage.\n \nCapstick M, Kuster N, K\xfchn S, Berdinas-Torres V, Wilson P, Ladbury J, Koepke G, McCormick D, Gauger J, Melnick R. A radio frequency radiation reverberation chamber exposure system for rodents \n \nYijian G,  Capstick M, McCormick D, Gauger J,  Horn T, Wilson P,  Melnick RL and Kuster N. Life time dosimetric assessment for mice and rats exposed to cell phone radiation\n \nWyde ME, Horn TL, Capstick M, Ladbury J, Koepke G, Wilson P, Stout MD, Kuster N, Melnick R, Bucher JR, and McCormick D. Pilot studies of the National Toxicology Program's cell phone radiofrequency radiation reverberation chamber exposure system \n \nSmith-Roe SL, Wyde ME, Stout MD, Winters J, Hobbs CA, Shepard KG, Green A, Kissling GE, Tice RR, Bucher JR, Witt KL. Evaluation of the genotoxicity of cell phone radiofrequency radiation in male and female rats and mice following subchronic exposure", u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055699', [], [u'National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences']]
[u'Sexual transmission causes a marked increase in the incidence of Zika in women in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.', ['Flavio Codeco Coelho', 'Betina Durovni', 'Valeria Saraceni', 'Cristina Lemos', 'Claudia Torres Codeco', 'Sabrina Camargo', 'Luiz Max Carvalho', 'Leonardo Bastos', 'Denise Arduini', 'Daniel Villela', 'Margaret Armstrong'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'The recent emergence of Zika in Brazil and its association with increased congenital malformation rates has raised concerns over its impact on the birth rates in the country. Using data on the incidence of Zika in 2015-2016 and dengue in 2013 and 2015-16 for the city of Rio de Janeiro (pop: 6.4 million), we document a massive increase of Zika in women compared to men. Even after correcting for the bias due to the systematic testing of pregnant women for Zika, there are 90% more registered cases per 100,000 women in the sexually active age group (15-65 years) than for men but not before 15 or after 65. Assuming that infected men transmit the disease to women in their semen but that the converse is not true, some extra incidence in women is to be expected. An alternate hypothesis would be that women visit doctors more often than men. To test this, we compared the incidence of dengue fever in men and women in 2015 and in 2013 (before Zika reached Rio de Janeiro): in both years, women are 30% more likely to be reported with dengue.\n\nSumming up, women in the sexually active age bracket are far more likely to get Zika than men (+90% increase); sexual transmission is the most probable cause. Women in the 15-65 age group are also 30% more likely to be reported with dengue than men, which is probably due to women being more careful with their health.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055459', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Getulio Vargas Foundation;', u'Secretaria Municipal de Saude do Rio de Janeiro;', u'Funda\xe7ao Oswaldo Cruz;', u'MINES Paristech']]
[u'Virtual cortical resection reveals push-pull network control mechanism preceding seizure evolution', ['Ankit N Khambhati', 'Kathryn A Davis', 'Timothy H Lucas', 'Brian Litt', 'Danielle S Bassett'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'For approximately 20 million people with drug-resistant epilepsy, recurring, spontaneous seizures have a devastating impact on daily life. The efficacy of surgical treatment for controlling seizures is hindered by a poor understanding of how some seizures spread to and synchronize surrounding tissue while others remain focal. To pinpoint network regions that regulate seizure evolution, we present a novel method to assess changes in synchronizability in response to virtually lesioning cortical areas in a validated computational network model. In human patients implanted with electrocorticographic sensors, we apply our virtual cortical resection technique to time-varying functional networks and identify control regions that synchronize or desynchronize cortical areas using an antagonistic push-pull control scheme to raise or lower synchronizability. Our results suggest that synchronizability before seizures predicts seizure evolution: in focal seizures, the strongest controllers are located outside seizure-generating areas. These methods,while applied here to epilepsy, are generalizable to other brain networks, and have wide applicability in isolating and mapping functional drivers of brain dynamics in health and disease.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055566', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Could a neuroscientist understand a microprocessor?', ['Eric Jonas', 'Konrad Kording'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'There is a popular belief in neuroscience that we are primarily data  limited, that producing large, multimodal, and complex datasets  will, enabled by data analysis algorithms, lead to fundamental  insights into the way the brain processes information.   Microprocessors are among those artificial information processing systems   that are both complex and that we understand at all levels, from the overall  logical flow, via logical gates, to the dynamics of transistors.  Here we take a simulated classical microprocessor as a model organism, and use   our ability to perform arbitrary experiments on it to see if popular data analysis methods   from neuroscience can elucidate the way it processes information.  We show  that the approaches reveal interesting structure in the data but do not meaningfully describe the hierarchy of information processing in the processor.   This suggests that current approaches in neuroscience may fall short of producing meaningful models of the brain.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055624', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'Northwestern']]
[u'Knowledge.Bio: A Web application for exploring, building and sharing webs of biomedical relationships mined from PubMed', ['Richard Bruskiewich', 'Kenneth Huellas-Bruskiewicz', 'Farzin Ahmed', 'Rajaram Kaliyaperumal', 'Mark Thompson', 'Erik Schultes', 'Kristina M Hettne', 'Andrew I Su', 'Benjamin M Good'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'Knowledge.Bio is a web platform that enhances access and interpretation of knowledge networks extracted from biomedical research literature. The interaction is mediated through a collaborative graphical user interface for building and evaluating maps of concepts and their relationships, alongside associated evidence. In the first release of this platform, conceptual relations are drawn from the Semantic Medline Database and the Implicitome, two complementary resources derived from text mining of PubMed abstracts.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055525', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'STAR Informatics/Delphinai Corporation;', u'Leiden University Medical Center;', u'Scripps Research Institute;', u'The Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'A reference dataset of 5.4 million human variants validated by genetic inheritance from sequencing a three-generation 17-member pedigree', ['Michael A Eberle', 'Epameinondas Fritzilas', 'Peter Krusche', 'Morten Kallberg', 'Benjamin L Moore', 'Mitchell A Bekritsky', 'Zamin Iqbal', 'Han-Yu Chuang', 'Sean J Humphray', 'Aaron L Halpert', 'Semyon Kruglyak', 'Elliott H Margulies', 'Gil McVean', 'David R Bentley'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'Improvement of variant calling in next-generation sequence data requires a comprehensive, genome-wide catalogue of high-confidence variants called in a set of genomes for use as a benchmark. We generated deep, whole-genome sequence data of seventeen individuals in a three-generation pedigree and called variants in each genome using a range of currently available algorithms. We used haplotype transmission information to create a \u201cplatinum\u201d variant catalogue of 4.7 million single nucleotide variants (SNVs) plus 0.7 million small (1-50bp) insertions and deletions (indels) that are consistent with the pattern of inheritance in the parents and eleven children of this pedigree. Platinum genotypes are highly concordant with the current catalogue of the National Institute of Standards and Technology for both SNVs (>99.99%) and indels (99.92%), and add a validated truth catalogue that has 26% more SNVs and 45% more indels. Analysis of 334,652 SNVs that were consistent between informatics pipelines yet inconsistent with haplotype transmission (\u201cnon-platinum\u201d) revealed that the majority of these variants are de novo and cell-line mutations or reside within previously unidentified duplications and deletions. The reference materials from this study are a resource for objective assessment of the accuracy of variant calls throughout genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055541', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Illumina;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics']]
[u'Bringing Elton and Grinnell together: a quantitative framework to represent the biogeography of ecological interaction networks', ['Dominique Gravel', 'Benjamin Baiser', 'Jennifer A Dune', 'Jens-Peter Kopelke', 'Neo D Martinez', 'Tommi Nyman', 'Timothee Poisot', 'Daniel B Stouffer', 'Jason M Tylianakis', 'Spencer A Wood', 'Tomas Roslin'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'Biogeography has traditionally focused on the spatial distribution and abundance of species. Both are driven by the way species interact with one another, but also by the way these interactions vary across time and space. Here, we call for an integrated approach, adopting the view that community structure is best represented as a network of ecological interactions, and show how it translates to biogeography questions. We propose that the ecological niche should encompass the effect of the environment on species distribution (the Grinnellian dimension of the niche) and on the ecological interactions among them (the Eltonian dimension). Starting from this concept, we develop a quantitative theory to explain turnover of interactions in space and time i.e. a novel approach to interaction distribution modelling. We apply this framework to host parasite interactions across Europe and find that two aspects of the environment (temperature and precipitation) exert a strong imprint on species co-occurrence, but not on species interactions. Even where species co-occur, interaction proves to be stochastic rather than deterministic, adding to variation in realized network structure. We also find that a large majority of host-parasite pairs are never found together, thus precluding any inferences regarding their probability to interact. This first attempt to explain variation of network structure at large spatial scales opens new perspectives at the interface of species distribution modelling and community ecology.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055558.1', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u'University of Florida;', u'Santa Fe Institute;', u'Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum;', u'University of Arizona;', u'University of Eastern Finland;', u'Universite de Montreal;', u'University of Canterbury;', u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Washington;', u'Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Modelling the decay of hotspot motifs in broadly neutralizing antibody lineages', ['Kenneth Hoehn', 'Gerton Lunter', 'Oliver Pybus'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'Phylogenetic methods have shown great promise in understanding the development of broadly neutralizing antibody lineages (bNAbs). However, mutational process for generating these lineages - somatic hypermutation (SHM) - is biased by hotspot motifs, which violates important assumptions in most phylogenetic substitution models. Here, we develop a modified GY94-type substitution model which partially accounts for this context-dependency while preserving independence of sites in calculation. This model shows a substantially better fit to three well-characterized bNAb lineages than the standard GY94 model. We show through simulations that accounting for this can lead to reduced bias of other substitution parameters, and more accurate ancestral state reconstructions. We further explore other implications of this model; namely, that the number of hotspot motifs - and therefore likely the mutation rate in general - is expected to decay over time in individual bNAb lineages.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055517', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'The Social Networks of Neural Progenitor Cells', ['Arun S Mahadevan', 'Jacob T Robinson', 'Amina Ann Qutub'], u'May 26, 2016.', u'Quantitative understanding of how neural progenitor cells (NPCs) collectively self-organize into neural networks can provide critical insight into how to optimize neural regenerative strategies. To that end, we characterized the topology of human embryonic NPCs during differentiation by designing and employing a spatial graph-theoretic analysis. Statistical measures of information flow in NPC spatial graphs revealed a shift from topologies with high global efficiency to high local efficiency, around the time mature neuronal phenotypes appeared in culture. These results support the view that network-wide signaling in immature progenitor cells gives way to a more structured, hierarchical form of communication in mature neural networks. We also demonstrate that the evaluation of recurring motif patterns in NPC graphs reveals unique geometric arrangements of cells in neural rosette-like structures at early stages of differentiation. Our approach provides insight into the design of developing neural networks, opening the door for new approaches that modulate neural cell self-organization for therapeutic applications.', u'/content/early/2016/05/26/055533', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Rice University']]
