[u'Variation in mutation rates among human populations', ['Iain Mathieson', 'David E. Reich'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Mutations occur at vastly different rates across the genome, and between populations. Here, we measure variation in the mutational spectrum in a sample of human genomes representing all major world populations. We find at least two distinct signatures of variation. One, private to certain Native American populations, is novel and is concentrated at CpG sites. The other is consistent with a previously reported signature characterized by TCC>TTC mutations in Europeans and other West Eurasians. We describe the geographic extent of this signature and show that it is detectable in the genomes of ancient, but not archaic humans. We hypothesize that these two signatures are driven by independent processes and both result from differences in either the rate, or repair efficiency, of damage due to deamination of methylated bases - respectively guanine and cytosine for the two processes. Variation in these processes could be due to environmental, genetic, or life-history variation between populations, and dramatically affects the spectrum of rare variation in different populations.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063578', [u'Genetics'], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Modelling tree growth taking into account carbon source and sink limitations', ['Amaury Hayat', 'Andrew J Hacket-Pain', 'Hans Pretzsch', 'Tim Tito Rademacher', 'Andrew D Friend'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Increasing CO2 concentrations are strongly controlled by the behaviour of undisturbed forests, which are believed to be a major current sink of atmospheric CO2. There are many models which predict forest responses to environmental changes but they are almost exclusively carbon source (i.e. photosynthesis) driven. Here we present a model for an individual tree that takes into account also the intrinsic limits of meristems and cellular growth rates, as well as control mechanisms within the tree that influence its diameter and height growth over time. This new framework is built on process-based understanding combined with differential equations solved by the Runge-Kutta-Fehlberg (RKF45) numerical method. It was successfully tested for stands of beech trees in two different sites representing part of a long-term forest yield experiment in Germany. This model provides new insights into tree growth and limits to tree height, and addresses limitations of previous models with respect to sink-limited growth.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063594', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Fitzwilliam College;', u'Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen']]
[u'Strategic adjustment of parental care: life-history trade-offs and the role of glucocorticoids', ['Caglar Akcay', 'Adam Z. Lendvai', 'Mark Stanback', 'Mark Hausmann', 'Ignacio T. Moore', 'Fran Bonier'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Life history theory predicts that optimal strategies of parental investment will depend on ecological and social factors such as current brood value and offspring need. Parental care strategies are also likely to be mediated in part by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and glucocorticoid hormones. Here we present an experiment in tree swallows (Tachycineta bicolor), a biparental songbird with wide geographic distribution, asking whether parental care is strategically adjusted in response to signals of offspring need and brood value and whether glucocorticoids are involved in these adjustments. Using an automated playback system, we carried out playbacks of nestling begging calls specifically to females in two populations differing in their brood value: a northern population in Ontario, Canada (relatively high brood value) and a southern population in North Carolina, USA (lower brood value). We quantified female offspring provisioning rates before and during playbacks and plasma corticosterone levels (cort) once during late incubation and once immediately after playbacks. Females in both populations increased feeding rates temporarily during the first two hours of playback but the increase was not sustained for the entire duration of playback (six hours). Cort levels from samples at the end of the playback did not differ between control females and females that received playbacks. However, females that had higher increases in cort between the incubation and nestling period had greater fledging success. These results suggest that females are able to strategically respond to offspring need, although the role of glucocorticoids in this strategic adjustment remains unclear.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063313', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Virginia Tech;', u'University of Debrecen;', u'Davidson College;', u'Bucknell University;', u"Queen's University"]]
[u'Ancient coexistence of norepinephrine, tyramine, and octopamine signaling in bilaterians', ['Philipp Bauknecht', 'Gaspar Jekely'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Norepinephrine/noradrenaline is a neurotransmitter implicated in arousal and other aspects of vertebrate behavior and physiology. In invertebrates, adrenergic signaling is considered absent and analogous functions are attributed to the biogenic amine octopamine. Here we describe the coexistence of signaling by norepinephrine, octopamine, and its precursor tyramine in representatives of the two major clades of Bilateria, the protostomes and the deuterostomes. Using phylogenetic analysis and receptor pharmacology we show that six receptors coexisted in the protostome-deuterostome last common ancestor, two each for the three ligands. All receptors were retained in the genomes of the deuterostome Saccoglossus kowalewskii (a hemichordate) and the protostomes Platynereis dumerilii (an annelid) and Priapulus caudatus (a priapulid). Adrenergic receptors were lost from most insects and nematodes and tyramine and octopamine receptors were lost from most deuterostomes. These results clarify the history of monoamine signaling in animals and highlight the importance of studying slowly evolving marine taxa.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063743', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology']]
[u'Inference of epistatic effects and the development of drug resistance in HIV-1 protease', ['William F Flynn', 'Allan Haldane', 'Bruce E Torbett', 'Ronald M Levy'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Understanding the complex mutation patterns that give rise to drug resistant viral strains provides a foundation for developing more effective treatment strategies for HIV/AIDS. Multiple sequence alignments of drug-experienced HIV-1 protease sequences contain networks of many pair correlations which can be used to build a (Potts) Hamiltonian model of these mutation patterns. Using this Hamiltonian model we translate HIV protease sequence covariation data into quantitative predictions for the stability and fitness of individual proteins containing therapy-associated mutations which we compare to previously performed in vitro measurements of protein stability and viral infectivity. We show that the penalty for acquiring primary resistance mutations depends on the epistatic interactions with the sequence background and, although often destabilizing in a wildtype background, primary mutations are frequently stabilizing in the context of mutation patterns which arise in response to drug therapy. Anticipating epistatic effects is important for the design of future protease inhibitor therapies.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063750', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Rutgers University;', u'Temple University;', u'The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla']]
[u'ADPriboDB: The Database of ADP-ribosylated Proteins', ['Christina Vivelo', 'Ricky Wat', 'Charul Agrawal', 'Hui Yi Tee', 'Anthony Leung'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'ADP-ribosylation refers to the addition of one or more ADP-ribose units onto proteins post-translationally. This protein modification is often added by ADP-ribosyltransferases, commonly known as PARPs, but it can also be added by other enzymes, including sirtuins or bacterial toxins. While past literature has utilized a variety of methods to identify ADP-ribosylated proteins, recent proteomics studies bring the power of mass spectrometry to determine sites of the modification.  To appreciate the diverse roles of ADP-ribosylation across the proteome, we have created ADPriboDB, a database of ADP-ribosylated proteins (http://ADPriboDB.leunglab.org).  Each entry of ADPriboDB is annotated manually by at least two independent curators from the literature between January 1975 and July 2015.  The current database includes over 12,400 protein entries from 459 publications, identifying 2,389 unique proteins.  Here we describe the structure and the current state of ADPriboDB as well as the criteria for entry inclusion.  Using this aggregate data, we identified a statistically significant enrichment of ADP-ribosylated proteins in non-membranous RNA granules. To our knowledge, ADPriboDB is the first publicly available database encapsulating ADP-ribosylated proteins identified from the past 40 years, with a hope to facilitate the research of both basic scientists and clinicians to better understand ADP-ribosylation at the molecular level.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063768', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Indian Institute of Technology']]
[u'Molecular genetic aetiology of general cognitive function is enriched in evolutionarily conserved regions', ['Gail Davies', 'Sarah E Harris', 'Saskia P Hagenaars', 'David Liewald', 'Lars Penke', 'Catherine R Gale', 'Ian Deary'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Differences in general cognitive function have been shown to be partly heritable and to show genetic correlations with a several psychiatric and physical disease states. However, to date few single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have demonstrated genome-wide significance, hampering efforts aimed at determining which genetic variants are most important for cognitive function and which regions drive the genetic associations between cognitive function and disease states. Here, we combine multiple large genome-wide association study (GWAS) data sets, from the CHARGE cognitive consortium and UK Biobank, to partition the genome into 52 functional annotations and an additional 10 annotations describing tissue-specific histone marks. Using stratified linkage disequilibrium score regression we show that, in two measures of cognitive function, SNPs associated with cognitive function cluster in regions of the genome that are under evolutionary negative selective pressure. These conserved regions contained ~2.6% of the SNPs from each GWAS but accounted for ~ 40% of the SNP-based heritability. The results suggest that the search for causal variants associated with cognitive function, and those variants that exert a pleiotropic effect between cognitive function and health, will be facilitated by examining these enriched regions.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063636', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Georg August University Gottingen']]
[u'A massively parallel strategy for STR marker development, capture, and genotyping', ['Logan Kistler', 'Stephen M Johnson', 'Mitchell T Irwin', 'Edward E Louis', 'Aakrosh Ratan', 'George H Perry'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Short tandem repeat (STRs or microsatellites) variants, are highly polymorphic markers that facilitate powerful, high-precision population genetic analyses. STRs are especially valuable in conservation and ecological genetic research, yielding detailed information on population structure and short-term demographic flux. However, STR marker development and analysis by conventional PCR-based methods imposes a workflow bottleneck and is suboptimal for non-invasive sampling strategies such as fecal DNA recovery. While massively parallel sequencing has not previously been leveraged for scalable, efficient STR recovery, here we present a pipeline for developing STR markers directly from high-throughput shotgun sequencing data without requiring a reference genome assembly, and a methodological approach for highly parallel recovery of enriched STR loci. We first employed our approach to design and capture a panel of 5,000 STR loci from a test group of diademed sifakas (Propithecus diadema, n=3), endangered Malagasy rainforest lemurs, and we report extremely efficient recovery of targeted loci--97.3-99.6% of STRs characterized with \u226510x non-redundant coverage. Second, we tested our STR capture strategy on a P. diadema fecal DNA preparation, and report robust initial results and methodological suggestions for future implementations. In addition to STR targets, this approach also generates large, genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) panels from regions flanking the STR loci. Our method provides a cost-effective and highly scalable solution for rapid recovery of large STR and SNP datasets in any species without need for a reference genome, and can be used even with suboptimal DNA, which is more easily acquired in conservation and ecological genetic studies.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063727', [u'Genomics'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick;', u'Departments of Anthropology and Biology, Pennsylvania State University;', u'Department of Anthropology, Northern Illinois University;', u"Center for Conservation and Research, Omaha's Henry Doorly Zoo and Aquarium;", u'Department of Public Health Sciences and Center for Public Health Genomics, University of Virginia']]
[u'Sex differences in disease genetics', ['William Gilks'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'There is long-standing evidence for gene-by-sex interactions in disease risk, which can now be tested in genome-wide association studies with participant numbers in the hundreds of thousands. Contemporary methods start with a separate test for each sex, but simulations suggest a more powerful approach should be to use sex as an interaction term in a single test. The traits currently with the most compelling evidence for sex-dependent genetic effects are for adiposity (predictive of cardiac disease), type II diabetes, asthma and inflammatory bowel disease. Sexually dimorphic gene expression varies dynamically, by age, tissue type, and chromosome, so sex dependent genetic effects are expected for a wide range of diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063651', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Sussex']]
[u'Persistent activation of interlinked Th2-airway epithelial gene networks in sputum-derived cells from aeroallergen-sensitized symptomatic atopic asthmatics', ['Anya C Jones', 'Niamh M Troy', 'Elisha White', 'Elysia M Hollams', 'Alexander M Gout', 'Kak-Ming Ling', 'Anthony Kicic', 'Peter D Sly', 'Patrick G Holt', 'Graham L Hall', 'Anthony Bosco'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Rationale: Atopic asthma is a persistent disease characterized by intermittent wheeze and progressive loss of lung function. The disease is thought to be driven primarily by chronic aeroallergen-induced Th2-associated airways inflammation. However, the vast majority of atopics do not develop asthma-related wheeze, despite ongoing exposure to aeroallergens to which they are strongly sensitized, indicating that additional pathogenic mechanism(s) operate in conjunction with Th2 immunity to drive asthma pathogenesis.\nObjectives: Employ systems level analyses to identify inflammation-associated gene networks operative at baseline in sputum-derived RNA from house dust mite-sensitized  (HDMS) subjects with/without wheezing history; identify networks characteristic of the ongoing asthmatic state. All subjects resided in the constitutively-HDMhigh Perth environment.\nMethods: Genome wide expression profiling by RNASeq followed by gene coexpression network analysis. \nMeasurements/Results: HDMS-nonwheezers displayed baseline gene expression in sputum including IL-5, IL-13 and CCL17. HDMS-wheezers showed equivalent expression of these classical Th2-effector genes but their overall baseline sputum signatures were more complex, comprising hundreds of Th2-associated and epithelial-associated genes, networked into two separate coexpression modules. The first module was connected by the hubs EGFR, ERBB2, CDH1 and IL-13. The second module was associated with CDHR3, and contained genes that control mucociliary clearance. \nConclusions: Our findings provide new insight into the inflammatory mechanisms operative at baseline in the airway mucosal microenvironment in atopic asthmatics undergoing natural perennial aeroallergen exposure. The molecular mechanism(s) that determine susceptibility to asthma amongst these subjects involve interactions between Th2- and epithelial function-associated genes within a complex co-expression network, which is not operative in equivalently sensitized/exposed atopic non-asthmatics.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063602', [u'Immunology'], [u'Telethon Kids Institute, The University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia;', u'Child Health Research Centre, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia']]
[u'Changeover from signalling to energy-provisioning lipids during transition from colostrum to mature milk in the giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca)', ['Tong Zhang', 'David G. Watson', 'Rong Zhang', 'Rong Hou', 'Kati Loeffler', 'Malcolm W. Kennedy'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Among the large eutherian (placental) mammals, ursids (bears) give birth to the most altricial neonates with the lowest neonatal:maternal body mass ratios. This is particularly exemplified by giant pandas in whom the transition from colostrum to main-phase lactation is unusually prolonged. To examine whether there is compensation for the provision of developmentally important nutrients that other species groups may provide in utero, we examined colostrum and milk lipids from birth until the transition was complete. Lipids known to be developmental signals or their precursors, and those that are fundamental to nervous system construction, such as docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and phosphatidylserines containing DHA, appear early and then fall dramatically in concentration to a baseline at about 20 days. This also applies to other signalling lipids such as lysophosphatidylserines. The dynamics of lysophosphatidic acid and eicosanoids display a similar pattern, albeit less clearly and with differences between mothers. Triglycerides occur at relatively low levels initially and then increase in concentration with time post-partum until a plateau is reached at about 30 days or later. These patterns indicate an early provision of signalling lipids and their precursors, and lipids crucial to brain, retinal and central nervous system construction, followed by a changeover to lipids for energy metabolism. Thus, in giant pandas, and possibly among ursids in general, lactation is adapted to provisioning a highly altricial neonate to a degree that approximates to an extension of gestation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063701', [u'Zoology'], [u'University of Strathclyde;', u'Chengdu Research Base of Giant Panda Breeding;', u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'R-spondin1 regulates muscle progenitor cell fusion through control of antagonist Wnt signaling pathways', ['Floriane Lacour', 'Elsa Vezin', 'Florian Bentzinger', 'Marie-Claude Sincennes', 'Michael A Rudnicki', 'Robert D Mitchell', 'Ketan Patel', 'Marie-Christine Chaboissier', 'Anne-Amandine Chassot', 'Fabien Le Grand'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Tissue regeneration requires the selective activation and repression of specific signaling pathways in stem cells. As such, the Wnt signaling pathways have been shown to control stem cell fate. In many cell types, the R-Spondin (Rspo) family of secreted proteins acts as potent activators of the canonical Wnt/\u03b2-catenin pathway. Here, we identify Rspo1 as a mediator of skeletal muscle tissue repair. Firstly we show that Rspo1-null muscles do not display any abnormalities at the basal level. However deletion of Rspo1 results in global alteration of muscle regeneration kinetics following acute injury. We found that muscle stem cells lacking Rspo1 show delayed differentiation. Transcriptome analysis further demonstrated that Rspo1 is required for the activation of Wnt/\u03b2-catenin target genes in muscle cells. Furthermore, muscle cells lacking Rspo1 fuse with a higher frequency than normal cells, leading to larger myotubes containing more nuclei both in vitro and in vivo. We found the increase in muscle fusion was dependent on up-regulation of non-canonical Wnt7a/Fzd7/Rac1 signaling. We conclude that antagonistic control of canonical and non-canonical Wnt signaling pathways by Rspo1 in muscle stem cell progeny is important for restitution of normal muscle architecture during skeletal muscle regeneration.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063669', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie;', u'Nestle Institute of Health Sciences;', u'Ottawa Hospital Research Institute;', u'University of Reading;', u'Universite de Nice-Sophia Antipolis']]
[u'A correlation between Long noncoding RNA and unpaired DNA silencing in Drosophila', ['Utpal Bhadra', 'Manika Pal Bhadra', 'Indira Bag', 'Sreerangam NCVL Pusphavalli', 'Avadhesha Surolia'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Hybrid transgenes are often recognized as foreign genetic material by cell surveillance mechanisms and are repressed in expression inversely to their copy numbers. Here, we compare the expression of multiple Adh-promoter-white reporter (Adh-w) inserts in paired and unpaired configurations in Drosophila somatic cells. The unpaired copies exhibit a clear repression at the transcriptional level relative to paired gene dosage effect, which is dependent upon long noncoding RNA, Polycomb and piwi. Deficiency mapping using Adh-w constructs showed that a minimal sequence of 532 bp of the Adh promoter is required for unpaired DNA silencing. Long noncoding RNA detected from this region of the Adh promoter is abundant in the unpaired condition. It serves as a docking site for at least two proteins POLYCOMB and Piwi that are essential for active transcriptional silencing. The lesser abundance of noncoding RNAs in the paired configuration only allows PC binding. An active RNA-Protein complex binds to unpaired copies. The loss-of-function piwi mutation relieves transcriptional silencing even in association with POLYCOMB. It suggests that functional RNA-Piwi complex might create a silencing driven chromatin configuration by accumulating histone modifying enzymes at the Adh-w promoter target. This distinct transcriptional silencing that is stronger for unpaired DNA represents a novel mechanism to repress new transposon and foreign DNA insertions for protection of genome integrity.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063677', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology;', u'Indian Institute of Chemical Technology;', u'Indian Institute of Science']]
[u'Beyond spike-timing-dependent plasticity: a computational study of plasticity gradients across basal dendrites.', ['Jacopo Bono', 'Claudia Clopath'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Synaptic plasticity is thought to be the principal mechanism underlying learning in the brain. The majority of plastic networks in computational neuroscience combine point neurons with spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) as the learning rule. However, a point neuron does not capture the complexity of dendrites. These long branches emanating from the soma allow non-linear local processing of the synaptic inputs. Furthermore, experimental evidence suggests that STDP is not the only learning rule available to neurons. Implementing a biophysically realistic neuron model, we wondered how dendrites allow for multiple synaptic plasticity mechanisms to coexist in a single cell. We show how a local, cooperative form of synaptic strengthening becomes increasingly powerful at larger distances from the soma, typically depending on dendritic spikes, explaining recent experimental results. The cooperative mechanism compensates the ineffectiveness of STDP on weak inputs and in distal parts of the dendrites, enhances the flexibility of a neuron by gating STDP, and allows for novel and robust associative learning schemes. Our work predicts that many plasticity rules increase the computational power of a neuron, and their implementation in future network models could be crucial to gain a deeper understanding of learning in the brain.', u'/content/early/2016/07/13/063719', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Structural characterization of encapsulated ferritin provides insight into iron storage in bacterial nanocompartments', ['Didi He', 'Sam Hughes', 'Sally Vanden-Hehir', 'Atanas Georgiev', 'Kirsten Altenbach', 'Emma Tarrant', 'C Logan Mackay', 'Kevin J Waldron', 'David J Clarke', 'Jon Marles-Wright'], u'July 13, 2016.', u'Ferritins are ubiquitous proteins that oxidise and store iron within a protein shell to protect cells from oxidative damage. We have characterized the structure and function of a new member of the ferritin superfamily that is sequestered within an encapsulin capsid. We show that this encapsulated ferritin (EncFtn) has two main alpha helices, which assemble in a metal dependent manner to form a ferroxidase centre at a dimer interface. EncFtn adopts an open decameric structure that is topologically distinct from other ferritins. While EncFtn acts as a ferroxidase, it cannot mineralize iron. Conversely, the encapsulin shell associates with iron, but is not enzymatically active, and we demonstrate that EncFtn must be housed within the encapsulin for iron storage. This encapsulin nanocompartment is widely distributed in bacteria and archaea and represents a distinct class of iron storage system where the oxidation and mineralization of iron are distributed between two proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063495', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'The University of Edinburgh;', u'Newcastle University']]
