[u'Choice of reference genome can introduce massive bias in bisulfite sequencing data', ['Phillip Wulfridge', 'Ben Langmead', 'Andrew P Feinberg', 'Kasper Hansen'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Mapping bias can be introduced in analysis of short read sequencing data, if sequence reads are aligned to a different genome than the sample genome. Here we study mapping bias in whole-genome bisulfite sequencing using data from inbred mice. We show that the choice of reference genome used for alignment can profoundly impact the inferred methylation state, both for high and low resolution analyses.  This bias can result in wrongly identifying thousands of differentially methylated regions and hundreds of megabases of large-scale methylation differences. We show that the direction of these biased methylation differences can be reversed by changing the reference genome, clearly establishing mapping bias as a primary cause. We develop a strategy termed personalize-then-smooth for removing the bias by coupling alignment to personal genomes, with post-alignment smoothing. The smoothing step can be viewed as imputation, and allows a differential analysis to include methylation sites which are only present in some samples.  Our results have important implications for analysis of bisulfite converted DNA.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076844', [], [u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'SiLiCO: A Simulator of Long Read Sequencing in PacBio and Oxford Nanopore', ['Ethan Alexander Garcia Baker', 'Sara Goodwin', 'W. Richard McCombie', 'Olivia Mendivil Ramos'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Long read sequencing platforms, which include the widely used Pacific Biosciences (PacBio) platform and the emerging Oxford Nanopore platform, aim to produce sequence fragments in excess of 15-20 kilobases, and have proved advantageous in the identification of structural variants and easing genome assembly. However, long read sequencing remains relatively expensive and error prone, and failed sequencing runs represent a significant problem for genomics core facilities. To quantitatively assess the underlying mechanics of sequencing failure, it is essential to have highly re-producible and controllable reference data sets to which sequencing results can be compared. Here, we present SiLiCO, the first in silico simulation tool to generate standardized sequencing results from both of the leading long read sequenc-ing platforms.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076901', [], [u'Department of Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'PEMapper / PECaller: A simplified approach to whole-genome sequencing', ['Henry Richard Johnston', 'Pankaj Chopra', 'Thomas Wingo', 'Viren Patel', 'Michael Epstein', 'Jennifer Mulle', 'Stephen Warren', 'Michael Zwick', 'David J Cutler'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'The analysis of human whole-genome sequencing data presents significant computational challenges. The sheer size of datasets places an enormous burden on computational, disk array, and network resources. Here we present an integrated computational package, PEMapper/PECaller, that was designed specifically to minimize the burden on networks and disk arrays, create output files that are minimal in size, and run in a highly computationally efficient way, with the single goal of enabling whole-genome sequencing at scale. In addition to improved computational efficiency, we implement a novel statistical framework that allows for a base-by-base error model, allowing this package to perform as well or better than the widely used Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) in all key measures of performance on human whole-genome sequences.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076968', [], [u'Emory University School of Medicine Department of Human Genetics']]
[u'dbOTU3: A new implementation of distribution-based OTU calling', ['Scott W Olesen', 'Claire Duvallet', 'Eric J Alm'], u'September 22, 2016.', u"Distribution-based operational taxonomic unit-calling (dbOTU) improves on other approaches by incorporating information about the input sequences' distribution across samples. Previous implementations of dbOTU presented challenges for users. Here we introduce and evaluate a new implementation of dbOTU that is faster and more user-friendly. We show that this new implementation has theoretical and practical improvements over previous implementations of dbOTU, making the algorithm more accessible to microbial ecology and biomedical researchers.", u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076927', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Widespread allelic heterogeneity in complex traits', ['Farhad Hormozdiari', 'Anthony Zhu', 'Gleb Kichaev', 'Ayellet V. Segre', 'Chelsea J.-T. Ju', 'Jong Wha Joo', 'Hyejung Won', 'Sriram Sankararaman', 'Bogdan Pasaniuc', 'Sagiv Shiffman', 'Eleazar Eskin'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Recent successes in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) make it possible to address important questions about the genetic architecture of complex traits, such as allele frequency and effect size. One lesser-known aspect of complex traits is the extent of allelic heterogeneity (AH) arising from multiple causal variants at a locus. We developed a computational method to infer the probability of AH and applied it to three GWAS and four expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) datasets. We identified a total of 4152 loci with strong evidence of AH. The proportion of all loci with identified AH is 4-23% in eQTLs, 35% in GWAS of High-Density Lipoprotein (HDL), and 23% in schizophrenia. For eQTL, we observed a strong correlation between sample size and the proportion of loci with AH (R2=0.85, P = 2.2e-16), indicating that statistical power prevents identification of AH in other loci. Understanding the extent of AH may guide the development of new methods for fine mapping and association mapping of complex traits.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076984', [], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles, CA;', u'Bioinformatics IDP, University of California, Los Angeles, CA;', u'Cancer Program, The Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University;', u'Neurogenetics Program, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of Calif;', u'Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Department of Genetics, The Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem;', u'Department of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Genetic indicators of drug resistance in the highly repetitive genomes of Trichomonas vaginalis and other trichomonads', ['Martina Bradic', 'Sally D. Warring', 'Grace E. Tooley', 'Paul Scheid', 'William E. Secor', 'Kirkwood M. Land', 'Po-Jung Huang', 'Ting-Wen Chen', 'Chi-Ching Lee', 'Petrus Tang', 'Steven A. Sullivan', 'Jane M. Carlton'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Background\nTrichomonas vaginalis, the most common non-viral sexually transmitted parasite, causes ~283 million trichomoniasis infections annually and is associated with complications during pregnancy and increased risk of HIV-1 acquisition. The antimicrobial drug metronidazole is used for treatment, but has lead to widespread drug resistance. We undertook sequencing of multiple clinical isolates and lab derived lines to identify genetic markers and mechanisms of metronidazole resistance.\nResults\nReduced representation genome sequencings of more than 100 T. vaginalis clinical isolates identified 3,923 SNP markers and presence of a bipartite population structure. Linkage disequilibrium decays rapidly, suggesting genome-wide recombination and the feasibility of genetic association studies in the parasite. We identified 72 SNPs associated with metronidazole resistance, and a comparison of SNPs within several lab-derived resistant lines revealed an overlap with the clinically resistant isolates. We identified SNPs in sets of genes for which no function has yet been assigned, as well as in functionally-characterized genes highly relevant to drug resistance (e.g., pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase (PFO)). Transcription profiling of these and other genes served as proxy for testing the functional consequences of multiple identified SNPs. Transcription profiles of lab-derived drug resistance strain as well as clinically resistant strain depict common regulation changes in carbohydrate metabolism and oxygen detoxification pathways correlated with Mz resistance. Finally, we identified convergent genetic changes in lab-derived resistant lines of Tritrichomonas foetus, a distantly-related species that causes venereal disease in cattle.\nConclusions \nOur observation of shared genetic changes within and between T. vaginalis and Tr. foetus parasites suggests conservation of the pathways through which adaptation has occurred. These findings extend our knowledge of drug resistance in the parasite, providing a panel of markers that can be used as a diagnostic tool.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076729', [], [u'Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, New York University;', u'Center for Global Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of the Pacific;', u'Bioinformatics Center/Molecular Medicine Research Center, Chang Gung University']]
[u'Repeated divergent selection on pigmentation genes in a rapid finch radiation driven by sexual selection', ['Leonardo Campagna', 'Marcio Repenning', 'Luis Fabio Silveira', 'Carla Suertegaray Fontana', 'Pablo L Tubaro', 'Irby J Lovette'], u'September 22, 2016.', u"The search for molecular targets of selection is leading to a better understanding of how evolution shapes biological diversity. Instances of recent and rapid speciation are suitable for associating phenotypes with their causal genotypes, because gene flow may homogenize areas of the genome that are not under divergent selection. Locating differentiated genomic regions among taxa allows us to test associations between the genes in these regions and their contributions to phenotypic diversity. Here we study a rapid radiation of nine sympatric bird species known as southern capuchino seedeaters, which are strikingly differentiated in sexually selected characters of male plumage and song. We sequenced the genomes of 72 individuals representing a diverse set of species and associated phenotypes to seearch for differentiated genomic regions. We asked what genes are harbored in divergent regions and to what extent has selection on the same targets shaped phenotypic diversity across different lineages. Capuchinos show differences in a small proportion of their genomes, yet selection has acted independently on the same targets during the groups' radiation. Many divergence peaks contain genes involved in the melanogenesis pathway, with the strongest signal originating from a regulatory region upstream of the gene coding for the Agouti-signaling protein. Across all divergence peaks, the most differentiated areas are similarly likely regulatory. Our findings are consistent with selection acting on the same genomic regions in different lineages to shape the evolution of cis-regulatory elements, which control how more conserved genes are expressed and thereby generate diversity in sexually selected traits.", u'/content/early/2016/09/22/075713', [], [u'Cornell University;', u'Pontif\xedcia Universidade Cat\xf3lica do Rio Grande do Sul;', u'Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo;', u"Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales 'Bernardino Rivadavia'"]]
[u'Enhancing pre-defined workflows with ad hoc analytics using Galaxy, Docker and Jupyter', ['Bjorn Gruning', 'Eric Rasche', 'Boris Rebolledo Jaramillo', 'Carl Eberhard', 'Torsten Houwaart', 'John Chilton', 'Nathan Coraor', 'Rolf Backofen', 'James Taylor', 'Anton Nekrutenko'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'What does it take to convert a heap of sequencing data into a publishable result? First, common tools are employed to reduce primary data (sequencing reads) to a form suitable for further analyses (i.e., list of variable sites). The subsequent exploratory stage is much more ad hoc and requires development of custom scripts making it problematic for biomedical researchers. Here we describe a hybrid platform combining common analysis pathways with exploratory environments. It aims at fully encompassing and simplifying the \u201craw data-to-publication\u201d pathway and making it reproducible.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/075457', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Freiburg;', u'Texas A&M University;', u'Universidad del Desarrollo;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Albert-Ludwigs University;', u'Penn State University;', u'Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat;', u'Penn State']]
[u'Inferring recent demography from isolation by distance of long shared sequence blocks', ['Harald Ringbauer', 'Graham Coop', 'Nick Hamilton Barton'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Recently it has become feasible to detect long blocks of almost identical sequence shared between pairs of genomes. These so called IBD-blocks are direct traces of recent coalescence events, and as such contain ample signal for inferring recent demography. Here, we examine sharing of such blocks in two-dimensional populations with local migration. Using a diffusion approximation to trace genetic ancestry back in time, we derive analytical formulas for patterns of isolation by distance of long IBD-blocks, which can also incorporate recent population density changes. As a main result, we introduce an inference scheme that uses a composite likelihood approach to fit observed block sharing to these formulas. We asses our inference method on simulated block sharing data under several standard population genetics models. We first validate the diffusion approximation by showing that the theoretical results closely match simulated block sharing patterns. We then show that our inference scheme rather accurately and robustly recovers estimates of the dispersal rate and effective density, as well as bounds on recent dynamics of population density. To demonstrate an application, we use our estimation scheme to explore the fit of a diffusion model to Eastern European samples in the POPRES data set. We show that ancestry diffusing with a rate of \u03c3 \u2248 50-100 km / \u221agen during the last centuries, combined with accelerating population growth, can explain the observed exponential decay of block sharing with pairwise sample distance.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076810', [u'Genetics'], [u'IST Austria;', u'University of California: Davis']]
[u'Using RNA-seq for genomic scaffold placement, correcting assemblies, and genetic map creation in a common Brassica rapa mapping population.', ['RJ Cody Markelz', 'Michael F Covington', 'Marcus T Brock', 'Upendra K Devisetty', 'Daniel J Kliebenstein', 'Cynthia Weinig', 'Julin N Maloof'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Brassica rapa is a model species for agronomic, ecological, evolutionary and translational studies.  Here we describe high-density SNP discovery and genetic map construction for a Brassica rapa recombinant inbred line (RIL) population derived from field collected RNA-seq data. This high-density genotype data enables the detection and correction of putative genome mis-assemblies and accurate assignment of scaffold sequences to their likely genomic locations. These assembly improvements represent 7.1-8.0% of the annotated Brassica rapa genome. We demonstrate how using this new resource leads to a significant improvement for QTL analysis over the current low-density genetic map.  Improvements are achieved by the increased mapping resolution and by having known genomic coordinates to anchor the markers for candidate gene discovery. These new molecular resources and improvements in the genome annotation will benefit the Brassicaceae genomics community and may help guide other communities in fine-tuning genome annotations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076745', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of California at Davis, Department of Plant Biology, United States;', u'University of Wyoming, Department of Botany, United States;', u'University of California at Davis, Department of Plant Sciences, United States']]
[u'Larger Numbers can Impede Adaptation in Microbial Populations despite Entailing Greater Genetic Variation', ['Yashraj D. Chavhan', 'Sayyad Irfan Ali', 'Sutirth Dey'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Periodic bottlenecks in population sizes are common in natural (e.g., host-to-host transfer of pathogens) and laboratory populations of asexual microbes (e.g., experimental evolution) and play a major role in shaping the adaptive dynamics in such systems. Existing theory predicts that for any given bottleneck size (N0) and number of generations between bottlenecks (g), populations with similar harmonic mean size (HM=N0g)) will have similar extent of adaptation (EoA). We test this widely cited claim using long-term evolution in Escherichia coli populations and computer simulations. We show that, contrary to the predictions of the extant theory, HM fails to predict and explain EoA. Although larger values of g allow populations to arrive at superior benefits by entailing increased number of individuals, they also lead to lower EoA. We also show analytically how the extant theory overestimates the effective population size relevant for adaptation. Altering the current theory using these insights, we propose and demonstrate that N0/g (and not N0g) successfully predicts EoA. Our results call for a re-evaluation of the role of population size in two decades of microbial population genetics and experimental evolution studies. These results are also helpful in predicting microbial adaptation, which has important evolutionary, epidemiological and economic implications.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076760', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune;', u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Pune']]
[u'EARLY INFLAMMATION, IMMUNOPATHOLOGY AND AGING', ['Imroze Khan', 'Deepa Agashe', 'Jens Rolff'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Age-related diseases are often attributed to immunopathology, which results in self-damage caused by an inappropriate inflammatory response. Immunopathology associated with early-life inflammation also appears to cause faster ageing, although we lack direct experimental evidence for this association. To understand the interactions between ageing, inflammation and immunopathology, we used the mealworm beetle Tenebrio molitor as a study organism. We hypothesized that phenoloxidase (PO), an important immune effector in insect defence, may impose substantial immunopathological costs by causing tissue damage, in turn accelerating aging. In support of this hypothesis, we found that RNAi knockdown of PO transcripts in young adults reduced inflammation-induced autoreactive tissue damage to Malpighian tubules, and increased adult lifespan. Our work thus provides empirical evidence for a causative link between immunopathological costs of early life inflammation and faster ageing. We also reasoned that if natural selection weakens with age, older individuals should display increased immunopathological costs associated with an immune response. Indeed, we found that while old infected individuals cleared infection faster than young individuals, they displayed exacerbated immunopathological costs and higher post-infection mortality. RNAi-mediated knockdown of PO response reduced immunopathology in older beetles and increased their lifespan after infection. This is the first demonstration of a direct role of immunopathological consequences of immune response during ageing in insects. Our work is also the first report that highlights the pervasive role of immunopathology under diverse contexts of aging and immune response.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076828', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'Free University of Berlin']]
[u'Insights into the binding mode of MEK type-III inhibitors. A step towards discovering and designing allosteric kinase inhibitors across the human kinome', ['Zheng Zhao', 'Lei Xie', 'Philip E. Bourne'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Protein kinases are critical drug targets for treating a large variety of human diseases. Type-I and type-II kinase inhibitors frequently exhibit off-target toxicity or lead to mutation acquired resistance. Two highly specific allosteric type-III MEK-targeted drugs, Trametinib and Cobimetinib, offer a new direction. Thus, understanding the binding mechanism of existing type-III kinase inhibitors will provide insights into improving the efficiency of designing and discovering such drugs. In this work we have systematically studied the binding mode of MEK-targeted type-III inhibitors using structural systems pharmacology and molecular dynamics simulation. Our studies provide detailed sequence, structure, interaction-fingerprint, pharmacophore and binding-site information on the binding characteristics of MEK type-III kinase inhibitors. Moreover, we have screened for similar target binding sites across the human kinome suggesting other potential kinase targets for type-III inhibitors.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076711', [u'Pharmacology'], [u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Hunter College, The City University of New York;', u'NIH']]
[u'A Whole-Brain Computational Modeling Approach to Explain the Alterations in Resting-State Functional Connectivity during Progression of Alzheimers Disease', ['Murat Demirtas', 'Carles Falcon', 'Juan Domingo Gispert Lopez', 'Alan Tucholka', 'Jose Luis Molinuevo', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Understanding the mechanisms behind Alzheimers disease (AD) is one of the most challenging problems in neuroscience. Recent efforts provided valuable insights on the genetic, biochemical and neuronal correlates of AD. The advances in structural and functional neuroimaging provided massive evidence for the AD related alterations in brain connectivity. In this study, we investigated the whole-brain resting state functional connectivity (FC) and variability in dynamic functional connectivity (v-FC) of the subjects with preclinical condition (PC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimers disease (AD). The synchronization in the whole-brain was monotonously decreasing during the course of the progression. However, only in the AD group the reduced synchronization produced significant widespread effects in FC. Furthermore, we found elevated variability of FC in PC group, which was reversed in AD group. We proposed a whole-brain computational modeling approach to study the mechanisms behind these alterations. We estimated the effective connectivity (EC) between brain regions in the model to reproduce observed FC of each subject. First, we compared ECs between groups to identify the changes in underlying connectivity structure. We found that the significant EC changes were restricted to temporal lobe. Then, based on healthy control subjects we systematically manipulated the dynamics in the model to investigate its effect on FC. The model showed FC alterations similar to those observed in clinical groups providing a mechanistic explanation to AD progression.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076851', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Yale University;', u'Barcelona\u03b2eta Brain Research Center, Pasqual Maragall Foundation;', u'Center for Brain and Cognition, Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Laurdan and di-4-ANEPPDHQ probe different properties of the membrane', ['Mariana Amaro', 'Francesco Reina', 'Martin Hof', 'Christian Eggeling', 'Erdinc Sezgin'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Lipid packing is a crucial feature of cellular membranes. Quantitative analysis of membrane lipid packing can be achieved using polarity sensitive probes whose emission spectrum depends on the lipid packing. However, detailed insight into the exact mechanism that causes the spectral shift is essential to interpret the data correctly. Here, we analysed frequently used polarity sensitive probes, Laurdan and di-4-ANEPPDHQ, to test whether the underlying physical mechanisms of their spectral shift is the same, thus whether they report on the same physico-chemical properties of the cell membrane. Their steady-state spectra as well as time-resolved emission spectra in solvents and model membranes showed that they probe different properties of the lipid membrane. Our findings are important for the application of these dyes in cell biology.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076752', [u'Biophysics'], [u'J. Heyrovsky Institute of Physical Chemistry of the C.A.S;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Fast genome-wide functional annotation through orthology assignment by eggNOG-mapper', ['Jaime Huerta-Cepas', 'Kristoffer Forslund', 'Damian Szklarczyk', 'Lars Juhl Jensen', 'Christian von Mering', 'Peer Bork'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Orthology assignment is ideally suited for functional inference. However, because predicting orthology is computationally intensive at large scale, and most pipelines relatively inaccessible, less precise homology-based functional transfer is still the default for (meta-)genome annotation. We therefore developed eggNOG-mapper, a tool for functional annotation of large sets of sequences based on fast orthology assignments using precomputed clusters and phylogenies from eggNOG. To validate our method, we benchmarked Gene Ontology predictions against two widely used homology-based approaches: BLAST and InterProScan. Compared to BLAST, eggNOG-mapper reduced by 7% the rate of false positive assignments, and increased by 19% the ratio of curated terms recovered over all terms assigned per protein. Compared to InterProScan, eggNOG-mapper achieved similar proteome coverage and precision, while predicting on average 32 more terms per protein and increasing by 26% the rate of curated terms recovered over total term assignments per protein. Through strict orthology assignments, eggNOG-mapper further renders more specific annotations than possible from domain similarity only (e.g. predicting gene family names). eggNOG-mapper runs ~15x than BLAST and at least 2.5x faster than InterProScan. The tool is available standalone or as an online service at http://eggnog-mapper.embl.de.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076331', [u'Genomics'], [u'EMBL, Heidelberg;', u'Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich;', u'The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Temporal probabilistic modeling of bacterial compositions derived from 16S rRNA sequencing', ['Tarmo Aijo', 'Christian Lorenz Mueller', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'The number of microbial and metagenomic studies has increased drastically due to advancements in next-generation sequencing-based measurement techniques. Statistical analysis and the validity of conclusions drawn from (time series) 16S rRNA and other metagenomic sequencing data is hampered by the presence of significant amount of noise and missing data (sampling zeros). Accounting uncertainty in microbiome data is often challenging due to the difficulty of obtaining biological replicates. Additionally, the compositional nature of current amplicon and metagenomic data differs from many other biological data types adding another challenge to the data analysis.\nTo address these challenges in human microbiome research, we introduce a novel probabilistic approach to explicitly model overdispersion and sampling zeros by considering the temporal correlation between nearby time points using Gaussian Processes. The proposed Temporal Gaussian Process Model for Compositional Data Analysis (TGP-CODA) shows superior modeling performance compared to commonly used Dirichlet-multinomial, multinomial, and non-parametric regression models on real and synthetic data. We demonstrate that the nonreplicative nature of human gut microbiota studies can be partially overcome by our method with proper experimental design of dense temporal sampling. We also show that different modeling approaches have a strong impact on ecological interpretation of the data, such as stationarity, persistence, and environmental noise models.\nA Stan implementation of the proposed method is available under MIT license at https://github.com/tare/GPMicrobiome', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076836', [u'Ecology'], [u'Simons Foundation;', u'NYU']]
[u'Contrasting genome dynamics between domesticated and wild yeasts', ['Jia-Xing Yue', 'Jing Li', 'Louise Aigrain', 'Johan Hallin', 'Karl Persson', 'Karen Oliver', 'Anders Bergstrom', 'Paul Coupland', 'Jonas Warringer', 'Marco Cosentino Lagomarsino', 'Gilles Fischer', 'Richard Durbin', 'Gianni Liti'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Structural rearrangements have long been recognized as an important source of genetic variation with implications in phenotypic diversity and disease, yet their evolutionary dynamics are difficult to characterize with short-read sequencing. Here, we report long-read sequencing for 12 strains representing major subpopulations of the partially domesticated yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its wild relative Saccharomyces paradoxus. Complete genome assemblies and annotations generate population-level reference genomes and allow for the first explicit definition of chromosome partitioning into cores, subtelomeres and chromosome-ends. High-resolution view of structural dynamics uncovers that, in chromosomal cores, S. paradoxus exhibits higher accumulation rate of balanced structural rearrangements (inversions, translocations and transpositions) whereas S. cerevisiae accumulates unbalanced rearrangements (large insertions, deletions and duplications) more rapidly. In subtelomeres, recurrent interchromosomal reshuffling was found in both species, with higher rate in S. cerevisiae. Such striking contrasts between wild and domesticated yeasts reveal the influence of human activities on structural genome evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076562', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institute for Research on Cancer and Aging, Nice (IRCAN);', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Gothenburg University;', u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Univ. Paris 06']]
[u'Remote effect of Insecticide-treated nets and the personal protection against malaria mosquito bites', ['Nicolas Moiroux', 'Fabrice Chandre', 'Jean-Marc Hougard', 'Vincent Corbel', 'Cedric Pennetier'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'Experimental huts are part of the WHO process for testing and evaluation of Insecticide Treated Nets (ITN) in semi-field conditions. Experimental Hut Trials (EHTs) mostly focus on two main indicators (i.e. mortality and blood feeding reduction) that serve as efficacy criteria to obtain WHO interim recommendation. However, several other outputs that rely on counts of vectors collected in the huts are neglected although they can give useful information about vectors behavior and personal protection provided by ITNs. In particular, EHTs allow to measure the deterrent effect and personal protection of ITNs. \nTo provide a better assessment of ITNs efficacy, we performed a retrospective analysis of the deterrence and the personal protection against malaria transmission for 12 unwashed and 13 washed ITNs evaluated through EHTs conducted in West Africa. \nA significant deterrent effect was shown for six of the 12 unwashed ITNs tested.  When washed 20 times, only three ITNs had significant deterrent effect (Rate Ratios (RR)<1; p<0.05) and three showed an apparent attractiveness (RR>1; p<0.01). When compared to the untreated net, all unwashed ITNs showed lower number of blood-fed Anopheles indicating a significant personal protection (RR<1, p<0.05). However, when washed 20 times, three ITNs that were found to be attractive did not significantly reduced human-vector contact (p>0.05).\nCurrent WHO efficacy criteria do not sufficiently take into account the deterrence effect of ITNs. Moreover the deterrence variability is rarely discussed in EHTs reports. Our findings highlighted the long range effect (deterrent or attractive) of ITNs that may have significant consequences for personal/community protection against malaria transmission. Indicators measuring the deterrence should be further considered for the evaluation of ITNs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/073718', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'IRD']]
[u'Dynamic forecasting of Zika epidemics using Google Trends', ['Yue Teng', 'Dehua Bi', 'Guigang Xie', 'Yuan Jin', 'Baihan Lin', 'Dan Feng'], u'September 22, 2016.', u'We developed a dynamic forecasting model for Zika virus (ZIKV), based on real-time online search data from Google Trends (GTs). It was designed to provide Zika virus disease (ZVD) surveillance for Health Departments with early warning, and predictions of numbers of infection cases, which would allow them sufficient time to implement interventions. We used correlation data from ZIKV epidemics and Zika-related online search in GTs between 12 February and 25 August 2016 to construct an autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model (0, 1, 3) for the dynamic estimation of ZIKV outbreaks. The online search data acted as an external regressor in the forecasting model, and was used with the historical ZVD epidemic data to improve the quality of the predictions of disease outbreaks. Our results showed a strong correlation between Zika-related GTs and the cumulative numbers of reported cases, both confirmed and suspected (both p<0.001; Pearson Product-Moment Correlation analysis). The predictive cumulative numbers of confirmed and suspected cases increased steadily to reach 148,510 (95% CI: 126,826-170,195) and 602,721 (95% CI: 582,753-622,689), respectively, in 21 October 2016. Integer-valued autoregression provides a useful base predictive model for ZVD cases. This is enhanced by the incorporation of GTs data, confirming the prognostic utility of search query based surveillance. This accessible and flexible dynamic forecast model could be used in the monitoring of ZVD to provide advanced warning of future ZIKV outbreaks.', u'/content/early/2016/09/22/076521', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity, Beijing Institute of Microbiology and Epidemiolog;', u'State Key Laboratory of Pathogen and Biosecurity;', u'Computational Neuroscience Program, Department of Psychology, Physics, and Computer Science and Engi;', u'Division of Standard Operational Management, Institute of Hospital Management, Chinese PLA General H']]
[u'A global perspective of codon usage', ['Bohdan Khomtchouk', 'Claes Wahlestedt', 'Wolfgang Nonner'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Diversity of codon usage across 2730 genomes from different taxa is analyzed with non-parametric methods. Usages range from near-uniform recruitment of different codons (limited by amino acid stoichiometry of encoded proteomes) to two distinct, non-uniform recruitments of nearly exclusive subsets of different codons. Intermediate usages are described as a variation from one distinct non-uniform usage to the other that involves joint, proportionate changes in the frequencies of most different codons. The two distinct non-uniform usages define two distinct genetic codes of which one employs A/U, and the other C/G, as third bases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076679', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Miami Miller School of Medicine']]
[u'Histone deacetylase inhibitors correct the cholesterol storage defect in most NPC1 mutant cells', ['Nina H Pipalia', 'Kanagaraj Subramanian', 'Shu Mao', 'William E Balch', 'Frederick R Maxfield'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Niemann Pick C disease (NPC) is an autosomal recessive disorder that leads to excessive storage of cholesterol and other lipids in late endosomes and lysosomes. The large majority of NPC disease is caused by mutations in NPC1, a large polytopic membrane protein that functions in late endosomes. There are many disease-associated mutations in NPC1, and most patients are compound heterozygotes. The most common mutation NPC1I1061T has been shown to cause endoplasmic reticulum associated degradation of the NPC1 protein. Treatment of patient derived NPC1I1061T fibroblasts with histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) Vorinostat or Panobinostat increases expression of the mutant NPC1 protein and leads to correction of the cholesterol storage. Herein we show that several other human NPC1 mutant fibroblast cell lines can also be corrected by Vorinostat or Panobinostat and that treatment with Vorinostat extends the lifetime of the NPC1I1061T protein. To test effects of HDACi on a large number of NPC1 mutants, we engineered a U2OS cell line to suppress NPC1 expression by shRNA and then transiently transfected these cells with 81 different NPC1 mutant constructs. The mutant NPC1 did not significantly reduce cholesterol accumulation, but approximately 80% of the mutants showed reduced cholesterol accumulation when treated with Vorinostat or Panobinostat.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076695', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'The Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'PDGF signaling directs cardiomyocyte movement toward the midline during heart tube assembly', ['Joshua Bloomekatz', 'Reena Singh', 'Owen W.J. Prall', 'Ariel C. Dunn', 'Megan Vaughan', 'Chin-San Loo', 'Richard P. Harvey', 'Deborah Yelon'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Communication between neighboring tissues plays a central role in guiding organ morphogenesis.  During heart tube assembly, interactions with the adjacent endoderm control the medial movement of cardiomyocytes, a process referred to as cardiac fusion.  However, the molecular underpinnings of this endodermal-myocardial relationship remain unclear.  Here, we show an essential role for platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (Pdgfra) in directing cardiac fusion.  In both zebrafish and mouse, mutation of pdgfra inhibits cardiac fusion and can lead to cardia bifida.  Timelapse analysis of individual cardiomyocyte trajectories reveals misdirected cells in zebrafish pdgfra mutants, suggesting that PDGF signaling steers cardiomyocytes toward the midline.  Intriguingly, the ligand pdgfaa is expressed in the endoderm medial to the pdgfra-expressing myocardial precursors.  Ectopic expression of pdgfaa interferes with cardiac fusion, consistent with an instructive role for PDGF signaling.  Together, these data uncover a novel mechanism through which endodermal-myocardial communication guides the cell movements that initiate cardiac morphogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076703', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'UCSD;', u'Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute']]
[u'Polymer physics of nuclear organization and function', ['Assaf Amitai', 'David Holcman'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'We review here recent progress to link the nuclear organization to its function, based on elementary physical processes such as diffusion, polymer dynamics of DNA and chromatin and the search mechanism for a small target and double stranded DNA (dsDNA) break dynamics. These models and their analysis make it possible to compute critical rates involved in cell reorganization timing,  which depends on many parameters. In the framework of polymer models, various empirical observations are interpreted as anomalous diffusion of chromatin at various time scales. The reviewed theoretical approaches offer a framework for extracting features, biophysical parameters, predictions, and so on, based on a large variety of experimental data, such as chromosomal capture data, single particle trajectories, and more. Combining theoretical approaches with live cell microscopy data should unveil some of the still unexplained behavior of the nucleus in carrying out some of its key function involved in survival, DNA repair, gene activation, fighting attacks and diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076661', [u'Biophysics'], [u'MIT;', u'ENS']]
[u'Cortical correlates of the auditory frequency-following and onset responses: EEG and fMRI evidence', ['Emily BJ Coffey', 'Gabriella Musacchia', 'Robert J Zatorre'], u'September 21, 2016.', u"The frequency following response (FFR) is a measure of the brain's periodic sound encoding. It is of increasing importance for studying the human auditory nervous system due to numerous associations with auditory cognition and dysfunction. Although the FFR is widely interpreted as originating from brainstem nuclei, a recent study using magnetoencephalography (MEG) suggested that there is also a right-lateralized contribution from the auditory cortex at the fundamental frequency (Coffey et al., 2016c). Our objectives in the present work were to validate and better localize this result using a completely different neuroimaging modality, and document the relationships between the FFR and the onset response, and cortical activity. Using a combination of electroencephalography, fMRI, and diffusion-weighted imaging, we show that activity in the right auditory cortex is related to individual differences in FFR-f0 strength, a finding that was replicated with two independent stimulus sets, with and without acoustic energy at the fundamental frequency. We demonstrate a dissociation between this FFR-f0-sensitive response in the right and an area in left auditory cortex that is sensitive to individual differences in the timing of initial response to sound onset. Relationships to timing and their lateralization are supported by parallels in the microstructure of the underlying white matter, implicating a mechanism involving neural conduction efficiency. These data confirm that the FFR has a cortical contribution, and suggest ways in which auditory neuroscience may be advanced by connecting early sound representation to measures of higher-level sound processing and cognitive function.", u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076448', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Montreal Neurological Institute;', u'University of the Pacific;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Intraspecific variation shapes community-level behavioural responses to urbanisation in spiders: from traits to function', ['Maxime Dahirel', 'Jasper Dierick', 'Maarten De Cock', 'Dries Bonte'], u'September 21, 2016.', u"Approaches based on functional traits have proven especially valuable to understand how communities respond to environmental gradients. Until recently, they have, however, often ignored the potential consequences of intraspecific trait variation (ITV). This position becomes potentially more problematic when studying animals and behavioural traits, as behaviours can be altered very flexibly at the individual level to track environmental changes.\nUrban areas are an extreme example of human-changed environments, exposing organisms to multiple, strong, yet relatively standardized, selection pressures. Adaptive behavioural responses are thought to play a major role in animals' success or failure in these new environments. The consequences of such behavioural changes for ecosystem processes remain understudied.\nUsing 62 sites of varying urbanisation level, we investigated how species turnover and ITV influenced community-level behavioural responses to urbanisation, using orb web spiders and their webs as models of foraging behaviour.\nITV explained around 30% of the total trait variation observed among communities. Spiders altered their web-building behaviour in cities in ways that increase the capture efficiency of webs. These traits shifts were partly mediated by species turnover, but ITV increased their magnitude. The importance of ITV varied depending on traits and on the spatial scale at which urbanisation was considered. Available prey biomass decreased with urbanisation; the corresponding decrease in prey interception by spiders was less important when ITV in web traits was accounted for.\nBy facilitating trait-environment matching despite urbanisation, ITV thus helps communities to buffer the effects of environmental changes on ecosystem functioning. Despite being often neglected from community-level analyses, our results highlight the importance of accounting for intraspecific trait variation to fully understand trait responses to (human-induced) environmental changes and their impact on ecosystem functioning.", u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076497', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Rennes 1/ Ghent University;', u'Ghent University']]
[u'Whole genome sequence analysis of Salmonella Typhi isolated in Thailand before and after the introduction of a national immunization program', ['Zoe Anne Dyson', 'Duy Pham Thanh', 'Ladaporn Bodhidatta', 'Carl Jeffries Mason', 'Apichai Srijan', 'Maia A Rabaa', 'Phat Voong Vinh', 'Tuyen Ha Thanh', 'Guy E Thwaites', 'Stephen Baker', 'Kathryn Holt'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Vaccines against Salmonella Typhi, the causative agent of typhoid fever, are commonly used by travellers, however, there are few examples of national immunization programs in endemic areas. There is therefore a paucity of data on the impact of typhoid immunization programs on localised populations of S. Typhi. Here we have used whole genome sequencing (WGS) to characterise 44 historical bacterial isolates collected before and after a national typhoid immunization program that was implemented in Thailand in 1977 in response to a large outbreak; the program was highly effective in reducing typhoid case numbers. Thai isolates were highly diverse, including 10 distinct phylogenetic lineages or genotypes. Novel prophage and plasmids were also detected, including examples that were previously only reported in Shigella sonnei and Escherichia coli. The majority of S. Typhi genotypes observed prior to the immunization program were not observed following it. Post-vaccine era isolates were more closely related to S. Typhi isolated from neighbouring countries than to earlier Thai isolates, providing no evidence for the local persistence of endemic S. Typhi following the national immunization program. Rather, later cases of typhoid appeared to be caused by the occasional importation of common genotypes from neighbouring Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia. These data show the value of WGS in understanding the impacts of vaccination on pathogen populations and provide support for the proposal that large-scale typhoid immunization programs in endemic areas could result in lasting local disease elimination, although larger prospective studies are needed to test this directly.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076422', [u'Genomics'], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, University of Melbourne;', u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit;', u'Armed Forces Research Institute of Medical Sciences']]
[u'GWAS for serum galactose-deficient IgA1 implicates critical genes of the O-glycosylation pathway', ['Krzysztof Kiryluk', 'Yifu Li', 'Zina Moldoveanu', 'Hitoshi Suzuki', 'Colin Reily', 'Ping Hou', 'Jingyuan Xie', 'Nikol Mladkova', 'Sindhuri Prakash', 'Clara Fischman', 'Samantha Shapiro', 'Robert A. LeDesma', 'Drew Bradbury', 'Iuliana Ionita-Laza', 'Frank Eitner', 'Thomas Rauen', 'Nicolas Maillard', 'Francois Berthoux', 'Jurgen Floege', 'Nan Chen', 'Hong Zhang', 'Francesco Scolari', 'Robert J. Wyatt', 'Bruce A. Julian', 'Ali G. Gharavi', 'Jan Novak'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Aberrant O-glycosylation of serum immunoglobulin A1 (IgA1) represents a heritable pathogenic defect in IgA nephropathy, the most common form of glomerulonephritis worldwide, but specific genetic factors involved in its determination are not known. We performed a quantitative GWAS for serum levels of galactose-deficient IgA1 (Gd-IgA1) in 2,633 subjects of European and East Asian ancestry and discovered two genome-wide significant loci, in C1GALT1 (rs13226913, P = 3.2 x 10-11) and C1GALT1C1 (rs5910940, P = 2.7 x 10-8). These genes encode molecular partners essential for enzymatic O-glycosylation of IgA1. We demonstrated that these two loci explain approximately 7% of variability in circulating Gd-IgA1 in Europeans, but only 2% in East Asians. Notably, the Gd-IgA1-increasing allele of rs13226913 is common in Europeans, but rare in East Asians. Moreover, rs13226913 represents a strong cis-eQTL for C1GALT1, which encodes the key enzyme responsible for the transfer of galactose to O-linked glycans on IgA1. By in vitro siRNA knock-down studies, we confirmed that mRNA levels of both C1GALT1 and C1GALT1C1 determine the rate of secretion of Gd-IgA1 in IgA1-producing cells. Our findings provide novel insights into the genetic regulation of O-glycosylation and are relevant not only to IgA nephropathy, but also to other complex traits associated with O-glycosylation defects, including inflammatory bowel disease, hematologic disease, and cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076414', [u'Genetics'], [u'Columbia University;', u'University of Alabama at Birmingham;', u'Juntendo University Faculty of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan;', u'Peking University First Hospital, Peking University Institute of Nephrology, Beijing, China;', u'Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China;', u'RWTH University of Aachen, Germany and Bayer Pharma AG;', u'RWTH University of Aachen, Germany;', u'University North Hospital, Saint Etienne;', u'RWTH University of Aachen, Aachen, Germany;', u'Montichiari Hospital and University of Brescia, Italy;', u'University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, Tennessee']]
[u'Temporal regulation of epithelium formation', ['Stephen E Von Stetina', 'Jennifer J. Liang', 'Georgios Marnellos', 'Susan E Mango'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'To establish the animal body plan, embryos link the external epidermis to the internal digestive tract. In Caenorhabditis elegant, this linkage is achieved by the Arcade Cells, which form an epithelial bridge between the foregut and epidermis, but little is known about how development of these three epithelia is coordinated temporally. The Arcade Cell epithelium is generated after the epidermis and digestive tract epithelia have matured, ensuring that both organs can withstand the mechanical stress of embryo elongation; mis-timing of epithelium formation leads to defects in morphogenesis. Here, we report that temporal regulation of the Arcade Cell epithelium is mediated by the pioneer transcription factor PHA-4/FoxA, the cytoskeletal regulator ZEN-4/MKLP and the polarity protein PAR-6. We find that PHA-4 activates expression of a broad cohort of epithelial genes. However, accumulation of protein is delayed by ZEN-4, acting in concert with its partner CYK-4/MgcRacGAP. Finally, PAR-6 localizes factors within adherens junctions and at the apical surface, leading to Arcade Cell polarity. The results reveal that the timing of a landmark event during embryonic morphogenesis is mediated by the concerted action of four proteins that delay the formation of an epithelial bridge. In addition, we find that FoxA associates with many epithelial genes in mammals, suggesting that regulation of epithelial identity may be a conserved feature of FoxA factors and a contributor to FoxA function in development and cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076570', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Seres Therapeutics, Inc']]
[u'Nuclear pore-like structures in a compartmentalized bacterium', ['Evgeny Sagulenko', 'Amanda Nouwens', 'Richard I Webb', 'Kathryn Green', 'Benjamin Yee', 'Gary Morgan', 'Andrew Leis', 'Kuo-Chang Lee', 'Margaret K Butler', 'Nicholas Chia', 'Uyen Thi Phuong Pham', 'Stinus Lindgreen', 'Ryan Catchpole', 'Anthony M Poole', 'John A. Fuerst'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Planctomycetes are distinguished from other Bacteria by compartmentalization of cells via internal membranes, interpretation of which has been subject to recent debate regarding potential relations to Gram-negative cell structure. In our interpretation of the available data,  the planctomycete Gemmata obscuriglobus contains a nuclear body compartment, and thus possesses a type of cell organization with parallels to the eukaryote nucleus. Here we show that pore-like structures occur in internal membranes of G.obscuriglobus and that they have elements structurally similar to eukaryote nuclear pores, including a basket, ring-spoke structure, and eight-fold rotational symmetry. Bioinformatic analysis of proteomic data reveals that some of the G. obscuriglobus proteins associated with pore-containing membranes possess structural domains found in eukaryote nuclear pore complexes. Moreover, immuno-gold labelling demonstrates localization of one such protein, containing a \u03b2-propeller domain, specifically to the G. obscuriglobus pore-like structures. Finding bacterial pores within internal cell membranes and with structural similarities to eukaryote nuclear pore complexes raises the dual possibilities of either hitherto undetected homology or stunning evolutionary convergence.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076430', [u'Microbiology'], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'Uppsala University;', u'University of Colorado Boulder;', u'CSIRO Livestock Industries -Australian Animal Health Laboratory;', u'Mayo Clinic;', u'University of Canterbury,Christchurch NZ;', u'University of Canterbury, Christchurch,NZ;', u'University of Canterbury, Christchurch, NZ']]
[u'Shared genetics and couple-associated environment are major contributors to the risk of both clinical and self-declared depression', ['Yanni Zeng', 'Pau Navarro', 'Charley Xia', 'Carmen Amador', 'Ana M Fernandez-Pujals', 'Pippa A. Thomson', 'Archie Campbell', 'Reka Nagy', 'Toni Kim Clarke', 'Jonathan D. Hafferty', 'Blair H. Smith', 'Lynne J. Hocking', 'Sandosh Padmanabhan', 'Caroline Hayward', 'Donald J MacIntyre', 'David J Porteous', 'Chris S. Haley', 'Andrew M. McIntosh'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Background: both genetic and environmental contributions to risk of depression have been identified, but estimates of their effects are limited. Commonalities between major depressive disorder (MDD) and self-declared depression (SDD) are also unclear. Dissecting the genetic and environmental contributions to these traits and their correlation would inform the design and interpretation of genetic studies. \n\nMethods: using data from a large Scottish family-based cohort (GS:SFHS, N=21,387), we estimated the genetic and environmental contributions to MDD and SDD. Genetic effects associated with common genome-wide genetic variants (SNP heritability) and additional pedigree-associated genetic variation and Non-genetic effects associated with common environments were estimated using linear mixed modeling (LMM). \n\nFindings: Both MDD and SDD had significant contributions from effects of common genetic variants, the additional genetic effect of the pedigree and the common environmental effect shared by couples. The correlation between SDD and MDD was high (r=1.00, se=0.21) for common-variant-associated genetic effects and moderate for both the additional genetic effect of the pedigree (r=0.58, se=0.08) and the couple-shared environmental effect (r=0.53, se=0.22). \n\nInterpretation: Both genetics and couple-shared environmental effects were the major factors influencing liability to depression. SDD may provide a scalable alternative to MDD in studies seeking to identify common risk variants. Rarer variants and environmental effects may however differ substantially according to different definitions of depression.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076398', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Aberdeen;', u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Diverse roles of guanine nucleotide exchange factors in regulating collective cell migration', ['Assaf M Zaritsky', 'Yun-Yu Tseng', 'Angeles M. Rabadan', 'Michael Overholtzer', 'Gaudenz Danuser', 'Alan Hall'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Efficient collective migration depends on a balance between contractility and cytoskeletal rearrangements, adhesion, and mechanical cell-cell communication, which are all controlled by GTPases of the RHO family. Here, we report the results of a comprehensive screen assessing the contributions of the guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) to the regulation of this process during the wound healing response of a scratched human bronchial epithelial cell monolayer. Our studies uncovered GEFs that are required for collective motility at large, such as SOS1 and \u03b2-PIX, and RHOA GEFs ARHGEF18, ARHGEF11, ARHGEF3 and ARHGEF28 that are implicated in intercellular communication. Downregulation of these GEFs differentially enhance front-to-back propagation of guidance cues through the cell monolayer. These effects are partially mirrored by downregulation of RHOA expression and myosin-II activity. We conclude that for effective collective migration the RHOA-GEFs/RHOA/actomyosin pathway must be optimally tuned to compromise between generation of motility forces and restriction of intercellular communication.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076125', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'UT Southwestern Medical Center;', u'Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'ATP homeostasis underlies optimal glucose consumption by Saccharomyces cerevisiae', ['Kulika Chomvong', 'Daniel Benjamin', 'Dan Nomura', 'Jamie Cate'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Glycolysis is central to energy metabolism in most organisms, and is highly regulated to enable optimal growth. In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, feedback mechanisms that control flux through glycolysis span transcriptional control to metabolite levels in the cell. Using a cellobiose consumption pathway, we decoupled glucose sensing from carbon utilization, revealing new modular layers of control that induce ATP consumption to drive rapid carbon fermentation. Proton pumping and regulation of amino acid biosynthesis mediated by extracellular glucose sensors independently contribute to maintenance of energy homeostasis. Controlling the upper bound of cellular ATP levels may be a general mechanism used to regulate energy levels in cells, via a regulatory network that can be uncoupled from ATP concentrations under perceived starvation conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076364', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'shinyheatmap: ultra fast low memory heatmap software for big data genomics', ['Bohdan Khomtchouk', 'Claes Wahlestedt'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Background:\nTranscriptomics, metabolomics, metagenomics, and other various next-generation sequencing (-omics) fields are known for their production of large datasets.  Visualizing such big data has posed technical challenges in biology, both in terms of available computational resources as well as programming acumen.  Since heatmaps are used to depict high-dimensional numerical data as a colored grid of cells, efficiency and speed have often proven to be critical considerations in the process of successfully converting data into graphics.  For example, rendering interactive heatmaps from large input datasets (e.g., 100k+ rows) has been computationally infeasible on both desktop computers and web browsers.  In addition to memory requirements, programming skills and knowledge have frequently been barriers-to-entry for creating highly customizable heatmaps.       \n \nResults:\nWe propose shinyheatmap: an advanced user-friendly heatmap software suite capable of efficiently creating highly customizable static and interactive biological heatmaps in a web browser.  shinyheatmap is a low memory footprint program, making it particularly well-suited for the interactive visualization of extremely large datasets that cannot typically be computed in-memory due to size restrictions.    \n\nConclusions:\nshinyheatmap is hosted online as a freely available web server with an intuitive graphical user interface: http://shinyheatmap.com.  The methods are implemented in R, and are available as part of the shinyheatmap project at: https://github.com/Bohdan-Khomtchouk/shinyheatmap.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076463', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Miami Miller School of Medicine']]
[u'Excitable RhoA dynamics drive pulsed contractions in the early C. elegans embryo.', ['Francois B Robin', 'Jonathan B Michaux', 'William M McFadden', 'Edwin M Munro'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Pulsed actomyosin contractility underlies diverse modes of tissue morphogenesis, but the mechanisms that generate pulsed contractions are still poorly understood.  Here, we combine quantitative imaging with genetic perturbations and mathematical modeling to identify a core mechanism for pulsed contractility in early C. elegans embryos.  We show that pulsed accumulation of actomyosin is governed almost entirely by local control of assembly and disassembly downstream of RhoA.  Pulsed activation and inactivation of RhoA precedes, respectively, the accumulation and disappearance of actomyosin, and persists in the near complete absence of Myosin II.  Autocatalytic activation of RhoA underlies rapid pulse initiation, while delayed accumulation of the RhoA GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) RGA-3/4 provides negative feedback to terminate each pulse. Mathematical models, tightly constrained by our experiments, confirm that this combination of positive and negative feedback is sufficient to generate locally pulsatile RhoA dynamics and reproduce the observed waveform of RhoA activation and RGA-3/4 accumulation. We propose that excitable RhoA dynamics are a common driver for pulsed contractility that can be tuned or coupled to actomyosin dynamics in different ways to produce a diversity of morphogenetic outcomes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076356', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Institut de Biologie Paris-Seine, Paris, France;', u'University of Chicago']]
[u'How prior knowledge prepares perception: Prestimulus oscillations carry perceptual expectations and influence early visual responses.', ['Jason Samaha', 'Bastien Boutonnet', 'Gary Lupyan'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Perceptual experience results from a complex interplay of bottom-up input and prior knowledge or expectations about the world, yet the neural mechanisms by which prior knowledge biases incoming sensory information, as well as the precise stage of neural processing at which these two sources of information converge, is unclear. We investigated this issue by recording electroencephalography (EEG) while observers compared two sequentially presented ambiguous Mooney images of objects. Prior to the main experiment, participants were trained on the meaning of the objects in half of the images, allowing us to experimentally manipulate prior knowledge for a subset of stimuli. Same/different accuracy and response times benefited from prior knowledge of the target identity. This effect was accompanied by a larger occipital-parietal P1 evoked response to the trained versus untrained target stimulus. Time-frequency analysis of the interval between the two stimuli (just prior to the target stimulus) revealed increases in the power of posterior alpha-band (8-14 Hz) oscillations when the meaning of the stimuli to be compared was trained. The magnitude of the prestimulus alpha difference and the P1 amplitude difference was positively correlated across individuals. These results suggest that prior knowledge about visual information prepares the brain for upcoming perception via the modulation of prestimulus alpha-band oscillations, and that this preparatory state influences early (~ 120 ms) stages of subsequent visual processing.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076687', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Liden University']]
[u'The tubulin repertoire of C. elegans sensory neurons and its context dependent role in process outgrowth', ['Dean Lockhead', 'Erich M Schwarz', "Robert O'Hagan", 'Sebastian Bellotti', 'Michael Krieg', 'Maureen Barr', 'Alexander R Dunn', 'Paul W. Sternberg', 'Miriam B Goodman'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Microtubules contribute to many cellular processes, including transport, signaling, and chromosome separation during cell division (Kapitein and Hoogenraad, 2015). They are comprised of \u03b1-\u03b2 tubulin heterodimers arranged into linear protofilaments and assembled into tubes. Eukaryotes express multiple tubulin isoforms (Gogonea et al., 1999), and there has been a longstanding debate as to whether the isoforms are redundant or perform specialized roles as part of a tubulin code (Fulton and Simpson, 1976). Here, we use the well characterized touch receptor neurons (TRNs) of Caenorhabditis elegans to investigate this question, through genetic dissection of process outgrowth both in vivo and in vitro. With single cell RNA-seq, we compare transcription profiles for TRNs with those of two other sensory neurons, and present evidence that each sensory neuron expresses a distinct palette of tubulin genes. In the TRNs, we analyze process outgrowth and show that four tubulins (tba-1, tba-2, tbb-1, and tbb-2) function partially or fully redundantly, while two others (mec-7 and mec-12) perform specialized, context dependent roles. Our findings support a model in which sensory neurons express overlapping subsets of tubulin genes whose functional redundancy varies between cell types and in vivo and in vitro contexts.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/075879', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Cornell University;', u'Rutgers University;', u'California Institute of Technnology']]
[u'Neural correlates of early sound encoding and their relationship to speech in noise perception', ['Emily BJ Coffey', 'Alexander Chepesiuk', 'Sibylle Herholz', 'Sylvain Baillet', 'Robert J Zatorre'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Speech-in-noise (SIN) perception is a complex cognitive skill that affects social, vocational, and educational activities. Poor SIN ability particularly affects young and elderly populations, yet varies considerably even among healthy young adults with normal hearing. Although SIN skills are known to be influenced by top-down processes that can selectively enhance lower-level sound representations, the complementary role and of feed-forward mechanisms and their relationship to musical training is poorly understood. Using a paradigm that eliminates the main top-down factors that have been implicated in SIN performance, we aimed to better understand how robust encoding of periodicity in the auditory system (as measured by the frequency-following response) contributes to SIN perception. Using magnetoencephalograpy, we found that the strength of encoding at the fundamental frequency in the brainstem, thalamus, and cortex is correlated with SIN accuracy, as was the amplitude of the slower cortical P2 wave, and these enhancements were related to the extent and timing of musicianship.  These results are consistent with the hypothesis that basic feed-forward sound encoding affects SIN perception by providing better information to later processing stages, and that modifying this process may be one mechanism through which musical training might enhance the auditory networks that subserve both musical and language functions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076455', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Montreal Neurological Institute;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Alternative splicing changes as drivers of cancer', ['Hector Climente-Gonzalez', 'Eduard Porta-Pardo', 'Adam Godzik', 'Eduardo Eyras'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Alternative splicing changes are frequently observed in cancer and are starting to be recognized as important signatures for tumor progression and therapy. However, their functional impact and relevance to tumorigenesis remains mostly unknown. We carried out a systematic analysis to characterize the potential functional consequences of alternative splicing changes in thousands of tumor samples. This analysis reveals that a subset of alternative splicing changes affect protein domain families that are frequently mutated in tumors, potentially disrupt protein-protein interactions in cancer-related pathways, and are mutually exclusive with mutations in multiple cancer drivers. Moreover, there is a negative correlation between the number of these alternative splicing changes in a sample and the number of somatic mutations in drivers. We propose that a subset of the alternative splicing changes observed in tumors represents independent oncogenic processes and could potentially be considered alternative splicing drivers (AS-drivers).', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076653', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Pompeu Fabra University;', u'Sanford Burnham Prebys Medical Discovery Institute']]
[u'Probabilistic inference of bifurcations in single-cell data using a hierarchical mixture of factor analysers', ['Kieran Campbell', 'Christopher Yau'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Modelling bifurcations in single-cell transcriptomics data has become an increasingly popular field of research. Several methods have been proposed to infer bifurcation structure from such data but all rely on heuristic non-probabilistic inference. Here we propose the first generative, fully probabilistic model for such inference based on a Bayesian hierarchical mixture of factor analysers. Our model exhibits competitive performance on large datasets despite implementing full MCMC sampling and its unique hierarchical prior structure enables automatic determination of genes driving the bifurcation process.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076547', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Parasitic Infection by Pseudocapillaria tomentosa is Associated with a Longitudinal Restructuring of the Zebrafish Gut Microbiome', ['Christopher A Gaulke', 'Mauricio L Martins', 'Virginia Watral', 'Michael L Kent', 'Thomas J Sharpton'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Helminth parasites represent a significant threat to wild, domesticated, and research animal health. Pseudocapillaria tomentosa is a common intestinal nematode parasite and an important source of infection in zebrafish. Symptoms of the infection vary widely from no clinical signs to sever emaciation and mortality, however, the reasons underpinning these disparate outcomes are unclear. Components of the microbiome may interact with parasites to influence their success in the gut while parasite infections are also known to influence the composition of the gut microbiome. In this study we evaluated the longitudinal changes in the gut microbiome structure and gut physiology during experimental P. tomentosa infection in adult 5D line zebrafish. We observed less severe signs of infection and less mortality in these fish than previously described in AB line fish. However, inflammation and epithelial hyperplasia in the intestine was still observed in infected 5D line fish. The composition of the microbiome changed rapidly during the infection and these changes were associated with parasite stage of development and burden. Individual taxa covaried with parasite abundance in the intestine intimating the gut microbiome may influence parasite burden. Associations between taxa and parasite abundance in some cases appeared to be phylogenetically patterned. Strong positive associations were observed between OTUs phylotyped to Proteobacteria and abundance of adult parasites and parasite eggs. Together these experiments demonstrate that P. tomentosa infection results in a rapid and temporally dynamic disruption of the zebrafish gut microbiome and clarify how interactions between the gut microbiome and intestinal parasites may impact fish populations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076596', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Oregon State University;', u'Federal University of Santa Catarina']]
[u'Data aggregation at the level of molecular pathways improves stability of experimental transcriptomic and proteomic data', ['Nicolas Borisov', 'Maria Suntsova', 'Andrew Garazha', 'Ksenia Lezhnina', 'Olga Kovalchuk', 'Alexander Aliper', 'Elena Ilnitskaya', 'Maxim Sorokin', 'Mihkail Korzinkin', 'Vyacheslav Saenko', 'Yury Saenko', 'Dmitry G. Sokov', 'Nurshat M. Gaifullin', 'Kirill Kashintsev', 'Valery Shirokorad', 'Irina Shabalina', 'Alex Zhavoronkov', 'Bhubaneswar Mishra', 'Charles R. Cantor', 'Anton Buzdin'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'High throughput technologies opened a new era in biomedicine by enabling massive analysis of gene expression at both RNA and protein levels. Unfortunately, expression data obtained in different experiments are often poorly compatible, even for the same biological samples. Here, using experimental and bioinformatic investigation of major experimental platforms, we show that aggregation of gene expression data at the level of molecular pathways helps to diminish cross- and intra-platform bias otherwise clearly seen at the level of individual genes. We created a mathematical model of cumulative suppression of data variation that predicts the ideal parameters and the optimal size of a molecular pathway. We compared the abilities to aggregate experimental molecular data for the five alternative methods, also evaluated by their capacity to retain meaningful features of biological samples. The bioinformatic method OncoFinder showed optimal performance in both tests and should be very useful for future cross-platform data analyses.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076620', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Research Centre "Kurchatov Institute";', u'Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry;', u'D. Rogachyov Federal Research Center of Pediatric Hematology, Oncology and Immunology;', u'University of Lethbridge;', u'First Oncology Research and Advisory Center;', u'Ulyanovsk State University;', u'Moscow 1st Oncological Hospital;', u'Lomonosov Moscow State University;', u'Moscow Oncological Hospital 62;', u'Petrozavodsk State University;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Courant Institute, New York University;', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Boston University']]
[u'Reading positional codes with fMRI: Problems and solutions', ['Kristjan Kalm', 'Dennis Norris'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Neural mechanisms which bind items into sequences have been investigated in a large body of research in animal neurophysiology and human neuroimaging. However, a major problem in interpreting this data arises from a fact that several unrelated processes, such as memory load, sensory adaptation, and reward expectation, also change in a consistent manner as the sequence unfolds. In this paper we show that the problem of extracting neural data about the structure of a sequence is especially acute for fMRI, which is almost exclusively the modality used in human experiments. We show that such fMRI results must be treated with caution and in many cases the\nassumed neural representation might actually reflect unrelated processes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076554', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Medical Research Council']]
[u'Performance Evaluation of Empirical Mode Decomposition Algorithms for Mental Task Classification', ['Akshansh Gupta', 'Dhirendra Kumar', 'Anirban Chakraborti', 'Kiran Sharma'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'The electroencephalograph (EEG) signal is one of the monitoring techniques to observe brain functionality. EEG is most preferable technology not just because of its non-invasive and costs effective quality, but also it can detect the cognitive activity of human. Brain Computer Interface (BCI), a direct pathway between the human brain and computer, is one of the most pragmatic applications of EEG signal. Mental Task Classification (MTC) is a demanding BCI as it does not involve any muscular activity. Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD) is a filter based heuristic technique to analyze non-linear and non-stationary signal like EEG. There are several variants of EMD algorithms which have their own merits and demerits. In this paper, we have explored three different EMD algorithms on EEG data for MTC-based BCI named as Empirical Mode Decomposition (EMD),Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition (EEMD) and Complete Ensemble Empirical Mode Decomposition with Adaptive Noise (CEEMDAN). Features are extracted from EEG signal in two phases; in the first phase, the signal is decomposed  into different oscillatory functions with the help of different EMD algorithm and in the second phase, eight different parameters (features) are calculated for the each function for compact representation. In this paper, a new feature known as Hurst Exponent along with other feature have been investigated for mental task classification. These features are fed up into Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier to classify the different mental tasks. We have formulated  two different types of MTC, the first one is binary and second one is  multi-MTC. The proposed work outperforms the existing work for both binary and multi mental tasks classification.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076646', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'JNU']]
[u'Frontal cortex function derives from hierarchical predictive coding', ['William H Alexander', 'Joshua W Brown'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'The frontal lobes are essential for human volition and goal-directed behavior, yet their function remains unclear. While various models have highlighted working memory, reinforcement learning, and cognitive control as key functions, a single framework for interpreting the range of effects observed in prefrontal cortex has yet to emerge.  Here we show that a simple computational motif based on predictive coding can be stacked hierarchically to learn and perform arbitrarily complex goal-directed behavior.  The resulting Hierarchical Error Representation (HER) model simulates a wide array of findings from fMRI, ERP, single-units, and neuropsychological studies of both lateral and medial prefrontal cortex.  Additionally, the model compares favorably with current machine learning approaches, learning more rapidly and with comparable performance, while self-organizing representations into efficient hierarchical groups and managing working memory storage.  By reconceptualizing lateral prefrontal activity as anticipating prediction errors, the HER model provides a novel unifying account of prefrontal cortex function with broad implications both for understanding the frontal cortex and building more powerful machine learning applications', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076505', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universiteit Gent;', u'Indiana University, Bloomington']]
[u'Seasonal influenza circulation patterns and projections for 2016-2017', ['Trevor Bedford', 'Richard Neher'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'H3N2: Despite the late-season 3c3.a epidemic in the USA, we predict clade 3c2.a viruses will continue to predominate in the H3N2 population. Within clade 3c2.a, the 171K variant has spread rapidly so that the majority of recent H3N2 infections are comprised of 171K viruses. Barring the emergence of a new antigenic variant, we believe 171K will continue to predominate.\nH1N1pdm: The clade 6b.1, comprising 84N/162N/216T, has continued to rise and predominate in the H1N1pdm population throughout 2016. Almost all circulating H1N1pdm viruses are now 6b.1. There is not yet obvious evolution within this clade.\nB/Vic: Within clade 1A viruses, the clade 129D/146I/117V has risen to high frequency, but at a rate that suggests a smaller effect of natural selection. At this point, 117V viruses are dominant in the global viral population.\nB/Yam: Clade 3 has continued to predominate the B/Yamagata population. Within clade 3 the 172Q/251V subclade has risen to predominate. There is limited diversity within 172Q/251V viruses, with the largest subclade comprised of 211R viruses.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076638', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology']]
[u'ATX-2, the C. elegans Ortholog of Human Ataxin-2, Regulates Centrosome Size and Microtubule Dynamics', ['Michael Stubenvoll', 'Jeffrey Medley', 'Miranda Irwin', 'Mi Hye Song'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Centrosomes are critical sites for orchestrating microtubule dynamics, and exhibit dynamic changes in size during the cell cycle. As cells progress to mitosis, centrosomes recruit more microtubules (MT) to form mitotic bipolar spindles that ensure proper chromosome segregation. We report a new role for ATX-2, a C. elegans ortholog of Human Ataxin-2, in regulating centrosome size and MT dynamics. ATX-2, an RNA-binding protein, forms a complex with SZY-20 in an RNA-independent fashion. Depleting ATX-2 results in embryonic lethality and cytokinesis failure, and restores centrosome duplication to zyg-1 mutants. In this pathway, SZY-20 promotes ATX-2 abundance, which inversely correlates with centrosome size. Centrosomes depleted of ATX-2 exhibit elevated levels of centrosome factors (ZYG-1, SPD-5, \u03b3-Tubulin), increasing MT nucleating activity but impeding MT growth. We show that ATX-2 influences MT behavior through \u03b3-Tubulin at the centrosome. Our data suggest that RNA-binding proteins play an active role in controlling MT dynamics and provide insight into the control of proper centrosome size and MT dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076604', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Oakland University']]
[u'In vitro profiling of endocrine cell death using UCHL1 and GAD65 as soluble biomarkers', ['Benedicte Brackeva', 'Sarah Roels', 'Geert Stange', 'Gamze Ates', 'Olivier Costa', 'Zhidong Ling', 'Frans Gorus', 'Geert A. Martens'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'BACKGROUND: Pancreatic islet grafts are cultured in vitro prior to transplantation and this is associated to a variable degree of beta cell loss. Optimization of culture conditions is currently hampered by the lack of a specific and sensitive in vitro indicator of beta cell death. METHODS: We developed a high-sensitivity duplex bead-based immunoassay for two protein-type biomarkers of beta cell destruction, GAD65 and UCHL1, and investigated its proficiency for in vitro toxicity profiling on rodent and human beta cells, as compared to a semi-automatic and manual image-based assessment of beta cell death, and in vivo after intraportal islet transplantation. \nRESULTS: Both GAD65 and UCHL1 were discharged by necrotic and apoptotic beta cells proportionate to the number of dead beta cells as counted by microscopic methods. In vitro, UCHL1 was superior to GAD65, in terms of biomarker stability providing more sensitive detection of low grade beta cell death. In vivo, however, GAD65 was consistently detected after islet transplantation while UCHL1 remained undetectable.\nCONCLUSION: The use of soluble biomarkers represents a fast, selective and sensitive method for beta cell toxicity profiling in vitro. UCHL1 is superior to GAD65 in vitro but not in vivo.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076513', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Brussels Free University']]
[u'Mapping eQTLs With RNA-Seq Reveals Novel SLE Susceptibility Genes, Non-Coding RNAs, and Alternative-Splicing Events That Are Concealed Using Microarrays', ['Christopher A Odhams', 'Andrea Cortini', 'Lingyan Chen', 'Amy L Roberts', 'Ana Vinuela', 'Alfonso Buil', 'Kerrin S Small', 'Emmanouil T Dermitzakis', 'David L Morris', 'Timothy J Vyse', 'Deborah S Cunninghame-Graham'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Studies attempting to functionally interpret complex-disease susceptibility loci by GWAS and eQTL integration have predominantly employed microarrays to quantify gene-expression. RNA-Seq has the potential to discover a more comprehensive set of eQTLs and illuminate the underlying molecular consequence. We examine the functional outcome of 39 variants associated with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) through integration of GWAS and eQTL data from the TwinsUK microarray and RNA-Seq cohort in lymphoblastoid cell lines. We use conditional analysis and a Bayesian colocalisation method to provide evidence of a shared causal-variant, then compare the ability of each quantification type to detect disease relevant eQTLs and eGenes. We discovered a greater frequency of candidate-causal eQTLs using RNA-Seq, and identified novel SLE susceptibility genes that were concealed using microarrays (e.g. NADSYN1, SKP1, and TCF7). Many of these eQTLs were found to influence the expression of several genes, suggesting risk haplotypes may harbour multiple functional effects. We pinpointed eQTLs modulating expression of four non-coding RNAs; three of which were replicated in whole-blood. Novel SLE associated splicing events were identified in the T-reg restricted transcription factor, IKZF2, the autophagy-related gene WDFY4, and the redox coenzyme NADSYN1, through asQTL mapping using the Geuvadis cohort. We have significantly increased our understanding of the genetic control of gene-expression in SLE by maximising the leverage of RNA-Seq and performing integrative GWAS-eQTL analysis against gene, exon, and splice-junction quantifications. In doing so, we have identified novel SLE candidate genes and specific molecular mechanisms that will serve as the basis for targeted follow-up studies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/076026', [u'Genetics'], [u"King's College London;", u'University of Geneva']]
[u'StereoGene: Rapid Estimation of Genomewide Correlation of Continuous or Interval Feature Data', ['Elena D. Stavrovskaya', 'Alexander V. Favorov', 'Tejasvi Niranjan', 'Sarah J. Wheelan', 'Andrey Mironov'], u'September 21, 2016.', u'Motivation: High throughput sequencing methods produce massive amounts of data. The most common first step in interpretation of these data is to map the data to genomic intervals and then overlap with genome annotations. A major interest in computational genomics is spatial genome-wide correlation among genomic features (e.g. between transcription and histone modification). The key hypothesis here is that features that are similarly distributed along a genome may be functionally related.\nResults:  Here, we propose a method that rapidly estimates genomewide correlation of genomic annotations; these annotations can be derived from high throughput experiments, databases, or other means. The method goes far beyond the simple overlap and proximity tests that are commonly used, by enabling correlation of continuous data, so that the loss of data that occurs upon reduction to intervals is unnecessary. To include analysis of nonoverlapping but spatially related features, we use kernel correlation. Implementation of this method allows for correlation analysis of two or three profiles across the human genome in a few minutes on a personal computer. Another novel and extraordinarily powerful feature of our approach is the local correlation track output that enables overlap with other correlations (correlation of correlations). \nWe applied our method to the datasets from the Human Epigenome Atlas and FANTOM CAGE. We observed the changes of the correlation between epigenomic features across developmental trajectories of several tissue types, and found unexpected strong spatial correlation of CAGE clusters with splicing donor sites and with poly(A) sites.\nAvailability:\nThe StereoGene C++ source code, program documentation, Galaxy integration scrips and examples are available at the project homepage at http://stereogene.bioinf.fbb.msu.ru/\nContact: favorov@sensi.org\nSupplementary information: Supplementary data are available online.', u'/content/early/2016/09/21/059584', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Dept. of Bioengineering and Bioinformatics, Moscow State University,Moscow, 119992, Russia;', u'Div. of Biostatistics & Bioinformatics,Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins;', u'Department of Oncology, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins']]
[u'A machine learning classifier trained on cancer transcriptomes detects NF1 inactivation signal in glioblastoma', ['Gregory P Way', 'Robert J Allaway', 'Stephanie J Bouley', 'Camilo E Fadul', 'Yolanda Sanchez', 'Casey S Greene'], u'September 21, 2016.', u"Background:  We have identified molecules that exhibit synthetic lethality in cells with loss of the neurofibromin 1 (NF1) tumor suppressor gene. However, recognizing tumors that have inactivation of the NF1 tumor suppressor function is challenging because the loss may occur via mechanisms that do not involve mutation of the genomic locus. Degradation of the NF1 protein, independent of NF1 mutation status, phenocopies inactivating mutations to drive tumors in human glioma cell lines. NF1 inactivation may alter the transcriptional landscape of a tumor and allow a machine learning classifier to detect which tumors will benefit from synthetic lethal molecules.  Results: We developed a strategy to predict tumors with low NF1 activity and hence tumors that may respond to treatments that target cells lacking NF1. Using RNAseq data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we trained an ensemble of 500 logistic regression classifiers that integrates mutation status with whole transcriptomes to predict NF1 inactivation in glioblastoma (GBM). On TCGA data, the classifier detected NF1 mutated tumors (test set area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) mean = 0.77, 95% quantile = 0.53 - 0.95) over 50 random initializations. On RNA-Seq data transformed into the space of gene expression microarrays, this method produced a classifier with similar performance (test set AUROC mean = 0.77, 95% quantile = 0.53 - 0.96). We applied our ensemble classifier trained on the transformed TCGA data to a microarray validation set of 12 samples with matched RNA and NF1 protein-level measurements. The classifier's NF1 score was associated with NF1 protein concentration in these samples.  Conclusions: We demonstrate that TCGA can be used to train accurate predictors of NF1 inactivation in GBM. The ensemble classifier performed well for samples with very high or very low NF1 protein concentrations but had mixed performance in samples with intermediate NF1 concentrations. Nevertheless, high-performing and validated predictors have the potential to be paired with targeted therapies and personalized medicine.", u'/content/early/2016/09/21/075382', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'The Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth;', u'University of Virginia']]
[u'The RNA-binding protein RBP10 controls a regulatory cascade that defines bloodstream-form trypanosome identity', ['Elisha Mugo', 'Christine Clayton'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Gene expression control in the pathogen Trypanosoma brucei relies almost exclusively on post-transcriptional mechanisms, so RNA binding proteins must assume the burden that is usually borne by transcription factors. T. brucei multiply in the blood of mammals as bloodstream forms, and in the midgut of Tsetse flies as procyclic forms. We show here that a single RNA-binding protein, RBP10, defines the bloodstream-form trypanosome differentiation state. Depletion of RBP10 from bloodstream-form trypanosomes gives cells that can grow only as procyclic forms; conversely, expression of RBP10 in procyclic forms converts them to bloodstream forms. RBP10 binds to procyclic-specific mRNAs containing an UAUUUUUU motif, targeting them for translation repression and destruction. Products of RBP10 target mRNAs include not only the major procyclic surface protein and enzymes of energy metabolism, but also protein kinases and stage-specific RNA-binding proteins: consequently, alterations in RBP10 trigger a regulatory cascade.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076273.1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'DKFZ-ZMBH Alliance, Zentrum fuer Molekulare Biologie der Universitaet Heidelberg']]
[u'The Melting Snowball: A Test of the Snowball Model Using RNA', ['Ata Kalirad', 'Ricardo B. R. Azevedo'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Genetic incompatibilities can emerge as a by-product of genetic divergence. According to Dobzhansky and Muller, alleles at different loci that have fixed in different genetic backgrounds may be incompatible when brought together in a hybrid. Orr showed that the number of Dobzhansky\u2013Muller incompatibilities (DMIs) should accumulate faster than linearly\u2014i.e., snowball\u2014as two lineages diverge. Several studies have attempted to test the snowball model using data from natural populations. One limitation of these studies is that they have focused on predictions of the snowball model but not on its underlying assumptions. Here we use a computational model of RNA folding to test both predictions and assumptions of the snowball model. In this model, two populations are allowed to evolve in allopatry on a holey fitness landscape. We find that the number of DMIs involving pairs of loci (i.e., simple DMIs) does not snowball\u2014rather, it increases approximately linearly with divergence. We show that the probability of emergence of a simple DMI is approximately constant, as assumed by the snowball model. However, simple DMIs can disappear after they have arisen, contrary to the assumptions of the snowball model. This occurs because simple DMIs become complex (i.e., involve alleles at three or more loci) as a result of later substitutions. We introduce a modified snowball model\u2014the melting snowball model\u2014where simple DMIs can become complex after they appear. The melting snowball model can account for the results of the RNA folding model. We also find that complex DMIs are common and, unlike simple ones, do snowball. Reproductive isolation, however, does not snowball because DMIs do not act independently of each other. We conclude that the RNA folding model supports the central prediction of the snowball model that the number of DMIs snowballs, but challenges some of its underlying assumptions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076232.1', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Houston']]
[u'Deep-time parallel evolution of myrmecoid syndrome in rove beetle symbionts of army ants', ['Munetoshi Maruyama', 'Joseph Parker'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Recent adaptive radiations provide striking examples of convergence, but the predictability of evolution over much deeper timescales is controversial, due to a scarcity of ancient clades exhibiting repetitive patterns of phenotypic evolution. Army ants are ecologically dominant arthropod predators of the world\'s tropics, with large nomadic colonies housing diverse communities of socially parasitic myrmecophiles. Remarkable among these are many species of rove beetle (Staphylinidae) that exhibit ant-mimicking "myrmecoid" body forms and are behaviorally accepted into their aggressive hosts\' societies: emigrating with colonies and inhabiting temporary nest bivouacs, grooming and feeding with workers, but also consuming the brood. Here we demonstrate that myrmecoid rove beetles are strongly polyphyletic, with this novel adaptive morphological and behavioral syndrome having evolved at least twelve times during the evolution of a single staphylinid subfamily, Aleocharinae. Each independent myrmecoid clade is restricted to one zoogeographic region and highly host-specific on a single army ant genus. Dating estimates reveal that myrmecoid clades are separated by substantial phylogenetic distances - as much as 105 million years (My). All such groups arose in parallel during the Cenozoic, as army ants are proposed to have risen to ecological dominance. This work uncovers a rare example of an ancient system of complex morphological and behavioral convergence, with replicate beetle lineages following a predictable phenotypic trajectory during their parasitic coevolution with army ants.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076315', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Kyushu University;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Extraction of ultrashort DNA molecules from herbarium specimens', ['Rafal M Gutaker', 'Ella Reiter', 'Anja Furtwangler', 'Verena J Schuenemann', 'Hernan A Burbano'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'DNA extracted from herbarium specimens is highly fragmented and decays at a faster rate than DNA from ancient bones. Therefore, it is crucial to utilize extraction protocols that retrieve short DNA molecules. Improvements in extraction and library preparation protocols for animal remains have allowed efficient retrieval of molecules shorter than 50 bp. We adapted those improvements to extraction protocols for herbarium specimens and evaluated their performance by shotgun sequencing, which allows an accurate estimation of the distribution of fragment lengths. Extraction with PTB buffer decreased median fragment length by 35% when compared to CTAB. Modifying the binding conditions of DNA to silica allowed for an additional decrease of 10%. We did not observe a further decrease in length when we used single-stranded instead of double-stranded library preparation methods. Our protocol enables the retrieval of ultrashort molecules from herbarium specimens and will help to unlock the genetic information stored in herbaria.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076299', [u'Genomics'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology;', u'Institute of Archaeological Sciences, University of Tuebingen']]
[u'A comprehensive evaluation of multiband-accelerated sequences and their effects on statistical outcome measures in fMRI.', ['Lysia Demetriou', 'Oliwia S Kowalczyk', 'Gabriella Tyson', 'Thomas Bello', 'Rexford D Newbould', 'Matthew B Wall'], u'September 20, 2016.', u"Accelerated functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) with 'multiband' sequences is now relatively widespread. These sequences can be used to dramatically reduce the repetition time (TR) and produce a time-series sampled at a higher temporal resolution. We tested the effects of higher temporal resolutions for fMRI on statistical outcome measures in a comprehensive manner on two different MRI scanner platforms. Experiment 1 tested a range of acceleration factors (1-6) against a standard EPI sequence on a single composite task that maps a number of basic sensory, motor, and cognitive networks. Experiment 2 compared the standard sequence with acceleration factors of 2 and 3 on both resting-state and two task paradigms (an N-back task, and faces/places task), with a number of different analysis approaches. Results from experiment 1 showed modest but relatively inconsistent effects of the higher sampling rate on statistical outcome measures. Experiment 2 showed strong benefits of the multiband sequences on results derived from resting-state data, but more varied effects on results from the task paradigms. Notably, the multiband sequences were superior when Multi-Voxel Pattern Analysis was used to interrogate the faces/places data, but showed less benefit in conventional General Linear Model analyses of the same data. In general, ROI-derived measures of statistical effects benefitted relatively little from higher sampling resolution, with decrements even seen in one task (N-back). Across both experiments, results from the two scanner platforms were broadly comparable. The statistical benefits of high temporal resolution fMRI with multiband sequences may therefore depend on a number of factors, including the nature of the investigation (resting-state vs. task-based), the experimental design, the particular statistical outcome measure, and the type of analysis used. Higher sampling rates in fMRI are not a panacea, and it is recommended that researchers use multiband acquisition sequences conservatively.", u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076307', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imanova Centre for Imaging Sciences;', u'Royal Holloway University of London;', u'The University of Arizona']]
[u'Translational control of gurken mRNA in Drosophila development', ['Christopher J Derrick', 'Timothy T Weil'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Localised mRNA translation is a widespread mechanism for targeting protein synthesis, important for cell fate, motility and pathogenesis. In Drosophila, the spatiotemporal control of gurken/TGF-\u03b1 mRNA translation is required for establishing the embryonic body axes. A number of recent studies have highlighted key aspects of the mechanism of gurken mRNA translational control at the dorsoanterior corner of the mid-stage oocyte. Orb/CPEB and Wispy/GLD-2 are required for polyadenylation of gurken mRNA, but mis-localised gurken mRNA in the oocyte is not fully polyadenylated1. At the dorsoanterior corner, Orb and gurken mRNA have been shown to be enriched at the edge of Processing bodies, where translation occurs2. Over-expression of Orb in the adjacent nurse cells, where gurken mRNA is transcribed, is sufficient to cause mis-expression of Gurken protein3. In orb mutant egg chambers, reducing the activity of CK2, a Serine/Threonine protein kinase, enhances polarity defects, consistent with a phenotype relating to a mutation of a factor involved in gurken translation4. Here we show that sites phosphorylated by CK2 overlap with active Orb and with Gurken protein expression. We also consolidate the current literature into a working model for gurken mRNA translational control and review the role of kinases, cell cycle factors and polyadenylation machinery highlighting a multitude of conserved factors and mechanisms in the Drosophila egg chamber.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076091', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Adipocyte JAK2 mediates hepatic insulin sensitivity and the diabetogenic action of Growth Hormone', ['Kevin Corbit', 'Joao Paulo G. Camporez', 'Jennifer L Tran', 'Camella G Wilson', 'Rachel J Perry', 'Gerald Schulman', 'Michael J Jurczak', 'Ethan Weiss'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'For nearly 100 years, Growth Hormone (GH) has been known to regulate insulin sensitivity and risk of diabetes. However, the tissue governing the effects of GH signaling on insulin and glucose homeostasis remains unknown. Excess GH reduces fat mass and insulin sensitivity. Conversely, GH insensitivity (GHI) is associated with increased adiposity, augmented insulin sensitivity, and protection from diabetes. Here we induce adipocyte-specific GHI through conditional deletion of Jak2 (JAK2A), an obligate transducer of GH signaling. Similar to whole-body GHI, JAK2A mice had increased adiposity and extreme insulin sensitivity. Loss of adipocyte Jak2 augmented hepatic insulin sensitivity and conferred resistance to diet-induced metabolic stress without overt changes in\ncirculating fatty acids. While GH injections induced hepatic insulin resistance in control mice, the diabetogenic action was absent in JAK2A mice. Collectively, our results show that adipose tissue governs the effects of GH on insulin and glucose homeostasis. Further, we show that JAK2 mediates liver insulin sensitivity via an extra-hepatic, adipose tissue-dependent mechanism.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076265', [u'Physiology'], [u'UCSF;', u'Yale;', u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Pre-metazoan origin of animal miRNAs', ['Jon Brate', 'Ralf Stefan Neumann', 'Bastian Fromm', 'Arthur Alexander Blorstad Haraldsen', 'Paul Grini', 'Kamran Shalchian-Tabrizi'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'microRNAs (miRNAs) are integrated parts of the developmental toolkit in animals. The evolutionary history and origins of animal miRNAs is however unclear, and it is not known when they evolved and on how many occasions. We have therefore investigated the presence of miRNAs and the necessary miRNA biogenesis machinery in a large group of unicellular relatives of animals, Ichthyosporea. By small RNA sequencing we find evidence for at least four genes in the genus Sphaeroforma that satisfy the criteria for the annotation of animal miRNA genes. Three of these miRNAs are conserved and expressed across sphaeroformid species. Furthermore, we identify homologues of the animal miRNA biogenesis genes across a wide range of ichthyosporeans, including Drosha and Pasha which make up the animal specific Microprocessor complex. Taken together we report the first evidence for bona fide miRNA genes and the presence of the miRNA-processing pathway in unicellular Choanozoa, implying that the origin of animal miRNAs and the Microprocessor complex predates multicellular animals.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076190', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oslo']]
[u'DynOmics to identify delays and co-expression patterns across time course experiments', ['Jasmin Straube', 'Bevan Emma Huang', 'Kim-Anh Le Cao'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Dynamic changes in biological systems can be captured by measuring molecular expression from different levels (e.g., genes and proteins) across time. Integration of such data aims to identify molecules that show similar expression changes over time; such molecules may be co-regulated and thus involved in similar biological processes. Combining data sources presents a systematic approach to study molecular behaviour. It can compensate for missing data in one source, and can reduce false positives when multiple sources highlight the same pathways. However, integrative approaches must accommodate the challenges inherent in \u2018omics\u2019 data, including high-dimensionality, noise, and timing differences in expression. As current methods for identification of co-expression cannot cope with this level of complexity, we developed a novel algorithm called DynOmics. DynOmics is based on the fast Fourier transform, from which the difference in expression initiation between trajectories can be estimated. This delay can then be used to realign the trajectories and identify those which show a high degree of correlation. Through extensive simulations, we demonstrate that DynOmics is efficient and accurate compared to existing approaches. We consider two case studies highlighting its application, identifying regulatory relationships across \u2018omics\u2019 data within an organism and for comparative gene expression analysis across organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076257', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Queensland;', u'Janssen R&D']]
[u'A critical review of the use and performance of different function types for modeling temperature-dependent development of arthropod larvae', ['Brady K. Quinn'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Temperature-dependent development influences production rates of economically- and ecologically-important arthropod species, including crustaceans important to fisheries and agricultural pests. Numerous candidate equation types (development functions) exist to describe the effect of temperature on development time, yet most studies use only a single type of equation and there is no consensus as to which, if any model predicts development rates better than the others, nor what the consequences of selecting a potentially incorrect model equation are on predicted development times. In this study, a literature search was performed of studies fitting development functions to development of arthropod larvae (87 species). The published data of some (52) of these species were then fit with eight commonly-used development functions. Overall performance of each function type and consequences of using a function other than the best one to model data were assessed. Performance was also related to taxonomy and the range of temperatures examined. The majority (86.5 %) of studies were found to not use the best function out of those tested. Using the incorrect model lead to significantly less accurate (e.g., mean difference +/- SE 7.9 +/- 1.7 %, range: 1-18 %) predictions of development times than the best function. Overall, Heip Power, Quadratic, Belehradek, and Modified Arrhenius functions performed well, Linear Rate and Tauti Exponential were intermediate, and the Linear Sum and Briere-2 functions performed poorly. More complex functions only performed well when wide temperature ranges were tested, which tended to be confined to studies of insects or arachnids compared with those of crustaceans. Results indicate the biological significance of choosing the best-fitting model to describe temperature-dependent development time data.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076182', [u'Zoology'], [u'University of New Brunswick (Saint John)']]
[u'Competition between IAV subtypes through heterosubtypic immunity modulates re-infection and antibody dynamics in the mallard reservoir', ['Neus Latorre-Margalef', 'Justin D. Brown', 'Alinde Fojtik', 'Rebecca L. Poulson', 'Deborah Carter', 'Monique Franca', 'David E. Stallknecht'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Our overall hypothesis is that host population immunity directed at multiple antigens will influence the prevalence, diversity and evolution of influenza A virus (IAV) in avian populations where the vast subtype diversity is maintained. To investigate how initial infection influences the outcome of later infections with homologous or heterologous IAV subtypes and how viruses interact through host immune responses we carried out experimental infections in mallard ducks (Anas platyrhynchos). Mallards were pre-challenged with an H3N8 low-pathogenic IAV and were divided into six groups.  At five weeks post H3N8 inoculation, each group was challenged with a different IAV subtype or the same H3N8. Two additional pre-challenged groups were inoculated with the same H3N8 virus at weeks 11 and 15 after pre-challenge to evaluate the duration of protection, which showed that mallards were still resistant to re-infection after 15 weeks. There was a significant reduction in shedding for all pre-challenged groups compared to controls and the outcome of the heterologous challenges varied according to hemagglutinin (HA) phylogenetic relatedness between the viruses used. There was a boost in the H3 antibody titer after re-infection with H4N5, which is consistent with original antigenic sin or antigenic seniority and suggest a putative strategy of virus evasion. These results imply strong competition between related subtypes that could regulate IAV subtype population dynamics in nature. Collectively, we provide new insights into within-host IAV complex interactions as drivers of IAV antigenic diversity that could allow the circulation of multiple subtypes in wild ducks.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/063933', [u'Ecology'], [u'Lund University;', u'Pennsylvania Game Commission;', u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Using MinION nanopore sequencing to generate a de novo eukaryotic draft genome: preliminary physiological and genomic description of the extremophilic red alga Galdieria sulphuraria strain SAG 107.79', ['Amanda M. Davis', 'Manuela Iovinella', 'Sally James', 'Thomas Robshaw', 'Jennifer H. Dodson', 'Lorenzo Herrero-Davila', 'James H. Clark', 'Maria Agapiou', 'Simon McQueen-Mason', 'Gabriele Pinto', 'Claudia Ciniglia', 'James P. J. Chong', 'Peter D Ashton', 'Seth Jon Davis'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'We report here the de novo assembly of a eukaryotic genome using only MinION nanopore DNA sequence data by examining a novel Galdieria sulphuraria genome: strain SAG 107.79. This extremophilic red alga was targeted for full genome sequencing as we found that it could grow on a wide variety of carbon sources and could uptake several precious and rare-earth metals, which places it as an interesting biological target for disparate industrial biotechnological uses. Phylogenetic analysis clearly places this as a species of G. sulphuraria. Here we additionally show that the genome assembly generated via nanopore long read data was of a high quality with regards to low total number of contiguous DNA sequences and long length of assemblies. Collectively, the MinION platform looks to rival other competing approaches for de novo genome acquisition with available informatics tools for assembly. The genome assembly is publically released as NCBI BioProject PRJNA330791. Further work is needed to reduce small insertion-deletion errors, relative to short-read assemblies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076208', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of York;', u'University of Naples Federico;', u'Second University of Naples']]
[u'Heterozygous mutation to Chd8 causes macrocephaly and widespread alteration of neurodevelopmental transcriptional networks in mouse', ['Andrea L Gompers', 'Linda Su-Feher', 'Jacob Ellegood', 'Tyler W Stradleigh', 'Iva Zdilar', 'Nycole A Copping', 'Michael C Pride', 'Melanie D Schaffler', 'M Asrafuzzaman Riyadh', 'Gaurav Kaushik', 'Brandon Mannion', 'Ingrid Plajzer-Frick', 'Veena Afzal', 'Axel Visel', 'Len A Pennacchio', 'Diane Dickel', 'Jason P Lerch', 'Jacqueline N Crawley', 'Konstantinos S Zarbalis', 'Jill L Silverman', 'Alex S Nord'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'The chromatin remodeling gene CHD8 represents a central node in early neurodevelopmental gene networks implicated in autism. We examined the impact of heterozygous germline Chd8 mutation on neurodevelopment in mice. Network analysis of neurodevelopmental gene expression revealed subtle yet strongly significant widespread transcriptional changes in Chd8+/- mice across autism-relevant networks from neurogenesis to synapse function. Chd8+/- expression signatures included enrichment of RNA processing genes and a Chd8-regulated module featuring altered transcription of chromatin remodeling, splicing, and cell cycle genes. Chd8+/- mice exhibited increased proliferation during brain development and neonatal increase in cortical length and volume. Structural MRI confirmed regional brain volume increase in adult Chd8+/- mice, consistent with clinical macrocephaly. Adult Chd8+/- mice displayed normal social interactions, and repetitive behaviors were not evident. Our results show that Chd8+/- mice exhibit neurodevelopmental changes paralleling CHD8+/- humans and show that Chd8 is a global genomic regulator of pathways disrupted in neurodevelopmental disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076158', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UC Davis, Depts of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences and Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior;', u'The Hospital for Sick Children, Mouse Imaging Centre;', u'UC Davis, Depts of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences; UC Davis, MIND Institute, School of Medicine;', u'UC Davis, Dept. of Pathology; Shriners Hospital, Institute for Pediatric Regenerative Medicine;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; Dept. of Energy Joint Genome Institute; UC Merced;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; Dept. of Energy Joint Genome Institute']]
[u'Language-selective brain regions track linguistic input more closely than domain-general regions', ['Idan A Blank', 'Evelina Fedorenko'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Language comprehension engages a cortical network of left frontal and temporal regions [1-6]. Activity in this network is sensitive to linguistic features such as lexical information, syntax and compositional semantics [7-10]. However, this network shows virtually no engagement in non-linguistic tasks [11-14] and is therefore language-selective. In addition, language comprehension engages a second network consisting of frontal, parietal, cingulate, and insular regions [15-18]. Activity in this "Multiple Demand (MD)" network [19] is sensitive to comprehension difficulty, increasing in the presence of e.g. ambiguity [20-26], infrequent words [27-33] and non-local syntactic dependencies [34-40]. However, this network similarly scales its activity with cognitive effort across a wide range of non-linguistic tasks [19, 41] and is therefore domain-general. Given the functional dissociation between the language and MD networks [42, 43], their respective contributions to comprehension are likely distinct, yet such differences remain elusive. Critically, given that each network is sensitive to some linguistic features, prior research has presupposed that both networks track linguistic input closely, and in a manner consistent across individuals. Here, we used fMRI to test this assumption by comparing the BOLD signal time-courses in each network across different individuals listening to the same story [44-46]. Language network activity showed fewer individual differences, indicative of closer input tracking, whereas MD network activity was more idiosyncratic and, moreover, showed lower reliability within an individual across repetitions of a story. These findings constrain cognitive models of language comprehension by suggesting a novel distinction between the processes implemented in the language and MD networks.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076240', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Transformation of head-direction signal into spatial code', ['Adrien Peyrache', 'Lisa Roux', 'Natalie Schieferstein', 'Gyorgy Buzsaki'], u'September 20, 2016.', u"Head direction (HD), boundary vector, grid and place cells in the entorhinal-hippocampal system form the brain's navigational system that allows to identify the animal's current location and to move towards desired goal locations.  How the functions of these specialized neuron types are acquired and how their computations relate to each other remain to be understood. We examined how head direction and place information are represented in thalamic, post-subiculum and hippocampal neurons and how their firing patterns are influenced by the ambulatory constraints imposed upon the animal by the boundaries of the explored environment. We show that in the antero-dorsal thalamic nucleus, the HD signal can represent a spurious spatial code under behavioral constraints. In the post-subiculum, the main cortical stage of HD signal processing, the amount of spatial information conveyed by HD neurons is increased by the combination of the HD signal with other sensory modalities. We also demonstrate HD signals in the hippocampus and hypothesize that HD can contribute to the generation of a spatial code. These findings demonstrate how sensory information can be transduced into a spatial code.", u'/content/early/2016/09/20/075986', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'McGill University;', u'The Neuroscience Institute, New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, 10016, USA.']]
[u'Tracking single-cell gene regulation in dynamically controlled environments using an integrated microfluidic and computational setup', ['Matthias Kaiser', 'Florian Jug', 'Olin Silander', 'Siddharth Deshpande', 'Thomas Pfohl', 'Thomas Julou', 'Gene Myers', 'Erik van Nimwegen'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Bacteria adapt to changes in their environment by regulating gene expression, often at the level of transcription. However, since the molecular processes underlying gene regulation are subject to thermodynamic and other stochastic fluctuations, gene expression is inherently noisy, and identical cells in a homogeneous environment can display highly heterogeneous expression levels. To study how stochasticity affects gene regulation at the single-cell level, it is crucial to be able to directly follow gene expression dynamics in single cells under changing environmental conditions. Recently developed microfluidic devices, used in combination with quantitative fluorescence time-lapse microscopy, represent a highly promising experimental approach, allowing tracking of lineages of single cells over long time-scales while simultaneously measuring their growth and gene expression. However, current devices do not allow controlled dynamical changes to the environmental conditions which are needed to study gene regulation. In addition, automated analysis of the imaging data from such devices is still highly challenging and no standard software is currently available. To address these challenges, we here present an integrated experimental and computational setup featuring, on the one hand, a new dual-input microfluidic chip which allows mixing and switching between two growth media and, on the other hand, a novel image analysis software which jointly optimizes segmentation and tracking of the cells and allows interactive user-guided fine-tuning of its results. To demonstrate the power of our approach, we study the lac operon regulation in E. coli cells grown in an environment that switches between glucose and lactose, and quantify stochastic lag times and memory at the single cell level.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076224', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland;', u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, Dresden, Germany;', u'Biozentrum, University of Basel']]
[u'Genome-wide association study of HIV whole genome sequences validated using drug resistance', ['Robert A Power', 'Siva Davaniah', 'Anne Derache', 'Eduan Wilkinson', 'Frank Tanser', 'Ravindra K Gupta', 'Deenan Pillay', 'Tulio de Oliveira'], u'September 20, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have considerably advanced our understanding of human traits and diseases. With the increasing availability of whole genome sequences (WGS) for pathogens, it is important to establish whether GWAS of viral genomes could reveal important biological insights. Here we perform the first proof of concept viral GWAS examining drug resistance (DR), a phenotype with well understood genetics.\nWe performed a GWAS of DR in a sample of 343 HIV subtype C patients failing 1st line antiretroviral treatment in rural KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. The majority and minority variants within each sequence were called using PILON, and GWAS was performed within PLINK.  HIV WGS from patients failing on different antiretroviral treatments were compared to sequences derived from individuals naive to the respective treatment. \nGWAS methodology was validated by identifying five associations on a genetic level that led to amino acid changes known to cause DR. Further, we highlighted the ability of GWAS to identify epistatic effects, identifying two replicable variants within amino acid 68 of the reverse transcriptase protein previously described as potential fitness compensatory mutations. A possible additional DR variant within amino acid 91 of the matrix region of the Gag protein was associated with tenofovir failure, highlighting the ability of GWAS to identify variants outside classical candidate genes. Our results also suggest a polygenic component to DR.\nThese results validate the applicability of GWAS to HIV WGS data even in relative small samples, and emphasise how high throughput sequencing can provide novel and clinically relevant insights. Further they suggested that for viruses like HIV, population structure was only minor concern compared to that seen in bacteria or parasite GWAS. Given the small genome length and reduced burden for multiple testing, this makes HIV an ideal candidate for GWAS.', u'/content/early/2016/09/20/076216', [u'Genomics'], [u'Africa Centre for Population Health;', u'University College London']]
[u'High throughput estimation of functional cell activities reveals disease mechanisms and predicts relevant clinical outcomes', ['Marta R Hidalgo', 'Cankut Cubuk', 'Alicia Amadoz', 'Francisco Salavert', 'Jose Carbonell Caballero', 'Joaquin Dopazo'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Understanding the aspects of the cell functionality that account for disease or drug action mechanisms is a main challenge for precision medicine.  Here we propose a new method that models cell signaling using biological knowledge on signal transduction. The method recodes individual gene expression values (and/or gene mutations) into accurate measurements of changes in the activity of signaling circuits, which ultimately constitute high-throughput estimations of cell functionalities caused by gene activity within the pathway. Moreover, such estimations can be obtained either at cohort-level, in case/control comparisons, or personalized for individual patients. The accuracy of the method is demonstrated in an extensive analysis involving 5640 patients from 12 different cancer types. Circuit activity measurements not only have a high diagnostic value but also can be related to relevant disease outcomes such as survival, and can be used to assess therapeutic interventions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076083', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Centro de Investigacion Principe Felipe']]
[u'Expression biomarkers used for the selective breeding of complex polygenic traits', ['Marta Guarna', 'Shelley Hoover', 'Elizabeth Huxter', 'Heather Higo', 'Kyung-Mee Moon', 'Domonik Domanski', 'Miriam E.F. Bixby', 'Andony P Melathopoulos', 'Abdullah Ibrahim', 'Michael Peirson', 'Suresh Desai', 'Derek Micholson', 'Rick White', 'Christoph H Borchers', 'Robert W Currie', 'Stephen F Pernal', 'Leonard Foster'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'We present a novel way to select for highly polygenic traits. For millennia, humans have used observable phenotypes to selectively breed stronger or more productive livestock and crops. Selection on genotype, using single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and quantitative trait loci (QTLs), is also now applied broadly in livestock breeding programs; however, selection on protein or mRNA expression markers have not been proved useful yet.  Here we demonstrate the utility of protein markers to select for disease-resistant behaviour in the European honey bees (Apis mellifera L.).  Robust, mechanistically linked protein expression markers, by integrating cis and trans effects from many genomic loci, may overcome limitations of genomic markers to allow for selection. After three generations of selection, the resulting stock performed as well or better than bees selected using phenotype based assessment of this trait, when challenged with disease. This is the first demonstration of the efficacy of protein markers for selective breeding in any agricultural species, plant or animal.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076174', [u'Zoology'], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'Agriculture & Agri-Food Canada;', u'Kettle Valley Queens;', u'University of Victoria;', u'University of British Columia;', u'University of Manitoba']]
[u'Diffusion of lipids and GPI-anchored proteins in actin-free plasma membrane vesicles measured by STED-FCS', ['Falk Schneider', 'Mathias P Clausen', 'Dominic Waithe', 'Thomas Koller', 'Gunes Ozhan', 'Christian Eggeling', 'Erdinc Sezgin'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Diffusion and interaction dynamics of molecules at the plasma membrane play an important role in cellular signalling. These have been suggested to be strongly associated with the actin cytoskeleton. Here, we utilise super-resolution STED microscopy combined with fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (STED-FCS) to access the sub-diffraction diffusion regime of different fluorescent lipid analogues and GPI-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) in the cellular plasma membrane, and compare it to the diffusion regime of these molecules in cell-derived actin-free giant plasma membrane vesicles (GPMVs). We show that phospholipids and sphingomyelin, which undergo hindered diffusion in the live cell membrane, diffuse freely in the GPMVs. In contrast to sphingomyelin, which is transiently trapped on molecular-scale complexes in intact cells, diffusion of the ganglioside lipid GM1 suggests transient incorporation into nanodomains, which is less influenced by the actin cortex. Finally, our data on GPI-APs indicate two molecular pools in living cells, one pool showing high mobility with trapped and compartmentalized diffusion, and the other forming immobile clusters both of which disappear in GPMVs. Our data underlines the crucial role of the actin cortex in maintaining hindered diffusion modes of most but not all membrane molecules.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076109', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Southern Denmark;', u'Izmir International Biomedicine and Genome Institute (iBG-izmir), Dokuz Eylul University']]
[u'PTRNAmark: an all-atomic distance-dependent knowledge-based potential for 3D RNA structure evaluation', ['Yi Yang', 'Qi Gu', 'Ya-zhou Shi', 'Zhi-Gang Shao', 'Zhi-jie Tan'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'RNA molecules play vital biological roles, and understanding their structures gives us crucial insights into their biological functions. Model evaluation is a necessary step for better prediction and design of 3D RNA structures. Knowledge-based statistical potential has been proved to be a powerful approach for evaluating models of protein tertiary structures. In present, several knowledge-based potentials have also been proposed to assess models of RNA 3D structures. However, further amelioration is required to rank near-native structures and pick out the native structure from near-native structures, which is crucial in the prediction of RNA tertiary structures. In this work, we built a novel RNA knowledge-based potential:PTRNAmark, which not only combines mutual and self energies but also fully considers the specificity of every RNA. The benchmarks on different testing data sets all show that PTRNAmark are more efficient than existing evaluation methods in recognizing native state from a pool of near-native states of RNAs as well as in ranking near-native states of RNA models.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076000', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Quantum Engineering and Quantum Materials, SPTE, South China;', u'Center for Theoretical Physics and Key Laboratory of Artificial Micro & Nano-structures of Ministry']]
[u'Correcting subtle stratification in summary association statistics', ['Gaurav Bhatia', 'Nicholas A Furlotte', 'Po-Ru Loh', 'Xuanyao Liu', 'Hilary Kiyo Finucane', 'Alexander Gusev', 'Alkes Price'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Population stratification is a well-documented confounder in GWASes, and is often addressed by including principal component (PC) covariates computed from common SNPs (SNP-PCs). In our analyses of summary statistics from 36 GWASes (mean n=88k), including 20 GWASes using 23andMe data that included SNP-PC covariates, we observed a significantly inflated LD score regression (LDSC) intercept for several traits\u2212suggesting that residual stratification remains a concern, even when SNP-PC covariates are included.\nHere we propose a new method, PC loading regression, to correct for stratification in summary statistics by leveraging SNP loadings for PCs computed in a large reference panel. In addition to SNP-PCs, the method can be applied to haploSNP-PCs, i.e. PCs computed from a larger number of rare haplotype variants that better capture subtle structure. Using simulations based on real genotypes from 54,000 individuals of diverse European ancestry from the Genetic Epidemiology Research on Adult Health and Aging (GERA) cohort, we show that PC loading regression effectively corrects for stratification along top PCs.\nWe applied PC loading regression to several traits with inflated LDSC intercepts. Correcting for the top four SNP-PCs in GERA data, we observe a significant reduction in LDSC intercept height summary statistics from the Genetic Investigation of ANthropometric Traits (GIANT) consortium, but not for 23andMe summary statistics, which already included SNP-PC covariates. However, when correcting for additional haploSNP-PCs in 23andMe GWASes, inflation in the LDSC intercept was eliminated for eye color, hair color, and skin color and substantially reduced for height (1.41 to 1.16; n=430k). Correcting for haploSNP-PCs in GIANT height summary statistics eliminated inflation in the LDSC intercept (from 1.35 to 1.00; n=250k), eliminating 27 significant association signals including one at the LCT locus, which is highly differentiated among European populations and widely known to produce spurious signals. Overall, our results suggest that uncorrected population stratification is a concern in GWASes of large sample size and that PC loading regression can correct for this stratification.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076133', [u'Genetics'], [u'Harvard School of Public Health;', u'23andMe, Inc.;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'MIT']]
[u'Towards an Open Data Framework for Body Sensor Networks Supporting Bluetooth Low Energy', ['Ninoshka K. Singh', 'Darrell O Ricke'], u'September 19, 2016.', u"Major companies, healthcare professionals, the military, and other scientists and innovators are now sensing that fitness and health data from wearable biosensors will likely provide new discoveries and insights into physiological, cognitive, and emotional health status of an individual.  Having the ability to collect, process, and correlate data simultaneously from a set of heterogonous biosensor sources may be a key factor in informing the development of new technologies for reducing health risks, improving health status, and possibly preventing and predicting disease.  The challenge in achieving this is getting easy access to heterogeneous data from a set of disparate sensors in a single, integrated wearable monitoring system. Often times, the data recorded by commercial biosensing devices are contained within each manufacturer's proprietary platform.  Summary data is available for some devices as free downloads or included only in annual premium memberships.  Access to raw measurements is generally unavailable, especially from a custom developed application that may include prototype biosensors. In this paper, we explore key ideas on how to leverage the design features of Bluetooth Low Energy to ease the integration of disparate biosensors at the sensor communication layer. This component is intended to fit into a larger, multi-layered, open data framework that can provide additional data management and analytics capabilities for consumers and scientists alike at all the layers of a data access model which is typically employed in a body sensor network system.", u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076166', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'MIT Lincoln Laboratory']]
[u'De novo transcriptome assembly for the spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus)', ['Jared Mamrot', 'Roxane Legaie', 'Stacey J Ellery', 'Trevor Wilson', 'David Gardner', 'David W Walker', 'Peter Temple-Smith', 'Anthony T Papenfuss', 'Hayley Dickinson'], u'September 19, 2016.', u"Background: Spiny mice of the genus Acomys are small desert-dwelling rodents that display physiological characteristics not typically found in rodents. Recent investigations have reported a menstrual cycle and scar free-wound healing in this species; characteristics that are exceedingly rare in mammals, and of considerable interest to the scientific community. These unique physiological traits, and the potential for spiny mice to accurately model human diseases, are driving increased use of this genus in biomedical research. However, little genetic information is currently available for Acomys, limiting the application of some modern investigative techniques. This project aimed to generate a reference transcriptome assembly for the common spiny mouse (Acomys cahirinus).\nResults: Illumina RNA sequencing of male and female spiny mice produced 451 million, 150bp paired-end reads from 15 organ types. An extensive survey of de novo transcriptome assembly approaches of high-quality reads using Trinity, SOAPdenovo-Trans, and Velvet/Oases at multiple kmer lengths was conducted with 49 single-kmer assemblies generated from this dataset, with and without in silico normalization and probabilistic error correction. Merging transcripts from 49 individual single-kmer assemblies into a single meta-assembly of non-redundant transcripts using the EvidentialGene 'tr2aacds' pipeline produced the highest quality transcriptome assembly, comprised of 880,080 contigs, of which 189,925 transcripts were annotated using the SwissProt/Uniprot database.\nConclusions: This study provides the first detailed characterization of the spiny mouse transcriptome. It validates the application of the EvidentialGene 'tr2aacds' pipeline to generate a high-quality reference transcriptome assembly in a mammalian species, and provides a valuable scientific resource for further investigation into the unique physiological characteristics inherent in the genus Acomys.", u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076067', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Hudson Institute of Medical Research;', u'MHTP node - Monash Bioinformatics Platform, Monash University;', u'MHTP Medical Genomics Facility;', u'University of Melbourne;', u'Monash University;', u'Walter and Eliza Hall Institute']]
[u'GenomeScope: Fast reference-free genome profiling from short reads', ['Gregory W Vurture', 'Fritz J Sedlazeck', 'Maria Nattestad', 'Charles J. Underwood', 'Han Fang', 'James Gurtowski', 'Michael Schatz'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Summary: GenomeScope is an open-source web tool to rapidly estimate the overall characteristics of a genome, including genome size, heterozygosity rate, and repeat content from unprocessed short reads. These features are essential for studying genome evolution, and help to choose parameters for downstream analysis. We demonstrate its accuracy on 324 simulated and 16 real datasets with a wide range in genome sizes, heterozygosity levels, and error rates.\nAvailability and Implementation: http://qb.cshl.edu/genomescope/, https://github.com/schatzlab/genomescope.git', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075978', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Discovery of flavivirus-derived endogenous viral elements in two Anopheles mosquito genomes supports the existence of Anopheles-associated insect-specific flaviviruses', ['Sebastian Lequime', 'Louis Lambrechts'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'The Flavivirus genus encompasses several arboviruses of public health significance such as dengue, yellow fever, and Zika viruses. It also includes insect-specific flaviviruses (ISFs) that are only capable of infecting insect hosts. The vast majority of mosquito-infecting flaviviruses have been associated with mosquito species of the Aedes and Culex genera in the Culicinae subfamily, which also includes most arbovirus vectors. Mosquitoes of the Anophelinae subfamily are not considered significant arbovirus vectors, however flaviviruses have occasionally been detected in field-caught Anopheles specimens. Whether such observations reflect occasional spillover or laboratory contamination or whether Anopheles mosquitoes are natural hosts of flaviviruses is unknown. Here, we provide in silico and in vivo evidence of transcriptionally active, flavivirus-derived endogenous viral elements (EVEs) in the genome of Anopheles minimus and Anopheles sinensis. Such non-retroviral endogenization of RNA viruses is consistent with a shared evolutionary history between flaviviruses and Anopheles mosquitoes. Phylogenetic analyses of the two newly described EVEs support the existence of a distinct clade of Anopheles-associated ISFs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/064907', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institut Pasteur']]
[u'The FACT complex and cell cycle progression are essential to maintain asymmetric transcription factor partitioning during cell division', ['Eva Herrero', 'Sonia Stinus', 'Eleanor Bellows', 'Peter H Thorpe'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'The polarized partitioning of proteins in cells underlies asymmetric cell division, which is an important driver of development and cellular diversity. Like most cells, the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae divides asymmetrically to give two distinct daughter cells. This asymmetry mimics that seen in metazoans and the key regulatory proteins are conserved from yeast to human. A well-known example of an asymmetric protein is the transcription factor Ace2, which localizes specifically to the daughter nucleus, where it drives a daughter-specific transcriptional network.  \nWe performed a reverse genetic screen to look for regulators of asymmetry based on Ace2 localization phenotype. We screened a collection of essential genes in order to analyze the effect of core cellular processes in asymmetric cell division. We identified a large number of mutations that are known to affect progression through the cell cycle suggesting that cell cycle delay is sufficient to disrupt Ace2 asymmetry. To test this model we blocked cells from progressing through mitosis and found that prolonged cell cycle arrest is sufficient to disrupt Ace2 asymmetry after release. We also demonstrate that members of the evolutionary conserved FACT chromatin-remodeling complex are required for both asymmetric and cell cycle regulated localization of Ace2.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075135', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'The Francis Crick Institute;', u'European Research Institute for the Biology of Ageing;', u'Nottingham University']]
[u'Multiple factors influence population sex ratios in the Mojave Desert moss Syntrichia caninervis', ['Jenna T. Baughman', 'Adam C. Payton', 'Amber E. Paasch', 'Kirsten M. Fisher', 'Stuart F. McDaniel'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Premise of research: Natural populations of many mosses appear highly female-biased based on the presence of reproductive structures. This bias could be caused by increased male mortality, lower male growth rate, or a higher threshold for achieving sexual maturity in males. Here we test these hypotheses using samples from two populations of the Mojave Desert moss Syntrichia caninervis.\nMethods: We used double digest restriction-site associated DNA (RAD) sequencing to identify candidate sex-associated loci in panel of sex-expressing plants. Next, we used putative sex-associated markers to identify the sex of individuals without sex structures.\nKey results: We found an 18:1 phenotypic female:male sex ratio in the higher elevation, moister site, and no sex expression at the drier, low elevation site. In contrast, based on genetic data we found a 2:1 female bias in the low stress site and only females in the high stress site. The area occupied by male and female genets was indistinguishable.\nConclusions: These data suggest that both differential mortality and sexual dimorphism in thresholds for sex expression contribute to population sex ratio biases, and that sex-specific life history and survival interact with environmental stress to determine the frequency of sexual reproduction in S. caninervis.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075861', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of Florida;', u'American Museum of Natural History;', u'California State University, Los Angeles']]
[u'Genetic correlations with climate variables suggest Caenorhabditis elegans natural niche preferences', ['Kathryn S. Evans', 'Yuehui Zhao', 'Lijiang Long', 'Shannon C. Brady', 'Patrick T. McGrath', 'Erik C. Andersen'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Species inhabit a variety of environmental niches, and the adaptation to a particular niche is often controlled by genetic factors, including gene-by-environment interactions. The genes that vary to regulate the ability to colonize a niche are often difficult to identify, especially in the context of complex ecological systems and in experimentally uncontrolled natural environments. Quantitative genetic approaches provide an opportunity to investigate correlations between genetic factors and environmental parameters that might define a niche. Previously, we have shown how a collection of 152 whole-genome sequenced wild Caenorhabditis elegans can facilitate association mapping approaches. To correlate climate parameters with the variation found in this collection of wild strains, we used geographic data to exhaustively curate daily weather measurements in short-term (three month), middle-term (one year), and long-term (three year) durations surrounding the data of strain isolation. These climate parameters were used as quantitative traits in the mapping approaches. We identified 10 QTL underlying variation in five unique traits: elevation, three-month relative humidity, one-year relative humidity, three-year relative humidity, and three-year average temperature. We then performed statistical analyses to further narrow the genomic interval of interest to identify gene candidates with variants potentially underlying phenotypic differences. Additionally, we performed two-strain competition assays at high and low temperatures to validate a QTL for temperature preference and found suggestive evidence that genotypes might be adapted to particular temperatures.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075960', [u'Genetics'], [u'Northwestern University, United States;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology, United States']]
[u'Massive influence of DNA isolation and library preparation approaches on palaeogenomic sequencing data', ['Axel Barlow', 'Gloria M Gonzalez Fortes', 'Love Dalen', 'Ron Pinhasi', 'Boris Gasparyan', 'Gernot Rabeder', 'Christine Frischchauf', 'Johanna L.A. Paijmans', 'Michael Hofreiter'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'The ability to access genomic information from ancient samples has provided many important biological insights. Generating such palaeogenomic data requires specialised methodologies, and a variety of procedures for all stages of sample preparation have been proposed. However, the specific effects and biases introduced by alternative laboratory procedures is insufficiently understood. Here, we investigate the effects of three DNA isolation and two library preparation protocols on palaeogenomic data obtained from four Pleistocene subfossil bones. We find that alternative methodologies can significantly and substantially affect total DNA yield, the mean length and length distribution of recovered fragments, nucleotide composition, and the total amount of usable data generated. Furthermore, we also detect significant interaction effects between these stages of sample preparation on many of these factors. Effects and biases introduced in the laboratory can be sufficient to confound estimates of DNA degradation, sample authenticity and genomic GC content, and likely also estimates of genetic diversity and population structure. Future palaeogenomic studies need to carefully consider the effects of laboratory procedures during both experimental design and data analysis, particularly when studies involve multiple datasets generated using a mixture of methodologies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075911', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Potsdam;', u'Swedish Museum of Natural History;', u'University College Dublin;', u'National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Armenia;', u'Medizinische Universitat Wien']]
[u'Clinically-weighted transcriptomic signatures for protein kinase inhibitor associated cardiotoxicity', ['Johan G.C. van Hasselt', 'Jens Hansen', 'Yuguang Xiong', 'Jaehee Shim', 'Amanda Pickard', 'Gomathi Jayaraman', 'B Hu', 'Milind Mahajan', 'James Gallo', 'Eric A Sobie', 'Marc R Birtwistle', 'Evren U Azeloglu', 'Ravi Iyengar'], u'September 19, 2016.', u"Cardiotoxicity (CT) involving diminished cardiac contractility and heart failure is a major adverse event associated with otherwise efficacious protein kinase inhibitors (KIs). Here, we sought to develop clinically-weighted transcriptomic signatures to predict risk of CT and to better understand the biological processes associated with CT risk. We obtained transcriptome-wide response profiles in four human primary cardiomyocyte cell lines that were treated with 22 different KIs using mRNA sequencing with 3' digital gene expression. The FDA Adverse Event Reporting System was used to derive relative risk scores for four types of CT for different KIs. We used elastic net regression to associate these transcriptomic profiles with KI-associated risk scores for CT subtypes to obtain clinically-weighted transcriptomic signatures, which showed good predictive properties (cross-validation R2 >0.87). Our clinically-weighted transcriptomic signatures for KI-associated CT may be of relevance in early drug development for the prediction of KI-associated CT.", u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075754', [u'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Pharmacological Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai']]
[u'Low-frequency cortical oscillations are modulated by temporal prediction and temporal error coding', ['Louise C Barne', 'Peter Claessens', 'Marcelo B Reyes', 'Marcelo S Caetano', 'Andre M Cravo'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Monitoring and updating temporal predictions are critical abilities for adaptive behavior. Here, we investigated whether neural oscillations are related to violation and updating of temporal predictions. Human participants performed an experiment in which they had to generate a target at an expected time point, by pressing a button while taking into account a variable delay between the act and the stimulus occurrence. Our behavioral results showed that participants quickly adapted their temporal predictions in face of an error. Concurrent electrophysiological (EEG) data\nshowed that temporal errors elicited markers that are classically related to error coding. Furthermore, intertrial phase coherence of frontal theta oscillations was modulated by error magnitude, possibly indexing the degree of surprise. Finally, we found that delta phase at stimulus onset was correlated with future behavioral adjustments. Together, our findings suggest that low frequency oscillations play a key role in monitoring and in updating temporal predictions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076042', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universidade Federal do ABC']]
[u'Cortical dynamics of saccade-target selection during free-viewing of natural scenes', ['Linda Henriksson', 'Kaisu Olander', 'Riitta Hari'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Natural visual behaviour entails explorative eye movements, saccades, that bring different parts of a visual scene into the central vision. The neural processes guiding the selection of saccade targets are still largely unknown. Therefore, in this study, we tracked with magnetoencephalography (MEG) cortical dynamics of viewers who were freely exploring novel natural scenes. Overall, the viewers were largely consistent in their gaze behaviour, especially if the scene contained any persons. We took a fresh approach to relate the eye-gaze data to the MEG signals by characterizing dynamic cortical representations by means of representational distance matrices. Specifically, we compared the representational distances between the stimuli in the evoked MEG responses with predictions based (1) on the low-level visual similarity of the stimuli (as visually more similar stimuli evoke more similar responses in early visual areas) and (2) on the eye-gaze data. At 50-75 ms after the scene onset, the similarity of the occipital MEG patterns correlated with the low-level visual similarity of the scenes, and already at 75-100 ms the visual features attracting the first saccades predicted the similarity of the right parieto-occipital MEG responses. Thereafter, at 100-125 ms, the landing positions of the upcoming saccades explained MEG responses. These results indicate that MEG signals contain signatures of the rapid processing of natural visual scenes as well as of the initiation of the first saccades, with the processing of the saccade target preceding the processing of the landing position of the upcoming saccade.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075929', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Aalto University;', u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'COMPARISON OF TWO DESCRIPTIONS OF HETEROGENEITY USED IN MODELLING PLANTS DYNAMICS', ['Michel Droz', 'Andrzej Pekalski'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'We analyse the role played by two different approaches of spatial\nheterogeneity in theoretical models \nof annual plants dynamics.\nThe first approach is called quasi-continuous gradient in which\none type of resource is changing gradually along the gradient line.\nIn the second one, called the patches approach, part of the habitat is covered by  \npatches and the resource has a different value in each patch.\n We show that when the  spatial heterogeneity of the habitat is small,\n the two approaches yield the same average number of surviving species, \n even if a small number of patches is used. In a strong heterogeneity it \n takes many patches to get similar results as in the gradient case. \n The difference between the gradient and patchy description of the spatial \n heterogeneity increases with the number of species present in the system. \n We have also shown that even when the average number of surviving species is the same, \n the abundances of species are ordered in a different way, like different species are the dominant ones. \nThe conclusion of this paper is that modelling spatial\nheterogeneity in a system of plants is not a simple task.\nSpecial care is needed when the heterogeneity of the habitat is large, since then\ndepending of the choice of a method, some predictions may \ndiffer significantly, making the model non-robust.\nTherefore the type of theoretical approach must closely match the modelled ecosystem.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075812', [u'Ecology'], [u'Departtment of Theoretical Physics, University of Geneva;', u'Institute of Theoretical Physics, University of Wroc\u0142aw']]
[u'ROLE OF TOLERANCE TO RESOURCE DEMAND -- SUPPLY MISMATCH IN A MODEL OF ANNUAL PLANTS', ['Michel Droz', 'Andrzej Pekalski'], u'September 19, 2016.', u"We propose and discuss a simulation model of annual plants competing for a single resource. Plants are characterised by their \ntolerance to a shortage of it and the maximum number of seeds a plant could produce in a year. Interaction among plants is reduced to blocking a part \nof the resource by the plant's nearest neighbours. Spatial and temporal external conditions remain unchanged.  We consider two systems - plants of \none type (target plants) and a mixture of two types, when the second type differs\nfrom the target ones only by the tolerance to a shortage or\nsurplus of the resource. We show how the life cycle of a plant depends on its tolerance, supply of the resource and how it is affected by the \npresence of the second type of annuals. We demonstrate that coexistence of the two\nspecies is possible, and we determine the conditions for it", u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075804', [u'Ecology'], [u'Department of Theoretical Physics, University of Geneva;', u'University of Wroclaw']]
[u'Investigating the potential of opportunistic sighting data to inform wildlife conservation strategies', ['Simone Tenan', 'Paolo Pedrini', 'Natalia Bragalanti', 'Claudio Groff', 'Chris Sutherland'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Abundance and space use are key population-level parameters used to inform management and conservation decisions of rare and elusive species, for which monitoring resources can be limited, potentially affecting quality of model-based inference. Recently-developed methods that integrate multiple data sources arising from the same ecological process have typically been focused on data from well-defined sampling protocols, i.e. structured data sets. Despite a rapid increase in availability of large datasets, the value of unstructured or opportunistic data to improve inference about spatial ecological processes is, however, unclear.\nUsing spatial capture-recapture (SCR) methods, we jointly analyze opportunistic recovery of biological samples, traditional SCR data resulting from systematic sampling of hair traps and rub trees, and satellite telemetry data, collected on a reintroduced brown bear population in the central Alps. We compared the precision of sex-specific estimates of density and space use derived from models using combinations of data sources ranging from traditional SCR to a fully integrated SCR model that includes both telemetry and opportunistic data.\nEstimates of density and space use were more precise when unstructured data were added compared to estimates from a classical SCR model. Our results demonstrate that citizen science data lend itself naturally to integration with in the SCR framework and highlight the value of opportunistic data for improving inference about space use, and in turn, of abundance and density.\nWhen individual identity and location can be obtained from opportunistic observations, such data are informative about space use and thus have the potential to improve estimates of movement and density using SCR methods. This is particularly relevant in studies of rare or elusive species, where the amount of SCR encounters is usually small, but also budget restrictions and the difficulty of collaring animals limit the number of individuals for which telemetry information is available. Spatially-referenced opportunistic data thus potentially increase both the geographic extent of a study and the number of individuals with available spatial information, providing an improved understanding of how individuals are distributed and how they use space -- fundamental components for calibrating conservation management actions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075945', [u'Ecology'], [u'MUSE - Museo delle Scienze;', u'Provincia Autonoma di Trento, Servizio Foreste e Fauna;', u'University of Massachussetts - Amherst']]
[u'Quantitative analysis of cryptic splicing associated with TDP-43 depletion', ['Jack Humphrey', 'Warren Emmett', 'PIetro Fratta', 'Adrian M. Isaacs', 'Vincent Plagnol'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Reliable exon recognition is key to the splicing of pre-mRNAs into mature mRNAs. TDP-43 is an RNA-binding protein whose nuclear loss and cytoplasmic aggregation are a hallmark pathology in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia (ALS/FTD). TDP-43 depletion causes the aberrant inclusion of cryptic exons into a range of transcripts, but their extent, relevance to disease pathogenesis and whether they are caused by other RNA-binding proteins implicated in ALS/FTD are unknown. We developed an analysis pipeline to discover and quantify cryptic exon inclusion and applied it to publicly available human and murine RNA-sequencing data. We detected widespread cryptic splicing in TDP-43 depletion datasets but almost none in another ALS/FTD-linked protein FUS. Sequence motif and iCLIP analysis of cryptic exons demonstrated that they are bound by TDP-43. Unlike the cryptic exons seen in hnRNP C depletion, those linked to TDP-43 do not originate from a particular family of transposable element. Cryptic exons are poorly conserved and inclusion overwhelmingly leads to nonsense-mediated decay of the host transcript, with reduced transcript levels observed in differential expression analysis. RNA-protein interaction data on 73 different RNA-binding proteins showed that, in addition to TDP-43, 7 specifically bind TDP-43 linked cryptic exons.This suggests that TDP-43 competes with other splicing factors for binding to cryptic exons and can repress cryptic exon inclusion. Our quantitative analysis pipeline confirms the presence of cryptic exons during TDP-43 depletion and will aid investigation of their relevance to disease.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/076117', [u'Genomics'], [u'University College London']]
[u'Shrinking of the endangered brown bear Ursus arctos distribution in the French Pyrenees revealed by dynamic occupancy modeling', ['Blaise Piedallu', 'Pierre-Yves Quenette', 'Nicolas Bombillon', 'Adrienne Gastineau', 'Christian Miquel', 'Olivier Gimenez'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'The Pyrenean brown bear (Ursus arctos) in the mountainous border between France and Spain is one of the smallest and most endangered populations of large carnivores in Europe. Here, we aimed at assessing trends in brown bear distribution in the Pyrenees and determining the underlying environmental and anthropogenic drivers. Using detection/non-detection data collected between 2008 and 2014 through non-invasive methods, we developed occupancy models to investigate the dynamic of brown bear distribution in the Pyrenees through local colonization and extinction processes. Our results showed a negative correlation between human density and bear occupancy in agreement with previous studies on brown bear habitat suitability. We found two non-connected occupancy cores, one located in the West and another in the Center of the Pyrenees. Importantly, we showed that the population distribution significantly decreased between 2008 and 2014, and that while bear went locally extinct in some areas, there was no sign of colonization of new ones.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075895', [u'Ecology'], [u'CNRS;', u'ONCFS']]
[u'Genome\u2011wide Identification and Characterization of Transcription Factors of Basic Leucine Zipper Family in Malus domestica', ['Zhengrong Zhang', 'Haoran Cui', 'Shanshan Xing', 'Xin Liu', 'Xuesen Chen', 'Xiaoyun Wang'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Basic leucine zipper proteins (bZIP) contain a basic DNA-binding region and a leucine zipper region, acting as transcriptional factors in regulation of gene expression exclusively in eukaryotes. In this investigation, total 116 bZIP members were identified in apple genome and mapped on all 17 chromosomes with various densities as M.bZIPs. All these members were divided into six groups according to the phylogenetic relationship combining with bZIPs from rice and Arabidopsis. Investigating gene structure of M.bZIPs, five splicing patterns of intron were found in the DNA-binging region with no splicing position and splicing positions at different nucleotide of codons or different positions. Analyzing of protein structure of M.bZIPs, twenty-five motifs were identified with certain characteristic in different phylogenetic groups. To predict dimerization of leucine zipper region, the key positions of amino acid in heptad(s) were investigated. The results showed that most M.bZIPs may form hetero-dimer or homo-dimer and some M.bZIPs may form both. Expression experiment revealed that M.bZIP genes have organ-specific expression and widely expressed in flowers, leaves, and fruits. To investigate the response of M.bZIPs to abiotic stresses, the promoter sequences of randomly selected M.bZIP genes were analyzed. Cis-acting elements related to multiple stresses were found existing widely in promoter sequences. Quantitative real-time PCR results further demonstrated that the expression of some M.bZIP genes were quite sensitive to exogenous abscisic acid and osmotic treatments.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075994', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Shandong Agriculture University, China']]
[u'Comparison of African, Asian, and American Zika Viruses in Swiss Webster mice: Virulence, neutralizing antibodies, and serotypes', ['Charles B Stauft', 'Oleksandr Gorbatsevych', 'Jeronimo Cello', 'Eckard Wimmer', 'Bruce Futcher'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'The sequence of Zika virus has evolved as it has spread out of Africa and into the Americas.  It is unclear whether American strains of the virus define a new serotype.  Here, we have tested the virulence and immunogenicity of three wild-type ZIKV strains in neonatal Swiss Webster mice.  We found that all three ZIKV strains (African MR766, 1947; Asian FSS13025, 2010; and American, PRVABC59, 2015) are capable of killing neonatal mice after intracranial injection.  Intraperitoneal injection with these viruses did not kill, but produced neutralizing antibodies as measured by a PRNT50 assay. Sera from mice infected with each virus were tested for neutralizing activity against the infecting virus and also the other two viruses by a PRNT50 assay.  In general, the antibodies induced by each virus were good at neutralizing that virus (the homologous virus), but somewhat poorer at neutralizing the other two viruses (heterologous viruses).  Antibodies induced by the African strain MR766 were about 4-fold worse at neutralizing the American strain PRVABC59 than the homologous strain, while antibodies induced by the American strain were about 10-fold worse at neutralizing the African strain than the homologous strain.  Because the antibodies are cross-neutralizing at some level, the viruses do not form separate serotypes.  Nevertheless, these results raise concern that the immunity conferred by the African virus may protect only relatively poorly against the new American strains.  This has implications for the possible spread of the American ZIKV strains to Africa and Southeast Asia, and also for the development of vaccines.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075747', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'Deriving robust biomarkers from multi-site resting-state data: An Autism-based example', ['Alexandre Abraham', 'Michael Milham', 'Adriana Di Martino', 'R. Cameron Craddock', 'Dimitris Samaras', 'Bertrand Thirion', 'Gael Varoquaux'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Resting-state functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (R-fMRI) holds the promise to reveal functional biomarkers of neuropsychiatric disorders. However, extracting such biomarkers is challenging for complex multi-faceted neuropathologies, such as autism spectrum disorders. Large multi-site datasets increase sample sizes to compensate for this complexity, at the cost of uncontrolled heterogeneity. This heterogeneity raises new challenges, akin to those face in realistic diagnostic applications. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of inter-site classification of neuropsychiatric status, with an application to the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE) database, a large (N=871) multi-site autism dataset. For this purpose, we investigate pipelines that extract the most predictive biomarkers from the data. These R-fMRI pipelines build participant-specific connectomes from functionally-defined brain areas. Connectomes are then compared across participants to learn patterns of connectivity that differentiate typical controls from individuals with autism. We predict this neuropsychiatric status for participants from the same acquisition sites or different, unseen, ones. Good choices of methods for the various steps of the pipeline lead to 67% prediction accuracy on the full ABIDE data, which is significantly better than previously reported results. We perform extensive validation on multiple subsets of the data defined by different inclusion criteria. These enables detailed analysis of the factors contributing to successful connectome-based prediction. First, prediction accuracy improves as we include more subjects, up to the maximum amount of subjects available. Second, the definition of functional brain areas is of paramount importance for biomarker discovery: brain areas extracted from large R-fMRI datasets outperform reference atlases in the classification tasks.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075853', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Inria;', u'Child Mind Institute, Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research;', u'NYU Langone Medical Center;', u'Stony Brook University, Ecole Centrale;', u'Inria, Parietal team, CEA/DSV/I2BM/Neurospin']]
[u'Phylo-Node: a molecular phylogenetic toolkit using Node.js', ["Damien M O'Halloran"], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Background: Node.js is an open-source and cross-platform environment that provides a JavaScript codebase for back-end server-side applications. JavaScript has been used to develop very fast, and user-friendly front-end tools for bioinformatic and phylogenetic analyses. However, no such toolkits are available using Node.js to conduct comprehensive molecular phylogenetic analysis. \n\nResults: To address this problem, I have developed, Phylo-Node, which was developed using Node.js and provides a fast, stable, and scalable toolkit that allows the user to go from sequence retrieval to phylogeny reconstruction. Phylo-Node can execute the analysis and process the resulting outputs from a suite of software options that provides tools for sequence retrieval, alignment, primer design, evolutionary modeling, and phylogeny reconstruction. Furthermore, Phylo-Node provides simple integration and interoperation with other Node modules to develop workflows across multiple components and languages using Node inheritance patterns and a customized piping module to support the production of diverse pipelines.  \n\nConclusions: Phylo-Node is open-source and freely available to all users without sign-up or login requirements. All source code and user guidelines are openly available at the GitHub repository: https://github.com/dohalloran/Phylo-Node', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075101', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'George Washington University']]
[u'Dynamic Brain Connectivity Patterns in Conscious and Unconscious Brain', ['Yuncong Ma', 'Christina Hamilton', 'Nanyin Zhang'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Brain functional connectivity undergoes dynamic changes from the awake to unconscious states. However, how the dynamics of functional connectivity patterns are linked to consciousness at the behavioral level remains elusive. Here we acquired resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rsfMRI) data during wakefulness and graded levels of consciousness in rats. Data were analyzed using a dynamic approach combining the sliding-window method and k-means clustering. Our results demonstrate that whole-brain networks contain several quasi-stable patterns that dynamically recurred from the awake state into anesthetized states. Remarkably, two brain connectivity states with distinct spatial similarity to the structure of anatomical connectivity were strongly biased toward high and low consciousness levels, respectively. These results provide compelling neuroimaging evidence linking the dynamics of whole-brain functional connectivity patterns and states of consciousness at the behavioral level.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075788', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Ripping RNA by Force using Gaussian Network Models', ['Changbong Hyeon', 'Dave Thirumalai'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Using force as a probe to map the folding landscapes of RNA molecules has become a reality thanks to major advances in single molecule pulling experiments. Although the unfolding pathways under tension are complicated to predict studies in the context of proteins have shown that topology plays is the major determinant of the unfolding landscapes. By building on this finding we study the responses of RNA molecules to force by adapting Gaussian network model (GNM) that represents RNAs using a bead-spring network with isotropic interactions. Cross-correlation matrices of residue fluctuations, which are analytically calculated using GNM even upon application of mechanical force, show distinct allosteric communication as RNAs rupture. The model is used to calculate the  force-extension curves at full thermodynamic equilibrium, and the corresponding  unfolding pathways of four RNA molecules subject to a quasi-statically increased force. Our study finds that the analysis using GNM captures qualitatively the unfolding pathway of T. ribozyme elucidated by the optical tweezers measurement. However, the simple model is not sufficient to capture subtle features, such as bifurcation in the unfolding pathways or the ion effects, in the forced-unfolding of RNAs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075820', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Korea Institute for Advanced Study;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'N-Acyl Dopamines Induce Apoptosis in PC12 Cell Line via the O-1918-Sensitive non-CB1-non-CB2 Receptor', ['Mikhail Akimov', 'Alina M Ashba', 'Natalia M Gretskaya', 'Vladimir V Bezuglov'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Dopamine amides of long chain fatty acids (NADA) are a family of endogenous mammalian lipids with an unknown function; they are anti-proliferative for many cancer cell lines. The aim of this study was to identify the NADA receptor responsible for cell death induction. Using PC12 cells treated with NADA in combination with various receptor blockers, or pre-treated with the known receptor agonists to down-regulate the proposed receptor, NADA were shown to induce apoptosis. This activity was blocked only by the non-CB1-non-CB2 receptor antagonist O-1918, and by the pre-treatment with the agonists of this receptor ethanolamides of palmitic and oleic acids.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075796', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry']]
[u'Collateral sensitivity networks reveal evolutionary instability and novel treatment strategies in ALK mutated non-small cell lung cancer.', ['Andrew Dhawan', 'Daniel Nichol', 'Fumi Kinose', 'Mohamed E. Abazeed', 'Andriy Marusyk', 'Eric B. Haura', 'Jacob G. Scott'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Drug resistance remains an elusive problem in cancer therapy, particularly with novel targeted therapy approaches. Much work is currently focused upon the development of an increasing arsenal of targeted therapies, towards oncogenic driver genes such as ALK-EML4, to overcome the inevitable resistance that develops as therapies are continued over time. The current clinical paradigm after failure of first line ALK TKI is to administer another drug in the same class. As to which drug however, the answer is uncertain, as clinical evidence is lacking. To address this shortcoming, we evolved resistance in an ALK rearranged non-small cell lung cancer line (H3122) to a panel of 4 ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitors used in clinic, and performed a collateral sensitivity analysis to each of the other drugs. We found that all of the ALK inhibitor resistant cell lines displayed a significant\ncross-resistance to all other ALK inhibitors. To test for the stability of the resistance phenotypes, we evaluated the ALK-inhibitor sensitivities after drug holidays of varying length (1, 3, 7, 14, and 21 days). We found the resistance patterns to be stochastic and dynamic, with few conserved patterns. This unpredictability led us to an expanded search for treatment\noptions for resistant cells. In this expansion, we tested a panel of 6 more anti-cancer agents for collateral sensitivity among the resistant cells, uncovering a multitude of possibilities for further treatment, including cross-sensitivity to several standard cytotoxic therapies as well as the HSP-90 inhibitors. Taken together, these results imply that resistance to targeted\ntherapy in non-small cell lung cancer is truly a moving target; but also one where there are many opportunities to re-establish sensitivities where there was once resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075846', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute;', u'Cleveland Clinic']]
[u'GeRelion: GPU-enhanced parallel implementation of single particle cryo-EM image processing', ['Huayou Su', 'Wen Wen', 'Xiaoli Du', 'Xicheng Lu', 'Maofu Liao', 'Dongsheng Li'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'Single particle cryo-EM emerges as a powerful and versatile method to characterize the structure and function of macromolecules, revealing the structural details of critical molecular machinery inside the cells. RELION is a widely used EM image processing software, and most of the recently published single particle cryo-EM structures were generated by using RELION. Due to the massive computational loads and the growing demands for processing much larger cryo-EM data sets, there is a pressing need to speed up image processing. Here we present GeRelion (https://github.com/gpu-pdl-nudt/GeRelion), an efficient parallel implementation of RELION on GPU system. In the performance tests using two cryo-EM data sets, GeRelion on 4 or 8 GPU cards outperformed RELION on 256 CPU cores, demonstrating dramatically improved speed and superb scalability. By greatly accelerating single particle cryo-EM structural analysis, GeRelion will facilitate both high resolution structure determination and dissection of mixed conformations of dynamic molecular machines.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/075887', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'NUDT;', u'Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Landscape of X chromosome inactivation across human tissues', ['Taru Tukiainen', 'Alexandra-Chloe Villani', 'Angela Yen', 'Manuel A. Rivas', 'Jamie L. Marshall', 'Rahul Satija', 'Matt Aguirre', 'Laura Gauthier', 'Mark Fleharty', 'Andrew Kirby', 'Beryl B. Cummings', 'Stephane E. Castel', 'Konrad J. Karczewski', 'Francois Aguet', 'Andrea Byrnes', 'Tuuli Lappalainen', 'Aviv Regev', 'Kristin G. Ardlie', 'Nir Hacohen', 'Daniel G. MacArthur'], u'September 19, 2016.', u'X chromosome inactivation (XCI) silences the transcription from one of the two X chromosomes in mammalian female cells to balance expression dosage between XX females and XY males. XCI is, however, characteristically incomplete in humans: up to one third of X-chromosomal genes are expressed from both the active and inactive X chromosomes (Xa and Xi, respectively) in female cells, with the degree of "escape" from inactivation varying between genes and individuals1,2 (Fig. 1). However, the extent to which XCI is shared between cells and tissues remains poorly characterized3,4, as does the degree to which incomplete XCI manifests as detectable sex differences in gene expression5 and phenotypic traits6. Here we report a systematic survey of XCI using a combination of over 5,500 transcriptomes from 449 individuals spanning 29 tissues, and 940 single-cell transcriptomes, integrated with genomic sequence data (Fig. 1). By combining information across these data types we show that XCI at the 683 X-chromosomal genes assessed is generally uniform across human tissues, but identify examples of heterogeneity between tissues, individuals and cells. We show that incomplete XCI affects at least 23% of X-chromosomal genes, identify seven new escape genes supported by multiple lines of evidence, and demonstrate that escape from XCI results in sex biases in gene expression, thus establishing incomplete XCI as a likely mechanism introducing phenotypic diversity6,7. Overall, this updated catalogue of XCI across human tissues informs our understanding of the extent and impact of the incompleteness in the maintenance of XCI.', u'/content/early/2016/09/19/073957', [u'Genomics'], [u'Broad Institute;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Chromatin Landscapes and Genetic Risk For Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis', ['James N. Jarvis', 'Lisha Zhu', 'Kaiyu Jiang', 'Karstin Webber', 'Laiping Wong', 'Tao Liu', 'Yanmin Chen'], u'September 17, 2016.', u'Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is considered to be an autoimmune disease mediated by interactions between genes and the environment.  To gain a better understanding of the cellular basis for genetic risk, we studied known JIA genetic risk loci, the majority of which are located in non-coding regions, in human neutrophils and CD4 primary T cells to identify genes and functional elements located within those risk loci. We analyzed RNA-Seq data, H3K27ac and H3K4me1 chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-Seq) data, and previously published chromatin interaction analysis by paired-end tag sequencing  (ChIA-PET) data to characterize the chromatin landscapes within the know JIA-associated risk loci. In both neutrophils and primary CD4+ T cells, the majority of the JIA-associated LD blocks contained H3K27ac and/or H3K4me1 marks. These LD blocks were also binding sites for a small group of transcription factors, particularly in neutrophils. Furthermore, these regions showed abundant intronic and intergenic transcription in neutrophils. In neutrophils, none of the genes that were differentially expressed between untreated JIA patients and healthy children was located within the JIA risk LD blocks.  In CD4+ T cells, multiple genes, including HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQB2, TRAF1, and IRF1 were associated with the long-distance interacting regions within the LD regions as determined from ChIA-PET data. These findings suggest that aberrant transcriptional control is the underlying pathogenic mechanism in JIA.  Furthermore, these findings demonstrate the challenges of identifying the actual causal variants within complex genomic/chromatin landscapes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/17/075721', [u'Genetics'], [u'University at Buffalo Jacobs School of Medicine, United States']]
[u'Quorum sensing integrates environmental cues, cell density and cell history to control bacterial competence', ['Stefany Moreno-Gamez', 'Robin Sorg', 'Morten Kjos', 'Franz Weissing', 'G. Sander van Doorn', 'Jan-Willem Veening'], u'September 17, 2016.', u'Streptococcus pneumoniae becomes competent for genetic transformation when exposed to an autoinducer peptide named CSP. This peptide was originally described as a quorum-sensing (QS) signal, enabling individuals to regulate competence in response to population density. However, recent studies suggest that CSP may instead serve as a probe for sensing environmental cues, such as antibiotic stress or environmental diffusion. Here, we show that competence induction depends simultaneously on cell density, external pH, antibiotic-induced stress and cell history. Our experimental data is explained by a mathematical model where the environment and cell history modify how cells produce or sense CSP. Taken together, model and experiments indicate that autoinducer concentration can function as a reliable indicator of cell density across environmental conditions, while also incorporating information on environmental factors or cell history, allowing cells to integrate cues such as antibiotic stress into their QS response. This unifying perspective may also apply to other debated QS systems.', u'/content/early/2016/09/17/075762', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Groningen;', u'University of Lausanne']]
[u"The species problem from the modeler's point of view", ['Marc Manceau', 'Amaury Lambert'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'How to define and delineate species is a long-standing question sometimes called the species problem. In modern systematics, species should be groups of individuals sharing characteristics inherited from a common ancestor which distinguish them from other such groups. A good species definition should thus satisfy the following three desirable properties: (A) Heterotypy between species, (B) Homotypy within species and (E) Exclusivity, or monophyly, of each species.\n\nIn practice, systematists seek to discover the very traits for which these properties are satisfied, without the a priori knowledge of the traits which have been responsible for differentiation and speciation nor of the true ancestral relationships between individuals. Here to the contrary, we focus on individual-based models of macro-evolution, where both the differentiation process and the population genealogies are explicitly modeled, and we ask: How and when is it possible, with this significant information, to delineate species in a way satisfying most or all of the three desirable properties (A), (B) and (E)?\n\nSurprisingly, despite the popularity of this modeling approach in the last two decades, there has been little progress or agreement on answers to this question. We prove that the three desirable properties are not in general satisfied simultaneously, but that any two of them can. We show mathematically the existence of two natural species partitions: the finest partition satisfying (A) and (E) and the coarsest partition satisfying (B) and (E). For each of them, we propose a simple algorithm to build the associated phylogeny. We stress that these two procedures can readily be used at a higher level, namely to cluster species into monophyletic genera. \n\nThe ways we propose to phrase the species problem and to solve it should further refine models and our understanding of macro-evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075580', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u"Institut de biologie de l'Ecole Normale Superieure;", u'Laboratoire Probabilites et Modeles Aleatoires, UPMC Univ Paris 06']]
[u'Neuroplasticity of language in left-hemisphere stroke: evidence linking subsecond electrophysiology and structural connections', ['Vitoria Piai', 'Lars Meyer', 'Nina F Dronkers', 'Robert T Knight'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Our understanding of neuroplasticity following stroke is predominantly based on neuroimaging\nmeasures that cannot address the subsecond neurodynamics of impaired language processing.\nWe combined for the first time behavioral and electrophysiological measures and structural-\nconnectivity estimates to characterize neuroplasticity underlying successful compensation of\nlanguage abilities after left-hemispheric stroke. We recorded the electroencephalogram from\npatients with stroke lesions to the left temporal lobe and matched controls during context-driven\nword retrieval. Participants heard context sentences that either constrained the final word ("He\nlocked the door with the") or not ("She walked in here with the"). The last word was shown as a\npicture to be named. We conducted individual-participant analyses and focused on oscillatory\npower as a subsecond indicator of a brain region\'s functional neurophysiological computations.\nAll participants named pictures faster following constrained than unconstrained sentences,\nexcept for two patients, who had extensive damage to the left temporal lobe. Left-lateralized\nalpha-beta oscillatory power decreased in controls pre-picture presentation for constrained\nrelative to unconstrained contexts. In patients, the alpha-beta power decreases were observed\nwith the same time course as in controls but were lateralized to the intact right hemisphere. The\nright lateralization depended on the probability of white-matter connections between the bilateral\ntemporal lobes. The two patients who performed poorly behaviorally showed no alpha-beta\npower decreases. Our findings suggest that incorporating well-understood direct measures of\nneural activity into investigations of neuroplasticity can provide important neural markers to help\npredict language recovery, assess the progress of neurorehabilitation, and delineate targets for\ntherapeutic neuromodulation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075333', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Radboud University & Radboud UMC;', u'Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences;', u'Center for Aphasia and Related Disorders, Veterans Affairs Northern California Health Care System;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Assessing Prediction Performance of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Response in Bladder Cancer', ['Chris Cremer'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Neoadjuvant chemotherapy is a treatment routinely prescribed to patients diagnosed with muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Unfortunately, not all patients are responsive to this treatment and would greatly benefit from an accurate prediction of their expected response to chemotherapy. In this project, I attempt to develop a model that will predict response using tumour microarray data. I show that using my dataset, every method is insufficient at accurately classifying responders and non-responders.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075705', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Tortonto']]
[u'Better together: a transboundary approach to brown bear monitoring in the Pyrenees', ['Blaise Piedallu', 'Pierre-Yves Quenette', 'Ivan Alfonso Jordana', 'Nicolas Bombillon', 'Adrienne Gastineau', 'Ramon Jato', 'Christian Miquel', 'Pablo Munoz', 'Santiago Palazon', 'Jordi Sola de la Torre', 'Olivier Gimenez'], u'September 16, 2016.', u"Human administrative borders have no effect on wild animals, and the vast home ranges of large carnivores often cause them to live simultaneously on the territory of two or more countries or jurisdictions with different management policies. Here, we investigate the importance of transboundary population monitoring using as a case study the Pyrenean brown bear population (Ursus arctos) that lives in France, Andorra and Spain. Using capture-recapture models and the Pollock's robust design, we estimated abundance and demographic parameters using data collected separately in France and Spain and a dataset gathered from joint monitoring on both sides of the border. As expected, the abundance estimates from French (from 11 bears in 2008 to 13 in 2014) or Spanish (from 4 bears in 2008 to 9 in 2014) data only were lower than abundance obtained from both sides of the border (from 11 in 2008 to 18 in 2014). The joint monitoring dataset also highlighted the importance of individual detection heterogeneity that, if ignored, would lead to underestimation. Our results reinforce the importance of transboundary cooperation when dealing with animal populations with territory spanning two or more administrative jurisdictions for collecting reliable scientific data and providing relevant abundance estimation to take sound management decisions.", u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075663', [u'Ecology'], [u'CNRS;', u'ONCFS;', u'Medi Ambient, Conselh Generau d Aran;', u'Departamento de Produccion y Asistencias Tecnicas, Sociedad Aragonesa de Getion Agroambiental;', u'Jefe de la Seccion de Habitats, Gobierno de Navarra;', u'Fauna and Flora Service, Department of Territory and Sustainability;', u'(8)\tUnitat de Fauna, Departament de Medi Ambient']]
[u'Bursting deep dorsal horn neurons: the pharmacological target for the anti-spastic effects of Zolmitriptan?', ['Eva Meier Carlsen', 'Rune Rasmussen'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'In a recent publication, Thaweerattanasinp and colleagues employed an in vitro preparation and electrophysiology to investigate firing properties of deep dorsal horn neurons following spinal cord injury during NMDA or zolmitriptan application. Deep dorsal horn neurons were classified into bursting, simple or tonic, with bursting neurons showing NMDA and zolmitriptan sensitivity. Here, we discuss the findings in a methodological framework and propose future experiments of importance for translating the results into a physiological setting.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075697', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Identification of outcome-related driver mutations in cancer using conditional co-occurrence distributions', ['VICTOR TREVINO', 'Emmanuel Martinez-Ledesma', 'Jose Gerardo Tamez-Pena'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'The methods proposed for the detection of cancer driver mutations are based on the estimation of background mutation rate, impact on protein function, or network influence. Instead, we focus on those influencing patient survival. For this, an approximation of the log-rank test has been systematically applied even though it assumes a large and similar number of patients in both risk groups, which is violated in cancer genomics. Here, we propose VALORATE, a novel algorithm for the estimation of the null distribution for the log-rank test independently of the number of mutations. VALORATE is based on conditional distributions of the co-occurrences between events and mutations. The results using simulations, comparisons with other methods, TCGA and ICGC cancer datasets, and validations, suggests that VALORATE is accurate, fast, and can identify known and novel gene mutations. Our proposal and results may have important implications in cancer biology, in bioinformatics analyses, and ultimately in precision medicine.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075408', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tecnologico de Monterrey;', u'MD Anderson Cancer Center']]
[u'Evapotranspiration response to land cover and climate change in a Midwest U.S. watershed', ['Stephen K Hamilton', 'Mir Zaman Hussain', 'Christopher Lowrie', 'Bruno Basso', 'G Philip Robertson'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'In temperate humid watersheds, evapotranspiration returns more than half of the annual precipitation to the atmosphere, thereby determining the balance available to recharge groundwaters and support stream flow and lake levels. Changes in evapotranspiration rates and therefore watershed hydrology could be driven by changes in land use or climate. Here we examine the watershed water balance over the past 50 years for a watershed in southwest Michigan covered by cropland, grassland, forest, and wetlands. Over the study period about 27% of the watershed has been abandoned from row-crop agriculture to perennial vegetation and about 20% of the watershed has reverted to deciduous forest, and the climate has warmed by 1.14\xb0C. Despite these changes, precipitation and stream discharge, and by inference evapotranspiration, have been stable over the study period. The remarkably stable rates of evapotranspirative water loss from the watershed across a period of significant land cover change indicate that rainfed annual crops and perennial vegetation have similar evapotranspiration rates, a conclusion supported by measurements of evapotranspiration from various vegetation types based on soil water monitoring. Therefore the hydrology of this humid temperate landscape has been resilient in the face of both land cover and climate change over the past 50 years.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075598', [u'Ecology'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Insertional mutagenesis in PLNR9C transgenic mouse: a case report and a review of the literature on cardiac-specific transgenic expression', ['Alexander Kraev'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'A mouse line with heterozygous transgenic expression of phospholamban carrying a substitution of cysteine for arginine 9 (PLNR9C) under the control of \u03b1-myosin heavy chain (\u03b1MHC) promoter features dilated cardiomyopathy, heart failure and premature death. In this line the transgenic array of 13 PLNR9C expression cassettes, arranged in a head-to-tail tandem orientation, has integrated into the homologous genomic site, the bi-directional promoter of the \u03b1MHC (Myh6) gene and the gene for the regulatory non-coding RNA Myheart (Mhrt), both of which are involved in the execution of the \u03b1/\u03b2 MHC switch during cardiac development and pathology. PLNR9C overexpression is evident at the age of 1 month but declines dramatically along with a less pronounced concomitant decline of the resident PLN expression, until the animals die. Expression of the non-coding RNA Mhrt in PLNR9C mice also exhibits a profound deregulation, despite the presence of the second, intact allele. Hence the mouse strain does not faithfully model a human PLNR9C heterozygote, wherein both the mutant and the wildtype PLN alleles have, in all likelihood, the same temporal expression profile. The intricate regulatory circuit of the \u03b1/\u03b2 MHC switch, involving the non-coding RNA Mhrt, was described in detail only recently, and since publications about \u03b1MHC-driven transgenes rarely contain the definition of the transgene integration site or temporal expression profile, it is suggested that some of the pathological phenomena attributed to expression of \u03b1MHC-driven transgenes may have an alternative explanation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075671', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Length control of filamentous structures in cells by the limiting pool mechanism', ['Lishibanya Mohapatra', 'Thibaut J. Lagny', 'David Harbage', 'Predrag R. Jelenkovic', 'Jane Kondev'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'How the size of organelles in cells is controlled despite a constant turnover of their constituent parts is a central problem in cell biology. A general mechanism has been proposed based on the idea that an organelle grows by self-assembly of molecular subunits that freely diffuse in the cytoplasm. Assembly continues until the available pool of subunits is depleted to the point when the stochastic addition and removal of subunits is balanced, leading to a structure of well-defined size. Here we focus on length control of multiple filamentous structures in cells, such as actin cables and flagella. Using queueing theory and computation we show that the limiting pool mechanism leads to three different phases of assembly, starting with a rapid growth phase when all filaments quickly accumulate a large number of available subunits. Then, the slower growing filamentous structures enter a disassembly phase as they gradually lose all of their subunits to the faster growing structures. Finally, when multiple, equivalent fast-growing filaments are present, their lengths undergo protracted diffusive dynamics due to the stochastic swapping of subunits between them. This eventually leads to a broad, power-law distribution of filament lengths in steady state. Our findings demonstrate that the limiting-pool mechanism is incapable of controlling lengths of multiple filamentous structures that are assembled from a common pool of subunits, and at best, can produce only one filament of a well-defined size. Overall, our theoretical results reveal physical limitations of the limiting-pool mechanism of organelle size control.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075655', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Brandeis University;', u'Institut Curie, PSL Research University;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Synaesthesia lost and found: Two cases of person- and music-colour synaesthesia.', ['Francesca R Farina', 'Kevin Mitchell', 'Richard AP Roche'], u'September 16, 2016.', u"Synaesthesia is a developmental condition involving cross-communication between sensory modalities or substreams whereby an inducer (e.g. a sound) automatically evokes a concurrent percept in another modality (e.g. a colour). Whether this condition arises due to atypical structural connectivity (e.g., between normally unconnected cortical areas) or altered neurochemistry remains a central question. We report the exceptional cases of two synaesthetes - subjects AB and CD - both of whom experience coloured auras around individuals, as well as coloured perceptions in response to music. Both subjects have, in recent years, suffered a complete loss or reduction of their synaesthetic experiences, one (AB) through successive head traumas, including a lightning strike, followed by a number of medications, and the other (CD) while taking anxiolytic medications. Using semi-structured interviews and data from the Synaesthesia Battery and a colourpicker task, we characterise the phenomenological characteristics of their pre-loss synaesthesia, as well as the subsequent restoration of each subject's synaesthetic experiences (in the months post-trauma for AB, and after cessation of medication for CD). Even after years of suppression, the patterns of associations were highly consistent with those experienced pre-injury. The phenomenological experience of synaesthesia can, thus, like most conscious experiences, be modulated by pharmacologically diverse medications or head injury. However, the underlying neural substrates mediating specific synaesthetic pairings appear remarkably 'hard-wired' and can persist over very long periods even under conditions that alter or completely suppress the conscious synaesthetic experience itself.", u'/content/early/2016/09/16/074955', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College Dublin;', u'Trinity College Dublin;', u'Maynooth University']]
[u'kWIP: The k-mer Weighted Inner Product, a de novo estimator of genetic similarity', ['Kevin D Murray', 'Christfried Webers', 'Cheng Soon Ong', 'Justin O Borevitz', 'Norman Warthmann'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Modern techniques used in the elucidation of population genomic variation generate potentially overwhelming quantities of data. The nature and scale of this data demands the development of computationally efficient methods to determine genetic relatedness in an unbiased de novo manner. We present the k-mer Weighted Inner Product (kWIP), a novel assembly and alignment free estimator of genetic similarity. We show kWIP can recapitulate observed relationships among samples across diverse datasets and reconstruct the true relatedness between samples with simulated sequence. kWIP is licensed under the GNU GPL, and available from https://github.com/kdmurray91/kwip.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075481', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology,The Australian National University, Canberra, Australia;', u'Data61, CSIRO, Canberra, Australia AND Department of Computer Science, ANU, Canberra, Australia']]
[u'Geometry can provide long-range mechanical guidance for embryogenesis', ['Mahamar Dicko', 'Pierre Saramito', 'Jocelyn Etienne'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Morphogenesis is an eminently three-dimensional process, during which an organism undergoes complex deformations to acquire a given shape and organisation.  The genetic patterning of Drosophila embryos and the way it regulates the expression of key molecules such as myosin, which can generate local mechanical action, has been well described.  However, the way this integrates at the scale of the embryo to drive morphogenetic movements is still to be characterised. Understanding this requires us both to express locally the link between myosin activation and mechanical behaviour, and to calculate globally the resulting force balance and deformations. Axis extension in Drosophila is a good model system for this, since it involves a very large deformation of the whole of the embryo and is crucially dependent on a well characterised anisotropic myosin recruitement pattern. This paper specifically investigates whether this expression pattern causes the observed morphogenetic movement directly or only via the cell intercalation process.\n\nOur prediction of local mechanical behaviour is based on a rheological law which we have recently validated for cortical actomyosin and extend to the case when myosin generates an anisotropic prestress. In order to resolve the stresses and deformations that this produces at the scale of the whole embryo, we develop a novel finite element technique which allows us to solve the three-dimensional mechanical balance resulting from a given global distribution of myosin-generated prestress. Because axis extension is observed to involve in-plane tissue flows, the mechanical problem is expressed as a tangential flow of an emergent fluid on the curved three-dimensional surface of the embryo.\n\nNumerical simulations confirm that the planar-polarised arrangement of myosin in the germband can trigger embryo-scale flows which are qualitatively similar to those observed experimentally. Interestingly, this mechanical behaviour is shown not to rely necessarily on cell intercalation, but rather on the anisotropy of myosin action, which is known to be a major cause of intercalation in general but can also cause cell elongation. We also show that the mechanical balance that leads to axis extension towards posterior is crucially dependent on the geometry of the whole embryo, and specifically on the presence anteriorly of the cephalic furrow, which can act as a guide for morphogenetic movements. This is thus an instance when a prior morphogenetic event, cephalic furrow formation, can modify the mechanical feedback on actomyosin thanks to the geometric dependence of mechanical balance, thus having a cascading influence on further development.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075309', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Univ. Grenoble Alpes and CNRS, Lab. Jean Kuntzman and Lab. Interdisciplinaire de Physique;', u'Univ. Grenoble Alpes and CNRS, Lab. Jean Kuntzman;', u'Univ. Grenoble Alpes and CNRS, Lab. Interdisciplinaire de Physique']]
[u'Antibiotic susceptibility of bacterial colonies: An assay and experiments with Staphylococcus aureus.', ['Xinxian Shao', 'Justin Kim', 'Ha Jun Jeong', 'Bruce Levin'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'A method is presented to evaluate in vitro the efficacy of antibiotics to treat bacteria growing as discrete colonies on surfaces and the contribution of the colony structure to the antibiotic susceptibility of bacteria. Using this method, we explored the relative efficacy of six bactericidal and three bacteriostatic antibiotics to inhibit the growth and kill Staphylococcus aureus colonies of different sizes, densities and ages.   As measured by the reduction in viable cell density relative to untreated controls, of the bactericidal drugs tested ciprofloxacin and gentamicin were most effective.  By this criteria, ampicillin was more effective than oxacillin.  Daptomycin and vancomycin were virtually ineffective for treating S. aureus growing as colonies.   The bacteriostatic antibiotic tested, tetracycline, linezolid and erythromycin were all able to prevent the growth of S. aureus colonies and did so even more effectively than daptomycin, which is highly bactericidal in liquid culture.  The results of these experiments and other observations suggest that relative inefficacy of oxacillin, vancomycin and daptomycin to kill S. aureus in colonies is due to the density and physiological state of the bacteria rather than the inability of these drugs to penetrate the colonies.  The methods developed here are general and can be used to explore the efficacy of antibiotics to treat bacteria growing in biofilms as well as discrete colonies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075515', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Emory University']]
[u'Aerobic H2 respiration enhances metabolic flexibility of methanotrophic bacteria', ['Carlo R Carere', 'Kiel Hards', 'Karen M Houghton', 'Jean F Power', 'Ben McDonald', 'Christophe Collet', 'Daniel J Gapes', 'Richard Sparling', 'Gregory M Cook', 'Chris Greening', 'Matthew B Stott'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Methanotrophic bacteria are important soil biofilters for the climate-active gas methane. The prevailing opinion is that these bacteria exclusively metabolise single-carbon, and in limited instances, short-chain hydrocarbons for growth. This specialist lifestyle juxtaposes metabolic flexibility, a key strategy for environmental adaptation of microorganisms. Here we show that a methanotrophic bacterium from the phylum Verrucomicrobia oxidises hydrogen gas (H2) during growth and persistence. Methylacidiphilum sp. RTK17.1 expresses a membrane-bound hydrogenase to aerobically respire molecular H2 at environmentally significant concentrations. While H2 oxidation did not support growth as the sole electron source, it significantly enhanced mixotrophic growth yields under both oxygen-replete and oxygen-limiting conditions and was sustained in non-growing cultures starved for methane. We propose that H2 is consumed by this bacterium for mixotrophic growth and persistence in a manner similar to other non-methanotrophic soil microorganisms. We have identified genes encoding oxygen-tolerant uptake hydrogenases in all publicly-available methanotroph genomes, suggesting that H2 oxidation serves a general strategy for methanotrophs to remain energised in chemically-limited environments.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075549', [u'Microbiology'], [u'GNS Science;', u'University of Otago;', u'Scion;', u'University of Manitoba;', u'Monash University']]
[u'Estimating the Selective Effect of Heterozygous Protein Truncating Variants from Human Exome Data', ['Christopher A. Cassa', 'Donate Weghorn', 'Daniel J. Balick', 'Daniel M. Jordan', 'David Nusinow', 'Kaitlin E. Samocha', "Anne O'Donnell Luria", 'Daniel G. MacArthur', 'Mark J. Daly', 'David R. Beier', 'Shamil R. Sunyaev'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'The dispensability of individual genes for viability has interested generations of geneticists. For some genes it is essential to maintain two functional chromosomal copies, while other genes may tolerate the loss of one or both copies. Exome sequence data from 60,706 individuals provide sufficient observations of rare protein truncating variants (PTVs) to make genome-wide estimates of selection against heterozygous loss of gene function. The cumulative frequency of rare deleterious PTVs is primarily determined by the balance between incoming mutations and purifying selection rather than genetic drift. This enables the estimation of the genome-wide distribution of selection coefficients for heterozygous PTVs and corresponding Bayesian estimates for individual genes. The strength of selection can help discriminate the severity, age of onset, and mode of inheritance in Mendelian exome sequencing cases. We find that genes under the strongest selection are enriched in embryonic lethal mouse knockouts, putatively cell-essential genes inferred from human tumor cells, Mendelian disease genes, and regulators of transcription. Using an essentiality screen, we find a large set of genes under strong selection that are likely to have critical function but that have not yet been studied extensively.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075523', [u'Genomics'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'University of Washington School of Medicine']]
[u'Lipid metabolic perturbation is an early-onset phenotype in adult spin mutants: a Drosophila model for lysosomal storage disorders', ['sarita hebbar', 'Avinash Khandelwal', 'Jayashree R', 'Samantha J Hindle', 'Yin Ning Chiang', 'Joanne Yew', 'Sean Sweeney', 'Dominik Schwudke'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Intracellular accumulation of lipids and swollen dysfunctional lysosomes are linked to several neurodegenerative diseases including lysosomal storage disorders (LSD). A detailed characterization of lipid metabolic changes in relation to the onset and progression of neurodegeneration is currently missing. In this study, we systematically analyzed lipid perturbations in spinster (spin) mutants, a Drosophila model of neurodegeneration associated with LSD. Our results highlight an imbalance in brain ceramide and sphingosine as a crucial phenotype in the early stages of neurodegeneration. This perturbation in ceramide metabolism precedes the accumulation of endomembranous structures, manifestation of altered behavior and buildup of lipofuscin (the ageing pigment). Manipulating levels of ceramidase, and, consequently further altering these lipids in spin mutants have allowed us to conclude that ceramide/sphingosine homeostasis is the driving force in disease progression and is integral to spin function in the adult nervous system. Furthermore, we have identified 29 novel and direct interaction partners of Spin. We specifically focused on the lipid carrier protein, Lipophorin (Lpp), and demonstrate its localization with Spin in the adult nervous system and in organs specialized for lipid metabolism including fat bodies and oenocytes. Our observations in spin mutants of altered Lpp immunostaining, and of increased levels of lipid metabolites produced by oenocytes, allude to a functional relevance of the Spin-Lpp interaction. \nOverall, these results detailing the kinetics of ceramide perturbations in the context of lipofuscin accumulation, as well as the proteomics experiment, represent a valuable resource to further unravel the mechanistic link between systemic changes in lipid metabolism and lysosomal storage disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075556', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'MPi-CBG;', u'EMBL/CRG Systems Biology Research Unit, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Dr. Aiguader 88, 08003;', u'c-CAMP, Proteomics Facility, NCBS;', u'Department of Biology, University of York, York;', u'Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, Singapore;', u'Pacific Biosciences Research Center, University of Hawaii at M\u0101noa, Honolulu, HI 96822;', u'Research Center Borstel, Borstel, 23845, Germany']]
[u'Application of the stochastic labeling methods with random-sequence barcodes for simultaneous quantification and sequencing of environmental 16S rRNA genes', ['Tatsuhiko Hoshino', 'Fumio Inagaki'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is a powerful tool for analyzing environmental DNA and provides the comprehensive molecular view of microbial communities. For obtaining the copy number of particular sequences in the NGS library, however, additional quantitative analysis as quantitative PCR (qPCR) or digital PCR (dPCR) is required. Furthermore, number of sequences in a sequence library does not always reflect the original copy number of a target gene because of biases caused by PCR amplification, making it difficult to convert the proportion of particular sequences in the NGS library to the copy number using the mass of input DNA. To address this issue, we applied stochastic labeling approach with random-tag sequences and developed a NGS-based quantification protocol, which enables simultaneous sequencing and quantification of the targeted DNA. This quantitative sequencing (qSeq) is initiated from single-primer extension (SPE) using a primer with random tag adjacent to the 5\u2032 end of target-specific sequence. During SPE, each DNA molecule is stochastically labeled with the random tag. Subsequently, first-round PCR is conducted, specifically targeting the SPE product, followed by second-round PCR to index for NGS. The number of random tags is only determined during the SPE step and is therefore not affected by the two rounds of PCR that may introduce amplification biases. In the case of 16S rRNA genes, after NGS sequencing and taxonomic classification, the absolute number of target phylotypes 16S rRNA gene can be estimated by Poisson statistics by counting random tags incorporated at the end of sequence. To test the feasibility of this approach, the 16S rRNA gene of Sulfolobus tokodaii was subjected to qSeq, which resulted in accurate quantification of 5.0 \xd7 103 to 5.0 \xd7 104 copies of the 16S rRNA gene. Furthermore, qSeq was applied to mock microbial communities and environmental samples, and the results were comparable to those obtained using digital PCR and relative abundance based on a standard sequence library. We demonstrated that the qSeq protocol proposed here is advantageous for providing less-biased absolute copy numbers of each target DNA with NGS sequencing at one time. By this new experiment scheme in microbial ecology, microbial community compositions can be explored in more quantitative manner, thus expanding our knowledge of microbial ecosystems in natural environments.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/072298', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology']]
[u'State-dependent modulation of functional connectivity in early blind individuals', ['Maxime Pelland', 'Pierre Orban', 'Christian Dansereau', 'Franco Lepore', 'Pierre Bellec', 'Olivier Collignon'], u'September 16, 2016.', u'Resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) studies have highlighted how visual experience influences the brain s functional architecture. Reduced RSFC coupling between occipital (visual) and temporal (auditory) regions has been reliably observed in early blind individuals (EB) at rest. In contrast, task-dependent activation studies have repeatedly demonstrated enhanced co-activation and connectivity of occipital and temporal regions during auditory processing in EB. To investigate this apparent discrepancy, the functional coupling between temporal and occipital networks at rest was directly compared to that of an auditory task in both EB and sighted controls (SC). Functional brain clusters shared across groups and cognitive states (rest and auditory task) were defined. In EBs, we observed higher occipito-temporal correlations in activity during the task than at rest. The reverse pattern was observed in SC. We also observed higher temporal variability of occipito-temporal RSFC in EB suggesting that occipital regions in this population may play a role of multiple demand system. Our study reveals how the connectivity profile of sighted and early blind people is differentially influenced by their cognitive state, bridging the gap between previous task-dependent and RSFC studies. Our results also highlight how inferring group-differences in functional brain architecture solely based on resting-state acquisition has to be considered with caution.', u'/content/early/2016/09/16/075465', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Montreal;', u'Criugm;', u'Cimec']]
[u'Identification of Successful Mentoring Communities using Network-based Analysis of Mentor-Mentee Relationships across Nobel Laureates', ['Julia H. Chariker', 'Yihang Zhang', 'John R. Pani', 'Eric Christian Rouchka'], u'September 15, 2016.', u"Skills underlying scientific innovation and discovery generally develop within an academic community, often beginning with a graduate mentor's laboratory. In this paper, a network analysis of doctoral student-dissertation advisor relationships in The Academic Tree is used to identify successful mentoring communities in high-level science, as measured by number of Nobel laureates within the community. Nobel laureates form a distinct group in the network with greater numbers of Nobel laureate ancestors, descendants, mentees/grandmentees, and local academic family. Subnetworks composed entirely of Nobel laureates extend across as many as four generations. Successful historical mentoring communities were identified centering around Cambridge University in the latter 19th century and Columbia University in the early 20th century. The current practice of building web-based academic networks, extended to include a wider variety of measures of academic success, would allow for the identification of modern successful scientific communities and should be promoted.", u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075432', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'University of Louisville']]
[u'Noise-processing by signaling networks', ['Styliani Kontogeorgaki', 'Ruben Sanchez-Garcia', 'Rob Ewing', 'Konstantinos Zygalakis', 'Ben D. MacArthur'], u'September 15, 2016.', u"Signaling networks mediate environmental information to the cell nucleus. To perform this task effectively they must be able to integrate multiple stimuli and distinguish persistent signals from transient environmental fluctuations. However, the ways in which signaling networks process environmental noise are not well understood. Here we outline a mathematical framework that relates a network's structure to its capacity to process noise, and use this framework to dissect the noise-processing ability of signaling networks. We find that complex networks that are dense in directed paths are poor noise processors, while those that are sparse and strongly directional process noise well. These results suggest that while cross-talk between signaling pathways may increase the ability of signaling networks to integrate multiple stimuli, too much cross-talk may compromise the ability of the network to distinguish signal from noise. To illustrate these general results we consider the structure of the signaling network that maintains pluripotency in mouse embryonic stem cells, and find an incoherent feedforward loop structure involving Stat3, Tfcp2l1, Esrrb, Klf2 and Klf4 is particularly important for noise-processing. Taken together these results suggest that noise-processing is an important function of signaling networks and they may be structured in part to optimize this task.", u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075366', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Southampton;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Homeostasis of columnar synchronization during cortical map formation', ['Matthew T Colonnese', 'Jing Shen'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'Synchronous spontaneous activity is critical for circuit development. A key open question is to what degree is this synchronization models adult activity or is specifically tuned for circuit development.  To address this we used multi-electrode array recordings of spontaneous activity in non-anesthetized neonatal mice to quantify firing rates, synchronization, binary spike-vectors and population-coupling of single-units throughout the period of map formation. Consistent with the first hypothesis, adult-like network interactions are established during the period of retinal waves, before the onset of vision and normal inhibition, and are largely conserved throughout juvenile ages.  Significant differences from mature properties were limited to initial topographic map formation, when synchronization was lower than expected by chance, suggesting active decoupling in early networks. These findings suggest that developmental activity models adult synchronization, and that there is remarkable homeostasis of network properties throughout development, despite massive changes in the drive and circuit basis of cortical activity.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075341', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The George Washington University']]
[u'Identification of misclassified ClinVar variants using disease population prevalence', ['Naisha Shah', 'Ying-Chen Claire Hou', 'Hung-Chun Yu', 'Rachana Sainger', 'Eric Dec', 'Brad Perkins', 'C. Thomas Caskey', 'J. Craig Venter', 'Amalio Telenti'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'There is a significant interest in the standardized classification of human genetic variants. The availability of new large datasets generated through genome sequencing initiatives provides a ground for the computational evaluation of the supporting evidence. We used whole genome sequence data from 8,102 unrelated individuals to analyze the adequacy of estimated rates of disease on the basis of genetic risk and the expected population prevalence of the disease. Analyses included the ACMG recommended 56 gene-condition sets for incidental findings and 631 genes associated with 348 OrphaNet conditions. A total of 21,004 variants were used to identify patterns of inflation (i.e. excess genetic risk). Inflation, i.e., misclassification, increases as the level of evidence in ClinVar supporting the pathogenic nature of the variant decreases. The burden of rare variants was a main contributing factor of the observed inflation indicating misclassified benign private mutations. We also analyzed the dynamics of re-classification of variant pathogenicity in ClinVar over time. The study strongly suggests that ClinVar includes a significant proportion of wrongly ascertained variants, and underscores the critical role of ClinVar to contrast claims, and foster validation across submitters.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075416', [u'Genomics'], [u'Human Longevity Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.;', u'Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, TX, USA;', u'Human Longevity Inc., San Diego, CA, USA.; J. Craig Venter Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA.']]
[u'Selective activation of ganglion cells without axon bundles using epiretinal electrical stimulation', ['Lauren E Grosberg', 'Karthik Ganesan', 'Georges A Goetz', 'Sasidhar Madugula', 'Nandita Bhaskhar', 'Victoria Fan', 'Peter Li', 'Pawe Hottowy', 'Wadysaw Dabrowski', 'Alexander Sher', 'Alan M Litke', 'Subhasish Mitra', 'E.J. Chichilnisky'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'Epiretinal prostheses for treating blindness activate axon bundles, causing large, arc-shaped visual percepts that limit the quality of artificial vision. Improving the function of epiretinal prostheses therefore requires understanding and avoiding axon bundle activation. This paper introduces a method to detect axon bundle activation based on its electrical signature, and uses the method to test whether epiretinal stimulation can directly elicit spikes in individual retinal ganglion cells without activating nearby axon bundles. Combined electrical stimulation and recording from isolated primate retina were performed using a custom multi-electrode system (512 electrodes, 10 \u03bcm diameter, 60 \u03bcm pitch). Axon bundle signals were identified by their bi-directional propagation, speed, and increasing amplitude as a function of stimulation current. The threshold for bundle activation varied across electrodes and retinas, and was in the same range as the threshold for activating retinal ganglion cells near their somas. In the peripheral retina, 45% of electrodes that activated individual ganglion cells (17% of all electrodes) did so without activating bundles. This permitted selective activation of 21% of recorded ganglion cells (7% of all ganglion cells) over the array. In the central retina, 75% of electrodes that activated individual ganglion cells (16% of all electrodes) did so without activating bundles. The ability to selectively activate a subset of retinal ganglion cells without axon bundles suggests a possible novel architecture for future epiretinal prostheses.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075283', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Salk Institute for Biological Studies;', u'AGH University of Science and Technology;', u'University of California Santa Cruz']]
[u'The Real-time fMRI Neurofeedback Based Stratification of Default Network Regulation Neuroimaging Data Repository.', ['Amalia McDonald', 'Jordan Muraskin', 'Nicholas Thomas Van Dam', 'Caroline Froehlich', 'Benjamin Puccio', 'John Pellman', 'Clemens CC Bauer', 'Alexis Akeyson', 'Melissa Breland', 'Vince Calhoun', 'Steven Carter', 'Tiffany Chang', 'Chelsea Gessner', 'Alyssa Giannone', 'Steven Giavasis', 'Jamie Glass', 'Steven Homann', 'Margaret King', 'Melissa Kramer', 'Drew Landis', 'Alexis Lieval', 'Jonathan Lisinski', 'Anna MacKay-Brandt', 'Brittny Miller', 'Laura Panek', 'Hayley Reed', 'Christine Santiago', 'Eszter Schoell', 'Richard Sinning', 'Melissa Sital', 'Elise Taverna', 'Russell Tobe', 'Kristin Trautmann', 'Betty Varghese', 'Lauren Walden', 'Runtang Wang', 'Abigail B Waters', 'Dylan C Wood', 'F. Xavier Castellanos', 'Bennett L. Leventhal', 'Stanley J Colcombe', 'Stephen M LaConte', 'Michael P Milham', 'R Cameron Craddock'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'This paper describes cross-sectional functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from two block-design tasks, a resting state fMRI scan, and a default mode network (DMN) neurofeedback paradigm, along with accompanying behavioral and cognitive measures in an ongoing study. We report technical validation from n=125 participants of the final targeted sample of 180 participants. Each session includes acquisition of one whole-brain anatomical scan and whole-brain echo-planar imaging (EPI) scans, acquired during the aforementioned tasks and resting state. The data includes several self-report measures related to perseverative thinking, emotion regulation, and imaginative processes, along with a behavioral measure of rapid visual information processing. The present data are linked to the enhanced Nathan Kline Institute, Rockland Sample and builds on the comprehensive neuroimaging and deep phenotyping available therein. As limited information is presently available about individual differences in the capacity to directly modulate the default mode network, these data provide a unique opportunity to examine DMN modulation ability in relation to numerous phenotypic characteristics.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075275', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Child Mind Institute;', u'Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, MA, USA;', u'The Mind Research Network, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA;', u'Virginia Tech Carilion Research Institute, Roanoke, VA;', u'The Child Study Center, NYU Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, USA;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA;', u'Virginia Tech Carilion Research Institute, Roanoke, VA, USA;', u'Child Mind Institute / Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research;', u'Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research / Child Mind Institute']]
[u'MCbiclust: a novel algorithm to discover large-scale functionally related gene sets from massive transcriptomics data collections', ['Robert B Bentham', 'Kevin Bryson', 'Gyorgy Szabadkai'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'The potential to understand fundamental biological processes from gene expression data has grown parallel with the recent explosion of the size of data collections. However, to exploit this potential, novel analytical methods are required, capable of handling massive data matrices. We found current methods limited in the size of correlated gene sets they could discover within biologically heterogeneous data collections, hampering the identification of multi-gene controlled fundamental cellular processes such as energy metabolism, organelle biogenesis and stress responses. Here we describe a novel biclustering algorithm called Massively Correlated Biclustering (MCbiclust) that selects samples and genes from large datasets with maximal correlated gene expression, allowing regulation of complex pathway to be examined. The method has been evaluated using synthetic data and applied to large bacterial and cancer cell datasets. We show that the large biclusters discovered, so far elusive to identification by existing techniques, are biologically relevant and thus MCbiclust has great potential use in the analysis of transcriptomics data to identify large scale unknown effects hidden within the data. The identified massive biclusters can be used to develop improved transcriptomics based diagnosis tools for diseases caused by altered gene expression, or used for further network analysis to understand genotype-phenotype correlations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075374', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University College London']]
[u'The Drosophila Gene Expression Tool (DGET) for expression analyses', ['Yanhui Hu', 'Aram Comjean', 'Norbert Perrimon', 'Stephanie Mohr'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'Background: Next-generation sequencing technologies have greatly increased our ability to identify gene expression levels, including at specific developmental stages and in specific tissues. Gene expression data can help researchers understand the diverse functions of genes and gene networks, as well as help in the design of specific and efficient functional studies, such as by helping researchers choose the most appropriate tissue for a study of a group of genes, or conversely, by limiting a long list of gene candidates to the subset that are normally expressed at a given stage or in a given tissue.  Results: We report a Drosophila Gene Expression Tool (DGET, www.flyrnai.org/tools/dget/web/), which stores and facilitates search of RNA-Seq based expression profiles available from the modENCODE consortium and other public data sets.  Using DGET, researchers are able to look up gene expression profiles, filter results based on threshold expression values, and compare expression data across different developmental stages, tissues and treatments.  In addition, at DGET a researcher can analyze tissue or stage-specific enrichment for an inputted list of genes (e.g. hits from a screen) and search for additional genes with similar expression patterns.  We performed a number of analyses to demonstrate the quality and robustness of the resource.  In particular, we show that evolutionary conserved genes expressed at high or moderate levels in both fly and human tend to be expressed in similar tissues. Using DGET, we compared whole tissue profile and sub-region/cell-type specific datasets and estimated the potential cause of false positives in one dataset.  We also demonstrated the usefulness of DGET for synexpression studies by querying genes with similar expression profile to the mesodermal master regulator Twist.  Conclusion: Altogether, DGET provides a flexible tool for expression data retrieval and analysis with short or long lists of Drosophila genes, which can help scientists to design stage- or tissue-specific in vivo studies and do other subsequent analyses.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075358', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Metatranscriptomics supports mechanism for biocathode electroautotrophy by "Candidatus Tenderia electrophaga"', ['Brian J. Eddie', 'Zheng Wang', 'William Judson Hervey', 'Dagmar H. Leary', 'Anthony P. Malanoski', 'Leonard M. Tender', 'Baochuan Lin', 'Sarah M. Strycharz-Glaven'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'ABSTRACT:\nBiocathodes provide a stable electron source to drive reduction reactions in electrotrophic microbial electrochemical systems. Electroautotrophic biocathode communities may be more robust than monocultures in environmentally relevant settings, but some members are not easily cultivated outside of the electrode environment.  We previously used metagenomics and metaproteomics to propose a pathway for coupling extracellular electron transfer (EET) to carbon fixation in "Candidatus Tenderia electrophaga", an uncultivated but dominant member of the Biocathode-MCL electroautotrophic community.  Here we validate and refine this proposed pathway using differential metatranscriptomics of replicate MCL reactors sampled at 310 mV (growth potential) and 470 mV (vs. standard hydrogen electrode).  At both potentials, transcripts from "Ca. Tenderia electrophaga" were more abundant than from any other organism and its relative abundance was positively correlated with current.  Several genes encoding key components of the proposed "Ca. Tenderia electrophaga" EET pathway were more highly expressed at the 470 mV, consistent with a need for cells to acquire more electrons to obtain the same amount of energy as at 310 mV.  These included cyc2, encoding a homolog of a protein known to be involved in iron oxidation, confirmed to be differentially expressed by droplet digital PCR of independent biological replicates.  Average expression of all CO2 fixation related genes is 1.23-fold higher at 310 mV, indicating that reduced energy availability at 470 mV decreased CO2 fixation.  Our results substantiate the claim that "Ca. Tenderia electrophaga" is the key MCL electroautotroph, which will help guide further development of this community for microbial electrosynthesis.\nIMPORTANCE:\nBacteria that directly use electrodes as metabolic electron donors (biocathodes) have been proposed for applications ranging from microbial electrosynthesis to advanced bioelectronics for cellular communication with machines. However, just as we understand very little about oxidation of analogous natural insoluble electron donors, such as iron oxide, the organisms and EET pathways underlying the electrode-cell direct electron transfer processes are almost completely unknown. Biocathodes are a stable biofilm cultivation platform to interrogate both the rate and mechanism of EET using electrochemistry and study the electroautotrophic organisms that catalyze these reactions. Here we provide new evidence supporting the hypothesis that the uncultured bacterium "Candidatus Tenderia electrophaga" directly couples extracellular electron transfer to CO2 fixation. Our results provide insight into developing biocathode technology, such as microbial electrosynthesis, as well as advancing our understanding of chemolithoautotrophy.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/074997', [u'Microbiology'], [u'US Naval Research Laboratory;', u'US Naval Research Laboratory, Defense Threat Reduction Agency']]
[u'Functional consequences of pre- and postsynaptic expression of synaptic plasticity', ['Rui Ponte Costa', 'Beatriz E. P. Mizusaki', 'P. Jesper Sjostrom', 'Mark C. W. van Rossum'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'Experimental evidence has shown that both homeostatic and Hebbian synaptic plasticity can be expressed presynaptically as well as postsynaptically. In this review, we discuss some of the functional consequences of this diversity in expression loci. In particular, using a biologically tuned model of spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) we show that a combination of both pre- and postsynaptic components leads to 1) more reliable receptive fields, 2) rapid recovery of forgotten information, 3) and reduced response latencies, compared to a model with postsynaptic expression only. The diversity of expression of synaptic plasticity thus has important functional consequences. We propose that a considerable research effort is needed to better elucidate how the specific locus of expression of homeostatic and Hebbian plasticity alters network computations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075317', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford, United Kingdom;', u'Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil;', u'McGill University, Canada;', u'University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom']]
[u'Minimal Tool Set for a Prokaryotic Circadian Clock', ['Nicolas Schmelling', 'Anika Wiegard', 'Robert Lehmann', 'Paushali Chaudhury', 'Christian Beck', 'Sonja V Albers', 'Ilka M Axmann'], u'September 15, 2016.', u'Circadian clocks can be found in almost all organisms including photosynthetic Cyanobacteria, whereby large diversity exists within the protein components involved. In the model cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 circadian rhythms are driven by a unique KaiABC protein clock, which is embedded in a network of input and output factors. Homologous proteins to the Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 clock components have been observed in Bacteria and Archaea, where evidence for circadian behavior in these domains is accumulating. However, interaction and function of non-cyanobacterias Kai-proteins as well as homologous input and output components remain mainly unclear.\nUsing a universal BLAST analyses, we identified putative KaiC-based timing systems in organisms outside as well as variations within Cyanobacteria. A systematic analyses of publicly available microarray data elucidated interesting variations in circadian gene expression between different cyanobacterial strains, which might be correlated to the diversity of genome encoded clock components. Based on statistical analyses of co-occurrences of the clock component homologous to Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942, we propose putative networks of reduced and fully functional clock systems. Further, we studied KaiC sequence conservation to determine functionally important regions of diverged KaiC homologs. Biochemical characterization of exemplary cyanobacterial KaiC proteins as well as homologs from two thermophilic Archaea demonstrated that kinase activity is always present. However, a KaiA-mediated phosphorylation is only detectable in KaiC1 orthologs.\nOur analysis of 11,264 genomes clearly demonstrates that components of the Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942 circadian clock are present in Bacteria and Archaea. However, all components are less abundant in other organisms than Cyanobacteria and KaiA, Pex, LdpA, and CdpA are only present in the latter. Thus, only reduced KaiBC-based or even simpler, solely KaiC-based timing systems might exist outside of the cyanobacterial phylum, which might be capable of driving diurnal oscillations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075291', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Institute for Synthetic Microbiology, Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf;', u'Institute for Theoretical Biology, Humboldt University Berlin;', u'Molecular Biology of Archaea, University of Freiburg']]
[u"Biosynthesis of the Antibiotic Nonribosomal Peptide Penicillin in Baker's Yeast", ['Ali R Awan', 'Benjamin A Blount', 'David J Bell', 'Jack C H Ho', 'Robert M McKiernan', 'Tom Ellis'], u'September 15, 2016.', u"Fungi are a valuable source of enzymatic diversity and therapeutic natural products including antibiotics. By taking genes from a filamentous fungus and directing their efficient expression and subcellular localisation, we here engineer the baker's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae to produce and secrete the antibiotic penicillin, a beta-lactam nonribosomal peptide. Using synthetic biology tools combined with long-read DNA sequencing, we optimise productivity by 50-fold to produce bioactive yields that allow spent S. cerevisiae growth media to have antibacterial action against Streptococcus bacteria. This work demonstrates that S. cerevisiae can be engineered to perform the complex biosynthesis of multicellular fungi, opening up the possibility of using yeast to accelerate rational engineering of nonribosomal peptide antibiotics.", u'/content/early/2016/09/15/075325', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'ENVIREM: An expanded set of bioclimatic and topographic variables increases flexibility and improves performance of ecological niche modeling', ['Pascal O Title', 'Jordan B Bemmels'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Species distribution modeling is a valuable tool with many applications across ecology and evolutionary biology. The selection of biologically meaningful environmental variables that determine relative habitat suitability is a crucial aspect of the modeling pipeline. The 19 bioclimatic variables from WorldClim are frequently employed, primarily because they are easily accessible and available globally for past, present and future climate scenarios. Yet, the availability of relatively few other comparable environmental datasets potentially limits our ability to select appropriate variables that will most successfully characterize a species\' distribution. We identified a set of 16 climatic and two topographic variables in the literature, which we call the envirem dataset, many of which are likely to have direct relevance to ecological or physiological processes determining species distributions. We generated this set of variables at the same resolutions as WorldClim, for the present, mid-Holocene, and Last Glacial Maximum (LGM). For 20 North American vertebrate species, we then assessed whether including the envirem variables led to improved species distribution models compared to models using only the existing WorldClim variables. We found that including the envirem dataset in the pool of variables to select from led to substantial improvements in niche modeling performance in 17 out of 20 species. We also show that, when comparing models constructed with different environmental variables, differences in projected distributions were often greater in the LGM than in the present. These variables are worth consideration in species distribution modeling applications, especially as many of the variables have direct links to processes important for species ecology. We provide these variables for download at multiple resolutions and for several time periods at envirem.github.io. Furthermore, we have written the "envirem" R package to facilitate the generation of these variables from other input datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075200', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Solving the influence maximization problem reveals regulatory organization of the yeast cell cycle.', ['David Gibbs', 'Ilya Shmulevich'], u'September 14, 2016.', u"The Influence Maximization Problem (IMP) aims to discover the set of nodes with the greatest influence on network dynamics. The problem has previously been applied in epidemiology and social network analysis. Here, we demonstrate the application to cell cycle regulatory network analysis of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. \n\nFundamentally, gene regulation is linked to the flow of information. Therefore, our implementation of the IMP was framed as an information theoretic problem on a diffusion network. Utilizing all regulatory edges from YeastMine, gene expression dynamics were encoded as edge weights using a variant of time lagged transfer entropy, a method for quantifying information transfer between variables. Influence, for a particular number of sources, was measured using a diffusion model based on Markov chains with absorbing states. By maximizing over different numbers of sources, an influence ranking on genes was produced.\n\nThe influence ranking was compared to other metrics of network centrality. Although 'top genes' from each centrality ranking contained well-known cell cycle regulators, there was little agreement and no clear winner. However, it was found that influential genes tend to directly regulate or sit upstream of genes ranked by other centrality measures. This is quantified by computing node reachability between gene sets; on average, 59% of central genes can be reached when starting from the influential set, compared to 7% of influential genes when starting at another centrality measure.\n\nThe influential nodes act as critical sources of information flow, potentially having a large impact on the state of the network. Biological events that affect influential nodes and thereby affect information flow could have a strong effect on network dynamics, potentially leading to disease. \nCode and example data can be found at: https://github.com/Gibbsdavidl/miergolf", u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075069', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute for Systems Biology']]
[u'Catalyzed Synthesis of Zinc Clays by Prebiotic Central Metabolites', ['Ruixin Zhou', 'Kaustuv Basu', 'Hyman Hartman', 'Christopher Matocha', 'S. Kelly Sears', 'Hojatollah Vali', 'Marcelo I Guzman'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'How primordial metabolic networks such as the reverse tricarboxylic acid (rTCA) cycle and clay mineral catalysts coevolved remains a mystery in the puzzle to understand the origin of life. While prebiotic reactions from the rTCA cycle were accomplished via photochemistry on semiconductor minerals, the synthesis of clays was demonstrated at low temperature and ambient pressure catalyzed by oxalate. Herein, the crystallization of clay minerals is catalyzed by succinate, an example of a photoproduced intermediate from central metabolism. The experiments connect the synthesis of sauconite, a model for clay minerals, to prebiotic photochemistry. We report the temperature, pH, and concentration dependence on succinate for the synthesis of sauconite identifying new mechanisms of clay formation in surface environments of rocky planets. The work demonstrates that seeding induces nucleation at low temperatures accelerating the crystallization process. Cryogenic and conventional transmission electron microscopies, X-ray diffraction, diffuse reflectance Fourier transformed infrared spectroscopy, and measurements of total surface area are used to build a three-dimensional representation of the clay. These results suggest the coevolution of clay minerals and early metabolites in our planet could have been facilitated by sunlight photochemistry, which played a significant role in the complex interplay between rocks and life over geological time.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075176', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of Kentucky;', u'McGill University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Using a structural root system model for an in-depth assessment of root image analysis pipeline', ['Guillaume Lobet', 'Iko Koevoets', 'Pierre Tocquin', 'Loic Pages', 'Claire Perilleux'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Root system analysis is a complex task, often performed using fully automated image analysis pipelines. However, these pipelines are usually evaluated with a limited number of ground-truth root images, most likely of limited size and complexity. \nWe have used a root model, ArchiSimple to create a large and diverse library of ground-truth root system images (10.000). This library was used to evaluate the accuracy and usefulness of several image descriptors classicaly used in root image analysis pipelines. \nOur analysis highlighted that the accuracy of the different metrics is strongly linked to the type of root system analyzed (e.g. dicot or monocot) as well as their size and complexity. Metrics that have been shown to be accurate for small dicot root systems might fail for large dicots root systems or small monocot root systems. Our study also demonstrated that the usefulness of the different metrics when trying to discriminate genotypes or experimental conditions may vary. \nOverall, our analysis is a call to caution when automatically analyzing root images. If a thorough calibration is not performed on the dataset of interest, unexpected errors might arise, especially for large and complex root images. To facilitate such calibration, both the image library and the different codes used in the study have been made available to the community.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/074922', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Forschungszentrum Juelich;', u'University of Amsterdam;', u'University of Liege;', u'INRA']]
[u'Numericware i: Identical in state matrix calculator', ['Bongsong Kim', 'William D Beavis'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Herein we introduce software, Numericware i to compute a matrix consisting of all pairwise identical in state (IIS) coefficients from genotypic data. Since the emergence of high throughput technology for genotyping, calculating an IIS matrix between many pairs of entities has required large computer memory and lengthy processing times. Numericware i addresses these limitations with two algorithmic methods: multithreading and forward chopping. The multithreading feature allows computational routines to concurrently run on multiple CPU processors. The forward chopping addresses memory limitations by dividing the genotypic data into appropriately sized subsets. Numericware i allows researchers who need to estimate an IIS matrix for big genotypes to use typical laptop/desktop computers. For comparison with different software, we calculated genetic relationship matrices using Numericware i, SPAGeDi and TASSEL with the same small-sized data set. Numericware i measured kinship coefficients between zero and two, while the matrices from SPAGeDi and TASSEL produced different ranges of values, including negative values. The Pearson correlation coefficient between the matrices from Numericware i and TASSEL was high at 0.993, while SPAGeDi rarely showed correlation with Numericware i (0.088) and TASSEL (0.087). To compare the capacity with high dimensional data, we applied the three software to a simulated data set consisted of 500 entities by 1,000,000 SNPs. Numericware i spent 71 minutes using seven CPU cores on a laptop (DELL LATITUDE E6540), while SPAGeDi and TASSEL failed to start. Numericware i is freely available for Windows and Linux under CC-BY license at https://figshare.com/s/f100f33a8857131eb2db.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075267', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Iowa State University']]
[u'Amphibian diversity and abundance in ponds is lower in exotic plantations than native forests', ['Maider Iglesias-Carrasco', 'Iraide Artexte', 'Carlos Cabido', 'Aitor Larranaga'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'What effect do tree plantations have on the diversity of native organisms? Some studies show that plantations reduce the diversity and abundance of certain taxa, while other studies suggested that plantations help to conserve biodiversity. Pine and eucalyptus plantations are among the most widespread exotic plantations worldwide, and they have negative effects on many taxa. But how do they affect amphibian diversity and abundance? We barely know. We therefore tallied up the number of amphibian taxa and their abundance from 18 ponds in patches of native oak forests, pine or eucalypt plantations. We also quantified water quality by measuring its physicochemistry and identifying the macroinvertebrates present in each pond. There were significantly fewer amphibian species in tree plantations than in native forest. Compared to native forest, the total density of amphibians was also significantly lower in eucalypt, but not pine, plantations. Species varied in the effects of plantations on their presence and abundance. We suggest that the decline in the presence and abundance of amphibians in plantations is linked to the physicochemical of pond water, combined with the relatively low presence of invertebrate. It seems likely that earlier desiccation, greater toxicity, and poor quality detritus in ponds in plantation are key drivers of species decline. The effects of these drivers are expected to worsen as climate change continues.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/074302', [u'Ecology'], [u'Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales;', u'Sociedad de Ciencias Aranzadi;', u'University of Basque Country']]
[u'3D chromatin structure estimation through a constraint-enhanced score function', ['Claudia Caudai', 'Emanuele Salerno', 'Monica Zoppe', 'Anna Tonazzini'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Based on experimental techniques of the type Chromosome Conformation Capture (3c), several methods have been proposed in the literature to estimate the structure of the nuclear dna in homogeneous populations of cells. Many of these methods transform contact frequencies into Euclidean distances between pairs of chromatin fragments, and then reconstruct the structure by solving a distance-to-geometry problem.\nTo avoid the drawbacks of this strategy, we propose to abandon the frequency-distance translation and adopt a recursive multiscale procedure, where the chromatin fibre is modelled by a new kind of modified bead chain, the data are suitably partitioned at each scale, and the resulting partial structures are estimated independently of each other and then connected again to rebuild the whole chain.\nWe propose a new score function to generate the solution space: it includes a data-fit part that does not require target distances, and a penalty\npart, which enforces soft geometric constraints on the solution, coherent with known physical and biological constraints. The relative weights of the two parts are balanced automatically at each scale and each subchain\ntreated. Since it is reasonable to expect that many different structures fit any 3c-type data set, we sample the solution space by simulated annealing, with no search for an absolute optimum. A set of different solutions with similar scores is thus generated. The procedure can be managed through a minimum set of parameters, independent of both the scale and the particular genomic segment being treated. The user is thus allowed to control the solutions easily and effectively. The partition of the fibre, along with several intrinsically parallel parts, make this method\ncomputationally efficient.\nWe report some results obtained with the new method and code, tested against real data, that support the reliability of our method and the biological plausibility of our solutions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075184', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Research Council of Italy CNR']]
[u'DNA methylation landscape of ocular tissue relative to matched to peripheral blood.', ['Alex Hewitt', 'Vania Januar', 'Alexandra Sexton-Oates', 'Jihoon E Joo', 'Maria Franchina', 'Jie Jin Wang', 'Helena Liang', 'Jamie E Craig', 'Richard Saffery'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'BACKGROUND: Epigenetic variation is implicated in a range of non-communicable diseases, including those of the eye. However, investigating the role of epigenetic variation in ocular disease remains problematic as the degree of correlation in epigenetic profile between central (such as the\nbrain or eye) and peripheral tissues (blood or saliva) within an individual remains largely unclear.\nMETHODS: Matched whole blood from the subclavian vein, and whole eyes (N=8) were obtained post-mortem. DNA was isolated from blood, neurosensory retina, retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)/choroid and optic nerve tissue. DNA methylation profiling was performed using the Illumina Infinium HumanMethylation450 platform. Following standard quality control measures a total of 433,768 methylation values common to all samples were available for use in subsequent analysis.\nRESULTS: Unsupervised hierarchical clustering and principal components analysis revealed tissue of origin as the main driver of variation within the dataset. Despite this, there was a strong correlation of methylation profiles between tissues within each individual. Over 255,000 CpG sites were found to have similar methylation levels (beta <0.2 or beta >0.8) across different tissues in the same individuals, with a further ~16,000 sites having similar methylation profiles across ocular tissues only. Only a small proportion of probes showing interindividual variation in blood, covaried across blood and eye tissues within individuals.\nCONCLUSIONS: An improved understanding of the epigenetic landscape of the eye will have important ramifications for regenerative medicine and ongoing dissection of gene-environment interactions in eye disease. Despite a generally high correlation in methylation values irrespective ofsample origin, tissue type is the major driver of methylation variation, with only limited covariation\nbetween blood and any specific ocular tissue. Caution is warranted when aiming to infer ocular\ntissue methylation status from blood samples.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075077', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'Cancer and Disease Epigenetics, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Childrens Hospital;', u'Department of Pathology, University of Melbourne, Australia;', u'Lions Eye Institute, University of Western Australia, Centre for Ophthalmology and Visual Science;', u'Centre for Vision Research, Department of Ophthalmology and Westmead Millennium Institute;', u'Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital;', u'Department of Ophthalmology, Flinders University, Flinders Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia']]
[u'Sequence biases in CLIP experimental data are incorporated in protein RNA-binding models', ['Yaron Orenstein', 'Raghavendra Hosur', 'Sean Simmons', 'Jadwiga Bienkoswka', 'Bonnie Berger'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'We report a newly-identified bias in CLIP data that results from cleaving enzyme specificity. This bias is inadvertently incorporated into standard peak calling methods, which identify the most likely locations where proteins bind RNA. We further show how, in downstream analysis, this bias is incorporated into models inferred by the state-of-the-art GraphProt method to predict protein RNA-binding. We call for both experimental controls to measure enzyme specificities and algorithms to identify unbiased CLIP binding sites.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075259', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'MIT;', u'Biogen']]
[u'Identification of important amino acid replacements in the 2013-2016 Ebola virus outbreak', ['Abayomi S Olabode', 'Derek Gatherer', 'Xiaowei Jiang', 'David Matthews', 'Julian A Hiscox', 'Stephan Gunther', 'Miles W Carroll', 'Simon C Lovell', 'David L Robertson'], u'September 14, 2016.', u"The phylogenetic relationships of Zaire ebolavirus have been intensively analysed over the course of the 2013-2016 outbreak. However, there has been limited consideration of the functional impact of this variation. Here we describe an analysis of the available sequence data in the context of protein structure and phylogenetic history. Amino acid replacements are rare and predicted to have minor effects on protein stability. Synonymous mutations greatly outnumber nonsynonymous mutations, and most of the latter fall into unstructured intrinsically disordered regions, indicating that purifying selection is the dominant mode of selective pressure. However, one replacement, occurring early in the outbreak in Gueckedou in Guinea on 31st March 2014 (alanine to valine at position 82 in the GP protein), is close to the site where the virus binds to the host receptor NPC1 and is located in the phylogenetic tree at the origin of the major B lineage of the outbreak. The functional and evolutionary evidence indicates this A82V change likely has consequences for EBOV's host specificity and hence adaptation to humans.", u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075168', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Manchester;', u'Lancaster University;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Liverpool;', u'Bernhard-Nocht-Institute for Tropical Medicine;', u'Public Health England']]
[u'IMiQC: a novel protein quality control compartment protecting mitochondrial functional integrity', ['Michael Bruderek', 'Witold Jaworek', 'Anne Wilkening', 'Cornelia Rub', 'Giovanna Cenini', 'Marc Sylvester', 'Wolfgang Voos'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Aggregation processes can cause severe perturbations of cellular homeostasis and are frequently associated with diseases. We performed a comprehensive analysis of mitochondrial quality and function in presence of misfolded, aggregation-prone polypeptides. Although we observed significant aggregate formation inside mitochondria, we observed only a minor impairment of mitochondrial function. We could show that detoxification of misfolded reporter polypeptides as well as endogenous proteins inside mitochondria takes place via their sequestration into the specific organellar deposit site Intra-Mitochondrial Protein Quality Control Compartment (IMiQC). Only minor amounts of co-aggregated proteins were associated with IMiQC and neither resolubilization nor degradation by the mitochondrial PQC system were observed. The single IMiQC aggregate deposit was not transferred to daughter cells during cell division. Detoxification of misfolded polypeptides via IMiQC formation was highly dependent on a functional mitochondrial fission machinery. We conclude that the formation of the aggregate deposit is an important mechanism to maintain full functionality of mitochondria under proteotoxic stress conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075127', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'IBMB, University of Bonn']]
[u'Long-term monitoring of inflammation in the mammalian gut using programmable commensal bacteria', ['David T Riglar', 'Michael Baym', 'S Jordan Kerns', 'Matthew J Niederhuber', 'Roderick T Bronson', 'Jonathan W Kotula', 'Georg K Gerber', 'Jeffrey C Way', 'Pamela A. Silver'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Inflammation in the gut, caused by infection and autoimmunity, remains challenging to effectively detect, monitor, and treat. Here, we engineer a commensal mouse E. coli strain to record exposure to tetrathionate, a downstream product of reactive oxygen species generated during inflammation. Using these programmed bacteria to sense in situ levels we show that tetrathionate accompanies inflammation during Salmonella-induced colitis in mice and is elevated in an inflammatory bowel disease mouse model. We demonstrate long-term genetic stability and associated robust function of synthetic genetic circuits in bacteria colonizing the mammalian gut. These results demonstrate the potential for engineered bacteria to stably and reliably probe pathophysiological processes for which traditional diagnostics may not be feasible or cost-effective.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075051', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School;", u'Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering, Harvard University']]
[u'Multi-laboratory assessment of reproducibility, qualitative and quantitative performance of SWATH-mass spectrometry', ['Ben C Collins', 'Christie L Hunter', 'Yansheng Liu', 'Birgit Schilling', 'George Rosenberger Rosenberger', 'Samuel L Bader', 'Daniel W Chan', 'Bradford W Gibson', 'Anne-Claude Gingras', 'Jason M Held', 'Mio Hirayama-Kurogi', 'Guixue Hou', 'Christoph Krisp Krisp', 'Brett Larsen', 'Liang Lin', 'Siqi Liu', 'Mark P Molloy', 'Robert L Moritz', 'Sumio Ohtsuki', 'Ralph Schlapbach', 'Nathalie Selevsek', 'Stefani N Thomas', 'Shin-Cheng Tzeng', 'Hui Zhang', 'Ruedi Aebersold'], u'September 14, 2016.', u'Quantitative proteomics employing mass spectrometry has become an indispensable tool in basic and applied life science research. Methods based on data-dependent acquisition have proved extremely valuable for qualitative proteome analysis but historically have struggled to achieve reproducible quantitative data if large sample cohorts are comparatively analyzed. Targeted proteomics, most commonly implemented as selected reaction monitoring, has emerged as a powerful alternative and succeeded in providing a data independent approach for reproducible quantitative proteomics data but is limited in the number of proteins quantified. SWATH-MS is a recently introduced technique consisting of a data-independent acquisition and a targeted data analysis strategy that aims to maintain the favorable quantitative characteristics (accuracy, sensitivity, specificity) achieved in targeted proteomics but on the scale of thousands of proteins. While previous SWATH-MS studies have shown high intra-lab reproducibility, this has not been evaluated on an inter-lab basis. In this multi-laboratory evaluation study using data from 11 sites worldwide, we have demonstrated that using SWATH-MS we can consistently detect and quantify more than 4,000 proteins from HEK293 cells and that the quantitative protein data generated across laboratories is reproducible. Using synthetic peptide dilution series, we have shown that the sensitivity, dynamic range and reproducibility established with SWATH-MS methods are also uniformly achieved across labs. This study demonstrates that SWATH-MS is a reproducible and accurate technique that can be confidently deployed for large-scale protein quantification in life science research.', u'/content/early/2016/09/14/074567', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'ETH Zurich;', u'Sciex;', u'Buck Institute for Research on Aging;', u'Institute for Systems Biology;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute;', u'Washington University School of Medicine;', u'Kumamoto University;', u'BGI-Shenzhen;', u'Australian Proteome Analysis Facility;', u'Functional Genomics Center Zurich']]
[u"Industry-wide surveillance of Marek's disease virus on commercial poultry farms: underlying potential for virulence evolution and vaccine escape", ['David A Kennedy', 'Christopher Cairns', 'Matthew J Jones', 'Andrew S Bell', 'Rahel M Salathe', 'Susan J Baigent', 'Venugopal K Nair', 'Patricia A Dunn', 'Andrew F Read'], u'September 14, 2016.', u"Marek's disease virus is a herpesvirus of chickens that costs the worldwide poultry industry over 1 billion USD annually.  Severity of disease has increased over the last half century due to evolution of the virus, a trajectory accompanied by reduced efficacy of two generations of Marek's disease vaccines.  Whether continued evolution will erode the efficacy of current vaccines is an open question.  We conducted a three-year surveillance study to assess the prevalence of Marek's disease virus on commercial poultry farms, determine the effect of various factors on virus prevalence, and document virus dynamics on broiler chicken houses over short (weeks) and long (years) timescales. We extracted DNA from dust samples collected from commercial chicken and egg production facilities in Pennsylvania, USA.  Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) was used to assess wild-type virus detectability and concentration.  Using data from 1018 dust samples with Bayesian generalized linear mixed effects models, we determined the factors that correlated with virus incidence.  Maximum likelihood and autocorrelation function estimation on 3727 dust samples were used to document and characterize virus concentrations within houses over time.  Overall, wild-type virus was detectable at least once on 36 of 104 farms at rates that varied substantially between farms.  Virus was detected in 1 of 3 broiler-breeder operations (companies), 4 of 5 broiler operations, and 3 of 5 egg layer operations.  Marek's disease virus detectability differed by production type, bird age, day of the year, operation (company), farm, house, flock, and sample. Operation (company) was the most important factor, accounting for between 12% and 63.4% of the variation in virus detectability. Within individual houses, virus concentration often dropped below detectable levels and reemerged later.  The data presented here characterize Marek's disease virus dynamics, a prerequisite in determining whether current vaccine protection will be eroded by future virus evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/09/14/075192', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'The Pennsylvania State University;', u'The Pirbright Institute']]
[u'Functionally redundant control of cardiac hypertrophic signaling by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors', ['M. Iveth Garcia', 'Anja Karlstaedt', 'Javier Amione-Guerra', 'Keith A Youker', 'Heinrich Taegtmeyer', 'Darren Boehning'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Calcium plays an integral role to many cellular processes including contraction, energy metabolism, gene expression, and cell death. The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) is a calcium channel expressed in cardiac tissue. There are three IP3R isoforms encoded by separate genes. In the heart, the IP3R-2 isoform is reported to being most predominant with regards to expression levels and functional significance. The functional roles of IP3R-1 and IP3R-3 in the heart are essentially unexplored despite measureable expression levels. Here we show that all three IP3Rs isoforms are expressed in both neonatal and adult rat ventricular cardiomyocytes and in human heart tissue. All three IP3R proteins were expressed throughout the cardiomyocyte sarcoplasmic reticulum. Using isoform specific siRNA, we found that expression of all three IP3R isoforms are required for hypertrophic signaling downstream of endothelin-1 stimulation. Mechanistically, IP3Rs specifically contribute to activation of the hypertrophic program by mediating the positive inotropic effects of endothelin-1 leading to downstream activation of nuclear factor of activated T-cells. Our findings highlight previously unidentified functions for IP3R isoforms in the heart with significant implications for hypertrophic signaling in animal models and human disease.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/075044', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Texas Medical Branch;', u'McGovern Medical School at UTHealth;', u'Houston Methodist Hospital']]
[u'Hand2 Inhibits Kidney Specification While Promoting Vein Formation Within the Posterior Mesoderm', ['Elliot A. Perens', 'Zayra V. Garavito-Aguilar', 'Gina P. Guio-Vega', 'Karen T. Pena', 'Yocheved L. Schindler', 'Deborah Yelon'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Proper organogenesis depends upon defining the precise dimensions of organ progenitor territories.  Kidney progenitors originate within the intermediate mesoderm (IM), but the pathways that set the boundaries of the IM are poorly understood.  Here, we show that the bHLH transcription factor Hand2 limits the size of the embryonic kidney by restricting IM dimensions.  The IM is expanded in zebrafish hand2 mutants and is diminished when hand2 is overexpressed.  Within the posterior mesoderm, hand2 is expressed laterally adjacent to the IM.  Venous progenitors arise between these two territories, and hand2 promotes venous development while inhibiting IM formation at this interface.  Furthermore, hand2 and the co-expressed zinc-finger transcription factor osr1 have functionally antagonistic influences on kidney development.  Together, our data suggest that hand2 functions in opposition to osr1 to balance the formation of kidney and vein progenitors by regulating cell fate decisions at the lateral boundary of the IM.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/075036', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'UCSD;', u'Universidad de los Andes']]
[u'Cotranslational assembly imposes evolutionary constraints on homomeric proteins', ['Eviatar Natan', 'Tamaki Endoh', 'Liora Haim-Vilmovsky', 'Guilhem Chalancon', 'Tilman Flock', 'Jonathan TS Hopper', 'Balint Kintses', 'Lejla Daruka', 'Gergely Fekete', 'Csaba Pal', 'Balazs Papp', 'Peter Horvath', 'Joseph A Marsh', 'Adrian H Elcock', 'M Madan Babu', 'Carol V Robinson', 'Naoki Sugimoto', 'Sarah A Teichmann'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'There is increasing evidence that some proteins fold during translation, i.e. cotranslationally, which implies that partial protein function, including interactions with other molecules, could potentially be unleashed early on during translation. Although little is known about cotranslational assembly mechanisms, for homomeric protein complexes, translation by the ribosome, folding and assembly, should be well-coordinated to avoid misassembly in the context of polysomes. We analysed 3D structures of homomers and identified a statistically significant trend conserved across evolution that supports this hypothesis: namely that homomeric contacts tend to be localized towards the C-terminus rather than N-terminus of homomeric polypeptide chains. To probe this in more detail, we expressed a GFP-based library of 611 homomeric E. coli genes, and analyzing their folding and assembly in vivo. Consistent with our hypothesis, interface residues tend to be located near the N-terminus in cotranslationally aggregating homomers. In order to dissect the mechanisms of folding and assembly under controlled conditions, we engineered a protein library with three variable components: (i) the position and type homomerization domain, (ii) the reporter domain and (iii) the linker length that connects the two. By analyzing the misassembly rates of these engineered constructs in vivo, in vitro and in silico, we confirmed our hypothesis that C-terminal homomerization is favorable to N-terminal homomerization. More generally, these results provide a set of spatiotemporal constraints within polypeptide chains that favor efficient assembly, with implications for protein evolution and design.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074963', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, 12 Mansfield Rd, Oxford, OX1 3TA, UK;', u'Frontier Institute for Biomolecular Engineering Research (FIBER), Konan University, 7-1-20 Minatoji;', u'EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SD;', u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge CB;', u'Synthetic and System Biology Unit, Biological Research Center of the Hungarian Academia of Sciences,;', u'Synthetic and System Biology Unit, Biological Research Center of the Hungarian Academia of Sciences;', u'MRC Human Genetics Unit, Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh;', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Iowa, Bowen Science Building, 51 Newton Road, Iowa City;', u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Francis Crick Avenue, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge;', u'Current address: Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford, 12 Mansfield Rd, Oxford, OX1 3TA, UK;', u'Frontier Institute for Biomolecular Engineering Research (FIBER), Konan University, 7-1-20 Minatojim;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK']]
[u'Temporal mixture modelling of single-cell RNA-seq data resolves a CD4+ T cell fate bifurcation', ['Tapio Lonnberg', 'Valentine Svensson', 'Kylie R James', 'Daniel Fernandez-Ruiz', 'Ismail Sebina', 'Ruddy Montandon', 'Megan S F Soon', 'Lily G Fogg', 'Michael J T Stubbington', 'Frederik Otzen Bagger', 'Max Zwiessele', 'Neil Lawrence', 'Fernando Souza-Fonseca- Guimaraes', 'William R Heath', 'Oliver Billker', 'Oliver Stegle', 'Ashraful Haque', 'Sarah A Teichmann'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Differentiation of na\xefve CD4+ T cells into functionally distinct T helper subsets is crucial for the orchestration of immune responses. Due to multiple levels of heterogeneity and multiple overlapping transcriptional programs in differentiating T cell populations, this process has remained a challenge for systematic dissection in vivo. By using single-cell RNA transcriptomics and computational modelling of temporal mixtures, we reconstructed the developmental trajectories of Th1 and Tfh cell populations during Plasmodium infection in mice at single-cell resolution. These cell fates emerged from a common, highly proliferative and metabolically active precursor. Moreover, by tracking clonality from T cell receptor sequences, we infer that ancestors derived from the same na\xefve CD4+ T cell can concurrently populate both Th1 and Tfh subsets. We further found that precursor T cells were coached towards a Th1 but not a Tfh fate by monocytes/macrophages. The integrated genomic and computational approach we describe is applicable for analysis of any cellular system characterized by differentiation towards multiple fates.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074971', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'EMBL-EBI;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute;', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, The Peter Doherty Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Sheffield']]
[u'Density dependence in demography and dispersal generates fluctuating invasion speeds', ['Lauren L. Sullivan', 'Bingtuan Li', 'Tom E. X. Miller', 'Michael G. Neubert', 'Allison K. Shaw'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Density dependence plays an important role in population regulation, and has a long history in ecology as a mechanism that can induce local density fluctuations. Yet much less is known about how these endogenous processes affect spatial population dynamics. Biological invasions occur through the combined action of population growth (demography), and movement (dispersal), making them relevant for understanding how density dependence regulates spatial spread. While classical ecological theory suggests that many invasions move at a constant speed, empirical work is illuminating the highly variable nature of biological invasions, which can lead to non-constant spreading speeds. Here, we explore endogenous density dependence as a mechanism for inducing variability in biological invasions. We constructed a set of integrodifference population models that incorporate classic population fluctuation mechanisms to determine how density dependence in demography, including Allee effects, and in dispersal affects the speed of biological invasions. We show that density dependence is a key factor in producing fluctuations in spreading speed when Allee effects are acting on population densities that fluctuate locally. We show that the necessary density fluctuations can arise from either a nonmonotone population growth function where densities fluctuate locally (e.g., overcompensatory population growth), or from density-dependent dispersal when the population growth function results in constant local densities. As density dependence in both demography and dispersal are common, this mechanism of variability may influence many invading organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/075002', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Louisville;', u'Rice University;', u'Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution']]
[u'Architecture and Co-Evolution of Allosteric Materials', ['Le Yan', 'Riccardo Ravasio', 'Carolina Brito', 'Matthieu Wyart'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'We introduce a numerical scheme to evolve functional materials that can accomplish a specified mechanical task. In this scheme, the number of solutions, their spatial architectures and the correlations among them can be computed. As an example, we consider an "allosteric" task, which requires the material to respond specifically to a stimulus at a distant active site.  We find  that functioning materials evolve a less-constrained trumpet-shaped region connecting the stimulus and active sites  and that the amplitude of the elastic response  varies non-monotonically along the trumpet. As previously shown for some proteins, we find that correlations appearing during evolution alone are sufficient to identify key aspects of this design. Finally, we show that the success of this architecture stems from the emergence of soft edge modes recently found to appear near the surface of marginally connected materials.  Overall, our in silico evolution experiment offers  a new window to study the relationship between structure, function, and  correlations emerging during evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/075028', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of California, Santa Barbara;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'Universidade Federal do Rio Grande']]
[u'Resurrected protein interaction networks reveal the strong rewiring that leads to network organisation after whole genome duplication', ['Zhicheng Zhang', 'Heleen Coenen', 'Philip Ruelens', 'Rashmi Hazarika', 'Tareq Al Hindi', 'Georgianna Oguis', 'Vera Van Noort', 'Koen Geuten'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'The evolution of plant genomes is characterized by several rounds of polyploidization or ancient whole genome duplication. While the consequences of these major events for genome structure and transcriptome expression have been investigated, the effects at the protein level remain unknown and yet will be functionally important. To understand how a plant protein-protein interaction network organizes itself after whole genome duplication, we studied the evolution of MADS-domain transcription factors. We accurately inferred, resurrected and tested the interactions of their ancestral proteins before and after the gamma triplication at the origin of core eudicots and directly compare these ancestral networks to the networks of Arabidopsis and tomato. We find that the gamma triplication generated a network constrained in size and saturated in possible number of interactions, which strongly rewired by the addition of many new interactions. The new interactions are surprisingly often established with related proteins, something we call neo-redundancy. The evolved networks are organized around hubs and into modules. The direct observation of preferential attachment of existing interactions to hubs through gene duplication explains the scale-free organization. The evolutionary optimal modular organization is favored by the addition of new interactions to the network and by the avoidance of mis-interactions, as shown by simulations. The resurrection of ancestral networks and the direct observation of ancestral rewiring events allowed us to elucidate the role of whole genome triplication, elementary processes and evolutionary mechanisms in the origin of a biological network.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074989', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'KULeuven']]
[u'Variation in olfactory neuron repertoires is genetically controlled and environmentally modulated', ['Ximena Ibarra-Soria', 'Thiago S Nakahara', 'Jingtao Lilue', 'Yue Jiang', 'Casey Trimmer', 'Mateus A.A. Souza', 'Paulo H.M. Netto', 'Kentaro Ikegami', 'Nicolle R Murphy', 'Mairi Kusma', 'Andrea Kirton', 'Luis R Saraiva', 'Thomas M Keane', 'Hiroaki Matsunami', 'Joel D Mainland', 'Fabio Papes', 'Darren W Logan'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'The mouse olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) repertoire is composed of 10 million cells and each expresses one olfactory receptor (OR) gene from a pool of over 1000. Thus, the nose is sub-stratified into more than a thousand OSN subtypes. Here, we employ and validate an RNA-sequencing based method to quantify the abundance of all OSN subtypes in parallel, and investigate the genetic and environmental factors that contribute to neuronal diversity. We find that the OSN subtype distribution is stereotyped in genetically identical mice, but varies extensively between different strains. Further, we identify cis-acting genetic variation as the greatest component influencing OSN composition and demonstrate independence from OR function. However, we show that olfactory stimulation with particular odorants results in modulation of dozens of OSN subtypes in a subtle but reproducible, specific and time-dependent manner. Together, these mechanisms generate a highly individualized olfactory sensory system by promoting neuronal diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074872', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Campinas;', u'Duke University Medical Center;', u'Monell Chemical Senses Center']]
[u'Personalized genetic assessment of age associated Alzheimers disease risk', ['Rahul S. Desikan', 'Chun Chieh Fan', 'Yunpeng Wang', 'Andrew J. Schork', 'Howard J. Cabral', 'Adrienne Cupples', 'Wesley K. Thompson', 'Lilah Besser', 'Walter A. Kukull', 'Dominic Holland', 'Chi-Hua Chen', 'James B. Brewer', 'David S. Karow', 'Karolina Kauppi', 'Aree Witoelar', 'Celeste M. Karch', 'Luke W. Bonham', 'Jennifer S. Yokoyama', 'Howard J. Rosen', 'Bruce L. Miller', 'William P. Dillon', 'David M. Wilson', 'Christopher P. Hess', 'Margaret Pericak-Vance', 'Jonathan L. Haines', 'Lindsay A. Farrer', 'Richard Mayeux', 'John Hardy', 'Alison M. Goate', 'Bradley T. Hyman', 'Gerard D. Schellenberg', 'Linda K. McEvoy', 'Ole A. Andreassen', 'Anders N. Dale'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Importance: Identifying individuals at risk for developing Alzheimers disease (AD) is of utmost importance. Although genetic studies have identified APOE and other AD associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), genetic information has not been integrated into an epidemiological framework for personalized risk prediction. \nObjective: To develop, replicate and validate a novel polygenic hazard score for predicting age-specific risk for AD.\nSetting: Multi-center, multi-cohort genetic and clinical data.\nParticipants: We assessed genetic data from 17,008 AD patients and 37,154 controls from the International Genetics of Alzheimers Project (IGAP), and 6,409 AD patients and 9,386 older controls from Phase 1 Alzheimers Disease Genetics Consortium (ADGC). As independent replication and validation cohorts, we also evaluated genetic, neuroimaging, neuropathologic, CSF and clinical data from ADGC Phase 2, National Institute of Aging Alzheimers Disease Center (NIA ADC) and Alzheimers Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (total n = 20,680)\nMain Outcome(s) and Measure(s): Use the IGAP cohort to first identify AD associated SNPs (at p < 10-5). Next, integrate these AD associated SNPs into a Cox proportional hazards model using ADGC phase 1 genetic data, providing a polygenic hazard score (PHS) for each participant. Combine population based incidence rates, and genotype-derived PHS for each individual to derive estimates of instantaneous risk for developing AD, based on genotype and age. Finally, assess replication and validation of PHS in independent cohorts. \nResults: Individuals in the highest PHS quantiles developed AD at a considerably lower age and had the highest yearly AD incidence rate. Among APOE 3/3 individuals, PHS modified expected age of AD onset by more than 10 years between the lowest and highest deciles. In independent cohorts, PHS strongly predicted empirical age of AD onset (p = 1.1 x 10-26), longitudinal progression from normal aging to AD (p = 1.54 x 10-10) and associated with markers of AD neurodegeneration. \nConclusions: We developed, replicated and validated a clinically usable PHS for quantifying individual differences in age-specific risk of AD. Beyond APOE, polygenic architecture plays an important role in modifying AD risk. Precise quantification of AD genetic risk will be useful for early diagnosis and therapeutic strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074864', [u'Genetics'], [u'Neuroradiology Section, Department of Radiology and Biomedical Imaging, UCSF;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'NORMENT; Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo;', u'Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health;', u'Institute for Biological Psychiatry, Sankt Hans Psychiatric Hospital, Roskilde, Denmark;', u"National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center, Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington;", u'Department of Radiology, University of California, San Diego;', u'Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, St. Louis;', u'Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco;', u'0Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco;', u'The John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami;', u'Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics and  Institute for Computational Biology, Case Western;', u'Departments of Medicine, BU;', u"Department of Neurology, Taub Institute on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain,  Columbia U.;", u'Department of Molecular Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Neurology;', u'Departments of Neuroscience, Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medic']]
[u'The Impact of Migratory Flyways on the Spread of Avian Influenza Virus in North America', ['Mathieu Fourment', 'Aaron E Darling', 'Edward C Holmes'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Wild birds are the major reservoir hosts for influenza A viruses (AIVs) and have been implicated in the emergence of pandemic events in livestock and human populations. Understanding how AIVs spread within and across continents is therefore critical to the development of successful strategies to manage and reduce the impact of influenza outbreaks. In North America many bird species undergo seasonal migratory movements along a North-South axis, thereby fostering opportunities for viruses to spread over long distances. However, the role played by such avian flyways in shaping the genetic structure of AIV populations has proven controversial. To assess the relative contribution of bird migration along flyways to the genetic structure of AIV we performed a large-scale phylogeographic study of viruses sampled in the USA and Canada, involving the analysis of 3805 to 4505 sequences from 36 to 38 geographic localities depending on the gene data set. To assist this we developed a maximum likelihood-based genetic algorithm to explore a wide range of complex spatial models, thereby depicting a more complete picture of the migration network than previous studies. Based on phylogenies estimated from nucleotide data sets, our results show that AIV migration rates within flyways are significantly higher than those between flyways, indicating that the migratory patterns of birds play a key role in pathogen dispersal. These findings provide valuable insights into the evolution, maintenance and transmission of AIVs, in turn allowing the development of improved programs for surveillance and risk assessment.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074583', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Technology Sydney;', u'University of Sydney']]
[u'Optokinetic nystagmus reflects perceptual directions in the onset binocular rivalry in Parkinson\u2032s disease', ['Mana Fujiwara', 'Catherine Ding', 'Lisandro Kaunitz', 'Julie C Stout', 'Dominic Thyagarajan', 'Naotsugu Tsuchiya'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Optokinetic nystagmus (OKN), the reflexive eye movements evoked by a moving field, has recently gained interest among researchers as a useful tool to assess conscious perception. When conscious perception and stimulus are dissociated, such as in binocular rivalry \u2212 when dissimilar images are simultaneously presented to each eye and perception alternates between the two images over time \u2212 OKN correlates with perception rather than with the physical direction of the moving field. While this relationship is well established in healthy subjects it is yet unclear whether it also generalizes to clinical populations, for example, patients with Parkinson\u2032s disease. Parkinson\u2032s disease is a motor disorder, causing tremor, slow movements and rigidity. It may also be associated with oculomotor deficits, such as impaired saccades and smooth pursuit eye movements. Here, we employed short\u2212duration, onset binocular rivalry (2 s trial of stimulus presentation followed by 1 s inter\u2212trial interval) with moving grating stimuli to assess OKN in Parkinson\u2032s disease patients (N=39) and controls (N=29) of a similar age. Each trial was either non\u2212rivalrous (same stimuli presented to both eyes) or rivalrous, as in binocular rivalry. We analyzed OKN to discriminate direction of stimulus and perception on a trial\u2212by\u2212trial basis. OKN reflected conscious perceptions in both groups. Treatment with anti\u2212Parkinson drugs and deep brain stimulation improved motor ability of patients assessed by a standard scale of Parkinson\u2032s disease, but did not impact on OKN. Furthermore, OKN\u2212based measures were robust and their latencies were shorter than manual button\u2212based measures in all subjects, regardless of stimulus condition. Our findings suggest that OKN can be used as an indicator of conscious perception in binocular rivalry even in Parkinson\u2032s disease patients in whom impaired manual dexterity may render button\u2212press reports less reliable.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074898', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University, Araya Brain Imaging;', u'Monash Health;', u'Monash University, The University of Tokyo;', u'Monash University']]
[u'The Causal Effects of Education on Health, Mortality, Cognition, Well-being, and Income in the UK Biobank', ['Neil M Davies', 'Matt Dickson', 'George Davey Smith', 'Gerard van den Berg', 'Frank Windmeijer'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Educated people are generally healthier, have fewer comorbidities and live longer than people with less education. Previous evidence about the effects of education come from observational studies many of which are affected by residual confounding. Legal changes to the minimum school leave age is a potential natural experiment which provides a potentially more robust source of evidence about the effects of schooling. Previous studies have exploited this natural experiment using population-level administrative data to investigate mortality, and relatively small surveys to investigate the effect on mortality. Here, we add to the evidence using data from a large sample from the UK Biobank. We exploit the raising of the school-leaving age in the UK in September 1972 as a natural experiment and regression discontinuity and instrumental variable estimators to identify the causal effects of staying on in school. Remaining in school was positively associated with 23 of 25 outcomes. After accounting for multiple hypothesis testing, we found evidence of causal effects on twelve outcomes, however, the associations of schooling and intelligence, smoking, and alcohol consumption may be due to genomic and socioeconomic confounding factors. Education affects some, but not all health and socioeconomic outcomes. Differences between educated and less educated people may be partially due to residual genetic and socioeconomic confounding.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074815', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Bath']]
[u'Evidence that low socioeconomic position accentuates genetic susceptibility to obesity', ['Jess Tyrrell', 'Andrew R Wood', 'Ryan M Ames', 'Hanieh Yaghootkar', 'Robin Beaumont', 'Samuel E Jones', 'Marcus A Tuke', 'Katherine S Ruth', 'Rachel M Freathy', 'George Davey-Smith', 'Stephane Joost', 'Idris Guessous', 'Anna Murray', 'David P Strachan', 'Zoltan Kutalik', 'Michael N Weedon', 'Timothy M Frayling'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Susceptibility to obesity in today\u2032s environment has a strong genetic component. Lower socioeconomic position (SEP) is associated with a higher risk of obesity but it is not known if it accentuates genetic susceptibility to obesity.  We aimed to use up to 120,000 individuals from the UK Biobank study to test the hypothesis that measures of socioeconomic position accentuate genetic susceptibility to obesity. We used the Townsend deprivation index (TDI) as the main measure of socioeconomic position, and a 69-variant genetic risk score (GRS) as a measure of genetic susceptibility to obesity. We also tested the hypothesis that interactions between BMI genetics and socioeconomic position would result in evidence of interaction with individual measures of the obesogenic environment and behaviours that correlate strongly with socioeconomic position, even if they have no obesogenic role. These measures included self-reported TV watching, diet and physical activity, and an objective measure of activity derived from accelerometers. We performed several negative control tests, including a simulated environment correlated with BMI but not TDI, and sun protection use. We found evidence of gene-environment interactions with TDI (Pinteraction=3x10-10) such that, within the group of 50% living in the most relatively deprived situations, carrying 10 additional BMI-raising alleles was associated with approximately 3.8 kg extra weight in someone 1.73m tall. In contrast, within the group of 50% living in the least deprivation, carrying 10 additional BMI-raising alleles was associated with approximately 2.9 kg extra weight. We also observed evidence of interaction between sun protection use and BMI genetics, suggesting that residual confounding may result in evidence of non-causal interactions. Our findings provide evidence that relative social deprivation best captures aspects of the obesogenic environment that accentuate the genetic predisposition to obesity in the UK.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074054', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Exeter;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL);', u'Geneva University Hospitals and University of Geneva;', u'University of London;', u'Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV)']]
[u'Na-Dene populations descend from the Paleo-Eskimo migration into America', ['Pavel Flegontov', 'Nefize Ezgi Altinisik', 'Piya Changmai', 'Edward J Vajda', 'Johannes Krause', 'Stephan Schiffels'], u'September 13, 2016.', u"Prehistory of Native Americans of the Na-Dene language family remains controversial. Genetic continuity of Paleo-Eskimos (Saqqaq and Dorset cultures) and Na-Dene was proposed under the three-wave model of America's settlement; however, recent studies have produced conflicting results. Here, we performed reconstruction and dating of Na-Dene population history, using genome sequencing data and a coalescent method relying on rare alleles (Rarecoal). We also applied model-free approaches for analysis of rare allele and autosomal haplotype sharing. All methods detected Central and West Siberian ancestry exclusively in a fraction of modern day Na-Dene individuals, but not in other Native Americans. Our results are consistent with gene flow from Paleo-Eskimos into the First American ancestors of Na-Dene, and a later less extensive bidirectional admixture between Na-Dene and Neo-Eskimos. The dated gene flow from Siberia to Na-Dene is in agreement with the Dene-Yeniseian language macrofamily proposal and with the succession of archaeological cultures in Siberia.", u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074476', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Biology and Ecology, Faculty of Science, University of Ostrava, Czech Republic;', u'Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Western Washington University, Bellingham, USA;', u'Department of Archaeogenetics, Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena, Germany']]
[u'Distributed representation of context by intrinsic subnetworks in prefrontal cortex', ['Michael L Waskom', 'Anthony D Wagner'], u'September 13, 2016.', u'Human prefrontal cortex supports flexible decision-making by representing abstract information about task context. The organizational basis of these context representations, and of representations underlying other higher-order processes, is unknown. Here, we use multivariate decoding and analyses of spontaneous correlations to show that context representations are distributed across subnetworks within prefrontal cortex. Examining targeted prefrontal regions, we found that pairs of voxels with similar context preferences exhibited spontaneous correlations that were approximately twice as large as those between pairs with opposite context preferences. This subnetwork organization was stable across task-engaged and resting states, suggesting that abstract context representations are constrained by an intrinsic functional architecture. These results reveal a principle of fine-scaled functional organization in association cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/09/13/074880', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University']]
