[u'Detection of statistically significant network changes in complex biological networks', ['Raghvendra Mall', 'Luigi Cerulo', 'Halima Bensmail', 'Antonio Iavarone', 'Michele Ceccarelli'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'Biological  networks  contribute  effectively  to unveil  the  complex structure  of  molecular interactions  and  to  discover driver  genes especially  in  cancer  context.   It  can happen  that  due  to  gene mutations, as for  example  when cancer progresses, the gene expression network undergoes some amount of localised re-wiring.  The ability to detect  statistical  relevant  changes  in  the  interaction  patterns induced by  the progression  of the disease  can lead to  discovery of novel relevant signatures.\n\nSeveral procedures  have been recently proposed  to detect sub-network differences in pairwise labeled  weighted networks. In this paper, we propose  an  improvement  over   the  state-of-the-art  based  on  the Generalized  Hamming Distance  adopted  for evaluating the topological  difference  between   two  networks  and  estimating  its statistical  significance.   The proposed  procedure  exploits a  more effective   model  selection   criteria  to   generate   p-values  for statistical   significance  and   is  more   efficient  in   terms  of computational   time and prediction  accuracy than  literature methods.\nMoreover, the structure of the  proposed algorithm allows for a faster parallelized implementation. In the case  of  dense  random geometric networks the proposed  approach is 10-15x faster and achieves 5-10% higher  AUC, Precision/Recall, and Kappa  value  than  the  state-of-the-art.  We  also report the application of  the method to dissect the  difference between the regulatory  networks of IDH-mutant versus  IDH-wild-type glioma cancer.   In such a case  our method  is able  to identify  some recently reported  master regulators  as well  as novel important candidates.\n\n\nThe scripts implementing the proposed algorithms are available in R at https://sites.google.com/site/raghvendramallmlresearcher/codes', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061515.1', [], [u'QCRI, HBKU;', u'University of Sannio, Italy;', u'Columbia University;', u'Qatar Computing Research Institute']]
[u'A systematic comparison reveals substantial differences in chromosomal versus episomal encoding of enhancer activity', ['Fumitaka Inoue', 'Martin Kircher', 'Beth Martin', 'Gregory M Cooper', 'Daniela M Witten', 'Michael T McManus', 'Nadav Ahituv', 'Jay Shendure'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'Candidate enhancers can be identified on the basis of chromatin modifications, the binding of chromatin modifiers and transcription factors and cofactors, or chromatin accessibility. However, validating such candidates as bona fide enhancers requires functional characterization, typically achieved through reporter assays that test whether a sequence can drive expression of a transcriptional reporter via a minimal promoter. A longstanding concern is that reporter assays are mainly implemented on episomes, which are thought to lack physiological chromatin. However, the magnitude and determinants of differences in cis-regulation for regulatory sequences residing in episomes versus chromosomes remain almost completely unknown. To address this question in a systematic manner, we developed and applied a novel lentivirus-based massively parallel reporter assay (lentiMPRA) to directly compare the functional activities of 2,236 candidate liver enhancers in an episomal versus a chromosomally integrated context. We find that the activities of chromosomally integrated sequences are substantially different from the activities of the identical sequences assayed on episomes, and furthermore are correlated with different subsets of ENCODE annotations. The results of chromosomally-based reporter assays are also more reproducible and more strongly predictable by both ENCODE annotations and sequence-based models. With a linear model that combines chromatin annotations and sequence information, we achieve a Pearson\u2019s R2 of 0.347 for predicting the results of chromosomally integrated reporter assays. This level of prediction is better than with either chromatin annotations or sequence information alone and also outperforms predictive models of episomal assays. Our results have broad implications for how cis-regulatory elements are identified, prioritized and functionally validated.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061606', [], [u'University of California San Francisco;', u'University of Washington;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology']]
[u'Decoding the Infant Mind: Multichannel Pattern Analysis (MCPA) using fNIRS', ['Lauren L. Emberson', 'Benjamin D. Zinszer', 'Rajeev D. S. Raizada', 'Richard N. Aslin'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'The MRI environment restricts the types of populations and tasks that can be studied by cognitive neuroscientists (e.g., young infants, face-to-face communication).  FNIRS is a neuroimaging modality that records the same physiological signal as fMRI but without the constraints of MRI, and with better spatial localization than EEG. However, research in the fNIRS community largely lacks the analytic sophistication of analogous fMRI work, restricting the application of this imaging technology.  The current paper presents a method of multivariate pattern analysis for fNIRS that allows the authors to decode the infant mind (a key fNIRS population).  Specifically, multi-channel pattern analysis (MCPA) employs a correlation-based decoding method where a group model is constructed for all infants except one; both average patterns (i.e., infant-level) and single trial patterns (i.e., trial-level) of activation are decoded. Between subjects decoding is a particularly difficult task, because each infant has their own somewhat idiosyncratic patterns of neural activation. The fact that our method succeeds at across-subject decoding demonstrates the presence of group-level multi-channel regularities across infants.  The code for implementing these analyses has been made readily available online to facilitate the quick adoption of this method to advance the methodological tools available to the fNIRS researcher.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061234', [], [u'Princeton University;', u'University of Rochester']]
[u'The variable ELF3 polyglutamine tract mediates complex epistatic interactions in Arabidopsis thaliana.', ['Maximilian Oliver Press', 'Christine Queitsch'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'Short tandem repeats are hypervariable genetic elements that occur frequently in coding regions. Their high mutation rate readily generates genetic variation contributing to adaptive evolution and human diseases. We recently proposed that short tandem repeats are likely to engage in epistasis because they are well-positioned to compensate for genetic variation arising at other loci due to their high mutation rate. We previously reported that natural ELF3 polyglutamine variants cause reciprocal genetic incompatibilities in two divergent Arabidopsis thaliana backgrounds. Here, we dissected the genetic architecture of this incompatibility and used a yeast two-hybrid strategy to identify proteins whose physical interactions with ELF3 were modulated by polyglutamine tract length. Using these two orthogonal approaches, we identify specific genetic interactions and physical mechanisms by which the ELF3 polyglutamine tract may mediate the observed genetic incompatibilities. Our work elucidates how short tandem repeat variation, which is generally underascertained in population-scale sequencing, can contribute to phenotypic variation. Furthermore, our results support our proposal that highly variable STR loci can contribute disproportionately to the epistatic component of heritability.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061564', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Democratizing DNA Fingerprinting', ['Sophie Zaaijer', 'Assaf Gordon', 'Robert Piccone', 'Daniel Speyer', 'Yaniv Erlich'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'We report a rapid, inexpensive, and portable strategy to re-identify human DNA using the MinION, a miniature sequencing sensor by Oxford Nanopore Technologies. Our strategy requires only 10-30 minutes of MinION sequencing, works with low input DNA, and enables familial searches. We also show that it can re-identify individuals from Direct-to-Consumer genomic datasets that are publicly available. We discuss potential forensic applications as well as the legal and ethical implications of a democratized DNA fingerprinting strategy available to the public.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061556', [u'Genomics'], [u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Genetic Allee effects and their interaction with ecological Allee effects', ['Meike Wittmann', 'Hanna Stuis', 'Dirk Metzler'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'1. It is now widely accepted that genetic processes such as inbreeding depression and loss of genetic variation can increase the extinction risk of small populations. However, it is generally unclear whether extinction risk from genetic causes gradually increases with decreasing population size or whether there is a sharp transition around a specific threshold population size. In the ecological literature, such threshold phenomena are called "strong Allee effects" and they can arise for example from mate limitation in small populations.\n\n2. In this study, we aim to a) develop a meaningful notion of a "strong genetic Allee effect", b) explore whether and under what conditions such an effect can arise from inbreeding depression due to recessive deleterious mutations, and c) quantify the interaction of potential genetic Allee effects with the well-known mate-finding Allee effect.\n\n3. We define a strong genetic Allee effect as a genetic process that causes a population\'s survival probability to be a sigmoid function of its initial size. The inflection point of this function defines the critical population size. To characterize survival-probability curves, we develop and analyze simple stochastic models for the ecology and genetics of small populations.\n\n4. Our results indicate that inbreeding depression can indeed cause a strong genetic Allee effect, but only if individuals carry sufficiently many deleterious mutations (lethal equivalents) on average and if these mutations are spread across sufficiently many loci. Populations suffering from a genetic Allee effect often first grow, then decline as inbreeding depression sets in, and then potentially recover as deleterious mutations are purged. Critical population sizes of ecological and genetic Allee effects appear to be often additive, but even superadditive interactions are possible.\n\n5. Many published estimates for the number of lethal equivalents in birds and mammals fall in the parameter range where strong genetic Allee effects are expected. Unfortunately, extinction risk due to genetic Allee effects can easily be underestimated as populations with genetic problems often grow initially, but then crash later. Also interactions between ecological and genetic Allee effects can be strong and should not be neglected when assessing the viability of endangered or introduced populations.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061549', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Vienna;', u'Leiden University;', u'University of Munich (LMU)']]
[u'IL-1\u03b1 induces cathepsin K in oral cancer cells \u2212 the invasion is unaffected', ['Carolina Cavalcante Bitu', 'Ahmed Al-Samadi', 'Tuukka Alanaara', 'Hennaliina Karhumaa', 'Pirjo Viitasaari', 'Ivarne L.S. Tersariol', 'Fabio Dupart Nascimento', 'Tuula Salo'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'Background: To study cathepsin K location in oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma (OTSCC), its traffic and expression levels in cultured oral cell lines; and to analyze the effect of interleukin (IL)-1\u03b1 on OTSCC invasion. Methods: Cathepsin K expression in OTSCC tissue samples was analyzed with immunostaining; its intracellular traffic was followed in HSC-3 cells after PMA treatment. HSC-3 and two oral keratinocyte cell lines, oral carcinoma associated fibroblasts (CAFs) and primary gingival fibroblasts (GF) were treated with IL-1\u03b1. Cathepsin K expression was measured using PCR and ELISA. Lastly, the effects of IL-1\u03b1 on HSC-3 invasiveness, alone and in co-cultures with fibroblasts in the 3D myoma invasion model, were determined. Results: Cathepsin K in OTSCC cells was found in vesicles close to cell membrane and within exosomes. While cathepsin K was expressed at the basal level in both epithelial cells and fibroblasts, basal IL-1\u03b1 levels were higher in epithelial cells compared with GFs and CAFs. Cathepsin K expression was slightly induced by IL-1\u03b1 in all cell lines, but it did not affect HSC-3 invasiveness. Conclusion: In OTSCC, cathepsin K remains mostly intracellular and it is slightly secreted within exosomes. IL-1\u03b1 treatment has no effect on HSC-3 invasiveness in 3D myoma model.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061465', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Oulu;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'Universidade Federal de S\xe3o Paulo (UNIFESP);', u'Biomaterials Research Group and Biotechnology Division, UNIAN - SP;', u'University of Oulu/University of Helsinki']]
[u'Individual differences in learning behaviours in humans: Asocial exploration tendency does not predict reliance on social learning', ['Wataru Toyokawa', 'Yoshimatsu Saito', 'Tatsuya Kameda'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'A number of empirical studies have suggested that individual differences in asocial exploration tendencies in animals may be related to those in social information use. However, because the "exploration tendency" in most previous studies has been measured without considering the exploration-exploitation trade-off, it is yet hard to conclude that the animal asocial "exploration-exploitation" tendency may be tied to social information use. Here, we studied human learning behaviour in both asocial and social multi-armed bandit tasks. By fitting reinforcement learning models including asocial and/or social decision processes, we measured each individual\'s (1) asocial exploration tendency and (2) social information use. We found consistent individual differences in the exploration tendency in the asocial tasks. We also found substantive heterogeneity in the adopted learning strategies in the social task: One-third of participants were most likely to have used the copy-when-uncertain strategy, while the remaining two-thirds were most likely to have relied only on asocial learning. However, we found no significant individual association between the exploration frequency in the asocial task and the use of the social learning strategy in the social task. Our results suggest that the social learning strategies may be independent from the asocial search strategies in humans.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061473', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of St Andrews;', u'The University of Tokyo']]
[u'Kilosort: realtime spike-sorting for extracellular electrophysiology with hundreds of channels', ['Marius Pachitariu', 'Nicholas Steinmetz', 'Shabnam Kadir', 'Matteo Carandini', 'Kenneth D Harris'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'Advances in silicon probe technology mean that in vivo electrophysiological recordings from hundreds of channels will soon become commonplace. To interpret these recordings we need fast, scalable and accurate methods for spike sorting, whose output requires minimal time for manual curation. Here we introduce Kilosort, a spike sorting framework that meets these criteria, and show that it allows rapid and accurate sorting of large-scale in vivo data. Kilosort models the recorded voltage as a sum of template waveforms triggered on the spike times, allowing overlapping spikes to be identified and resolved. Rapid processing is achieved thanks to a novel low-dimensional approximation for the spatiotemporal distribution of each template, and to batch-based optimization on GPUs. A novel post-clustering merging step based on the continuity of the templates substantially reduces the requirement for subsequent manual curation operations. We compare Kilosort to an established algorithm on data obtained from 384-channel electrodes, and show superior performance, at much reduced processing times. Data from 384-channel electrode arrays can be processed in approximately realtime. Kilosort is an important step towards fully automated spike sorting of multichannel electrode recordings, and is freely available github.com/cortex-lab/Kilosort.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061481', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'matteo@cortexlab.net']]
[u'Extreme distribution of deleterious variation in a historically small and isolated population-insights from the Greenlandic Inuit', ['Casper-Emil T Pedersen', 'Kirk E Lohmueller', 'Niels Grarup', 'Peter Bjerregaard', 'Torben Hansen', 'Hans R Siegismund', 'Ida Moltke', 'Anders Albrechtsen'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'The genetic consequences of a severe bottleneck on genetic load in humans are widely disputed. Based on exome sequencing of 18 Greenlandic Inuit we show that the Inuit have undergone a severe ~20,000 yearlong bottleneck. This has led to a markedly more extreme distribution of deleterious alleles than seen for any other human population. Compared to populations with much larger population sizes, we see an overall reduction in the number of variable sites, increased numbers of fixed sites, a lower heterozygosity, and increased mean allele frequency as well as more homozygous deleterious genotypes. This means, that the Inuit population is the perfect population to examine the effect of a bottleneck on genetic load. Compared to the European, Asian and African populations, we do not observe a difference in the overall number of derived alleles. In contrast, using proxies for genetic load we find that selection has acted less efficiently in the Inuit, under a recessive model. This fits with our simulations that predict a similar number of derived alleles but a true higher genetic load for the Inuit regardless of the genetic model. Finally, we find that the Inuit population has a great potential for mapping of disease-causing variants that are rare in large populations. In fact, we show that these alleles are more likely to be common, and thus easy to map, in the Inuit than in the Finnish and Latino populations; populations considered highly valuable for mapping studies due to recent bottleneck events.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061440', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Biology, Section for Computational and RNA Biology, University of Copenhagen;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Basic Metabolic Research, University of Copenhagen;', u'National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark']]
[u'Suite2p: beyond 10,000 neurons with standard two-photon microscopy', ['Marius Pachitariu', 'Carsen Stringer', 'Sylvia Schroder', 'Mario Dipoppa', 'L. Federico Rossi', 'Matteo Carandini', 'Kenneth D Harris'], u'June 30, 2016.', u'The combination of two-photon microscopy recordings and powerful calcium-dependent fluorescent sensors enables simultaneous recording of unprecedentedly large populations of neurons. While these sensors have matured over several generations of development, computational methods to process their fluorescence remain inefficient and the results hard to interpret. Here, we introduce a set of practical methods based on novel clustering algorithms, and provide a complete pipeline from raw image data to neuronal calcium traces to inferred spike times. We formulate a generative model of the fluorescence image, incorporating spike times and a spatially smooth neuropil signal, and solve the inference and learning problems using a fast algorithm. This implementation scales linearly with the number of recorded cells, and the complete pipeline runs in approximately one hour for typical two-hour long recordings, on commodity GPUs. Furthermore, this method recovers twice as many cells as a previous standard method. This allowed us to routinely record and detect \u223c10,000 cells simultaneously from the visual cortex of awake mice using standard two-photon resonant-scanning microscopes. The software is publicly available at github.com/cortex-lab/Suite2P, together with a graphical user interface that allows rapid manual curation of the results.', u'/content/early/2016/06/30/061507', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London']]
[u'iCAVE: an open source tool for immersive 3D visualization of complex biomolecular interaction networks', ['Vaja Liluashvili', 'Selim Kalayci', 'Eugene Flouder', 'Manda Wilson', 'Aaron Gabow', 'Zeynep H. Gumus'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Visualizations of biomolecular networks assist in systems-level data exploration in myriad cellular processes in health and disease. While these networks are increasingly informed by data generated from high-throughout (HT) experiments, current tools do not adequately scale with concomitant increase in their size and complexity. We present an open-source software platform, interactome-CAVE, (iCAVE), that leverages stereoscopic (3D) immersive display technologies for visualizing complex biomolecular interaction networks. Users can explore networks (i) in 3D in any computer and (ii) in immersive 3D in any computer with an appropriate graphics card as well as in CAVE environments. iCAVE includes new 3D network layout algorithms in addition to extensions of known 2D network layout, clustering and edge-bundling algorithms to the 3D space, to assist in understanding the underlying structures in large, dense, layered or clustered networks. Users can perform simultaneous queries of several databases within iCAVE or visualize their own networks (e.g. disease, drug, protein, metabolite, phenotype, genotype) utilizing directionality, weight or other properties by using different property settings. iCAVE has modular structure to allow rapid development by the addition of algorithms, datasets or features without affecting other parts of the code. Overall, iCAVE is a freely available open source tool to help gain novel insights from complex HT datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061374', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Computational Biology Center, Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'Modeling and experimental determination of infection bottleneck and within-host dynamics of a soil-borne bacterial plant pathogen.', ['Gaofei Jiang', 'Remi Peyraud', 'Philippe Remigi', 'Alice Guidot', 'Wei Ding', 'Stephane Genin', 'Nemo Peeters'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'The soil is known to be a very microbe-rich environement. Plant roots are surrounded by a complex microbiota among which, in warm climates, the pathogenic bacteria belonging to the Ralstonia sp. species complex. We used a combination of mathematical modelling and experimental plant infection methods, mimicking the natural conditions, to define the key parameters describing the infection, colonization and wilting of the host plant (bacterial wilt disease). Importantly, our model takes into account the possibility for the orthologous re-infection of already infected plants. We showed that it is the case in our experimental setup and likely to also happen in natura. We were able to model and experimentaly measure the plant infection bottleneck, under these non-forced infection conditions. We then quantified to what extend the plant natural barriers can restrict (up to 50 times) this bottleneck size. We also measured the importance of the bacterial main virulence determinants (type III effectors) to allowing infection, as there is a reduction of the bottleneck by 70 times when the type III arsenal is absent. We further validated the model by predicting a strain caracteristics using only a few experimentally determined parameters. Finally the analysis of the global colonization dynamics allowed an accurate assessment of the in planta bacterial load triggering disease.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061408', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Southwest University, Chongqing;', u'INRA;', u'Massey University, NZ;', u'Southwest University Chongqing;', u'CNRS']]
[u'Post-mortem molecular profiling of three psychiatric disorders reveals widespread dysregulation of cell-type associated transcripts and refined disease-related transcription changes', ['Kevin Bowling', 'Ryne C. Ramaker', 'Brittany N. Lasseigne', 'Megan Hagenauer', 'Andrew Hardigan', 'Nick Davis', 'Jason Gertz', 'Preston Cartagena', 'David Walsh', 'Marquis Vawter', 'Alan Schatzberg', 'Jack Barchas', 'Stan Watson', 'Blynn Bunney', 'Huda Akil', 'William Bunney', 'Jun Li', 'Sara Cooper', 'Richard M. Myers'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Background: Psychiatric disorders are multigenic diseases with complex etiology contributing significantly to human morbidity and mortality.  Although clinically distinct, several disorders share many symptoms suggesting common underlying molecular changes exist that may implicate important regulators of pathogenesis and new therapeutic targets. Results: We compared molecular signatures across brain regions and disorders in the transcriptomes of postmortem human brain samples. RNA sequencing was performed on tissue from the anterior cingulate cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and nucleus accumbens from three groups of 24 patients each diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major depressive disorder, and from 24 control subjects and result were validated in the independent cohort. The most significant disease differences were observed in the anterior cingulate cortex of schizophrenia samples compared to controls and biochemical consequences of gene expression changes were assessed with untargeted metabolomic profiling. We detected significant transcriptional heterogeneity within schizophrenia and bipolar disorder samples and find no evidence this heterogeneity is linked to any known clinical phenotypes or technical variables, however it does appear to be highly correlated with transcripts previously identified as specific to brain cell types. We also present evidence that altered expression of the transcription factor NPAS4 in schizophrenia patients is robust to the effects of cell-type heterogeneity and that NPAS4 regulates the expression of several genes implicated by previous schizophrenia GWAS analyses. Conclusions: We provide a set of high confidence, independently validated genes differentially expressed between schizophrenia and control patients and propose a refined list of putative cell-type independent transcription changes, including NPAS4, which may particularly warrant further investigation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061416', [u'Genomics'], [u"HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, Vall d'Hebron Hospital Research Institute;", u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology;', u'University of Michigan;', u'University of California, Irvine;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College']]
[u'NR1H3 p.Arg415Gln is not associated to multiple sclerosis risk', ['Chris Cotsapas'], u'June 29, 2016.', u"A recent study by Wang et al claims the low-frequency variant NR1H3 p.Arg415Gln is pathological for multiple sclerosis and determines a patient's likelihood of primary progressive disease. We sought to replicate this finding in the International MS Genetics Consortium (IMSGC) patient collection, which is 13-fold larger than the collection of Wang et al, but we find no evidence that this variant is associated either with MS or disease subtype. Wang et al also report a common variant association in the region, which we show captures the association the IMSGC  reported in 2013. Therefore, we conclude that the reported low-frequency association is a false positive, likely generated by insufficient sample size. The claim of NR1H3 mutations describing a Mendelian form of MS - of which no examples exist - can therefore not be substantiated by data.", u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061366.1', [u'Genetics'], [u'Yale School of Medicine']]
[u'Direct coevolutionary couplings reflect biophysical residue interactions in proteins', ['Alice Coucke', 'Guido Uguzzoni', 'Francesco Oteri', 'Simona Cocco', 'Remi Monasson', 'Martin Weigt'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Coevolution of residues in contact imposes strong statistical constraints on the sequence variability between homologous proteins. Direct-Coupling Analysis (DCA), a global statistical inference method, successfully models this variability across homologous protein families to infer structural information about proteins. For each residue pair, DCA infers 21x21 matrices describing the coevolutionary coupling for each pair of amino acids (or gaps). To achieve the residue-residue contact prediction, these matrices are mapped onto simple scalar parameters; the full information they contain gets lost. Here, we perform a detailed spectral analysis of the coupling matrices resulting from 70 protein families, to show that they contain quantitative information about the physico-chemical properties of amino-acid interactions. Results for protein families are corroborated by the analysis of synthetic data from lattice-protein models, which emphasizes the critical effect of sampling quality and regularization on the biochemical features of the statistical coupling matrices.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061390', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Ecole Normale Superieure;', u'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie']]
[u'Homozygous loss of autism-risk gene CNTNAP2 results in reduced local and long-range prefrontal functional connectivity', ['Adam Liska', 'Ryszard Gomolka', 'Mara Sabbioni', 'Alberto Galbusera', 'Stefano Panzeri', 'Maria Luisa Scattoni', 'Alessandro Gozzi'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Functional connectivity aberrancies, as measured with resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI), have been consistently observed in the brain of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) patients. However, the genetic and neurobiological underpinnings of these findings remain unclear. Homozygous mutations in Contactin Associated Protein-like 2 (CNTNAP2), a neurexin-related cell-adhesion molecule, are strongly linked to autism and epilepsy. Here we used high field rsfMRI to show that homozygous mice lacking CNTNAP2 exhibit reduced long-range and local functional connectivity in prefrontal and midline "functional hubs" of the mouse brain. Long-range rsfMRI connectivity impairments affected heteromodal cortical regions and were prominent between frontal and posterior components of the mouse default mode network (DMN), an effect that was associated with reduced social investigation, a core "autism trait" in mice. We did not observe genotype-dependent differences in cortico-cortical white matter connectivity as measured with MRI-based fibre tractography, thus supporting a functional origin for the observed rsfMRI desynchronization. These findings reveal a key contribution of ASD-associated gene CNTNAP2 in modulating macroscale functional connectivity, and suggest that homozygous loss-of-function mutations in this gene may predispose to neurodevelopmental disorders and autism through a selective dysregulation of functional coupling between integrative heteromodal cortical areas.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/060335', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia / University of Trento;', u'Functional Neuroimaging Laboratory, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia;', u"Istituto Superiore di Sanita', Neurotoxicology and Neuroendocrinology Section, Rome;", u'Neural Computation Laboratory, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia']]
[u'Causal Relationships Underlying Episodic Memory Network Dynamics in Older Adults', ['Simon W Davis', 'Bruce Luber', 'David LK Murphy', 'Sarah H Lisanby', 'Roberto Cabeza'], u'June 29, 2016.', u"The most reliable finding in functional neuroimaging studies of cognitive aging is a more widespread brain activity pattern in older than younger adults. The additional regions recruited by older adults are functionally connected to core task-network regions, and frequently contribute to task performance in this group, suggesting that older adults may compensate for core task-network deficits by expanding the task-related network. This hypothesis is difficult to resolve with functional neuroimaging alone, because it is unclear both how to define reliable causal trends in which connections are important (e.g., local versus indirect connections). To address this problem we examined functional connectivity measures as quantified by a region's local within-module degree (WMD), or their between-module degree (BMD) between distant cortical communities. We combined these graph theoretical measures with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in order to resolve the central hypothesis. We applied enhancing (5Hz) or impairing (1Hz) rTMS to a core episodic encoding region, the left prefrontal cortex (PFC) and predicted that (1) if older adults compensate for local deficits by boosting BMD, then enhancing left PFC function should reduce BMD, whereas impairing it, should increase BMD and (2) that this effect should be correlated with DTI measures of white-matter integrity. Both predictions were confirmed, supporting for the compensatory interpretation of an expanded task network in older adults. More generally, the results illustrate the power of combining rTMS with functional and structural connectivity measures to investigate age-related changes in network architecture.", u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061267', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Duke University;', u'NIH']]
[u'The rhythms of predictive coding: pre-stimulus phase modulates the influence of shape perception on luminance judgments', ['Biao Han', 'Rufin VanRullen'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Predictive coding is an influential model emphasizing interactions between feedforward and feedback signals. Here, we investigated its temporal dynamics. Two gray disks with different versions of the same stimulus, one enabling predictive feedback (a 3D-shape) and one impeding it (random-lines), were simultaneously presented on the left and right of fixation. Human subjects judged the luminance of the two disks while EEG was recorded. Independently of the spatial response (left/right), we found that the choice of 3D-shape or random-lines as the brighter disk (our measure of post-stimulus predictive coding efficiency on each trial) fluctuated along with the pre-stimulus phase of two spontaneous oscillations: a ~5Hz oscillation in contralateral frontal electrodes and a ~16Hz oscillation in contralateral occipital electrodes. This pattern of results demonstrates that predictive coding is a rhythmic process, and suggests that it could take advantage of faster oscillations in low-level areas and slower oscillations in high-level areas.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061309', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Centrede Recherche Cerveau et Cognition']]
[u'Pattern formation and variable species densities are induced by domain growth.', ['Robert Ross', 'Christian Yates', 'Ruth Baker'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'In this work we study the effect of domain growth on spatial correlations in agent populations containing multiple species. This is important as heterogenous cell populations are ubiquitous during the embryonic development of many species. We have previously shown that the long term behaviour of an agent population depends on the way in which domain growth is implemented. We extend this work to show that, depending on the way in which domain growth is implemented, different species dominate in multispecies simulations. Continuum approximations of the lattice-based model that ignore spatial correlations cannot capture this behaviour, while those that explicitly account for spatial correlations can. The results presented here show that the precise mechanism of domain growth can determine the long term behaviour of multispecies populations, and in certain circumstances, establish patterning.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061341', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Bath']]
[u'Imputation-based fine-mapping suggests that most QTL in an outbred chicken Advanced Intercross Line are due to multiple, linked loci', ['Monika Brandt', 'Muhammad Ahsan', 'Christa F Honaker', 'Paul B Siegel', 'Orjan Carlborg'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'The Virginia chicken lines have been divergently selected for juvenile body-weight for more than 50 generations. Today, the high- and low-weight lines show a 12-fold difference for the selected trait, 56-day body-weight. These lines provide unique opportunities to study the genetic architecture of long-term, single-trait selection. Previously, several Quantitative Trait Loci (QTL) contributing to weight differences between the lines were mapped in an F2-cross between them, and these were later replicated and fine-mapped in a nine-generation advanced intercross of them. Here, we explore the possibility to further increase the fine-mapping resolution of these QTL via a pedigree-based imputation strategy that aims to better capture the haplotype-diversity in the divergently selected, but outbred, founder lines. The founders of the intercross were high-density genotyped, and then pedigree-based imputation was used to assign genotypes throughout the pedigree. Imputation increased the marker-density 20-fold in the selected QTL, providing 6911 markers for the subsequent analysis. Both single-marker association and multi-marker backward-elimination analyses were used to detect associations to 56-day body-weight. The approach revealed several statistically and population-structure independent associations and increased the resolution of most QTL. Further, most QTL were also found to contain multiple independent associations, implying a complex underlying architecture due to the combined effects of multiple, linked loci on independent haplotypes that still segregate in the selected lines.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061333', [u'Genetics'], [u'Uppsala University, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology;', u'Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Department of Clinical Sciences;', u'Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, Department of Animal and Poultry Sciences']]
[u'How to evaluate phase differences between trial groups in ongoing electrophysiological signals', ['Rufin VanRullen'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'A growing number of studies endeavor to reveal periodicities in sensory and cognitive functions, by comparing the distribution of ongoing (pre-stimulus) oscillatory phases between two (or more) trial groups reflecting distinct experimental outcomes. A systematic relation between the phase of spontaneous electrophysiological signals, before a stimulus is even presented, and the eventual result of sensory or cognitive processing for that stimulus, would be indicative of an intrinsic periodicity in the underlying neural process. Prior studies of phase-dependent perception have used a variety of analytical methods to measure and evaluate phase differences, and there is currently no established standard practice in this field. The present report intends to remediate this need, by systematically comparing the statistical power of various measures of "phase opposition" between two trial groups, in a number of real and simulated experimental situations. Seven measures were evaluated: one parametric test (circular Watson-Williams test), and three distinct measures of phase opposition (phase bifurcation index, phase opposition sum and phase opposition product) combined with two procedures for non-parametric statistical testing (permutation, or a combination of z-score and permutation). While these are obviously not the only existing or conceivable measures, they have all been used in recent studies. All tested methods performed adequately on a previously published dataset (Busch, Dubois & VanRullen, 2009). On a variety of artificially constructed datasets, no single measure was found to surpass all others, but instead the suitability of each measure was contingent on several experimental factors: the time, frequency and depth of oscillatory phase modulation; the absolute and relative amplitudes of post-stimulus event-related potentials for the two trial groups; the absolute and relative trial numbers for the two groups; and the number of permutations used for non-parametric testing. The concurrent use of two phase opposition measures, the parametric Watson-Williams test and a non-parametric test based on summing inter-trial coherence values for the two trial groups, appears to provide the most satisfactory outcome in all situations tested. Matlab code is provided to automatically compute these phase opposition measures.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061283', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CNRS - CerCo']]
[u'When is a bacterial "virulence factor" really virulent?', ['Elisa T Granato', 'Freya Harrison', 'Rolf Kummerli', 'Adin Ross-Gillespie'], u'June 29, 2016.', u"Bacterial traits that contribute to disease are termed 'virulence factors' and there is much interest in therapeutic approaches that disrupt such traits. However, ecological theory predicts disease severity to be multifactorial and context dependent, which might complicate our efforts to identify the most generally important virulence factors. Here, we use meta-analysis to quantify disease outcomes associated with one well-studied virulence factor - pyoverdine, an iron-scavenging compound secreted by the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Consistent with ecological theory, we found that the effect of pyoverdine, albeit frequently contributing to disease, varied considerably across infection models. In many cases its effect was relatively minor, suggesting that pyoverdine is rarely essential for infections. Our work demonstrates the utility of meta-analysis as a tool to quantify variation and overall effects of purported virulence factors across different infection models. This standardised approach will help us to evaluate promising targets for anti-virulence approaches.", u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061317', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Nottingham;', u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics']]
[u'Aberrant prefrontal beta oscillations predict episodic memory encoding deficits in schizophrenia', ['Federica Meconi', 'Sarah Anderl-Straub', 'Heidelore Raum', 'Michael Landgrebe', 'Berthold Langguth', 'Karl-Heinz Baeuml', 'Simon Hanslmayr'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Verbal episodic memory is one of the core cognitive functions affected in patients suffering from schizophrenia (SZ). Although this verbal memory impairment in SZ is a well-known finding, our understanding about its underlying neurophysiological mechanisms is rather scarce. Here we address this issue by recording brain oscillations during a memory task in a sample of healthy controls and patients suffering from SZ. Brain oscillations represent spectral fingerprints of specific neurocognitive operations and are therefore a promising tool to identify neurocognitive mechanisms that are affected by SZ. Healthy controls showed a prominent suppression of left prefrontal beta oscillatory activity during successful memory formation, which replicates several previous oscillatory memory studies. In contrast, patients failed to exhibit such left prefrontal beta power suppression. Utilizing a new topographical pattern similarity approach, we further demonstrate that the degree of similarity between a patients beta power decrease to that of the controls reliably predicted memory performance. This relationship between beta power decreases and memory was such that the patients memory performance improved as they showed a more similar topographical beta desynchronization pattern compared to that of healthy controls. These findings suggest that left prefrontal beta power suppression (or lack thereof) during memory encoding is a possible biomarker for the observed encoding impairments in SZ in verbal memory. This lack of left prefrontal beta power decreases might indicate a specific semantic processing deficit of verbal material in patients with schizophrenia.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061291', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Padua;', u'University of Ulm;', u'University of Regensburg;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'Active delivery to the brain by chemotaxis', ['Adrian Joseph', 'Claudia Contini', 'Denis Cecchin', 'Sophie Nyberg', 'Lorena Ruiz-Perez', 'Jens Gaitzsch', 'Gavin Fullstone', 'Juzaili Azizi', 'Jane Preston', 'Giorgio Volpe', 'Giuseppe Battaglia'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'One of the most promising tasks is the ability to engineer nanocarriers that can autonomously navigate within tissues and organs, accessing nearly every site of the human body guided by endogenous chemical gradients. Here we report a fully synthetic, organic, nanoscopic system that exhibits attractive chemotaxis driven by enzymatic conversion of glucose. We achieve this by encapsulating glucose oxidase, alone or in combination with catalase,  into nanoscopic and biocompatible asymmetric polymer vesicles (known as polymersomes). We show that these vesicles self-propel in response to an external gradient of glucose by inducing a slip velocity on their surface, which makes them move in an extremely sensitive way towards  higher concentration regions. We finally demonstrate that the chemotactic behaviour of these nanoswimmers enables a four-fold increase in penetration to the brain compared to non-chemotactic systems.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061325', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University College London;', u"King's College London"]]
[u'Convergent evidence for the molecular basis of musical traits', ['Jaana Oikkonen', 'Paivi Onkamo', 'Irma Jarvela', 'Chakravarthi Kanduri'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'To obtain aggregate evidence for the molecular basis of musical abilities and the effects of music, we integrated gene-level data from 101 published studies across multiple species including humans, songbirds and several other animals and used a convergent evidence method to prioritize the top candidate genes. Several of the identified top candidate genes like EGR1, FOS, ARC, BDNF and DUSP1 are known to be activity-dependent immediate early genes that respond to sensory and motor stimuli in the brain. Several other top candidate genes like MAPK10, SNCA, ARHGAP24, TET2, UBE2D3, FAM13A and NUDT9 are located on chromosome 4q21-q24, on the candidate genomic region for music abilities in humans. Functional annotation analyses showed the enrichment of genes involved in functions like cognition, learning, memory, neuronal excitation and apoptosis, long-term potentiation and CDK5 signaling pathway. Interestingly, all these biological functions are known to be essential processes underlying learning and memory that are also fundamental for musical abilities including recognition and production of sound. In summary, our study prioritized top candidate genes related to musical traits that are possibly conserved through evolution, as suggested by shared molecular background with other species.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061358', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'Preparatory encoding of the fine scale of human spatial attention', ['Bradley Voytek', 'Jason Samaha', 'Camarin E Rolle', 'Zachery Greenberg', 'Navdeep Gill', 'Shai Porat', 'Tahim Kader', 'Sabahat Rahman', 'Rick Malzyner', 'Adam Gazzaley'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Our attentional focus is constantly shifting: in one moment our vision may be intently concentrated on a specific spot, while in another moment we might spread our attention more broadly. While much is known about the mechanisms by which we shift our visual attention from place to place, relatively little is know about how we shift the aperture of attention from more narrowly- to more broadly-focused. Here we introduce a novel attentional distribution task to examine the neural mechanisms underlying this process. In this task, participants are presented with an informative cue that indicates the location of an upcoming target. This cue can be perfectly predictive of the exact target location, or it can indicate--with varying degrees of certainty--approximately where the target might appear. This cue is followed by a preparatory period in which there is nothing on the screen except a central fixation cross. Using scalp EEG, we examined neural activity during this preparatory period. We find that with decreasing certainty regarding the precise location of the impending target, participant response times increased while target identification accuracy decreased. Additionally, N1 amplitude in response to the cue parametrically increased with spatial certainty while the multivariate pattern of preparatory period visual cortical alpha (8-12 Hz) activity encoded attentional distribution. Both of these electrophysiological parameters were predictive of behavioral performance nearly one second later. These results offer insight into the neural mechanisms underlying how we use information to guide our attentional distribution, and how that influences behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061259', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'UC San Francisco']]
[u'Evaluating the diagnostic utility of applying a machine learning algorithm to diffusion tensor MRI measures in individuals with major depressive disorder', ['David M Schnyer', 'Peter G Clasen', 'Christopher Gonzalez', 'Christopher G Beevers'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'The use of MRI as a diagnostic tool for mental disorders has been a consistent goal of neuroimaging research. Despite this, the vast majority of prior work is descriptive rather than predictive. The current study examines the utility of applying support vector machine (SVM) learning to MRI measures of brain white matter in order to classify individuals with major depressive disorder (MDD).  In a precisely matched group of individuals with MDD (n = 25) and healthy controls (n = 25), SVM learning accurately (70%) classified patients and controls across an unselected brain map of white matter fractional anisotropy values (FA). Using a feature selection approach, where maximal discriminative voxels were selected, classification accuracy increased to over 90%. Moreover, when removing voxels identified in univariate analyses as significantly different between MDD and healthy controls, classifier accuracy was not changed; supporting the idea that group differences revealed through descriptive methods do not necessarily provide highly accurate classification. The results provide evidence that predictive methods of machine learning can be applied to neuroimaging data in order to classify the presence versus absence of MDD and that important predictive information is distributed across brain networks rather than being highly localized.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061119', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Texas;', u'Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'University of Texas, Austin']]
[u'Characterization of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus Isolates from Fitness Centers in Memphis Metropolitan Area, USA', ['Nabanita Mukherjee', 'Irshad M. Sulaiman', 'Pratik Banerjee'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Indoor skin-contact surfaces of public fitness centers may serve as reservoirs of potential human transmission of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). We found a high prevalence of multi-drug resistant (MDR)-MRSA of CC59 lineage harboring a variety of extracellular toxin genes from surface swab samples collected from inanimate surfaces of fitness centers in Memphis metropolitan area, USA. Our findings underscore the role of inanimate surfaces as potential sources of transmission of MDR-MRSA strains with considerable genetic diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061044', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Memphis;', u'U. S. Food and Drug Administration']]
[u'Collective strategy for obstacle navigation during cooperative transport by ants', ['Helen McCreery', 'Zachary Dix', 'Michael Breed', 'Radhika Nagpal'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Group cohesion and consensus have primarily been studied in the context of discrete decisions, but some group tasks require making serial decisions that build on one another. We examine such collective problem solving by studying obstacle navigation during cooperative transport in ants. In cooperative transport, a group of ants works together to move a large object back to their nest. We blocked cooperative transport groups of Paratrechinal longicornis with obstacles of varying complexity, analyzing groups trajectories to infer what kind of strategy the ants employed. Simple strategies require little information, but more challenging, robust strategies succeed with a wider range of obstacles. We found that transport groups use a stochastic strategy that leads to efficient navigation around simple obstacles, and still succeeds at difficult ones. While groups navigating obstacles preferentially move directly toward the nest, they change their behavior over time; the longer the ants are obstructed, the more likely they are to move away from the nest. This increases the chance of finding a path around the obstacle. Groups rapidly changed directions and rarely stalled during navigation, indicating that these ants maintain consensus even when the nest direction is blocked. While some decisions were aided by the arrival of new ants, at many key points direction changes were initiated within the group, with no apparent external cause. This ant species is highly effective at navigating complex environments, and implements a flexible strategy that works quickly for simple obstacles and still succeeds with complex obstacles.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061036', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'The mutation rate in human evolution and demographic inference', ['Aylwyn Scally'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'The germline mutation rate has long been a major source of uncertainty in human evolutionary and demographic analyses based on genetic data, but estimates have improved substantially in recent years. I discuss our current knowledge of the mutation rate in humans and the underlying biological factors affecting it, which include generation time, parental age and other developmental and reproductive timescales. There is good evidence for a slowdown in mean mutation rate during great ape evolution, but not for a more recent change within the timescale of human genetic diversity. Hence, pending evidence to the contrary, it is reasonable to use a present-day rate of approximately 0.5 x 10\u22129 bp\u22121 yr\u22121 in all human or hominin demographic analyses.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061226', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Compensatory responses by managers, commercial and recreational harvesters to variation in stock abundance of Lake Erie walleye (Sander vitreus vitreus)', ['Katrine Turgeon', 'Kevin B. Reid', 'John M. Fryxell', 'Thomas D. Nudds'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Delayed quota adjustments, and/or lagged fishing effort and catch by harvesters, to changes in stock abundance may induce unstable population dynamics and exacerbate the risk of fishery collapse. We examined a 39-y time series of change to quotas by managers, and to effort and catch by both commercial harvesters and anglers, in response to changes in Lake Erie walleye abundance (Sander vitreus) estimated both contemporaneously and retrospectively. Quotas, commercial effort and catch were entrained by contemporaneous estimates of stock abundance. Recreational effort and harvest were not; they had better tracked abundance, as better estimated today, than did the commercial fishery. During the 1990s, a significant mismatch developed between the quota-driven commercial harvest and stock abundance that persisted until a new assessment process obtained. The quasi-open access recreational fishery, instead, freed anglers to respond better to stock abundance. Further elaboration of adaptive risk governance processes, including multi-model inference for stock assessments, may bode well to further reduce risk to fisheries imposed by lagged adjustments to variation in stock abundance.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061143', [u'Ecology'], [u'McGill University;', u'University of Guelph']]
[u'Elucidating the genetic basis of an oligogenic birth defect using whole genome sequence data in a non-model organism, Bubalus bubalis', ['Lynsey K. Whitacre', 'Jesse L. Hoff', 'Robert D. Schnabel', 'Sara Albarella', 'Francesca Ciotola', 'Vincenzo Peretti', 'Francesco Strozzi', 'Chiara Ferrandi', 'Luigi Rammuno', 'Tad S. Sonstegard', 'John L. Williams', 'Jerry F. Taylor', 'Jared E Decker'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Recent strong selection for dairy traits in water buffalo has been associated with higher levels of inbreeding, leading to an increase in the prevalence of genetic diseases such as transverse hemimelia (TH), a congenital developmental abnormality characterized by the absence of a variable distal portion of the hindlimbs. The limited genomic resources available for water buffalo, in conjunction with an unconfirmed inheritance pattern, required an original approach to identify genetic variants associated with this disease. The genomes of 4 bilaterally affected cases, 7 unilaterally affected cases, and 14 controls were sequenced. Variant calling identified 19.8 million high confidence single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and 2.8 million insertions/deletions (INDELs). A concordance analysis of SNPs and INDELs requiring all unilateral and bilateral cases and none of the controls to be homozygous for the same allele, revealed two genes, WNT7A and SMARCA4, known to play a role in embryonic hindlimb development. Additionally, SNP alleles in NOTCH1 and RARB were homozygous exclusively in the bilaterally affected cases, suggesting an oligogenic mode of inheritance. Homozygosity mapping by whole genome de novo assembly was then used to identify large contigs representing regions of homozygosity in the cases. This also supported an oligogenic mode of inheritance; implicating 13 genes involved in aberrant hindlimb development in the bilateral cases and 11 in the unilateral cases. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) predicted additional modifier genes. Results from these analyses suggest that mutations in SMARCA4 and WNT7A are required for expression of TH, while several other loci including NOTCH1 act as modifiers and increase the severity of the disease phenotype. Although our data show that the inheritance of TH is complex, we predict that homozygous variants in WNT7A and SMARCA4 are necessary for the expression of TH and selection against these variants and avoidance of carrier-to-carrier matings should eradicate TH.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/060996', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Missouri;', u'University of Naples Federico II;', u'Parco Tecnologico Padano;', u'Recombinetics;', u'University of Adelaide']]
[u'Characterization of kinase gene expression and splicing profile in prostate cancer with RNA-Seq data', ['Huijuan Feng', 'Tingting Li', 'Xuegong Zhang'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Background: Alternative splicing is a ubiquitous post-transcriptional process in most eukaryotic genes. Aberrant splicing isoforms and abnormal isoform ratios can contribute to cancer development. Kinase genes are key regulators of various cellular processes. Many kinases are found to be oncogenic and have been intensively investigated in the study of cancer and drugs. RNA-Seq provides a powerful technology for genome-wide study of alternative splicing in cancer besides the conventional gene expression profiling. But this potential has not been fully demonstrated yet. \nMethods: Here we characterized the transcriptome profile of prostate cancer using RNA-Seq data from viewpoints of both differential expression and differential splicing, with an emphasis on kinase genes and their splicing variations. We built up a pipeline to conduct differential expression and differential splicing analysis. Further functional enrichment analysis was performed to explore functional interpretation of the genes. With focus on kinase genes, we performed kinase domain analysis to identify the functionally important candidate kinase gene in prostate cancer. We further calculated the expression level of isoforms to explore the function of isoform switching of kinase genes in prostate cancer. Results: We identified distinct gene groups from differential expression and splicing analysis, which suggested that alternative splicing adds another level to gene expression regulation. Enriched GO terms of differentially expressed and spliced kinase genes were found to play different roles in regulation of cellular metabolism. Function analysis on differentially spliced kinase genes showed that differentially spliced exons of these genes are significantly enriched in protein kinase domains. Among them, we found that gene CDK5 has isoform switching between prostate cancer and benign tissues, which may affect cancer development by changing androgen receptor (AR) phosphorylation. The observation was validated in another RNA-Seq dataset of prostate cancer cell lines. Conclusions: Our work characterized the expression and splicing profile of kinase genes in prostate cancer and proposed a hypothetical model on isoform switching of CDK5 and AR phosphorylation in prostate cancer. These findings bring new understanding to the role of alternatively spliced kinases in prostate cancer and demonstrate the use of RNA-Seq data in studying alternative splicing in cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061085', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Tsinghua University, Beijing;', u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing;', u'MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing']]
[u'Locating the ligand binding sites for the G-protein coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) using combined information from docking and sequence conservation', ['Ashley R. Vidad', 'Stephen Macaspac', 'Ho Leung Ng'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'High concentrations of estrogenic compounds can overstimulate estrogen receptors and potentially lead to breast, ovarian, and cervical cancers. Recently, a G-protein coupled estrogen receptor (GPER/GPR30) was discovered that has no structural similarity to the well-characterized, classical estrogen receptor ER\u03b1. The crystal structure of GPER has not yet been determined, and the ligand binding sites have not yet been experimentally identified. The recent explosion of GPCR crystal structures now allow homology modeling with unprecedented reliability. We create, validate, and describe a homology model for GPER. We describe and apply ConDock, the first hybrid scoring function to use information from protein surface conservation and ligand docking, to predict binding sites on GPER for four ligands, estradiol, G1, G15, and tamoxifen. ConDock is a simple product function of sequence conservation and binding energy scores. ConDock predicts that all four ligands bind to the same location on GPER, centered on L119, H307, and N310; this site is deeper in the receptor cleft than are ligand binding sites predicted by previous studies. We compare the sites predicted by ConDock and traditional methods analyzing surface geometry, surface conservation, and ligand chemical interactions. Incorporating sequence conservation information in ConDock avoids errors resulting from physics-based scoring functions and modeling.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061051', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Hawaii at Manoa;', u'University of Hawaii']]
[u'A signal detection theoretic argument against claims of unmeritocratic faculty hiring', ['Michael Thomas Miuccio', 'Ka-yuet Liu', 'Hakwan Lau', 'Megan A. K. Peters'], u'June 29, 2016.', u"To achieve faculty status, graduating doctoral students have to substantially outperform their peers, given the competitive nature of the academic job market.  In an ideal, meritocratic world, factors such as prestige of degree-granting university ought not to play a substantial role. However, it has recently been reported that top-ranked universities produced about 2-6 times more faculty than did universities that were ranked lower (Clauset, Arbesman, & Larremore, 2015). It was therefore argued that the academic faculty job market is not purely meritocratic, because it seems unrealistic that students from top-ranked universities could outperform their peers by as much as six times in productivity. Here we dispute the claim that substantially higher rates of faculty production would require substantially (and unrealistically) higher levels of student productivity; a signal detection theoretic argument shows that a high threshold for hiring (due to keen competition) means that a small difference in average student productivity between universities can result in manifold differences in placement rates. Under this framework, the previously reported results are compatible with a purely meritocratic system. As a proof of concept in the field of Psychology, ranks for universities were gathered from the U.S News and World Report (2016) and students' productivity was quantified by the impact factors of the journals in which they published. The results are in agreement with our theoretical model. Whereas these results do not necessarily mean that the actual faculty hiring market is purely meritocratic, they highlight the difficulty in empirically demonstrating that it is not so.", u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061200', [u'Scientific Communication'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'University of California Los Angeles']]
[u'FF12MC: A revised AMBER forcefield and new protein simulation protocol', ['Yuan-Ping Pang'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Specialized to simulate proteins in molecular dynamics (MD) simulations with explicit solvation, FF12MC is a combination of a new protein simulation protocol employing uniformly reduced atomic masses by tenfold and a revised AMBER forcefield FF99 with (i) shortened C-H bonds, (ii) removal of torsions involving a nonperipheral sp3 atom, and (iii) reduced 1-4 interaction scaling factors of torsions \u03c6 and \u03c8. This article reports that in multiple, distinct, independent, unrestricted, unbiased, isobaric-isothermal, and classical MD simulations FF12MC can (i) simulate the experimentally observed flipping between left- and right-handed configurations for C14-C38 of BPTI in solution, (ii) autonomously fold chignolin, CLN025, and Trp-cage with folding times that agree with the experimental values, (iii) simulate subsequent unfolding and refolding of these miniproteins, and (iv) achieve a robust Z score of 1.33 for refining protein models TMR01, TMR04, and TMR07. By comparison, the latest general-purpose AMBER forcefield FF14SB locks the C14-C38 bond to the right-handed configuration in solution under the same protein simulation conditions. Statistical survival analysis shows that FF12MC folds chignolin and CLN025 in isobaric-isothermal MD simulations 2-4 times faster than FF14SB under the same protein simulation conditions. These results suggest that FF12MC may be used for protein simulations to study kinetics and thermodynamics of miniprotein folding as well as protein structure and dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061184', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Mayo Clinic']]
[u'Simulations reveal increased fluctuations in estrogen receptor-alpha conformation upon antagonist binding', ['Ho Leung Ng'], u'June 29, 2016.', u'Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations have been used to model dynamic fluctuations in the structure of estrogen receptor-alpha (ER-\u03b1) upon binding to the natural agonist 17\u03b2-estradiol (E2) and to the active metabolite of the breast cancer drug and antagonist, 4-hydroxytamoxifen (OHT). We present the most extensive MD simulations to date of ER-\u03b1; with over 1 \u03bcs of combined simulations for the monomer and dimer forms. Simulations reveal that the antagonist-bound complex includes significant fluctuations while the agonist-bound complex is tightly restrained. OHT increases dynamic disorder in the loops located to either side of the tail H12 helix; H12 has been associated with the activation status of ER-\u03b1. We also report that fluctuations near H12 lead to greater conformational variation in the binding mode of the ethylamine tail of OHT. Both the agonist and antagonist conformations are stable throughout the 240 ns simulations, supporting the hypothesis that there are no transitions between these two states or into intermediate states. The stable position of H12 in the OHT-bound conformation suggests that OHT stabilizes a well-defined antagonist conformational ensemble rather than merely blocking the agonist-driven activation of ER-\u03b1. Simultaneously, the increased dynamic properties of the OHT-bound complex is a potential source of binding entropy.', u'/content/early/2016/06/29/061069', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Hawaii']]
