[u'Accounting for Uncertainty in Gene Tree Estimation: Summary-Coalescent Species Tree Inference in a Challenging Radiation of Australian Lizards', ['Mozes P.K. Blom', 'Jason G. Bragg', 'Sally Potter', 'Craig Moritz'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Accurate gene tree inference is an important aspect of species tree estimation in a summary-coalescent framework. Yet, in empirical studies, inferred gene trees differ in accuracy due to stochastic variation in phylogenetic signal between targeted loci. Empiricists should therefore examine the consistency of species tree inference, while accounting for the observed heterogeneity in gene tree resolution of phylogenomic datasets. Here, we assess the impact of gene tree estimation error on summary-coalescent species tree inference by screening ~2000 exonic loci based on gene tree resolution prior to phylogenetic inference. We focus on a phylogenetically challenging radiation of Australian lizards (genus Cryptoblepharus, Scincidae) and explore effects on topology and support. We identify a well-supported topology based on all loci and find that a relatively small number of high-resolution gene trees can be sufficient to converge on the same topology. Adding gene trees with decreasing resolution produced a generally consistent topology, and increased confidence for specific bipartitions that were poorly supported when using a small number of informative loci. This corroborates coalescent-based simulation studies that have highlighted the need for a large number of loci to confidently resolve challenging relationships and refutes the notion that low-resolution gene trees introduce phylogenetic noise. Further, our study also highlights the value of quantifying changes in nodal support across locus subsets of increasing size (but decreasing gene tree resolution). Such detailed analyses can reveal anomalous fluctuations in support at some nodes, suggesting the possibility of model violation. By characterizing the heterogeneity in phylogenetic signal among loci, we can account for uncertainty in gene tree estimation and assess its effect on the consistency of the species tree estimate. We suggest that the evaluation of gene tree resolution should be incorporated in the analysis of empirical phylogenomic datasets. This will ultimately increase our confidence in species tree estimation using summary-coalescent methods and enable us to exploit genomic data for phylogenetic inference.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056085', [], [u'Australian National University']]
[u'Detailed dendritic excitatory/inhibitory balance through heterosynaptic spike-timing-dependent plasticity', ['Naoki Hiratani', 'Tomoki Fukai'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Balance between excitatory and inhibitory inputs is a key feature of cortical dynamics. Such balance is arguably preserved in dendritic branches, yet its underlying mechanism and functional roles are still unknown. Here, by considering computational models of heterosynaptic spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), we show that the detailed excitatory/inhibitory balance on dendritic branch is robustly achieved through heterosynaptic interaction between excitatory and inhibitory synapses. The acquired dendritic balance enables neuron to perform change detection, due to functional specialization at each branch. Furthermore, heterosynaptic STDP explains how maturation of inhibitory neurons modulates selectivity of excitatory neurons in critical period plasticity of binocular matching. Our results propose heterosynaptic STDP as a critical factor in synaptic organization and resultant dendritic computation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056093', [], [u'RIKEN Brain Science Institute']]
[u'Information use shapes range expansion dynamics into environmental gradients', ['Emanuel A. Fronhofer', 'Nicolai Nitsche', 'Florian Altermatt'], u'May 30, 2016.', u"Globally, geographic distributions of species are dynamic and strongly influenced by dispersal. Vice versa, range dynamics feed back and may select for increased dispersal. This interplay almost universally happens across environmental gradients which can directly impact the fitness of organisms, but also provide individuals with information on the environmental changes. However, the organisms' ability to subsequently adjust dispersal decisions plastically has been largely ignored and the (macro)ecological consequences remain unclear. Using modeling and controlled experiments in replicated microcosm landscapes, we show that information on environmental gradients severely impacted range dynamics and inverted the spatial distribution of population densities in comparison to controls where this information was not provided. Additionally, information use prevented evolutionary changes in dispersal and an acceleration of range expansions. We demonstrate the strong impact of informed dispersal and subsequent behavioral changes on range dynamics in environmental gradients and spatial dynamics in general.", u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056002', [], [u'Eawag: Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology']]
[u'JuPOETs: A Constrained Multiobjective Optimization Approach to Estimate Biochemical Model Ensembles in the Julia Programming Language', ['David Bassen', 'Michael Vilkhovoy', 'Mason Minot', 'Jonathan T Butcher', 'Jeffrey D Varner'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Ensemble modeling is a well established approach for obtaining robust predictions and for simulating course grained population behavior in deterministic mathematical models. In this study, we present a multiobjective based technique to estimate model ensembles, the Pareto Optimal Ensemble Technique in the Julia programming language (JuPOETs). JuPOETs integrates simulated annealing with Pareto optimality to estimate parameter ensembles on or near the optimal tradeoff surface between competing training objectives. We demonstrated JuPOETs on a suite of multiobjective problems, including test functions with parameter bounds and system constraints as well as for the identification of a proof-of-concept biochemical model with four conflicting training objectives. JuPOETs identified optimal or near optimal solutions approximately six-fold faster than a corresponding implementation in Octave for the suite of test functions. For the proof-of-concept biochemical model, JuPOETs produced an ensemble of parameters that gave both the mean of the training data for conflicting data sets, while simultaneously estimating parameter sets that performed well on each of the individual objective functions. JuPOETs can be adapted to solve many problem types, including mixed binary and continuous variable types, bilevel optimization problems and constrained problems without altering the base algorithm. JuPOETs can be installed using the Julia package manager from the JuPOETs GitHub repository at https://github.com/varnerlab/POETs.jl.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056044', [], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Modeling Joint Abundance of Multiple Species Using Dirichlet Process Random Effects', ['Devin Johnson', 'Elizabeth Sinclair'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'We present a method for modeling multiple species distributions simultaneously using Dirichlet Process random effects to cluster species into guilds. Guilds are ecological groups of species that behave or react similarly to some environmental conditions. By modeling latent guild structure, we capture the cross-correlations in abundance or occurrence of species over surveys. In addition, ecological information about the community structure is obtained as a byproduct of the model. By clustering species into similar functional groups, prediction uncertainty of community structure at additional sites is reduced over treating each species separately. The method is illustrated with a small simulation demonstration, as well as an analysis of a mesopelagic fish survey from the eastern Bering Sea near Alaska. The simulation data analysis shows that guild membership can be extracted as the differences between groups become larger and if guild differences are small the model naturally collapses all the species into a small number of guilds which increases predictive efficiency by reducing the number of parameters to that which is supported by the data.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056150', [], [u'NOAA;', u'National Marine Fisheries Service']]
[u'Measurement uncertainty matters: ecological management using POMDPs', ['Milad Memarzadeh', 'Carl Boettiger'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Over the past 30 years, researchers have used various approximations to address the impact of measurement uncertainty on optimal management policy.  This literature has consistently suggested the counter-intuitive proposition that increasing harvest levels in the presence of measurement error is often optimal.  Here, we use state-of-the art algorithms for Partially Observed Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) to provide the first complete solution to this classic problem, and demonstrate that contrary to previous work, the resulting policy is usually more conservative than without measurement error.  We demonstrate that management which underestimates the measurement error results in both low economic returns and high frequency of stock collapses, while overestimating the role of measurement error can still result in nearly-optimal economic performance while avoiding stock collapse.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/055319', [], [u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'GutCyc: a Multi-Study Collection of Human Gut Microbiome Metabolic Models', ['Aria S. Hahn', 'Tomer Altman', 'Kishori M. Konwar', 'Niels W. Hanson', 'Dongjae Kim', 'David A. Relman', 'David L. Dill', 'Steven J. Hallam'], u'May 30, 2016.', u"The most complex niche in the human microbiome is found in the distal gut, where communities harbor thousands of strains from across the microbial taxonomy. Despite playing important roles in immune response, nutrition, metabolism of pharmaceuticals, and enteric diseases, little is known of the intricate network of metabolic transformations mediated by the microbiota. Advances in high-throughput sequencing are enabling researchers to explore the metabolic potential of microbial communities inhabiting the human body with unprecedented resolution. Resulting datasets are reshaping how we perceive ourselves and opening new opportunities for prevention and therapeutic intervention. Several large-scale metagenomic datasets derived from hundreds of human microbiome samples and sourced from multiple studies are now publicly available.\n\nHowever, the different proprietary functional annotation pipelines used to process sequence information from each of these studies, with their own choice of functional and metabolism reference databases, and cut-off parameters for relevant hits, introduce systematic differences that confound comparative analyses. To overcome these challenges, we developed GutCyc, a freely-available compendium of environmental pathway genome databases (ePGDBs)constructed from metagenome assemblies from 431 human microbiome samples, across three different large- scale studies. The ePGDBs were constructed using the open-source MetaPathways metagenomic annotation pipeline that enables reproducible functional metagenomic annotation. We also generated metabolic network reconstructions for each metagenome using the Pathway Tools software, that empowers researchers and clinicians interested in visualizing and interpreting the metabolic pathways, reactions, compounds, and transporters in the human gut microbiome. For the first time, GutCyc provides consistent annotations and metabolic pathway predictions across these three studies, making possible reproducible comparative community analyses between health and disease states in inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease, and type 2 diabetes. We demonstrate the utility of GutCyc as a computational model by reconstructing a missing metabolic route from a research study on the role of the microbiome in cardiovascular disease, and statistical enrichment analysis and visualization of high-throughput data from a microbiome metabolomics study.\n\nWith GutCyc, the publicly-deposited knowledge about human distal gut microbiotic transport and enzymatic reactions is integrated in a form that is both readily searchable by researchers and easily processed programmatically. GutCyc enables research on drug/target discovery, analysis of pharmaceutical fate in the lumen, and engineering of therapeutic microbiomes. GutCyc data products are searchable online, or may be downloaded and explored locally using the MetaMetaPathways graphical user interface and Pathway Tools.", u'/content/early/2016/05/30/055574', [], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'Whole Biome;', u'Koonkie Inc.;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Enhancing synergy of CAR T cell therapy and oncolytic virus therapy for pancreatic cancer.', ['Rachel Walker', 'Pedro E Navas', 'Samuel H Friedman', 'Simona Galliani', 'Aleksandra Karolak', 'Fiona MacFarlane', 'Robert Noble', 'Jan Poleszczuk', 'Shonagh Russell', 'Katarzyna A Rejniak', 'Amir Shahmoradi', 'Frederik Ziebell', 'Jason Brayer', 'Daniel Abate-Daga', 'Heiko Enderling'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'The poor immunogenicity of pancreatic tumors makes them particularly difficult to treat. Standard chemotherapies and single agent immunotherapies have had notoriously little success in this arena. Oncolytic virus therapy has the potential to enhance the penetration of immunotherapeutically-delivered CAR T cells into the tumor and improve treatment outcomes. We evaluate this potential by combining two different mathematical approaches: an ordinary differential equation model to simulate population level tumor response to cytotoxic activity of T cells, coupled with an agent-based model to simulate the enhancement of CAR T cell penetration by oncolytic virus therapy.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/055988', [], [u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute;', u'University of Southern California;', u'Stuttgart Research Center Systems Biology;', u'University of St. Andrews;', u"Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution;", u'Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences, University of Texas at Austin;', u'Institute of Applied Mathematics and the German Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Motor control by precisely timed spike patterns', ['Kyle H. Srivastava', 'Caroline M. Holmes', 'Michiel Vellema', 'Andrea Pack', 'Coen P. H. Elemans', 'Ilya Nemenman', 'Samuel J. Sober'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'A fundamental problem in neuroscience is to understand how sequences of action potentials ("spikes") encode information about sensory signals and motor outputs. Although traditional theories of neural coding assume that information is conveyed by the total number of spikes fired (spike rate), recent studies of sensory and motor activity have shown that far more information is carried by the millisecond-scale timing patterns of action potentials (spike timing). However, it is unknown whether or how subtle differences in spike timing drive differences in perception or behavior, leaving it unclear whether the information carried by spike timing actually plays a causal role in brain function. Here we demonstrate how a precise spike timing code is read out downstream by the muscles to control behavior. We provide both correlative and causal evidence to show that the nervous system uses millisecond-scale variations in the timing of spikes within multi-spike patterns to regulate a relatively simple behavior - respiration in the Bengalese finch, a songbird. These findings suggest that a fundamental assumption of current theories of motor coding requires revision, and that significant improvements in applications, such as neural prosthetic devices, can be achieved by using precise spike timing information.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056010', [], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology and Emory University;', u'Emory University;', u'University of Southern Denmark']]
[u'pcadapt: an R package to perform genome scans for selection based on principal component analysis', ['Keurcien Luu', 'Eric Bazin', 'Michael G.B. Blum'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'We introduce the R package  pcadapt that performs genome scans to detect genes under selection based on population genomic data. The statistical method implemented in pcadapt assumes that markers excessively related with population structure are candidates for local adaptation. Because population structure is ascertained with principal component analysis (PCA), the package is fast and can handle large-scale data generated with next-generation technologies. It can also handle missing data as well as data obtained from pooled sequencing. By contrast to population-based approaches, the package can handle admixed individuals and does not require to group individuals into predefined populations. Using data simulated under an island model, a divergence model and range expansion, we compare pcadapt to other software performing genome scans (BayeScan, hapflk, OutFLANK, sNMF). For the different software, the average proportion of false discoveries is around the nominal false discovery rate set at 10% with the exception of BayeScan that generates 40% of false discoveries. When comparing statistical power for a realized percentage of false discoveries, we find that the power of BayeScan can be severely impacted by the presence of admixed individuals whereas pcadapt is not impacted. Last, we show that pcadapt is the most powerful method in a model of range expansion where population structure is continuous. Because pcadapt can handle molecular data generated with next sequencing technologies, we anticipate that it will be a valuable tool for modern analysis in molecular ecology.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056135', [], [u'Universite Grenoble Alpes, CNRS']]
[u'fMRI evidence of equivalent neural suppression by repetition and prior knowledge', ['Jordan Poppenk', 'Anthony R McIntosh', 'Morris Moscovitch'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Stimulus repetition speeds behavioral responding (behavioral priming) and is accompanied by suppressed neural responses (repetition suppression; RS) that have been observed up to three days after initial exposure. While some proposals have suggested the two phenomena are linked, behavioral priming has been observed many years after initial exposure, whereas RS is widely considered a transitory phenomenon. This raises the question: what is the true upper limit of RS persistence? To answer this question, we scanned healthy, English-native adults with fMRI as they viewed novel (Asian) proverbs, recently repeated (Asian) proverbs, and previously known (English) proverbs that were matched on various dimensions. We then estimated RS by comparing repeated or previously known proverbs against novel ones. Multivariate analyses linked previously known and repeated proverbs with statistically indistinguishable RS in a broad visual-linguistic network. In each suppressed region, prior knowledge and repetition also induced a common shift in functional connectivity, further underscoring the similarity of the RS phenomenon induced by these conditions. By contrast, activated regions readily distinguished prior knowledge and repetition conditions in a manner consistent with engagement of semantic and episodic memory systems, respectively. Our results illustrate that regardless of whether RS is understood in terms of its magnitude, spatial extent or functional connectivity profile, typical RS effects can be elicited even under conditions where recently triggered biological processes or episodic memory are unlikely to play a prominent role. These results provide important new evidence that RS (of the kind observed after an interval of at least several minutes) reflects the facilitation of perceptual and comprehension processes by any type of information retrieved from long-term memory.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056069', [], [u"Queen's University;", u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Pan-cancer immunogenomic analyses reveals genotype-immunophenotype relationships and predictors of response to checkpoint blockade', ['Pornpimol Charoentong', 'Francesca Finotello', 'Mihaela Angelova', 'Clemens Mayer', 'Mirjana Efremova', 'Dietmar Rieder', 'Hubert Hackl', 'Zlatko Trajanoski'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Current major challenges in cancer immunotherapy include identification of patients likely to respond to therapy and development of strategies to treat non-responders. To address these problems and facilitate understanding of the tumor-immune cell interactions we inferred the cellular composition and functional orientation of immune infiltrates, and characterized tumor antigens in 19 solid cancers from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA). Decomposition of immune infiltrates revealed prognostic cellular profiles for distinct cancers, and showed that the tumor genotypes determine immunophenotypes and tumor escape mechanisms. The genotype-immunophenotype relationships were evident at the high-level view (mutational load, tumor heterogenity) and at the low-level view (mutational origin) of the genomic landscapes. Using random forest approach we identified determinants of immunogenicity and developed an immunophenoscore based on the infiltration of immune subsets and expression of immunomodulatory molecules. The immunophenoscore predicted response to immunotherapy with anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 antibodies in two validation cohorts. Our findings and the database we developed (TCIA-The Cancer Immunome Atlas, http://tcia.at) may help informing cancer immunotherapy and facilitate the development of precision immuno-oncology.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056101', [u'Genomics'], [u'Medical  University of Innsbruck;', u'Medical University of Innsbruck']]
[u'Ancient DNA reveals differences in behaviour and sociality between brown bears and extinct cave bears.', ['Gloria G Fortes', 'Aurora Grandal DAnglade', 'Ben Kolbe', 'Daniel Fernandes', 'Ioanna Meleg', 'Ana Garcia Vazquez', 'Ana Pinto Llona', 'Silviu Constantin', 'Trino J de Torres', 'Jose E Ortiz', 'Christine Frischauf', 'Gernot Rabeder', 'Michael Hofreiter', 'Axel Barlow'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Ancient DNA studies have revolutionised the study of extinct species and populations, providing insights on phylogeny, phylogeography, admixture and demographic history. However, inferences on behaviour and sociality have been far less frequent. Here, we investigate the complete mitochondrial genomes of extinct Late Pleistocene cave bears and middle Holocene brown bears that each inhabited multiple geographically proximate caves in northern Spain. In cave bears, we find that, although most caves were occupied simultaneously, each cave almost exclusively contains a unique lineage of closely related haplotypes. This remarkable pattern suggests extreme fidelity to their birth site in cave bears, best described as homing behaviour, and that cave bears formed stable maternal social groups at least for hibernation. In contrast, brown bears do not show any strong association of mitochondrial lineage and cave, suggesting that these two closely related species differed in aspects of their behaviour and sociality. This difference is likely to have contributed to cave bear extinction, which occurred at a time in which competition for caves between bears and humans was likely intense and the ability to rapidly colonise new hibernation sites would have been crucial for the survival of a species so dependent on caves for hibernation as cave bears. Our study demonstrates the potential of ancient DNA to uncover patterns of behaviour and sociality in ancient species and populations, even those that went extinct many tens of thousands of years ago.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056119', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Ferrara;', u'Universidade da Coruna;', u'University of Potsdam;', u'University College Dublin;', u'Emil Racovita Institute of Speleology, Department of Karst inventory and cave protection;', u'Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas;', u'Universidad Politecnica de Madrid;', u'University of Vienna']]
[u'Quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry using isotope-labeled cross-linkers and MaxQuant', ['Zhuo Angel Chen', 'Lutz Fischer', 'Juergen Cox', 'Juri Rappsilber'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'The conceptually simple step from cross-linking/mass spectrometry (CLMS) to quantitative cross-linking/mass spectrometry (QCLMS) is compounded by technical challenges. Currently, quantitative proteomics software is tightly integrated with the protein identification workflow. This prevents automatically quantifying other m/z features in a targeted manner including those associated with cross-linked peptides. Here we present a new release of MaxQuant that permits starting the quantification process from an m/z feature list. Comparing the automated quantification to a carefully manually curated test set of cross-linked peptides obtained by cross-linking C3 and C3b with BS3 and isotope-labeled BS3-d4 revealed a number of observations: 1) Fully automated process using MaxQuant can quantify cross-links in our reference dataset with 68% recall rate and 88% accuracy. 2) Hidden quantification errors can be converted into exposed failures by label-swap replica, which makes label-swap replica an essential part of QCLMS. 3) Cross-links that failed during automated quantification can be recovered by semi-automated re-quantification. The integrated workflow of MaxQuant and semi-automated assessment provides the maximum of quantified cross-links. In contrast, work on larger data sets or by less experienced users will benefit from full automation in MaxQuant.', u'/content/early/2016/05/30/055970', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Computational Systems Biochemistry, Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry']]
[u'Rapid Dynamics of Cell-Shape Recovery in Response to Local Deformations', ['Kristina Haase', 'Tyler N Shendruk', 'Andrew E Pelling'], u'May 30, 2016.', u"It is vital that cells respond rapidly to mechanical cues within their microenvironment through changes in cell shape and volume, which rely upon the mechanical properties of cells' highly interconnected cytoskeletal networks and intracellular fluid redistributions. While previous research has largely investigated deformation mechanics, we now focus on the immediate cell-shape recovery response following mechanical perturbation by inducing large, local, and reproducible cellular deformations using AFM. By continuous imaging within the plane of deformation, we characterize the membrane and cortical response of HeLa cells to unloading, and model the recovery via overdamped viscoelastic dynamics. Importantly, the majority (90%) of HeLa cells recover their cell shape in < 1s. Despite actin remodelling on this time scale, we show that cell recovery time is not affected by load duration nor magnitude. To further explore this rapid recovery response, we expose cells to cytoskeletal destabilizers and osmotic shock conditions, which exposes the interplay between actin and osmotic pressure. We show that the rapid dynamics of recovery depend crucially on intracellular pressure, and provide strong evidence that cortical actin is the key regulator in the cell-shape recovery processes, in both cancerous and non-cancerous epithelial cells.", u'/content/early/2016/05/30/056143', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'A large field of view two-photon mesoscope with subcellular resolution for in vivo imaging', ['Nicholas James Sofroniew', 'Daniel Flickinger', 'Jonathan King', 'Karel Svoboda'], u'May 30, 2016.', u'Imaging is used to map activity across populations of neurons. Microscopes with cellular resolution have small (< 1 millimeter) fields of view and cannot simultaneously image activity distributed across multiple brain areas. Typical large field of view microscopes do not resolve single cells, especially in the axial dimension. We developed a 2-photon random access mesoscope (2p-RAM) that allows high-resolution imaging anywhere within a volume spanning multiple brain areas (\u2205 5 mm x 1 mm cylinder). 2p-RAM resolution is near diffraction limited (lateral, 0.66 \u03bcm, axial 4.09 \u03bcm at the center; excitation wavelength = 970 nm; numerical aperture = 0.6) over a large range of excitation wavelengths. A fast three-dimensional scanning system allows efficient sampling of neural activity in arbitrary regions of interest across the entire imaging volume. We illustrate the use of the 2p-RAM by imaging neural activity in multiple, non-contiguous brain areas in transgenic mice expressing protein calcium sensors.', u'/content/early/2016/05/28/055947', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Janelia Research Campus;', u'Vidrio Technologies']]
