[u'Growth-independent cross-feeding modifies boundaries for coexistence in a bacterial mutualism', ['Alexandra L McCully', 'Breah LaSarre', 'James B McKinlay'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Nutrient cross-feeding can stabilize microbial mutualisms, including those important for carbon cycling in nutrient-limited anaerobic environments. It remains poorly understood how nutrient limitation within natural environments impacts mutualist growth, cross-feeding levels, and ultimately mutualism dynamics. We examined the effects of nutrient limitation within a mutualism using theoretical and experimental approaches with a synthetic anaerobic coculture pairing fermentative Escherichia coli and phototrophic Rhodopseudomonas palustris. In this coculture, E. coli and R. palustris resemble an anaerobic food web by cross-feeding essential carbon (organic acids) and nitrogen (ammonium), respectively. Organic acid cross-feeding stemming from E. coli fermentation can continue in a growth-independent manner during nutrient limitation, while ammonium cross-feeding by R. palustris is growth-dependent. When ammonium cross-feeding was limited, coculture trends changed yet coexistence persisted under both homogenous and heterogenous conditions. Theoretical modeling indicated that growth-independent fermentation was crucial to sustain cooperative growth under conditions of low nutrient exchange. We also show that growth-independent fermentation sets the upper E. coli cell density at which this mutualism is supported. Thus, growth-independent fermentation can conditionally stabilize or destabilize a mutualism, indicating the potential importance of growth-independent metabolism for nutrient-limited mutualistic communities.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083386', [], [u'Indiana University']]
[u'Connecting tumor genomics with therapeutics through multi-dimensional network modules', ['James T Webber', 'Max V Ranall', 'Swati Kaushik', 'Sourav Bandyopadhyay'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Recent efforts have catalogued genomic, transcriptomic, epigenetic and proteomic changes in tumors, but connecting these data with effective therapeutics remains a challenge. In contrast, cancer cell lines can model therapeutic responses but only partially reflect tumor biology. Bridging this gap requires new methods of data integration to identify a common set of pathways and molecular events. Using MAGNETIC, a new method to integrate molecular profiling data using functional networks, we identify 219 gene modules in TCGA breast cancers that capture recurrent alterations, reveal new roles for H3K27 tri-methylation and accurately quantitate various cell types within the tumor microenvironment. We show that a significant portion of gene expression and methylation in tumors is poorly reproduced in cell lines due to differences in biology and microenvironment and MAGNETIC identifies therapeutic biomarkers that are robust to these differences. This work addresses a fundamental challenge in pharmacogenomics that can only be overcome by the joint analysis of patient and cell line data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083410', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Genome-wide Analysis of Differential Transcriptional and Epigenetic Variability Across Human Immune Cell Types', ['Simone Ecker', 'Lu Chen', 'Vera Pancaldi', 'Frederik O. Bagger', 'Jose Maria Fernandez', 'Enrique Carrillo de Santa Pau', 'David Juan', 'Alice Mann', 'Stephen Watt', 'Francesco Paolo Casale', 'Nikos Sidiropoulos', 'Nicolas Rapin', 'Angelika Merkel', 'Henk Stunnenberg', 'Oliver Stegle', 'Mattia Frontini', 'Kate Downes', 'Tomi Pastinen', 'Taco W Kuijpers', 'Daniel Rico', 'Alfonso Valencia', 'Stephan Beck', 'Nicole Soranzo', 'Dirk S. Paul'], u'October 25, 2016.', u"Background: A healthy immune system requires immune cells that adapt rapidly to environmental challenges. This phenotypic plasticity can be mediated by transcriptional and epigenetic variability.\nResults: We applied a novel analytical approach to measure and compare transcriptional and epigenetic variability genome-wide across CD14+CD16- monocytes, CD66b+CD16+ neutrophils, and CD4+CD45RA+ naive T cells, from the same 125 healthy individuals. We discovered substantially increased variability in neutrophils compared to monocytes and T cells. In neutrophils, genes with hypervariable expression were found to be implicated in key immune pathways and to associate with cellular properties and environmental exposure. We also observed increased sex-specific gene expression differences in neutrophils. Neutrophil-specific DNA methylation hypervariable sites were enriched at dynamic chromatin regions and active enhancers.\nConclusions: Our data highlight the importance of transcriptional and epigenetic variability for the neutrophils' key role as the first responders to inflammatory stimuli. We provide a resource to enable further functional studies into the plasticity of immune cells, which can be accessed from: http://blueprint-dev.bioinfo.cnio.es/WP10/hypervariability.", u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083246', [], [u'University College London;', u'The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Spanish National Cancer Research Centre (CNIO);', u'University of Cambridge;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Centro Nacional de Analisis Genomico (CNAG);', u'Radboud University;', u'McGill University;', u'Academic Medical Center (AMC), University of Amsterdam']]
[u"Uncovering the underlying mechanisms and whole-brain dynamics of therapeutic deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease", ['Victor M Saenger', 'Joshua Kahan', 'Tom Foltynie', 'Karl Friston', 'Tipu Z Aziz', 'Alexander L Green', 'Tim J van Hartevelt', 'Angus B. A. Stevner', 'Henrique M Fernandes', 'Laura Mancini', 'John Thornton', 'Tarek Yousry', 'Patricia Limousin', 'Ludvic Zrinzo', 'Marwan Hariz', 'Morten L Kringelbach', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'October 25, 2016.', u"Deep brain stimulation (DBS) for Parkinson's disease is a highly effective treatment in controlling otherwise debilitating symptoms yet the underlying brain mechanisms are currently not well understood. We used whole-brain computational modeling to disclose the effects of DBS ON and OFF during collection of resting state fMRI in ten Parkinson's Disease patients. Specifically, we explored the local and global impact of DBS in creating asynchronous, stable or critical oscillatory conditions using a supercritical bifurcation model. We found that DBS shifts the global brain dynamics of patients nearer to that of healthy people by significantly changing the bifurcation parameters in brain regions implicated in Parkinson's Disease. We also found higher communicability and coherence brain measures during DBS ON compared to DBS OFF. Finally, by modeling stimulation we identified possible novel DBS targets. These results offer important insights into the underlying effects of DBS, which may in time offer a route to more efficacious treatments.", u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083162', [], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'UCL Institute of Neurology;', u'Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Oxford;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford;', u'Lysholm Department of Neuroradiology, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery UCLH']]
[u'UNC-5 (UNC5) Regulates the Length and Number of Processes that Caenorhabditis elegans Neurons Can Develop', ['Gerard Limerick', 'Xia Tang', 'Won Suk Lee', 'Ahmed Mohamed', 'Aseel Al-Aamiri', 'William G Wadsworth'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Neurons extend processes that vary in number, length, and direction of outgrowth.  Extracellular molecules act as cues to regulate this patterning.  In Caenorhabditis elegans, neurons respond to the UNC-6 (netrin) cue via UNC-5 (UNC5) and UNC-40 (DCC) receptors.  Here we present evidence that UNC-5 regulates the length and number of processes that neurons develop.  Genetic analysis suggests UNC-5 functions with UNC-6 and EGL-20 (wnt), the SAX-3 (Robo) receptor, and the cytoplasmic proteins UNC-53 (NAV2), MIG-15 (NIK kinase), and MADD-2 (TRIM) to regulate the asymmetric localization of UNC-40 to a surface of the neuron.  We have postulated that UNC-40 polarization is self-organizing and that the surface to which UNC-40 localizes and mediates outgrowth is stochastically determined.  At any instance of time, there is a probability that UNC-40-mediated outgrowth will occur in a specific direction.   We find that UNC-5 activity reduces the degree to which the direction of outgrowth fluctuations over time.  Random walk modeling predicts that by decreasing the fluctuation UNC-5 activity increases the mean-squared distance that outgrowth movement could covered over a given time.  This suggests that UNC-5 activity creates outgrowth patterns by varying the rate of outgrowth along a surface of the neuron.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083436', [], [u'Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, United States;', u'Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, United States']]
[u'Large-scale meta-analysis suggests low regional modularity in lateral frontal cortex.', ['Alejandro de la Vega', 'Tal Yarkoni', 'Tor D Wager', 'Marie T Banich'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Extensive fMRI study of human lateral frontal cortex (LFC) has yet to yield a consensus mapping between discrete anatomy and psychological states, partly due to the difficulty of inferring mental states in individual studies. Here, we used a data-driven approach to generate a comprehensive functional-anatomical mapping of LFC from 11,406 neuroimaging studies. We identified putatively separable LFC regions on the basis of whole-brain co-activation, revealing 14 clusters organized into three whole-brain networks. Next, we used multivariate classification to identify the psychological states that best predicted activity in each sub-region, resulting in preferential psychological profiles. We observed large functional differences between networks, suggesting brain networks support distinct modes of processing. Within each network, however, we observed low functional specificity, suggesting discrete psychological states are not modularly organized. Our results are consistent with the view that individual LFC regions work as part of highly parallel, distributed networks to give rise to flexible, adaptive behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083352', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'University of Colorado Boulder']]
[u'Natural Selection has Shaped Coding and Non-coding Transcription in Primate CD4+ T-cells', ['Charles G Danko', 'Zhong Wang', 'Edward J Rice', 'Tinyi Chu', 'Andre L Martins', 'Elia Tait Wojno', 'John T Lis', 'Lee W Kraus', 'Adam Siepel'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Transcriptional regulatory changes have been shown to contribute to phenotypic differences between species, but many questions remain about how gene expression evolves.  Here we report the first comparative study of nascent transcription in primates.  We used PRO-seq to map actively transcribing RNA polymerases in resting and activated CD4+ T-cells in multiple human, chimpanzee, and rhesus macaque individuals, with rodents as outgroups.  This approach allowed us to directly measure active transcription separately from post-transcriptional processes.  We observed general conservation in coding and non-coding transcription, punctuated by numerous differences between species, particularly at distal enhancers and non-coding RNAs.  Transcription factor binding sites are a primary determinant of transcriptional differences between species.  We found evidence for stabilizing selection on gene expression levels and adaptive substitutions associated with lineage-specific transcription.  Finally, rates of evolutionary change are strongly correlated with long-range chromatin interactions.  These observations clarify the role of primary transcription in regulatory evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083212', [], [u'Cornell University;', u'University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'Extremely fast and incredibly close: co-transcriptional splicing in budding yeast', ['Edward Wallace', 'Jean Beggs'], u'October 25, 2016.', u"RNA splicing, an essential part of eukaryotic pre-messenger RNA processing, can be simultaneous with transcription by RNA polymerase II. Here, we compare and review independent next-generation sequencing methods that quantify co-transcriptional splicing in budding yeast. Splicing in yeast is fast, taking place within seconds of intron transcription, while polymerase is within a few dozens of nucleotides of the 3' splice site. Ribosomal protein mRNAs are spliced particularly fast and co-transcriptionally. Intron-mediated regulation of some genes is also likely to be co-transcriptional. We suggest that intermediates of the splicing reaction, missing from current datasets, may hold key information about splicing kinetics.", u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083170', [], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Casein Kinase II is Required for Proper Cell Division and Acts as a Negative Regulator of Centrosome Duplication in C. elegans Embryos', ['Mi Hye Song', 'Jeffrey C Medley', 'Megan M Kabara', 'Michael D Stubenvoll', 'Lauren E DeMeyer'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Centrosomes are the primary microtubule-organizing centers that orchestrate microtubule dynamics during the cell cycle. The correct number of centrosomes is pivotal for establishing bipolar mitotic spindles that ensure accurate segregation of chromosomes. Thus, centrioles must duplicate once per cell cycle, one daughter per mother centriole, the process of which requires highly coordinated actions among core factors and modulators. Protein phosphorylation is shown to regulate the stability, localization and activity of centrosome proteins. Here, we report the function of Casein Kinase II (CK2) in early C. elegans embryos. The catalytic subunit (KIN-3/CK2\u03b1) of CK2 localizes to nuclei, centrosomes and midbodies. Inactivating CK2 leads to cell division defects, including chromosome missegregation, cytokinesis failure and aberrant centrosome behavior. Furthermore, depletion or inhibiting kinase activity of CK2 results in elevated ZYG-1 levels at centrosomes, restoring centrosome duplication and embryonic viability to zyg-1 mutants. Our data suggest that CK2 functions in cell division and negatively regulates centrosome duplication in a kinase-dependent manner.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083378', [], [u'Oakland University']]
[u'Experimental and Computational Investigation of the Structure of Peptide Monolayers on Gold Nanoparticles', ['Elena Colangelo', 'Qiubo Chen', 'Adam M Davidson', 'David Paramelle', 'Michael B Sullivan', 'Martin Volk', 'Raphael Levy'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'The self-assembly and self-organization of small molecules at the surface of nanoparticles constitute a potential route towards the preparation of advanced protein-like nanosystems. However, their structural characterization, critical to the design of bio-nanomaterials with well-defined biophysical and biochemical properties, remains highly challenging. Here, a computational model for peptide-capped gold nanoparticles is developed using experimentally characterized CALNN- and CFGAILSS-capped gold nanoparticles as a benchmark. The structure of CALNN and CFGAILSS monolayers is investigated by both structural biology techniques and molecular dynamics simulations. The calculations reproduce the experimentally observed dependence of the monolayer secondary structure on peptide capping density and on nanoparticle size, thus giving us confidence in the model. Furthermore, the computational results reveal a number of new features of peptide-capped monolayers, including the importance of sulfur movement for the formation of secondary structure motifs, the presence of water close to the gold surface even in tightly packed peptide monolayers, and the existence of extended 2D parallel \u03b2-sheet domains in CFGAILSS monolayers. The model developed here provides a predictive tool that may assist in the design of further bio-nanomaterials.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083204', [], [u'University of Liverpool;', u'Institute of High Performance Computing, A*STAR;', u'Institute of Materials Research and Engineering, A*STAR']]
[u'An Optimized Approach for Annotation of Large Eukaryotic Genomic Sequences using Genetic Algorithm', ['Biswanath Chowdhury', 'Arnav Garai', 'Gautam Garai'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Detection of important functional and/or structural elements and identifying their positions in a large eukaryotic genome is an active research area. Gene is an important functional and structural unit of DNA. The computation of gene prediction is essential for detailed genome annotation. In this paper, we propose a new gene prediction technique based on Genetic Algorithm (GA) for determining the optimal positions of exons of a gene in a chromosome or genome. The correct identification of the coding and non-coding regions are difficult and computationally demanding. The proposed genetic-based method, named Gene Prediction with Genetic Algorithm (GPGA), reduces this problem by searching only one exon at a time instead of all exons along with its introns. The advantage of this representation is that it can break the entire gene-finding problem into a number of smaller subspaces and thereby reducing the computational complexity. We tested the performance of the GPGA with some benchmark datasets and compared the results with the well-known and relevant techniques. The comparison shows the better or comparable performance of the proposed method (GPGA). We also used GPGA for annotating the human chromosome 21 (HS21) using cross species comparison with the mouse orthologs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083238', [], [u'University of Calcutta;', u'Infosys Technologies Ltd;', u'Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics']]
[u'The Effect of Compositional Context on Synthetic Gene Net- works', ['Enoch Yeung', 'Aaron J Dy', 'Kyle B Martin', 'Andrew H Ng', 'Domitilla Del Vecchio', 'James L Beck', 'James J. Collins', 'Richard M Murray'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'It is well known that synthetic gene expression is\nhighly sensitive to how genetic elements (promoter\nstructure, spacing regions between promoter and cod-\ning sequences, ribosome binding sites, etc.) are spatially\nconfigured. An important topic that has received far less\nattention is how the compositional context, or spatial\narrangement, of entire genes within a synthetic gene\nnetwork affects their individual expression levels. In this\npaper we show, both quantitatively and qualitatively, that\ncompositional context significantly alters transcription\nlevels in synthetic gene networks. We demonstrate\nthat key characteristics of gene induction, such as\nultra-sensitivity and dynamic range, strongly depend on\ncompositional context. We postulate that supercoiling\ncan be used to explain this interference and validate\nthis hypothesis through modeling and a series of in\nvitro supercoiling relaxation experiments. This compo-\nsitional interference enables a novel form of feedback\nin synthetic gene networks. We illustrate the use of this\nfeedback by redesigning the toggle switch to incorporate\ncompositional context. We show the context-optimized\ntoggle switch has improved threshold detection and\nmemory properties.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083329', [], [u'Pacific Northwest National Laboratories;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Callifornia Institute of Technology;', u'University of California Berkeley;', u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'Tempo and timing of ecological trait divergence associated with transitions to coexistence in birds', ['Jay P. McEntee', 'Joseph A. Tobias', 'J. Gordon Burleigh'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Speciation in vertebrates is often viewed as a three-stage process beginning with an allopatric phase (geographic isolation), followed by secondary contact, and finally the transition to coexistence in overlapping geographical ranges (sympatry). In some forms of this model, the delay in establishing secondary sympatry is due to the slow divergence in ecological traits, where such divergence reduces competition6 and/or reproductive interference. However, we know little about the general tempo and timing of ecological trait divergence for allopatrically speciating pairs, and how these factors impact transitions from allopatry to sympatry. Here, we combine divergence time estimates, trait measurements, and geographic range data for 952 avian sister species pairs worldwide to examine the tempo and timing of ecological trait divergence, and how such divergence may impact the three-stage speciation process. Our analyses indicate that sister pair divergences in body mass and beak morphology, important ecological traits, are better explained by a pulse-and-stasis evolution model than a gradual divergence model. For sister pairs in secondary contact, body mass divergence and beak divergence are associated with earlier transitions to sympatry. Our evidence suggests that the contribution of trait divergence to the transition to sympatry stems from pulses of trait divergence early in the speciation process, with a limited contribution from gradual trait divergence. Incorporating early trait divergence pulses of varying magnitude into the three-stage speciation model can explain a perplexing set of observations in bird speciation: prolonged mutual exclusion in some older species pairs, marked geographic divergence early in speciation, and instances of rapid sympatry.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083253', [], [u'University of Florida;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'A compound that directly and selectively stalls PCSK9 translation', ['Nathanael Lintner', 'Kim McClure', 'Donna Petersen', 'Allyn Londregan', 'David Piotrowski', 'Liuqing Wei', 'Jun Xiao', 'Michael Bolt', 'Paula Loria', 'Bruce Maguire', 'Kieran Geoghegan', 'Austin Huang', 'Timothy Rolph', 'Spiros Liras', 'Jennifer Doudna', 'Robert Dullea', 'Jamie Cate'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin/Kexin Type 9 (PCSK9) plays a key role in regulating the levels of plasma low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C).  Here we demonstrate that the compound PF-06446846 inhibits translation of PCSK9 by inducing the ribosome to stall around codon 34, mediated by the sequence of the nascent chain within the exit tunnel. We further show that PF-06446846 reduces plasma PCSK9 and total cholesterol levels in rats following oral dosing. Using ribosome profiling, we demonstrate that PF-06446846 is highly selective for the inhibition of PCSK9 translation.  The mechanism of action employed by PF-06446846 reveals a previously unexpected tunability of the human ribosome, which allows small molecules to specifically block translation of individual transcripts.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083097', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Pfizer;', u'N/A;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'Exact probabilities for the indeterminacy of complex networks as perceived through press perturbations', ['David Koslicki', 'Mark Novak'], u'October 25, 2016.', u"We consider the goal of predicting how complex networks respond to chronic (press) perturbations when characterizations of their network topology and interaction strengths are associated with uncertainty. Our primary result is the derivation of exact formulas for the expected number and probability of qualitatively incorrect predictions about a system's responses under uncertainties drawn form arbitrary distributions of error. These formulas obviate the current use of simulations, algorithms, and qualitative modeling techniques. Additional indices provide new tools for identifying which links in a network are most qualitatively and quantitatively sensitive to error, and for determining the volume of errors within which predictions will remain qualitatively determinate (i.e. sign insensitive). Together with recent advances in the empirical characterization of uncertainty in ecological networks, these tools bridge a way towards probabilistic predictions of network dynamics.", u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083089', [u'Ecology'], [u'Oregon State University']]
[u'Cytoplasmic-nuclear incompatibility between wild-isolates of \tCaenorhabditis nouraguensis', ['Piero Lamelza', 'Michael Ailion'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'How species arise is a fundamental question in biology. Species can be defined as populations of interbreeding individuals that are reproductively isolated from other such populations. Therefore, understanding how reproductive barriers evolve between populations is essential for understanding the process of speciation. Hybrid incompatibility (e.g. hybrid sterility and lethality) is a common and strong reproductive barrier in nature, but few studies have molecularly identified its genetic basis. Here we report a lethal incompatibility between two wild-isolates of the nematode Caenorhabditis nouraguensis. Hybrid inviability results from the incompatibility between a maternally inherited cytoplasmic factor from each strain and a recessive nuclear locus from the other. We have excluded the possibility that maternally inherited endosymbiotic bacteria cause the incompatibility by treating both strains with tetracycline and show that hybrid death is unaffected. Furthermore, cytoplasmic-nuclear incompatibility commonly occurs between other wild-isolates, indicating that this is a significant reproductive barrier within C. nouraguensis. We hypothesize that the maternally inherited cytoplasmic factor is the mitochondrial genome and that mitochondrial dysfunction underlies hybrid death. This system has the potential to shed light on the dynamics of divergent mitochondrial-nuclear coevolution and its role in promoting speciation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083154', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Washington, United States']]
[u'The Drosophila pheromone Z4-11Al is encoded together with habitat olfactory cues and mediates species-specific communication', ['Sebastien Lebreton', 'Felipe Borrero-Echeverry', 'Francisco Gonzalez', 'Marit Solum', 'Erika Wallin', 'Erik Hedenstroem', 'Bill S. Hansson', 'Anna-Lena Gustavsson', 'Marie Bengtsson', 'Goeran Birgersson', 'William B. Walker', 'Hany Dweck', 'Paul G. Becher', 'Peter Witzgall'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'Mate recognition in animals evolves during niche adaptation and involves habitat and social olfactory signals. Drosophila melanogaster is attracted to fermenting fruit for feeding and egg-laying. We show that, in addition, female flies release a pheromone (Z)-4-undecenal (Z4-11Al), that elicits flight attraction in both sexes. The biosynthetic precursor of Z4-11Al is the cuticular hydrocarbon (Z,Z)-7,11-heptacosadiene (7,11-HD), which is known to afford reproductive isolation between D. melanogaster and D. simulans. A pair of alternatively spliced receptors, Or69aB and Or69aA, is tuned to Z4-11Al and to food olfactory cues, respectively. These receptors are co-expressed in the same olfactory sensory neurons, and feed into a neural circuit mediating species-specific, long-range communication: the close relative D. simulans does not respond. That Or69aA and Or69aB have adopted dual olfactory traits highlights the interplay of habitat and social signals in mate finding. These olfactory receptor genes afford a collaboration between natural and sexual selection, which has the potential to drive phylogenetic divergence.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083071', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'SLU;', u'Corpoica;', u'MIUN;', u'MPI Jena;', u'KI']]
[u'A comprehensive survey of genetic variation in 20,691 subjects from four large cohorts', ['Sara Lindstrom', 'Stephanie Loomis', 'Constance Turman', 'Hongyan Huang', 'Jinyan Huang', 'Hugues Aschard', 'Andrew Chan', 'Hyon Choi', 'Marilyn Cornelis', 'Gary Curhan', 'Immaculata De Vivo', 'Heather Eliassen', 'Charles Fuchs', 'Michael Gaziano', 'Susan Hankinson', 'Frank Hu', 'Majken Jensen', 'Jae Hee Kang', 'Christopher Kabrhel', 'Liming Liang', 'Louis Pasquale', 'Eric Rimm', 'Meir Stampfer', 'Rulla Tamimi', 'Shelley Tworoger', 'Janey Wiggs', 'David Hunter', 'Peter Kraft'], u'October 25, 2016.', u'The Nurses\u2032 Health Study (NHS), Nurses\u2032 Health Study II (NHSII), Health Professionals Follow Up Study (HPFS) and the Physicians Health Study (PHS) have collected detailed longitudinal data on multiple exposures and traits for approximately 310,000 study participants over the last 35 years. Over 160,000 study participants across the cohorts have donated a DNA sample and to date, 20,691 subjects have been genotyped as part of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of twelve primary outcomes. However, these studies utilized six different GWAS arrays making it difficult to conduct analyses of secondary phenotypes or share controls across studies. To allow for secondary analyses of these data, we have created three new datasets merged by platform family and performed imputation using a common reference panel, the 1,000 Genomes Phase I release. Here, we describe the methodology behind the data merging and imputation and present imputation quality statistics and association results from two GWAS of secondary phenotypes (body mass index (BMI) and venous thromboembolism (VTE)). \n\nWe observed the strongest BMI association for the FTO SNP rs55872725 (\u03b2=0.45, p=3.48x10-22), and using a significance level of p=0.05, we replicated 19 out of 32 known BMI SNPs. For VTE, we observed the strongest association for the rs2040445 SNP (OR=2.17, 95% CI: 1.79-2.63, p=2.70x10-15), located downstream of F5 and also observed significant associations for the known ABO and F11 regions. This pooled resource can be used to maximize power in GWAS of phenotypes collected across the cohorts and for studying gene-environment interactions as well as rare phenotypes and genotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/10/25/083030', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Boston University;', u'Northwestern University;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'Dana Farber Cancer Institute;', u'University of Massachusetts']]
