[u'Quantitative mRNA Imaging Throughout the Entire Drosophila Brain', ['Xi Long', 'Jennifer Colonell', 'Allan M Wong', 'Robert H Singer', 'Timothee Lionnet'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'We describe a fluorescence in situ hybridization method that permits detection of the localization and abundance of single mRNAs (smFISH) in cleared whole-mount adult Drosophila brains. The approach is rapid, multiplexable and does not require molecular amplification; it allows facile mRNA expression quantification with subcellular resolution on a standard confocal microscope. Using a custom Bessel Beam-Structured Illumination microscope (BB-SIM), we further demonstrate single-mRNA detection across the entire brain sample.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096388', [], [u'HHMI Janelia Research Campus']]
[u'Unicycler: resolving bacterial genome assemblies from short and long sequencing reads', ['Ryan R. Wick', 'Louise M. Judd', 'Claire L. Gorrie', 'Kathryn E. Holt'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'The Illumina DNA sequencing platform generates accurate but short reads, which can be used to produce accurate but fragmented genome assemblies. Pacific Biosciences and Oxford Nanopore Technologies DNA sequencing platforms generate long reads that can produce more complete genome assemblies, but the sequencing is more expensive and error prone. There is significant interest in combining data from these complementary sequencing technologies to generate more accurate "hybrid" assemblies. However, few tools exist that truly leverage the benefits of both types of data, namely the accuracy of short reads and the structural resolving power of long reads. Here we present Unicycler, a new tool for assembling bacterial genomes from a combination of short and long reads, which produces assemblies that are accurate, complete and cost-effective. Unicycler builds an initial assembly graph from short reads using the de novo assembler SPAdes and then simplifies the graph using information from short and long reads. Unicycler utilises a novel semi-global aligner, which is used to align long reads to the assembly graph. Tests on both synthetic and real reads show Unicycler can assemble larger contigs with fewer misassemblies than other hybrid assemblers, even when long read depth and accuracy are low. Unicycler is open source (GPLv3) and available at github.com/rrwick/Unicycler.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096412', [], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia']]
[u'ASAP: a Web-based platform for the analysis and inter-active visualization of single-cell RNA-seq data', ['Vincent Gardeux', 'Fabrice David', 'Adrian Shajkofci', 'Petra C Schwalie', 'Bart Deplancke'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Motivation: Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) allows whole transcriptome profiling of thousands of individual cells, enabling the molecular exploration of tissues at the cellular level. Such analytical capacity is of great interest to many research groups in the world, yet, these groups often lack the expertise to handle complex scRNA-seq data sets.  Results: We developed a fully integrated, web-based platform aimed at the complete analysis of scRNA-seq data post genome alignment: from the parsing, filtering, and normalization of the input count data files, to the visual repre-sentation of the data, identification of cell clusters, differentially expressed genes (including cluster-specific marker genes), and functional gene set enrichment. This Automated Single-cell Analysis Pipeline (ASAP) combines a wide range of commonly used algorithms with sophisticated visualization tools. Compared with existing scRNA-seq analy-sis platforms, researchers (including those lacking computational expertise) are able to interact with the data in a straightforward fashion and in real time. Furthermore, given the overlap between scRNA-seq and bulk RNA-seq anal-ysis workflows, ASAP should conceptually be broadly applicable to any RNA-seq dataset. As a validation, we demon-strate how we can use ASAP to simply reproduce the results from a single-cell study of 91 mouse cells involving five distinct cell types.  Availability: The tool is freely available at http://asap.epfl.ch', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096222', [], [u'EPFL']]
[u'Natural diversity of the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae', ['Alistair Miles', 'Nicholas J Harding', 'Giordano Botta', 'Chris Clarkson', 'Tiago Antao', 'Krzysztof Kozak', 'Daniel Schrider', 'Andrew Kern', 'Seth Redmond', 'Igor Sharakhov', 'Richard Pearson', 'Christina Bergey', 'Michael Fontaine', 'Arlete Troco', 'Abdoulaye Diabate', 'Carlo Costantini', 'Kyanne Rohatgi', 'Nohal Elissa', 'Boubacar Coulibaly', 'Joao Dinis', 'Janet Midega', 'Charles Mbogo', 'Henry Mawejje', 'Jim Stalker', 'Kirk Rockett', 'Eleanor Drury', 'Dan Mead', 'Anna Jeffreys', 'Christina Hubbart', 'Kate Rowlands', 'Alison Isaacs', 'Dushyanth Jyothi', 'Cinzia Malangone', 'Paul Vauterin', 'Ben Jeffrey', 'Ian Wright', 'Lee Hart', 'Krzysztof Kluczynski', 'Victoria Cornelius', 'Bronwyn MacInnis', 'Christa Henrichs', 'Rachel Giacomantonio', 'Diego Ayala', 'Philip Bejon', 'Nora Besansky', 'Austin Burt', 'Beniamino Caputo', 'Alessandra della Torre', 'Charles Godfray', 'Matthew Hahn', 'Daniel Neafsey', "Samantha O'Loughlin", 'Joao Pinto', 'Michelle Riehle', 'Kenneth Vernick', 'David Weetman', 'Craig Wilding', 'Bradley White', 'Mara Lawniczak', 'Martin Donnelly', 'Dominic Kwiatkowski'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'The sustainability of malaria control in Africa is threatened by rising levels of insecticide resistance, and new tools to prevent malaria transmission are urgently needed. To gain a better understanding of the mosquito populations that transmit malaria, we sequenced the genomes of 765 wild specimens of Anopheles gambiae and Anopheles coluzzii sampled from 15 locations across Africa. The data reveal high levels of genetic diversity, with over 50 million single nucleotide polymorphisms across the 230 Mbp genome. We observe complex patterns of population structure and marked variations in local population size, some of which may be due at least in part to malaria control interventions. Insecticide resistance genes show strong signatures of recent selection associated with multiple independent mutations spreading over large geographical distances and between species. The genetic variability of natural populations substantially reduces the target space for novel gene-drive strategies for mosquito control. This large dataset provides a foundation for tracking the emergence and spread of insecticide resistance and developing new vector control tools.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096289', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and Oxford University;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Universita di Roma SAPIENZA;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Montana;', u'Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey;', u'Broad Institute;', u'Virginia Tech;', u'University of Notre Dame;', u'Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences;', u'Ministerio da Saude, Luanda, Angola;', u'Institut de Recherche en Sciences de la Sante (IRSS), Bobo Dioulasso, Burkina Faso;', u'Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement;', u'Centre International de Recherches Medicales de Franceville, Gabon;', u'University of Mali;', u'Ministerio da Saude Publica, Bissau, Guine-Bissau;', u'KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Programme;', u'Infectious Diseases Research Collaboration, Kampala, Uganda;', u'Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine;', u'The Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard;', u'Imperial College;', u'Indiana University;', u'Universidade Nova de Lisboa;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'Liverpool John Moores University;', u'University of California Riverside']]
[u'Sequence and structural diversity of mouse Y chromosomes', ['Andrew Parker Morgan', 'Fernando Pardo Manuel de Villena'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Over the 180 million years since their origin, the Y chromosomes of mammals have evolved a gene repertoire highly specialized for function in the male germline.  The mouse Y chromosome is unique among mammal Y chromosomes studied to date in that it is large, gene-rich and almost entirely euchromatic.  Yet little is known about its diversity in natural populations.  Because the Y chromosome is passed only through the male germline and is obligately transmitted from fathers to sons without recombination, it provides a rich view into male-specific mutational, selective and demographic processes.  We therefore took advantage of a recent high-quality assembly of the mouse Y to perform a systematic survey of a diverse sample of Y chromosomes using published whole-genome sequencing datasets.  Sequence diversity in non-repetitive regions of Y chromosomes is <10% that on autosomes and the site frequency spectrum is skewed towards low-frequency alleles, consistent with a recent population bottleneck.  But copy number of genes on the repetitive long arm of the Y is extremely variable: the total size of the Y chromosome varies by two-fold within Mus musculus and three-fold between M. musculus and M. spretus.  We show that expression of Y-linked genes in the testis is rapidly evolving in murid rodents and especially within M. musculus, and is consistent with ongoing intragenomic conflict with the X chromosome.  Our results provide insight on the demographic history of an important model organism and the biology of a rapidly-evolving sex chromosome.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096297', [], [u'University of North Carolina']]
[u'Associations of coffee genetic risk scores with coffee, tea and other beverages in the UK Biobank', ['Amy E Taylor', 'Marcus R Munafo'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Background:  Genetic variants which determine amount of coffee consumed have been identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of coffee consumption; these may help to further understanding of the effects of coffee on health outcomes. However, there is limited information about how these variants relate to caffeinated beverage consumption more generally.  Aims: To improve phenotype definition for coffee consumption related genetic risk scores by testing their association with coffee, tea and other beverages.  Methods: We tested the associations of genetic risk scores for coffee consumption with beverage consumption in 114,316 individuals of European ancestry from the UK Biobank. Drinks were self-reported in a baseline questionnaire and in detailed 24 dietary recall questionnaires in a subset.  Results: Genetic risk scores including two and eight single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) explained up to 0.39%, 0.19% and 0.77% of the variance in coffee, tea and combined coffee and tea consumption respectively. A one standard deviation increase in the 8 SNP genetic risk score was associated with a 0.13 cup per day (95% CI: 0.12, 0.14), 0.12 cup per day (95%CI: 0.11, 0.14) and 0.25 cup per day (95% CI: 0.24, 0.27) increase in coffee, tea and combined tea and coffee consumption, respectively. Genetic risk scores also demonstrated positive associations with both caffeinated and decaffeinated coffee and tea consumption. In 48,692 individuals with dietary recall data, the genetic risk scores were positively associated with coffee and tea, (apart from herbal teas) consumption, but did not show clear evidence for positive associations with other beverages. However, there was evidence that the genetic risk scores were associated with lower daily water consumption and lower overall drink consumption.  Conclusions: Genetic risk scores created from variants identified in coffee consumption GWAS associate more broadly with caffeinated beverage consumption and also with decaffeinated coffee and tea consumption.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096214', [], [u'University of Bristol']]
[u'The DOE Systems Biology Knowledgebase (KBase)', ['Adam P. Arkin', 'Rick L Stevens', 'Robert W Cottingham', 'Sergei Maslov', 'Christopher S Henry', 'Paramvir Dehal', 'Doreen Ware', 'Fernando Perez', 'Nomi L Harris', 'Shane Canon', 'Michael W Sneddon', 'Matthew L Henderson', 'William J Riehl', 'Dan Gunter', 'Dan Murphy-Olson', 'Stephen Chan', 'Roy T Kamimura', 'Thomas S Brettin', 'Folker Meyer', 'Dylan Chivian', 'David J Weston', 'Elizabeth M Glass', 'Brian H Davison', 'Sunita Kumari', 'Benjamin H Allen', 'Jason Baumohl', 'Aaron A Best', 'Ben Bowen', 'Steven E Brenner', 'Christopher C Bun', 'John-Marc Chandonia', 'Jer-Ming Chia', 'Ric Colasanti', 'Neal Conrad', 'James J Davis', 'Matthew DeJongh', 'Scott Devoid', 'Emily Dietrich', 'Meghan M Drake', 'Inna Dubchak', 'Janaka N Edirisinghe', 'Gang Fang', 'Jose P Faria', 'Paul M Frybarger', 'Wolfgang Gerlach', 'Mark Gerstein', 'James Gurtowski', 'Holly L Haun', 'Fei He', 'Rashmi Jain', 'Marcin P Joachimiak', 'Kevin P Keegan', 'Shinnosuke Kondo', 'Vivek Kumar', 'Miriam L Land', 'Marissa Mills', 'Pavel Novichkov', 'Taeyun Oh', 'Gary J Olsen', 'Bob Olson', 'Bruce Parrello', 'Shiran Pasternak', 'Erik Pearson', 'Sarah S Poon', 'Gavin Price', 'Srividya Ramakrishnan', 'Priya Ranjan', 'Pamela C Ronald', 'Michael C Schatz', 'Samuel M D Seaver', 'Maulik Shukla', 'Roman A Sutormin', 'Mustafa H Syed', 'James Thomason', 'Nathan L Tintle', 'Daifeng Wang', 'Fangfang Xia', 'Hyunseung Yoo', 'Shinjae Yoo'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'The U.S. Department of Energy Systems Biology Knowledgebase (KBase) is an open-source software and data platform designed to meet the grand challenge of systems biology - predicting and designing biological function from the biomolecular (small scale) to the ecological (large scale). KBase is available for anyone to use, and enables researchers to collaboratively generate, test, compare, and share hypotheses about biological functions; perform large-scale analyses on scalable computing infrastructure; and combine experimental evidence and conclusions that lead to accurate models of plant and microbial physiology and community dynamics. The KBase platform has (1) extensible analytical capabilities that currently include genome assembly, annotation, ontology assignment, comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and metabolic modeling; (2) a web-browser-based user interface that supports building, sharing, and publishing reproducible and well-annotated analyses with integrated data; (3) access to extensive computational resources; and (4) a software development kit allowing the community to add functionality to the system.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096354', [], [u'University of California;', u'Argonne National Laboratory;', u'Oak Ridge National Laboratory;', u'Brookhaven National Laboratory;', u'E. O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Hope College;', u'E. O. Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley;', u'Yale University;', u'University of California-Davis']]
[u'Inter-Subject Alignment of MEG Datasets at the Neural Representational Space', ['Qiong Zhang', 'Jelmer Borst', 'Robert E. Kass', 'John R. Anderson'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Pooling neural imaging data across subjects requires aligning the recordings that come from different subjects. In magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings, sensors across subjects are poorly correlated both because of differences in the exact location of the sensors, and structural and functional differences in the brains. It is possible to achieve alignment by assuming that the same regions of different brains correspond across subjects.  However, this relies on both the assumption that brain anatomy and function are well correlated, and the strong assumptions that go into solving the inverse problem of source localization. In this paper, we investigated an alternative method that bypasses source-localization. Instead, it analyzes the sensor recordings themselves and aligns their temporal signatures across subjects. We used a multivariate approach, multi-set canonical correlation analysis (M-CCA), to transform individual subject data to a common neural representational space.  We evaluated the robustness of this approach using a synthetic dataset where we had ground truth. We demonstrated that M-CCA performs better on an MEG dataset than a method that assumes perfect sensor correspondence and a method that applies source localization. Lastly, we described how the standard M-CCA algorithm could be further improved with a regularization term that incorporates spatial sensor information.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096040', [], [u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'University of Groningen']]
[u'Drug repurposing for ageing research using model organisms', ['Matthias Ziehm', 'Satwant Kaur', 'Dobril K Ivanov', 'Pedro J Ballester', 'David Marcus', 'Linda Partridge', 'Janet M Thornton'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Many increasingly prevalent diseases share a common risk factor: age. However, little is known about pharmaceutical interventions against ageing, despite many genes and pathways shown to be important in the ageing process and numerous studies demonstrating that genetic interventions can lead to a healthier ageing phenotype. An important challenge is to assess the potential to repurpose existing drugs for initial testing on model organisms, where such experiments are possible. To this end, we present a new approach to rank drug-like compounds with known mammalian targets according to their likelihood to modulate ageing in the invertebrates C. elegans and Drosophila. Our approach combines information on genetic effects on ageing, orthology relationships and sequence conservation, 3D protein structures, drug binding and bioavailability. Overall, we rank 743 different drug-like compounds for their likelihood to modulate ageing. We provide various lines of evidence for the successful enrichment of our ranking for compounds modulating ageing, despite sparse public data suitable for validation. The top ranked compounds are thus prime candidates for in vivo testing of their effects on lifespan in C. elegans or Drosophila. As such, these compounds are promising as research tools and ultimately a step towards identifying drugs for a healthier human ageing.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/095380', [], [u'EMBL-EBI & UCL;', u'EMBL-EBI;', u'UCL & MPI for Biology of Ageing']]
[u'Trial-by-trial neural variability is a stable individual trait of adult humans', ['Ayelet Arazi', 'Gil Gonen-Yaacovi', 'Ilan Dinstein'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'A wide variety of sensory studies have shown that cortical neural activity varies dramatically across trials. This trial-by-trial neural variability is relatively large in the pre-stimulus period and considerably smaller (quenched) following stimulus presentation. Neural variability affects behaviour. For example, perceptual performance is better on trials and in individuals where variability quenching is larger. Furthermore, allocating attention to a stimulus improves behavioral performance by reducing neural variability. How consistent are neural variability measures of individual subjects? Here, we show that neural variability magnitudes are remarkably consistent across four different tasks with different attentional and cognitive demands as well as across experimental sessions separated by one year. These results suggest that, in adults, neural variability magnitudes are solidified individual traits, which change little with behavioral state or time, and predispose individual subjects to exhibit specific behavioral capabilities.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096198', [], [u'Ben Gurion University']]
[u'Histone gene expression is regulated by histone H2B ubiquitylation in fission yeast', ['Viviane Page', 'David Grabowski', 'C. David Allis', 'Jason Tanny'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Cell cycle-regulated expression of histone genes is vital for coordination of DNA replication with chromatin assembly. In yeast, histone genes are regulated by transcriptional activation in S phase and transcriptional repression in other phases of the cell cycle, although the mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we describe a role for histone H2B monoubiquitylation (H2Bub1), a histone mark that is linked to RNA polymerase II transcription elongation, in the activation of replication-dependent histone genes in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Loss of H2Bub1 is also associated with a delay in S phase progression and reduced expression of the replication initiation factor Cdc18 (ortholog of Cdc6). We provide evidence that H2Bub1 impacts histone gene transcription and acts through a mechanism that involves the 3\u2032UTR. Consistent with our previous finding that H2Bub1 is functionally opposed to the elongation factor Cdk9, we also find that the effects of H2Bub1 on histone genes are suppressed by reduction in the activity of Cdk9. Our data suggest that H2Bub1 promotes cell growth by activating cell cycle-regulated genes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/094565', [], [u'McGill University;', u'Rockefeller University']]
[u'Closed-loop estimation of retinal network sensitivity reveals signature of efficient coding', ['Ulisse Ferrari', 'Christophe Gardella', 'Olivier Marre', 'Thierry Mora'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'According to the theory of efficient coding, sensory systems are adapted to represent natural scenes with high fidelity and at minimal metabolic cost. Testing this hypothesis for sensory structures performing non-linear computations on high dimensional stimuli is still an open challenge. Here we develop a method to characterize the sensitivity of the retinal network to perturbations of a stimulus. Using closed-loop experiments, we explore selectively the space of possible perturbations around a given stimulus. We then show that the response of the retinal population to these small perturbations can be described by a local linear model. Using this model, we computed the sensitivity of the neural response to arbitrary temporal perturbations of the stimulus, and found a peak in the sensitivity as a function of the frequency of the perturbations. Based on a minimal theory of sensory processing, we argue that this peak is set to maximize information transmission. Our approach is relevant to testing the efficient coding hypothesis locally in any context where no reliable encoding model is known.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096313', [], [u'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie;', u'Ecole normale superieure']]
[u'The E3 ubiquitin ligase UBR5 regulates centriolar satellite stability and primary cilia formation via ubiquitylation of CSPP-L.', ['Robert F Shearer', 'Kari-Anne Myrum Frikstad', 'Jessie McKenna', 'Rachael McCloy', 'Niantao Deng', 'Andrew Burgess', 'Trond Stokke', 'Sebastian Patzke', 'Darren N Saunders'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Primary cilia are crucial for signal transduction in a variety of pathways, including Hedgehog and Wnt. Disruption of primary cilia formation (ciliogenesis) is linked to a number of developmental disorders (known as ciliopathies) and diseases, including cancer. The Ubiquitin-Proteasome System (UPS) component UBR5 was previously identified as a putative modulator of ciliogenesis in a functional genomics screen. UBR5 is an E3 Ubiquitin ligase that is frequently deregulated in tumours, but its biological role in cancer is largely uncharacterised, partly due to a lack of understanding of interacting proteins and pathways. We validated the effect of UBR5 depletion on primary cilia formation using a robust model of ciliogenesis, and identified CSPP1, a centrosomal and ciliary protein required for cilia formation, as a UBR5-interacting protein. We show that UBR5 ubiquitylates CSPP1, and that UBR5 is required for cytoplasmic organization of CSPP1-comprising centriolar satellites in centrosomal periphery. Hence, we have established a key role for UBR5 in ciliogenesis that may have important implications in understanding cancer pathophysiology.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/090100', [], [u'Garvan Institute of Medical Research;', u'Norwegian Radium Hospital, Institute for Cancer Research;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'Diatom Centromeres Suggest a Novel Mechanism for Nuclear Gene Acquisition', ['Rachel E. Diner', 'Chari M Noddings', 'Nathan C. Lian', 'Anthony K. Kang', 'Jeffrey B. McQuaid', 'Jelena Jablanovic', 'Josh L. Espinoza', 'Ngocquynh A. Nguyen', 'Miguel A. Anzelmatti', 'Jakob Jansson', 'Vincent A. Bielinski', 'Bogumil J. Karas', 'Christopher L. Dupont', 'Andrew E. Allen', 'Philip D. Weyman'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Centromeres are essential for cell division and growth in all eukaryotes, and knowledge of their sequence and structure guides the development of artificial chromosomes for functional cellular biology studies. Centromeric proteins are conserved among eukaryotes; however, centromeric DNA sequences are highly variable. We combined forward and reverse genetic approaches with chromatin immunoprecipitation to identify centromeres of the model diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum. Diatom centromere sequences contain low GC content regions and an abundance of long contiguous AT windows, but lack repeats or other conserved sequence features. Native and foreign sequences of similar GC content can maintain episomes and recruit the diatom centromeric histone protein CENP-A, suggesting non-native sequences can also function as diatom centromeres. Thus, simple sequence requirements enable DNA from foreign sources to incorporate into the nuclear genome repertoire as stable extra-chromosomal episomes, revealing a potential mechanism for bacterial and foreign eukaryotic DNA acquisition.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096016', [], [u'Scripps Institution of Oceanography;', u'J. Craig Venter Institute;', u'J Craig Venter Institute']]
[u'The correlation between central and peripheral oxytocin concentrations: a systematic review and meta-analysis', ['Mathias Valstad', 'Gail A Alvares', 'Maiken Egknud', 'Anna Maria Matziorinis', 'Ole A Andreassen', 'Lars T Westlye', 'Daniel S Quintana'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'There is growing interest in the role of the oxytocin system in social cognition and behavior. Peripheral oxytocin concentrations are regularly used to approximate central concentrations in psychiatric research. This methodological approach has obvious appeal given the invasiveness of cerebrospinal fluid collection. However, the validity of this approach and potential moderators of the association between central and peripheral levels are unclear. Thus, we conducted a pre-registered systematic search and meta-analysis of correlations between central and peripheral oxytocin concentrations. A search of databases yielded 17 eligible studies for effect size synthesis and moderator analysis, resulting in a total sample size of 516 participants and subjects. Overall, a positive association between central and peripheral oxytocin concentrations was revealed [r=0.29, 95% CI (0.15, 0.42), p<0.0001], along with a moderate-to-high level of heterogeneity across effect sizes [Q=88.14, p<0.0001], and no evidence of publication bias (p=0.45). This association was significantly moderated by experimental context [Qb(4), p=0.0016]. The strongest association was observed after intranasal oxytocin administration (r=0.67, p<.0001), a correlation that was significantly greater (p=.0002) than the equivalent association under baseline conditions (r=0.08, p=.31). These results support the use of peripheral levels of oxytocin as a marker of central levels, but only after exogenous oxytocin administration. Despite the popularity of using peripheral OT levels to approximate central levels during baseline conditions, this approach is not supported by the present results.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096263', [], [u'University of Oslo;', u'University of Western Australia']]
[u'High-spatial-resolution transcriptome profiling reveals uncharacterized regulatory complexity underlying cambial growth and wood formation in Populus tremula', ['David Sundell', 'Nathaniel R Street', 'Manoj Kumar', 'Ewa J Mellerowicz', 'Melis Kucukoglu', 'Christoffer Johnsson', 'Vikash Kumar', 'Chanaka Mannapperuma', 'Ove Nilsson', 'Hannele Tuominen', 'Edouard Pesquet', 'Urs Fischer', 'Totte Niittyla', 'Bjoern Sundberg', 'Torgeir R Hvidsten'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Trees represent the largest terrestrial carbon sink and a renewable source of ligno-cellulose. There is significant scope for yield and quality improvement in these largely undomesticated species, however, efforts to engineer new, elite varieties are constrained by the lack of a comprehensive understanding of the transcriptional network underlying cambial growth and wood formation. We generated RNA Sequencing transcriptome data for four mature, wild-growing aspens (Populus tremula) from high-spatial-resolution tangential cryosection series spanning the secondary phloem, vascular cambium, expanding and secondary cell wall forming xylem cells, cell death zone and the previous years annual ring. The transcriptome comprised 28,294 expressed, previously annotated protein-coding genes, 78 novel protein-coding genes and 567 long intergenic non-coding RNAs. Most paralogs originating from the Salicaceae whole genome duplication had diverged expression, with the notable exception of those with high expression during secondary cell wall deposition. We performed co-expression network analysis to identify central transcriptional modules and associated several of these with known biological processes. This revealed previously uncharacterized complexity underlying the regulation of cambial growth and wood formation, with modules forming a continuum of activated processes across the tissues. The high spatial resolution suggested novel roles for known genes involved in xylan and cellulose biosynthesis, regulators of xylem vessel and fiber differentiation and components of lignification. The associated web resource (AspWood, http://aspwood.popgenie.org) integrates the data within a set of interactive tools for exploring the co-expression network of cambial growth and wood formation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/094060', [], [u'Umeaa University;', u'Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences;', u'Umeaa University and Stockholm University;', u'Umeaa University and Norwegian University of Life Sciences']]
[u'Rampant Reverse Evolution towards Specialization in Commensal Bacteria Colonizing the Gut', ['Ana Sousa', 'Ricardo Ramiro', 'Joao Batista', 'Daniela Guleresi', 'Marta Lourenco', 'Isabel Gordo'], u'December 22, 2016.', u"The maintenance of diversity in the gut microbiota is a signature of host health. Yet how strain variation emerges and changes over time in this ecosystem is poorly understood. Here we use a natural yet controlled system to track the effects of natural selection by the genetic signatures it leaves in evolving populations. By following the emergence of intra-species diversity in an Escherichia coli strain, we unravel a recurrent case of violation of Dollo's law, which proposes that evolution is unidirectional and irreversible. We demonstrate de novo acquisition of a primordial lost phenotype via compensatory mutation and also genetic reversion, the latter leaving no trace of the past. We show that this reverse evolution generates two coexisting phenotypes, resource generalist and specialist, whose abundance can be controlled by diet supplementation. While specialists abundance is low, they avoid competition with the gut microbiota, whereas generalist abundance is dependent on microbiota composition. Our results highlight how a single genetic change can have large ecological consequences.", u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096206', [], [u'Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciencia;', u'Institute Pasteur;', u'Instituo Gulbenkian de Ciencia']]
[u'Regulation of eIF4F complex by the peptidyl prolyl isomerase FKBP7 in taxane-resistant prostate cancer', ['Marine Fanny GARRIDO', 'Nicolas JP MARTIN', 'Catherine GAUDIN', 'Frederic Commo', 'Nader AL NAKOUZI', 'Ladan FAZLI', 'Elaine DEL NERY', 'Jacques Camonis', 'Franck Perez', 'Stephanie LERONDEL', 'Alain LE PAPE', 'Hussein ABOU-HAMDAN', 'Martin Gleave', 'Yohann Loriot', 'Laurent DESAUBRY', 'stephan VAGNER', 'Karim FIZAZI', 'Anne CHAUCHEREAU'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Targeted therapies that exploit the signaling pathways involved in prostate cancer are required to overcome chemoresistance and improve treatment outcomes for men.  Molecular chaperones play a key role in the regulation of protein homeostasis and are potential targets to alleviate chemoresistance. Using image-based high content siRNA functional screening based on a gene expression signature, we identified FKBP7, a molecular chaperone overexpressed in docetaxel-resistant and in cabazitaxel-resistant prostate cancer cells. FKBP7 was upregulated in human prostate cancers and correlated with the recurrence in patients receiving Docetaxel. FKBP7 silencing showed that FKBP7 is required to maintain the growth of chemoresistant cell lines and of chemoresistant tumors in mice. Mass spectrometry analysis revealed that FKBP7 interacts with the eIF4G component of the eIF4F translation initiation complex to mediate survival of chemoresistant cells. Using small molecule inhibitors of eIF4A, the RNA helicase component of eIF4F, we were able to overcome docetaxel and cabazitaxel resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096271', [], [u'Gustave Roussy;', u'Vancouver Prostate Centre;', u'Institut Curie;', u'PHENOMIN-TAAM CIPA;', u'Strasbourg University']]
[u'Quantification of subclonal selection in cancer from bulk sequencing data', ['Marc J Williams', 'Benjamin Werner', 'Christina Curtis', 'Chris Barnes', 'Andrea Sottoriva', 'Trevor A Graham'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Recent studies have identified prevalent subclonal architectures within many cancer types. However, the temporal evolutionary dynamics that produce these subclonal architectures remain unknown. Here we measure evolutionary dynamics in primary human cancers using computational modelling of clonal selection applied to high throughput sequencing data. Our approach simultaneously determines the subclonal architecture of a tumour sample, and measures the mutation rate, the selective advantage, and the time of appearance of subclones. Simulations demonstrate the accuracy of the method, and revealed the degree to which evolutionary dynamics are recorded in the genome.  Application of our method to high-depth sequencing data from gastric and lung cancers revealed that detectable subclones consistently emerged early during tumour growth and had considerably large fitness advantages (>20% growth advantage). Our quantitative platform provides new insight into the evolutionary history of cancers by facilitating the measurement of fundamental evolutionary parameters in individual patients.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096305', [], [u'UCL;', u'Institute of Cancer Research;', u'Stanford University;', u'University College London;', u'The Institute of Cancer Research;', u'QMUL']]
[u'Sex matters in Massive Parallel Sequencing: Evidence for biases in genetic parameter estimation and investigation of sex determination systems', ['Laura Benestan', 'Jean-Sebastien Moore', 'Ben J. G. Sutherland', 'Jeremy Le Luyer', 'Halim Maaroufi', 'Clement Rougeux', 'Eric Normandeau', 'Nathan Rycroft', 'Jelle Atema', 'Les N. Harris', 'Ross F. Tallman', 'Spencer J. Greenwood', 'K. Fraser Clark', 'Louis Bernatchez'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Using massively parallel sequencing data from two species with different life history traits -- American lobster (Homarus americans) and Arctic Char (Salvelinus alpinus) -- we highlighted how an unbalanced sex ratio in the samples combined with a few sex-linked markers may lead to false interpretations of population structure and thus to potentially erroneous management recommendations. Multivariate analyses revealed two genetic clusters that separated males and females instead of showing the expected pattern of genetic differentiation among ecologically divergent (inshore vs. offshore in lobster) or geographically distant (east vs. west in Arctic Char) sampling locations. We created several subsamples artificially varying the sex ratio in the inshore/offshore and east/west groups, and then demonstrated that significant genetic differentiation could be observed despite panmixia for lobster, and that Fst values were overestimated for Arctic Char. This pattern was due to 12 and 94 sex-linked markers driving differentiation for lobster and Arctic Char, respectively. Removing sex-linked markers led to non- significant genetic structure (lobster) and a more accurate estimation of Fst (Arctic Char). We further characterized the putative functions of sex-linked markers. Given that only 9.6% of all marine/diadromous population genomic studies to date reported sex information, we urge researchers to collect and consider individual sex information. In summary, we argue that sex information is useful to (i) control sex ratio in sampling, (ii) overcome sex-ratio biases that can lead to spurious genetic differentiation signals and (iii) fill knowledge gaps regarding sex determining systems.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096065', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institut de Biologie Integrative et des Systemes (IBIS), Universite Laval, Quebec, Quebec, Canada;', u'Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Freshwater Institute, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada;', u'Department of Biology, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA;', u'Dept. of Biomedical Sciences & Atlantic Veterinary College Lobster Science Centre, UPEI, Canada']]
[u'Looking at my own Face: Visual Processing Strategies in Physical Self-representation', ['Anya Chakraborty', 'Bhismadev Chakrabarti'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'We live in an age of selfies. Yet, how we look at our own faces has seldom been systematically investigated. In this study we test if visual processing of self-face is different from other faces, using psychophysics and eye-tracking. This paradigm also enabled us to test the association between the psychophysical properties of self-face representation and visual processing strategies involved in self-face recognition. Thirty-three adults performed a self-face recognition task from a series of self-other face morphs with simultaneous eye-tracking.  Participants were found to look at lower part of the face for longer duration for self-face compared to other-face. Participants with a more distinct self-face representation, as indexed by a steeper slope of the psychometric response curve for self-face recognition, was found to look longer at upper part of the faces identified as self in relation to those identified as other. We also investigated the association of autism-related traits with self-face processing metrics since autism has previously been associated with atypical self-processing, particularly in the psychological domain. This study tested physical aspects of self-processing and did not find any self-face specific association with autistic traits, suggesting that autism-related features may be related to self-processing in a domain specific manner.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096073', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Reading']]
[u'Variable penetrance of the 15q11.2 BP1-BP2 microduplication in a family with cognitive and language impairment', ['Antonio Benitez-Burraco', 'Montserrat Barcos-Martinez', 'Isabel Espejo-Portero', 'Maria Salud Jimenez-Romero'], u'December 22, 2016.', u"The 15q11.2 BP1-BP2 region is found duplicated or deleted in people with cognitive, language, and behavioral impairment. Case presentation. We report on a family (the father and three male twin siblings) who presents with a duplication of the 15q11.2 BP1-BP2 region and a variable phenotype: whereas the father and the fraternal twin are normal carriers, the monozygotic twins exhibit severe language and cognitive delay and behavioral disturbances. The genes located within the duplicated region are involved in brain development and function, and some of them are related to language processing. Conclusions. The probands' phenotype may result from changes in the expression level of some of these genes important for cognitive development.", u'/content/early/2016/12/22/095919', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Huelva;', u'University Hospital Reina Sofia;', u'University of Cordoba']]
[u'Control of Lipid Domain Organization by a Biomimetic Contractile Actomyosin Cortex', ['Sven Kenjiro Vogel', 'Ferdinand Greiss', 'Alena Khmelinskaia', 'Petra Schwille'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'The cell membrane is a heterogeneously organized composite with lipid-protein micro-domains. The contractile actin cortex may govern the lateral organization of these domains in the cell membrane, yet the underlying mechanisms are not known. We recently reconstituted minimal actin cortices (MACs) (Vogel et al, 2013b) and here introduced phase-separated lipid membranes to the MACs to investigate effects of rearranging actin filaments on the lateral membrane organization. We found that the total contour length of the phase boundary increased upon the addition of actin filaments and reached a steady state where line tension and lateral crowding are balanced. The line tension allows myosin driven actin filament rearrangements to actively move individual lipid domains, often accompanied by their shape change, fusion or splitting. Our findings illustrate how myosin induced actin cortex remodeling in cells may control dynamic rearrangements of lipids and other molecules inside those domains without directly binding to actin filaments.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096248', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute;', u'Ludwig-Maximilians-University']]
