[u'The genome of the crustacean Parhyale hawaiensis: a model for animal development, regeneration, immunity and lignocellulose digestion', ['Damian Kao', 'Alvina G Lai', 'Evangelia Stamataki', 'Silvana Rosic', 'Nikolaos Konstantinides', 'Erin Jarvis', 'Alessia Di Donfrancesco', 'Natalia Pouchkina-Stantcheva', 'Marie Semon', 'Marco Grillo', 'Heather Bruce', 'Suyash Kumar', 'Igor Siwanowicz', 'Andy Le', 'Andrew Lemire', 'Cassandra Extavour', 'William Browne', 'Carsten Wolff', 'Michalis Averof', 'Nipam H Patel', 'Peter Sarkies', 'Anastasios Pavlopoulos', 'Aziz Aboobaker'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Parhyale hawaiensis is a blossoming model system for studies of developmental mechanisms and more recently adult regeneration. We have sequenced the genome allowing annotation of all key signaling pathways, small non-coding RNAs and transcription factors that will enhance ongoing functional studies. Parhayle is a member of the Malacostraca, which includes crustacean food crop species. We analysed the immunity related genes of Parhyale as an important comparative system for these species, where immunity related aquaculture problems have increased as farming has intensified. We also find that Parhyale and other species within Multicrustacea contain the enzyme sets necessary to perform lignocellulose digestion (wood eating), suggesting this ability may predate the diversification of this lineage. Our data provide an essential resource for further development of the Parhyale model. The first Malacostracan genome sequence will underpin ongoing comparative work in important food crop species and research investigating lignocellulose as energy source.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065789.1', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'HHMI, Janelia;', u'Imperial College;', u'Institute de Genomique Fonctionelle de Lyon;', u'UC Berkeley;', u'Harvard University;', u'Cox Science Center, Unversity of Miami;', u'Humboldt University']]
[u'Mosaic Mutations in Blood DNA Sequence Are Associated with Solid Tumor Cancers', ['Mykyta Artomov', 'Manuel A. Rivas', 'Giulio Genovese', 'Mark J. Daly'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Recent findings in understanding the causal role of blood mosaic protein-truncating DNA variants in leukemia prompt questions about generalizability of such observations for other cancer types. We used exome sequencing to compare 22 different cancer phenotypes from TCGA data (~8,000 samples) with more than 6,000 controls using a case-control study design and demonstrate that mosaic protein truncating variants in these genes are also associated with solid-tumor cancers. We analyzed tumor DNA samples from TCGA and observed that the cancer-associated mosaic variants are absent from the tumors. \nThrough analysis of different cancer phenotypes we observe gene-specificity for mosaic mutations. PPM1D in previous reports has been linked to breast and ovarian cancer, which our analysis confirms as a specific gene for ovarian cancer. Additionally, glioblastoma, melanoma and lung cancers show gene specific burden of the mosaic protein truncating mutations.  Taken together, these results extend existing observations and link solid-tumor cancers to somatic blood DNA changes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065821', [], [u'Broad Institute']]
[u'Ephemeral protein binding to DNA shapes stable nuclear bodies and chromatin domains', ['Chris A Brackley', 'Benno Liebchen', 'Davide Michieletto', 'Francois Mouvet', 'Peter R Cook', 'Davide Marenduzzo'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Fluorescence microscopy reveals that the contents of many (membrane-free) nuclear "bodies" exchange rapidly with the soluble pool whilst the underlying structure persists; such observations await a satisfactory biophysical explanation. To shed light on this, we perform large-scale Brownian dynamics simulations of a chromatin fiber interacting with an ensemble of (multivalent) DNA-binding proteins; these proteins switch between two states -- active (binding) and inactive (non-binding). This system provides a model for any DNA-binding protein that can be modified post-translationally to change its affinity for DNA (e.g., like the phosphorylation of a transcription factor). Due to this out-of-equilibrium process, proteins spontaneously assemble into clusters of self-limiting size, as individual proteins in a cluster exchange with the soluble pool with kinetics like those seen in photo-bleaching experiments. This behavior contrasts sharply with that exhibited by "equilibrium", or non-switching, proteins that exist only in the binding state; when these bind to DNA non-specifically, they form clusters that grow indefinitely in size. Our results point to post-translational modification of chromatin-bridging proteins as a generic mechanism driving the self-assembly of highly dynamic, non-equilibrium, protein clusters with the properties of nuclear bodies. Such active modification also reshapes intra-chromatin contacts to give networks resembling those seen in topologically-associating domains, as switching markedly favors local (short-range) contacts over distant ones.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065664', [u'Biophysics'], [u'School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Sir William Dunn School of Pathology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Rewired RNAi-Mediated Genome Surveillance in House Dust Mites', ['Md Mosharrof Hossain Mondal', 'Natalya Ortolano', 'Kelly Scott', 'Caleb Taylor', 'Pavel Klimov', 'Alex Flynt'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'House dust mites are common pests with an unusual evolutionary history, being descendants of a parasitic ancestor. Transition to parasitism is frequently accompanied by genome rearrangements, possibly to accommodate the genetic change needed to access new ecology. Transposable element (TE) activity is a source of genomic instability that can trigger large-scale genomic alterations. Eukaryotes have multiple transposon control mechanisms, one of which is RNA interference (RNAi). Investigation of the dust mite genome failed to identify a major RNAi pathway: the Piwi-associated RNA (piRNA) pathway, which has been replaced by a novel small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs)-like pathway. Co-opting of piRNA function by dust mite siRNAs is extensive, including establishment of TE control master loci that produce siRNAs. Interestingly, other members of the Acari have piRNAs indicating loss of this mechanism in dust mites is a recent event. Flux of RNAi-mediated control of TEs provides a mechanism for unusual arc of dust mite evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065797', [u'Genomics'], [u'The University of Southern Mississippi;', u'University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA, Tyumen State University, Tyumen, Russia']]
[u'Evolution of passwords for cost-free, honest signalling between symbionts and hosts', ['Marco Archetti', 'J. Benjamin Miller', 'Douglas W. Yu'], u'July 25, 2016.', u"Honest communication between potential partners with conflicting interests is generally thought to require costly signals. Costly signalling can explain partner choice when it is possible to link a strategic cost to an individual's quality, like in mate choice. However, in mutualisms, it is usually impossible to link a cost to the likelihood that a potential partner will behave cooperatively in the future. In fact, signals like Nod factors in rhizobial bacteria, which form symbioses with leguminous plants, are evidence of cost-free, honest signals in situations of potential conflict. How can such a signalling system evolve? We use a population-genetics model to show that a cost-free, honest signal can evolve when the receiver is under soft selection, which is when high juvenile mortality does not lead to a corresponding reduction in fitness, a common occurrence in many species. Under soft selection, senders evolve increasingly complex messages of identity, a system akin to a password or a lock and key. Thus, a symbiont can signal that it shares a coevolutionary history with a potential host, and if that history is mutualistic, then the host can believe that the symbiont is mutualistic. Password signalling might also explain the evolution of complex species-recognition signals in mate choice and in the acquisition of defensive symbionts.", u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065755', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of East Anglia']]
[u'A qualitative model for the integration of conflicting exogenous and endogenous signals by dendritic cells', ['Quentin Marcou', 'Irit Carmi-Levy', 'Coline Trichot', 'Vassili Soumelis', 'Thierry Mora', 'Aleksandra Walczak'], u'July 25, 2016.', u"Cells of the immune system are confronted with opposing pro- and anti-inflammatory signals. Dendritic cells (DC) integrate these cues to make informed decisions whether to initiate an immune response. Confronted with exogenous microbial stimuli, DC endogenously produce both anti- (IL-10) and pro-inflammatory (TNF\u03b1) cues whose joint integration controls the cell's final decision. We combine experimental measurements with theoretical modeling to quantitatively describe the integration mode of these opposing signals. We propose a two step integration model that modulates the effect of the two types of signals: an initial bottleneck integrates both signals (IL-10 and TNF\u03b1), the output of which is later modulated by the anti-inflammatory signal. We show that the anti-inflammatory IL-10 signaling is long ranged, as opposed to the short-ranged pro-inflammatory TNF\u03b1 signaling. The model suggests that the population averaging and modulation of the pro-inflammatory response by the anti-inflammatory signal is a safety guard against excessive immune responses.", u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065706', [u'Immunology'], [u'Ecole normale superieure;', u'Institut Curie']]
[u'EEG functional network topology is associated with disability in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis', ['Matteo Fraschini', 'Matteo Demuru', 'Arjan Hillebrand', 'Lorenza Cuccu', 'Silvia Porcu', 'Francesca Di Stefano', 'Monica Puligheddu', 'Gianluca Floris', 'Giuseppe Borghero', 'Francesco Marrosu'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is one of the most severe neurodegenerative diseases, which is known to affect upper and lower motor neurons. In contrast to the classical tenet that ALS represents the outcome of extensive and progressive impairment of a fixed set of motor connections, recent neuroimaging findings suggest that the disease spreads along vast non-motor connections. Here, we hypothesised that functional network topology is perturbed in ALS, and that this reorganisation is associated with disability. We tested this hypothesis in 21 patients affected by ALS at several stages of impairment using resting-state electroencephalography (EEG) and compared the results to 16 age-matched healthy controls. We estimated functional connectivity using the Phase Lag Index (PLI), and characterized the network topology using the minimum spanning tree (MST). We found a significant difference between groups in terms of MST dissimilarity and MST leaf fraction in the beta band. Moreover, some MST parameters (leaf, hierarchy and kappa) significantly correlated with disability. These findings suggest that the topology of resting-state functional networks in ALS is affected by the disease in relation to disability. EEG network analysis may be of help in monitoring and evaluating the clinical status of ALS patients.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065714', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cagliari;', u'Department of Clinical Neurophysiology and MEG Center, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam;', u"Biomedical Engineering Course, University of Cagliari, Piazza D'armi, Cagliari, 09123, Italy;", u'Department of Neurology, AOU Cagliari, University of Cagliari, Cagliari']]
[u'Perturbation-response genes reveal signaling footprints in cancer gene expression', ['Michael Schubert', 'Bertram Klinger', 'Martina Klunemann', 'Mathew J Garnett', 'Nils Bluthgen', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Numerous pathway methods have been developed to quantify the signaling state of a cell from gene expression data, usually from the abundance of transcripts of pathway members, and are hence unable to take into account post-translational control of signal transduction. Gene expression signatures of pathway perturbations can capture this, but they are closely tied to the experimental conditions that they were derived from. We overcome both limitations by leveraging a large compendium of publicly available perturbation experiments to define consensus signatures for pathway activity. We find that although individual expression signatures are heterogeneous, there is a common core of responsive genes that describe pathway activation in a wide range of conditions. These signaling footprints better recover pathway activity than existing methods and provide more meaningful associations with (i) known driver mutations in primary tumors, (ii) drug response in cell lines, and (iii) survival in cancer patients, making them more suitable to assess the activity status of signaling pathways.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065672', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Charit\xe9 Universit\xe4tsmedizin Berlin;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'RWTH Aachen University']]
[u'Distal axotomy enhances retrograde presynaptic excitability onto injured pyramidal neurons via trans-synaptic signaling', ['Tharkika Nagendran', 'Rebecca Bigler', 'Rylan Larsen', 'Benjamin Philpot', 'Anne Marion Taylor'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Distal injury of long pyramidal tracts remodels cortical circuitry and leads to enhanced neuronal excitability, thus influencing recovery following injury. The neuron-specific contributions to this retrograde injury-induced hyper-excitability remain unclear due to the complex cellular composition and connectivity of the CNS. We developed a novel microfluidics-based in vitro model system to examine intrinsic synaptic remodeling following distal axotomy of long projection pyramidal neurons. We found that distal axotomy of rat pyramidal neurons caused dendritic spine loss at synapses onto the injured neurons followed by a delayed and persistent retrograde trans-synaptic enhancement in presynaptic excitability. Further, this hyper-excitability involved the specific elimination of inhibitory presynaptic terminals formed onto dendritic spines. We found that these changes required differential gene expression and axotomy decreased mRNA expression of the secreted factor netrin-1 coinciding with spine loss. Exogenous netrin-1 applied two days after injury normalized this presynaptic hyper-excitability and restored the fraction of inhibitory inputs onto injured neurons. These findings provide new insights of neuron-specific mechanisms that contribute to synaptic remodeling and demonstrate a novel model system for studying the response of pyramidal circuitry to axotomy.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065391', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Designing fecal microbiota transplant trials that account for differences in donor stool efficacy', ['Scott W. Olesen', 'Thomas Gurry', 'Eric J. Alm'], u'July 25, 2016.', u"Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is a highly effective intervention for patients suffering from recurrent Clostridium difficile, a common hospital-acquired infection. FMT's success as a therapy for C. difficile has inspired interest in performing clinical trials that experiment with FMT as a therapy for treating conditions like inflammatory bowel disease, obesity, diabetes, and Parkinson's disease. Results from clinical trials that use FMT to treat inflammatory bowel disease suggest that, for at least one condition beyond C. difficile, most FMT donors produce stool that is not efficacious. The optimal strategies for identifying and using efficacious donors have not been investigated. We therefore formulated an optimal Bayesian response-adaptive donor selection strategy and a computationally-tractable myopic heuristic. This algorithm computes the probability that a donor is efficacious by updating prior expectations about the efficacy of FMT, the placebo rate, and the fraction of donors that are efficacious. In simulations designed to mimic a recent FMT clinical trial, for which traditional power calculations predict ~100% statistical power, we found that accounting for differences in donor efficacy reduced the predicted statistical power to ~9%. For these simulations, using the Bayesian allocation strategy more than quadrupled the statistical power to ~39%. We use the results of similar simulations to make recommendations about the number of patients, number of donors, and choice of clinical endpoint that clinical trials should use to optimize their ability to detect if FMT is effective for treating a condition.", u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065383', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Mechanisms of self-assembly and fibrillization of the prion-like domains', ['Yimei Lu', 'Liangzhong Lim', 'Yanming Tan', 'Lu Wang', 'Jianxing Song'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'The mechanism of the self-assembly and fibrillization of the prion-like domains lies at the heart of their physiology and pathology. Here with the same methods previously established, we aimed to further decipher the mechanism by characterizing two prion-like sequences with the electrostatic properties very different from that of the full-length TDP-43 prion-like domain with a very basic pI value: namely the C-half of the TDP-43 prion-like domain only abundant in Gly, Ser, Asn and Gln with a pI of ~6.3, and the FUS prion-like domain enriched with Gly, Ser, Gln and Tyr with a pI of ~3.5. Interestingly, the C-half with the TDP-43 unique hydrophobic region removed is no longer able to form insoluble aggregates/fibrils but still capable of self-assembling into the reversible hydrogel with cross-\u03b2 structures, despite being much slower than the full-length. On the other hand, the FUS prion-like domain rapidly self-assembles into the reversible hydrogel with cross-\u03b2 fibrillar structures in 1 mM phosphate buffer at pH 6.8 but its self-assembly becomes very slow in 50 mM MES buffer at pH 5.5. Our study reveals that despite having completely different electrostatic properties, the full-length and C-half of the TDP-43 prion-like domain, as well as FUS prion-like domain all have the similar pH-dependence in self-assembly as we previously reported (Lim et al., [2016] PLOS Biol 14:e1002338). This unambiguously indicates that the self-assembly of the prion-like domains is not generally governed by the electrostatic interaction. Rather, their self-assembly and fibrillization are specified by the sequences despite being highly polar and degenerative. Furthermore, our study provides the first evidence that the formation of reversible hydrogel with cross-\u03b2 structures is separable from fibrillization of the prion-like domain. Finally, our results also successfully reconcile the previous discrepancy about the conformation and mechanism of the self-assembly of the FUS prion-like domain.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065631', [u'Biophysics'], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Connectivity map of bipolar cells and photoreceptors in the mouse retina', ['Christian Behrens', 'Timm Schubert', 'Silke Haverkamp', 'Thomas Euler', 'Philipp Berens'], u'July 25, 2016.', u'Visual processing already starts at the very first synapse of the visual system. In the mouse retina, three different kinds of photoreceptors (M-cones, S-cones and rods) provide input to 14 parallel bipolar cell types. The precise pattern of connectivity between them determines which signals are available to downstream circuits and therefore the entire visual system. While it has been shown that cone bipolar cell types 1 contact M-cones and type 9 contacts S-cones selectively, most bipolar cell types are thought to contact all cones within their dendritic field. Also, ON bipolar cells are thought to contact cones exclusively via so-called invaginating synapses, while OFF bipolar cells are thought to form basal synapses. By mining publically available electron microscopy data, we confirm that there are no additional M- or S-cone selective bipolar cell types in the mouse retina; however, we found interesting violations of the established rules of outer retinal connectivity: Cone bipolar cell type X contacted only ~20% of the cones in its dendritic field and made mostly atypical non-invaginating contacts with cones. Types 5T, 5O and 8 also contacted fewer cones than expected from the extent of their dendritic field. In addition, we provide anatomical evidence that rod and cone pathways are interconnected in both directions: Not only OFF-types 3A, 3B and 4 get direct input from rods but also rod bipolar cells from cones. Together, this suggests that the organization of the outer plexiform layer is less straightforward than classically thought.', u'/content/early/2016/07/25/065722', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute for Ophthalmic Research & CIN, University of Tuebingen;', u'Institute of Cellular and Molecular Anatomy, University of Frankfurt;', u'Institute of Ophthalmic Research & CIN, University of Tuebingen']]
