[u'Modeling of axonal endoplasmic reticulum network by spastic paraplegia proteins', ['Belgin Yalcn', 'Lu Zhao', 'Martin Stofanko', "Niamh C O'Sullivan", 'ZiHan Kang', 'Sophie Zaessinger', 'Alex L Patto', 'Valentina Baena', 'Mark Terasaki', "Cahir J. O'Kane"], u'September 29, 2016.', u'Axons contain an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network that is largely smooth and tubular, thought to be continuous with ER throughout the neuron, and distinct in form and function from rough ER; the mechanisms that form this continuous network in axons are not well understood. Many mutations for the axon degenerative disease, hereditary spastic paraplegia, affect ER-shaping proteins. Here we test whether these proteins are required for modeling the axonal ER network in Drosophila. Loss of Rtnl1 or REEP proteins can lead to expansion of ER sheets, and to partial loss of ER from distal motor axons. Ultrastructural analysis reveals an extensive ER network in every axon of peripheral nerves, that is reduced in larvae that lack Rtnl1 and both REEPs, with defects including larger and fewer tubules, and occasional gaps in the ER network, consistent with loss of membrane curvature. Therefore HSP hairpin-containing proteins are required for shaping and continuity of the axonal ER network, and their mutant phenotypes may have consequences for axonal physiology.', u'/content/early/2016/09/29/069005', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Connecticut Health Center']]
[u'An odor delivery system for arbitrary time-varying patterns of odors, mixtures and concentrations', ['Priyanka Gupta', 'Dinu F Albeanu', 'Upinder S Bhalla'], u'September 29, 2016.', u'Odor stimuli in the natural environment are intermittent and the concentration of any given odor fluctuates rapidly over time. Further, even in the simplest scenario, the olfactory sensors receive uncorrelated, intermittent inputs in the form of odor plumes arising from several odor sources in the local environment. However, typically used odor stimuli under laboratory settings are restricted to long-duration (~seconds), single pulse of one odor at a time that are rarely encountered in natural environment. This inadequate choice of odor stimuli is due to lack of affordable odor delivery systems that can generate plume-like, naturalistic stimuli with high reproducibility such as to allow for repeat measurements under laboratory conditions. We thus developed an odor delivery system that generates arbitrary time-varying patterns of individual odors and ternary mixtures at time scale of ~20 Hz. Here, we provide a detailed description of the construction and output characterization of our odor delivery system.', u'/content/early/2016/09/29/077875', [], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'National Center for Biological Sciences']]
[u'Multiresolution functional brain parcellation in an elderly population with no or mild cognitive impairment', ['Angela Tam', 'Christian Dansereau', 'AmanPreet Badhwar', 'Pierre Orban', 'Sylvie Belleville', 'Howard Chertkow', 'Alain Dagher', 'Alexandru Hanganu', 'Oury Monchi', 'Pedro Rosa-Neto', 'Amir Shmuel', 'John Breitner', 'Pierre Bellec'], u'September 29, 2016.', u"We present group brain parcellations for clusters generated from resting-state functional magnetic resonance images for 99 cognitively normal elderly persons and 129 patients with mild cognitive impairment, pooled from four independent datasets. The brain parcellations have been registered to both symmetric and asymmetric MNI brain templates and generated using a method called bootstrap analysis of stable clusters (BASC, Bellec et al., 2010). Eight resolutions of clusters were selected using a data-driven method called MSTEPS (Bellec, 2013). We present two variants of these parcellations. One variant contains bihemisphereic parcels (4, 6, 12, 22, 33, 65, 111, and 208 total parcels across eight resolutions). The second variant contains spatially connected regions of interest (ROIs) that span only one hemisphere (10, 17, 30, 51, 77, 199, and 322 total ROIs across eight resolutions). We also present maps illustrating functional connectivity differences between patients and controls for four regions of interest (superior medial frontal cortex, dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, striatum, middle temporal lobe). The brain parcels and associated statistical maps have been publicly released as 3D volumes, available in .mnc and .nii file formats on figshare (http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1480461) and on Neurovault (http://neurovault.org/collections/1003/). This dataset was generated as part of the following study: Tam A, Dansereau C, Badhwar A, Orban P, Belleville S, Chertkow H, Dagher A, Hanganu A, Monchi O, Rosa-Neto P, Shmuel A, Wang S, Breitner J, Bellec P for the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (2015) Common Effects of Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment on Resting-State Connectivity Across Four Independent Studies. Front. Aging Neurosci. 7:242. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2015.00242 Finally, the code used to generate this dataset is available on Github (https://github.com/SIMEXP/mcinet).", u'/content/early/2016/09/29/077974', [], [u'McGill University;', u'University of Montreal;', u"Centre de recherche de l'institut universitaire de geriatrie de Montreal"]]
[u'A pipeline approach to single-particle processing in RELION', ['Rafael Fernandez-Leiro', 'Sjors Scheres'], u'September 29, 2016.', u"We describe the formal concept of a workflow to single-particle analysis of cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) images in the RELION program. In this approach, the structure determination process is considered as a graph, where intermediate results in the form of images or metadata are the vertices, and different functionalities of the program are the edges. The new implementation automatically logs all user actions, facilitates file management and disk cleaning, and allows convenient browsing of a project's history. Moreover, new functionality to iteratively execute consecutive jobs allows on-the-fly image processing, which will lead to more efficient data acquisition by providing faster feedback on data quality. The possibility to exchange data processing procedures among users will contribute to the development of standardised image processing procedures, and hence increase accessibility for new users in this rapidly expanding field.", u'/content/early/2016/09/29/078352', [u'Biophysics'], [u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology']]
[u'Myosin II controls junction fluctuations to guide epithelial tissue ordering', ['Scott Curran', 'Charlotte Strandkvist', 'Jasper Bathmann', 'Marc de Gennes', 'Alexandre Kabla', 'Guillaume Salbreux', 'Buzz Baum'], u'September 29, 2016.', u'Homophilic interactions between E-Cadherin molecules generate adhesive interfaces or junctions (AJs) that connect neighbouring cells in epithelial monolayers. These are highly dynamic structures. Under conditions of homeostasis, changes in the length of individual interfaces provide epithelia with the fluidity required to maintain tissue integrity in the face of cell division, delamination and extrinsic forces. Furthermore, when acted upon by polarized actomyosin-based forces, changes in AJ length can also drive neighbour exchange to reshape an entire tissue. Whilst the contribution of AJ remodelling to developmental morphogenesis has been subjected to intensive study, less is known about AJ dynamics in other circumstances. Here, using a combination of experiment and computational modelling, we study AJ dynamics in an epithelium that undergoes a gradual increase in packing order without concomitant large-scale changes in tissue shape or size. Under these conditions, we find that neighbour exchange events are driven by stochastic fluctuations in junction length, which are regulated at least in part by the level of junctional actomyosin. As a result of this behaviour, the steady increase in junctional actomyosin and consequent tension that accompanies development steadily reduces the rate of neighbour exchange and orders the tissue. This leads us to propose a model in which topological transitions, that underpin tissue fluidity, are either inhibited or biased by actomyosin-based forces, to drive, respectively, tissue ordering or deformation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/29/078204', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Cell Biology, UCL, London, UK;', u'The Francis Crick Institute, London, UK;', u'Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK']]
