[u'MetaGxData: Breast and Ovarian Clinically Annotated Transcriptomics Datasets', ['Deena M.A. Gendoo', 'Natchar Ratanasirigulchai', 'Gregory M. Chen', 'Levi Waldron', 'Benjamin Haibe-Kains'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'A wealth of transcriptomic and clinical data on breast and ovarian cancers are under-utilized due to unharmonized data storage and format. We have developed the MetaGxData package compendium, which includes manually-curated and standardized clinical, pathological, survival, and treatment metadata across both breast and ovarian cancer microarray data. MetaGxData is the largest compendium of breast and ovarian microarray data to date, spanning 65 datasets and encompassing 13,756 samples. Standardization of metadata across the two cancer types promotes the use of their expression datasets in a variety of cross-tumour analyses, including identification of common biomarkers, establishing common patterns of co-expression networks, assessing the validity of prognostic signatures, and the identification of new consensus signatures that reflects upon common biological mechanisms. Here, we present our flexible framework, unified nomenclature, as well as applications that demonstrate the analytical power that is harnessed by combining breast and ovarian cancer datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052910', [], [u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre & University of Toronto;', u'Princess Margaret Cancer Center, University Health Network;', u'City University of New York School of Medicine, New-York City, New-York, USA;', u'University Health Network']]
[u'Synaptonemal complex components are required for meiotic checkpoint function in C. elegans', ['Tisha Bohr', 'Guinevere Ashley', 'Evan Eggleston', 'Kyra Firestone', 'Needhi Bhalla'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Synapsis involves the assembly of a proteinaceous structure, the synaptonemal complex (SC), between paired homologous chromosomes and is essential for proper meiotic chromosome segregation. In C. elegans, the synapsis checkpoint selectively removes nuclei with unsynapsed chromosomes by inducing apoptosis. This checkpoint depends on Pairing Centers (PCs), cis- acting sites that promote pairing and synapsis. We have hypothesized that the stability of homolog pairing at PCs is monitored by this checkpoint. Here, we report that synaptonemal complex components SYP-3, HTP-3, HIM-3 and HTP-1 are required for a functional synapsis checkpoint. Mutation of these components does not abolish PC function, indicating they are bonafide checkpoint components. These data suggest that, in addition to homolog pairing, SC assembly may be monitored by the synapsis checkpoint.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052977', [], [u'UCSC']]
[u'Soft selective sweeps in evolutionary rescue', ['Ben Wilson', 'Pleuni Pennings', 'Dmitri Petrov'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Evolutionary rescue occurs when a population that is declining in size because of an environmental change is rescued by genetic adaptation. Evolutionary rescue is an important phenomenon at the intersection of ecology and population genetics. While most population genetic models of evolutionary rescue focus on estimating the probability of rescue, we focus on whether one or more adaptive lineages contribute to evolutionary rescue. We find that when evolutionary rescue is likely, it is often driven by soft selective sweeps where multiple adaptive mutations spread through the population simultaneously. We give full analytic results for the probability of evolutionary rescue and the probability that evolutionary rescue occurs via soft selective sweeps in our model. We expect that these results will find utility in understanding the genetic signatures associated with various evolutionary rescue scenarios in large populations, such as the evolution of drug resistance in viral, bacterial, or eukaryotic pathogens.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052993', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'San Francisco State University']]
[u'Host Gut Motility and Bacterial Competition Drive Instability in a Model Intestinal Microbiota', ['Travis J. Wiles', 'Matthew L. Jemielita', 'Ryan P. Baker', 'Brandon H. Schlomann', 'Savannah L. Logan', 'Julia Ganz', 'Ellie Melancon', 'Judith S. Eisen', 'Karen Guillemin', 'Raghuveer Parthasarathy'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'The gut microbiota is a complex consortium of microorganisms with the ability to influence important aspects of host health and development. Harnessing this "microbial organ" for biomedical applications requires clarifying the degree to which host and bacterial factors act alone or in combination to govern the stability of specific lineages. To address this we combined bacteriological manipulation and light sheet fluorescence microscopy to monitor the dynamics of a defined two-species microbiota within the vertebrate gut. We observed that the interplay between each population and the gut environment produced distinct spatiotemporal patterns. Consequently, one species dominates while the other experiences dramatic collapses that are well fit by a stochastic mathematical model. Modeling revealed that bacterial competition could only partially explain the observed phenomena, suggesting that a host factor is also important in shaping the community. We hypothesized the host determinant to be gut motility, and tested this mechanism by measuring colonization in hosts with enteric nervous system dysfunction due to mutation in the Hirschsprung disease locus ret. In mutant hosts we found reduced gut motility and, confirming our hypothesis, robust coexistence of both bacterial species. This study provides evidence that host-mediated spatial structuring and stochastic perturbation of communities along with bacterial competition drives population dynamics within the gut. In addition, this work highlights the capacity of the enteric nervous system to affect stability of gut microbiota constituents, demonstrating that the "gut-brain axis" is bidirectional. Ultimately, these findings will help inform disease mitigation strategies focused on engineering the intestinal ecosystem.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052985', [], [u'The University of Oregon']]
[u'Deep Machine Learning provides state-of-the-art performance in image-based plant phenotyping', ['Michael P Pound', 'Alexandra J Burgess', 'Michael H Wilson', 'Jonathan A Atkinson', 'Marcus Griffiths', 'Aaron S Jackson', 'Adrian Bulat', 'Georgios Tzimiropoulos', 'Darren M Wells', 'Erik H Murchie', 'Tony P Pridmore', 'Andrew P French'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Deep learning is an emerging field that promises unparalleled results on many data analysis problems. We show the success offered by such techniques when applied to the challenging problem of image-based plant phenotyping, and demonstrate state-of-the-art results for root and shoot feature identification and localisation. We predict a paradigm shift in image-based phenotyping thanks to deep learning approaches.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053033', [], [u'University of Nottingham;', u'University of Leeds']]
[u'Quantification of telomere features in tumor tissue sections by an automated 3D imaging-based workflow', ['Manuel Gunkel', 'Inn Chung', 'Stefan Worz', 'Katharina I Deeg', 'Ronald Simon', 'Guido Sauter', 'David T Jones', 'Andrey Korshunov', 'Karl Rohr', 'Holger Erfle', 'Karsten Rippe'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'The microscopic analysis of telomere features provides a wealth of information on the mechanism by which tumor cells maintain their unlimited proliferative potential.  Accordingly, the analysis of telomeres in tissue sections of patient tumor samples provides can be exploited to obtain diagnostic information and to define tumor subgroups. In many instances, however, analysis of the image data is conducted by manual inspection of 2D images at relatively low resolution for only a small part of the sample. As the telomere feature signal distribution is frequently heterogeneous, this approach is prone to a biased selection of the information present in the image and lacks subcellular details. Here we address these issues by using an automated high-resolution imaging and analysis workflow that quantifies individual telomere features on tissue sections for a large number of cells. The approach is particularly suited to assess telomere heterogeneity and low abundant cellular sub-populations with distinct telomere characteristics in a reproducible manner. It comprises the integration of multi-color fluorescence in situ hybridization, immunofluorescence and DNA staining with targeted automated 3D fluorescence microscopy and image analysis. We apply our method to telomeres in glioblastoma and prostate cancer samples, and describe how the imaging data can be used to derive statistically reliable information on telomere length distribution or colocalization with PML nuclear bodies. We anticipate that relating this approach to clinical outcome data will prove to be valuable for pretherapeutic patient stratification.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053132', [], [u'Bioquant Center;', u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ);', u'UKE Hamburg']]
[u'Going down the rabbit hole: a review on how to link genome-wide data with ecology and evolution in natural populations', ['Yann Bourgeois'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Characterizing species history and assessing the nature and extent of local adaptation is crucial in conservation, agronomy, functional ecology and evolutionary biology. The ongoing and constant improvement of next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques has facilitated the production of an increasingly growing amount of genetic markers across genomes of non-model species. The study of variation at these markers across natural populations has deepened the understanding of how population history and selection act on genomes. However, this improvement has come with a burst of analytical tools that can confuse naive users. This confusion can limit the amount of information effectively retrieved from complex genomic datasets. In addition, the lack of a unified analytical pipeline impairs the diffusion of the most recent analytical tools into fields like conservation biology. This requires efforts be made in providing introduction to these methods. In this paper I describe possible analytical protocols and recent methods dealing with analysis of genome-scale datasets, clarify the strategy they use to infer demographic history and selection, and discuss some of their limitations.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052761', [], [u'Basel University']]
[u'Elusive Plasmodium Species Complete the Human Malaria Genome Set', ['Gavin G. Rutledge', 'Ulrike Boehme', 'Mandy Sanders', 'Adam J. Reid', 'Oumou Maiga-Ascofare', 'Abdoulaye A. Djimde', 'Tobias O. Apinjoh', 'Lucas Amenga-Etego', 'Magnus Manske', 'John W. Barnwell', 'Francois Renaud', 'Benjamin Ollomo', 'Franck Prugnolle', 'Nicholas M. Anstey', 'Sarah Auburn', 'Ric N. Price', 'James S. McCarthy', 'Dominic P. Kwiatkowski', 'Chris I. Newbold', 'Matthew Berriman', 'Thomas D. Otto'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Despite the huge international endeavor to understand the genomic basis of malaria biology, there remains a lack of information about two human-infective species: Plasmodium malariae and P. ovale. The former is prevalent across all malaria endemic regions and able to recrudesce decades after the initial infection. The latter is a dormant stage hypnozoite-forming species, similar to P. vivax. Here we present the newly assembled reference genomes of both species, thereby completing the set of all human-infective Plasmodium species. We show that the P. malariae genome is markedly different to other Plasmodium genomes and relate this to its unique biology. Using additional draft genome assemblies, we confirm that P. ovale consists of two cryptic species that may have diverged millions of years ago. These genome sequences provide a useful resource to study the genetic basis of human-infectivity in Plasmodium species.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052696', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Malaria Research and Training Center, University of Science, Techniques, and Technologies of Bamako;', u'University of Buea;', u'Navrongo Health Research Centre;', u'Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;', u'Laboratoire MIVEGEC (UM1-CNRS-IRD);', u'Centre International de Recherches medicales de Franceville;', u'Global and Tropical Health Division, Menzies School of Health Research and Charles Darwin University;', u'Clinical Tropical Medicine Laboratory, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, University of Quee;', u'Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford']]
[u'Refining the role of de novo protein truncating variants in neurodevelopmental disorders using population reference samples', ['Jack Kosmicki', 'Kaitlin Samocha', 'Daniel Howrigan', 'Stephan Sanders', 'Kamil Slowikowski', 'Monkol Lek', 'Konrad Karczewski', 'David Cutler', 'Bernie Devlin', 'Kathryn Roeder', 'Joseph Buxbaum', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Daniel MacArthur', 'Dennis Wall', 'Elise Robinson', 'Mark Daly'], u'May 12, 2016.', u"Recent research has established the significant role of newly arising (de novo) variation in neurodevelopmental disorders.  Using aggregated data from 5603 families affected by ASD, intellectual disability (ID), or developmental delay (DD), we show that overall ~1/3 of de novo variants are independently observed as standing variation in the Exome Aggregation Consortium's (ExAC) cohort of 60,706 adults without severe neurodevelopmental disease, and that these de novo variants do not contribute substantively to neurodevelopmental risk.  We further use a loss-of-function intolerance metric derived from ExAC to identify a small subset of genes that contain the entire signal of associated de novo protein truncating variants (PTVs) in neurodevelopmental disorders (ASD: rate ratio (RR) = 3.24, P < 10-16; ID/DD: RR = 6.70, P < 10-38).  These same genes carry a moderate excess of PTVs inherited by individuals with ASD from their unaffected parents (RR = 1.16, P = 0.00985), and a larger excess in 404 ASD cases and 3654 controls (OR = 2.66; P = 6.34 x 10-19), with again no association seen outside these genes.  These findings illustrate the importance of population-based cohorts as reference samples for the interpretation of candidate pathogenic variants, even for the analysis of de novo variation.", u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052886', [], [u'Harvard University;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Emory University School of Medicine;', u'University of Pittsburgh;', u'Carnegie Mellon;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Seed size drives species diversification across angiosperms', ['Javier Igea', 'Eleanor F Miller', 'Alexander ST Papadopulos', 'Andrew J Tanentzap'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Species diversity varies greatly across the different taxonomic groups that comprise the Tree of Life (ToL). This imbalance is particularly conspicuous within angiosperms, but is largely unexplained. Seed mass is one factor that may help some lineages diversify more than others by influencing key life history traits, such as dispersal, colonisation, environmental tolerance and reproductive success. However, the extent and direction of these effects have not been assessed across the angiosperm ToL. Here, we show for the first time that absolute seed size and the rate of change in seed size are both associated with variation in diversification rates. Based on an unequalled phylogenetic tree that included 4105 angiosperm genera, we found that smaller-seeded plants had higher rates of diversification, possibly due to improved colonisation potential. The rate of phenotypic change in seed size was also strongly positively correlated with speciation rates, supporting emerging evidence that rapid morphological change is associated with species divergence. Our study now reveals that variation in morphological traits, as well as the rate at which traits evolve, contribute significantly to the extremely uneven distribution of diversity across the ToL.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053116', [], [u'Dept of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge;', u'Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew']]
[u'Predictability and hierarchy in Drosophila behavior', ['Gordon J Berman', 'William Bialek', 'Joshua W Shaevitz'], u'May 12, 2016.', u"Even the simplest of animals exhibit behavioral sequences with complex temporal dynamics.  Prominent amongst the proposed organizing principles for these dynamics has been the idea of a hierarchy, wherein the movements an animal makes can be understood as a set of nested sub-clusters. Although this type of organization holds potential advantages in terms of motion control and neural circuitry, measurements demonstrating this for an animal's entire behavioral repertoire have been limited in scope and temporal complexity. Here, we use a recently developed unsupervised technique to discover and track the occurrence of all  stereotyped behaviors performed by fruit flies moving in a shallow arena.  Calculating the optimally predictive representation of the fly's future behaviors, we show that fly behavior exhibits multiple time scales and is organized into a hierarchical structure that is indicative of its underlying behavioral programs and its changing internal states.", u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052928', [], [u'Emory University;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'search.bioPreprint: a discovery tool for cutting edge, preprint biomedical research articles', ['Carrie L Iwema', 'John LaDue', 'Angela Zack', 'Ansuman Chattopadhyay'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'The time it takes for a completed manuscript to be published traditionally can be extremely lengthy. Article publication delay, which occurs in part due to constraints associated with peer review, can prevent the timely dissemination of critical and actionable data associated with new information on rare diseases or developing health concerns such as Zika virus.  Preprint servers are open access online repositories housing preprint research articles that enable authors (1) to make their research immediately and freely available and (2) to receive commentary and peer review prior to journal submission.  There is a growing movement of preprint advocates aiming to change the current journal publication and peer review system, proposing that preprints catalyze biomedical discovery, support career advancement, and improve scientific communication.  While the number of articles submitted to and hosted by preprint servers are gradually increasing, there has been no simple way to identify biomedical research published in a preprint format, as they are not typically indexed and are only discoverable by directly searching the specific preprint server websites.  To address this issue, we created a search engine that quickly compiles preprints from disparate host repositories and provides a one-stop search solution.  Additionally, we developed a web application that bolsters the discovery of preprints by enabling each and every word or phrase appearing on any website to be integrated with articles from preprint servers.  The bioPreprint search engine is  publicly available at http://www.hsls.pitt.edu/resources/preprint.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052563', [], [u'Health Sciences Library System, University of Pittsburgh, 200 Scaife Hall, Pittsburgh, PA']]
[u'Shared effect modeling reveals that a fraction of autoimmune disease associations are consistent with eQTLs in three immune cell types', ['Sung Chun', 'Alexandra Casparino', 'Nikolaos Patsopoulos', 'Damien Croteau-Chonka', 'Benjamin Raby', 'Philip De Jager', 'Shamil Sunyaev', 'Chris Cotsapas'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'The majority of autoimmune disease risk effects identified by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) localize to open chromatin with gene regulatory activity. GWAS loci are also enriched for expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), suggesting that most disease risk variants exert their pathological effects by altering gene expression. However, because causal variants are difficult to identify and cis-eQTLs occur frequently, it remains challenging to translate this bulk observation into specific instances of a disease risk variant driving changes to gene regulation. Here, we use a novel joint likelihood framework with higher resolution than previous methods to identify loci where disease risk and an eQTL are driven by a single, shared genetic effect as opposed to distinct effects in close proximity. We find that\n22 approximately 25% of autoimmune disease loci harbor an eQTL driven by the same genetic effect, but the majority of loci do not. Thus, we uncover a fraction of gene regulatory changes as strong mechanistic hypotheses for disease risk.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053165', [], [u"Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'Yale School of Medicine;', u"Brigham & Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'Antibiotic Stress Selects against Cooperation in a Pathogenic Bacterium', ['Marie Vasse', 'Robert Noble', 'Andrei R Akhmetzhanov', 'Clara Torres-Barcelo', 'James Gurney', 'Simon Benateau', 'Claire Gougat-Barbera', 'Oliver Kaltz', 'Michael E Hochberg'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Ecological antagonisms such as predation, parasitism, competition, and abiotic environmental stress play key roles in shaping population biology, in particular by inducing stress responses and selecting for tolerant or resistant phenotypes. Little is known, however, about their impact on social traits, such as the production of public goods. Evolutionary trade-off theory predicts that adaptation to stresses should lessen investments in costly helping behaviours when cooperation does not increase resistance or tolerance, but support for this prediction is scarce. We employed theory and experiments to investigate how ecological antagonism influences social dynamics and resistance evolution in the pathogenic bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We subjected two clones of bacterium to four doses of antibiotics and assessed growth and frequencies of public goods producing and non-producing genotypes. Our results show that abiotic stress selects against public goods production. Specifically, we found that non-producers of costly iron chelating molecules (siderophores) most rapidly increased in frequency under intermediate antibiotic pressure. Moreover, the dominance of non-producers in mixed cultures was associated with higher survival and resistance to antibiotics than in either producer or non-producer monocultures. Mathematical modelling explains this counterintuitive result, and shows how these qualitative patterns are predicted to generalise to many other systems. Our results shed light on the complex interactions between social traits and ecological antagonisms, and in particular the consequences for bacterial social evolution and antibiotic resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053066', [], [u'University of Montpellier;', u'Academia Sinica']]
[u'3D perception of maximum density zone on Ramachandran plots for Zika virus protein structures', ['Mayukh Mukhopadhyay', 'Parama Bhaumik'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'The Ramachandran plot is among the most central concepts in structural biology which uses torsion angles to describe polypeptide and protein conformation. To help visualize the features of high-fidelity Ramachandran plots, it is helpful to look beyond the common two-dimensional psi-phi-plot, which for a large dataset does not serve very well to convey the true nature of the distribution. In particular, when a large subset of the observations is found very narrowly distributed within one small region, this is not well seen in the simple plot because the data points congest one another. Zika Virus (ZIKV) protein databank has been chosen as specimen for analysis. This is because the structure, tropism, and pathogenesis of ZIKV are largely unknown and are the focus of current investigations in an effort to address the need for rapid development of vaccines and therapeutics. After a brief survey on Zika Virus, it is shown that when a dense dataset of ZIKV protein databank is passed through a colour-coded scaled algorithm, a three dimensional plot gets generated which gives a much more compelling impression of the proportions of residues in the different parts of the protein rather than representing it in a normal two dimensional psi-phi plot.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053074', [], [u'Tata Consultancy Services;', u'Jadavpur University']]
[u'Phages rarely encode antibiotic resistance genes: a cautionary tale for virome analysis', ['Francois Enault', 'Arnaud Briet', 'Lea Bouteille', 'Simon Roux', 'Matthew B Sullivan', 'Marie-Agnes Petit'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Antibiotic resistance genes (ARG) are pervasive in gut microbiota, but it remains unclear how often ARG are transferred, particularly to pathogens. Traditionally, ARG spread is attributed to horizontal transfer mediated either by DNA transformation, bacterial conjugation or generalized transduction. However, recent viral metagenome (virome) analyses suggest that ARG are frequently carried by phages, which is inconsistent with the traditional view that phage genomes rarely encode ARG. Here we used exploratory and conservative bioinformatic strategies found in the literature to detect ARG in phage genomes, and experimentally assessed a subset of ARG predicted using exploratory thresholds. ARG abundances in 1,181 phage genomes were vastly over-estimated using exploratory thresholds (421 predicted vs 2 known), due to low similarities and matches to protein unrelated to antibiotic resistance. Consistent with this, 4 ARG predicted using exploratory thresholds were experimentally evaluated and failed to confer antibiotic resistance in Escherichia coli. Re-analysis of available human- or mouse-associated viromes for ARG and their genomic context suggested that bona fide ARG attributed to phages in viromes were previously over-estimated. These findings provide guidance for documentation of ARG  in viromes, and re-assert that ARG are rarely encoded in phages.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053025', [], [u'Clermont University;', u'INRA;', u'The Ohio State University']]
[u'Ecogenomics and biogeochemical impacts of uncultivated globally abundant ocean viruses', ['Simon Roux', 'Jennifer R Brum', 'Bas E. Dutilh', 'Shinichi Sunagawa', 'Melissa B Duhaime', 'Alexander Loy', 'Bonnie T Poulos', 'Natalie Solonenko', 'Elena Lara', 'Julie Poulain', 'Stephane PESANT', 'Stefanie Kandels-Lewis', 'Celine Dimier', 'Marc Picheral', 'Sarah Searson', 'Corinne Cruaud', 'Adriana Alberti', 'Carlos M. M Duarte', 'Josep M M Gasol', 'Dolors Vaque', 'Peer Bork', 'Silvia G Acinas', 'Patrick Wincker', 'Matthew B Sullivan'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Ocean microbes drive global-scale biogeochemical cycling, but do so under constraints imposed by viruses on host community composition, metabolism, and evolutionary trajectories. Due to sampling and cultivation challenges, genome-level viral diversity remains poorly described and grossly understudied in nature such that <1% of observed surface ocean viruses, even those that are abundant and ubiquitous, are \u2032known\u2032. Here we analyze a global map of abundant, double stranded DNA (dsDNA) viruses and viral-encoded auxiliary metabolic genes (AMGs) with genomic and ecological contexts through the Global Ocean Viromes (GOV) dataset, which includes complete genomes and large genomic fragments from both surface and deep ocean viruses sampled during the Tara Oceans and Malaspina research expeditions. A total of 15,222 epi- and mesopelagic viral populations were identified that comprised 867 viral clusters (VCs, approximately genus-level groups). This roughly triples known ocean viral populations, doubles known candidate bacterial and archaeal virus genera, and near-completely samples epipelagic communities at both the population and VC level. Thirty-eight of the 867 VCs were identified as the most impactful dsDNA viral groups in the oceans, as these were locally or globally abundant and accounted together for nearly half of the viral populations in any GOV sample. Most of these were predicted in silico to infect dominant, ecologically relevant microbes, while two thirds of them represent newly described viruses that lacked any cultivated representative. Beyond these taxon-specific ecological observations, we identified 243 viral-encoded AMGs in GOV, only 95 of which were known. Deeper analyses of 4 of these AMGs revealed that abundant viruses directly manipulate sulfur and nitrogen cycling, and do so throughout the epipelagic ocean. Together these data provide a critically-needed organismal catalog and functional context to begin meaningfully integrating viruses into ecosystem models as key players in nutrient cycling and trophic networks.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053090', [], [u'Department of Microbiology, The Ohio State University;', u'Radboud University Medical Centre, Utrecht University, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Vienna, Austrian Polar Research Institute;', u'University of Arizona;', u'Institut de Ci\xe8ncies del Mar (CSIC), Institute of Marine Sciences (CNR-ISMAR);', u'CEA - Institut de G\xe9nomique, Genoscope;', u'PANGAEA, MARUM, University of Bremen;', u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC, Universit\xe9 Paris 06, CNRS, Station Biologique de Roscoff;', u'Sorbonne Universites, UPMC Universite Paris 06, CNRS, Laboratoire d oceanographie de Villefranche;', u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Universit\xe9 Paris 06, CNRS, University of Hawaii;', u'CSIC-UiB, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST);', u'Institut de Ci\xe8ncies del Mar (CSIC);', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Max-Delbr\xfcck-Centre for Molecular Medicine;', u'CEA - Institut de G\xe9nomique, Genoscope, CNRS, Universit\xe9 d Evry, UMR 8030']]
[u'Conceptual Confusion: the case of Epigenetics', ['Angela Oliveira Pisco', "Aymeric Fouquier d'Herouel", 'Sui Huang'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'The observations of phenotypic plasticity have stimulated the revival of \'epigenetics\'. Over the past 70 years the term has come in many colors and flavors, depending on the biological discipline and time period. The meanings span from Waddington\'s "epigenotype" and "epigenetic landscape" to the molecular biologists\'  "epigenetic marks" embodied by DNA methylation and histone modifications. Here we seek to quell the ambiguity of the name. First we place "epigenetic" in the various historical contexts. Then, by presenting the formal concepts of dynamical systems theory we show that the "epigenetic landscape" is more than a metaphor: it has specific mathematical foundations. The latter explains how gene regulatory networks produce multiple attractor states, the self-stabilizing patterns of gene activation across the genome that account for "epigenetic memory". This network dynamics approach replaces the reductionist correspondence of molecular epigenetic modifications with concept of the epigenetic landscape, by providing a concrete and crisp correspondence.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053009', [], [u"King's College London;", u'University of Luxembourg;', u'Institute for Systems Biology']]
[u'Resource limitation reveals a twofold benefit of eusociality', ['Emanuel Fronhofer', 'Juergen Liebig', 'Oliver Mitesser', 'Hans Joachim Poethke'], u'May 12, 2016.', u"Explaining the evolution and maintenance of cooperative breeding or eusociality remains a challenge. Surprisingly, fundamental ecological factors, specifically competition for limited resources and resource variance, are frequently ignored in models of animal sociality. We here develop a mathematical model that includes density-dependent population growth and quantify the influence of cooperative foraging on resource use efficiency. We derive optimal resource sharing strategies, ranging from egalitarian to cooperatively breeding and eusocial groups. We find that, while egalitarian resource sharing is a risk-reducing foraging strategy, eusociality yields additional benefits: like egalitarian strategies, eusocial groups can reduce their members' starvation risk by reducing resource variance. Additionally, eusocial groups increase their reproductive output by increasing intra-group variance in resources allocated to reproduction. This allows reproduction even when resources are so scarce that solitary animals would not be able to reproduce. In a majority of environmental situations and life-histories, this twofold benefit of eusociality increased resource use efficiency and led to supersaturation, that is, to a strong increase in carrying capacity. Supersaturation provides indirect benefits to group members even for low intra-group relatedness and represents one potential explanation for the evolution and maintenance of eusociality and cooperative breeding.", u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053108', [], [u'Eawag: Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology;', u'Arizona State University, School of Life Sciences and Center for Social Dynamics and Complexity;', u'Field Station Fabrikschleichach, University of Wuerzburg']]
[u'Proteasome dysfunction triggers activation of SKN-1A/Nrf1 by the aspartic protease DDI-1.', ['Nicolas J Lehrbach', 'Gary Ruvkun'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Proteasomes are essential for protein homeostasis in eukaryotes. To preserve cellular function, transcription of proteasome subunit genes is induced in response to proteasome dysfunction caused by pathogen attacks or proteasome inhibitor drugs. In Caenorhabditis elegans, this response requires SKN-1, a transcription factor related to mammalian Nrf1/2. Here, we use comprehensive genetic analyses to identify the pathway required for C. elegans to detect proteasome dysfunction and activate SKN-1. Genes required for SKN-1 activation encode regulators of ER traffic, a peptide N-glycanase, and DDI-1, a conserved aspartic protease. DDI-1 expression is induced by proteasome dysfunction, and we show that DDI-1 is required to cleave and activate an ER-associated isoform of SKN-1. Mammalian Nrf1 is also ER-associated and subject to proteolytic cleavage, suggesting a conserved mechanism of proteasome surveillance. Targeting mammalian DDI1 protease could mitigate effects of proteasome dysfunction in aging and protein aggregation disorders, or increase effectiveness of proteasome inhibitor cancer chemotherapies.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/052936', [], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'The cryptic origins of evolutionary novelty: 1,000-fold-faster trophic diversification rates without increased ecological opportunity or hybrid swarm', ['Christopher Herbert Martin'], u'May 12, 2016.', u'Ecological opportunity is frequently proposed as the sole ingredient for adaptive radiation into novel niches. Alternatively, genome-wide hybridization resulting from hybrid swarm may be the trigger.  However, these hypotheses have been difficult to test due to the rarity of comparable control environments lacking adaptive radiations. Here I exploit such a pattern in microendemic radiations of Caribbean pupfishes. I show that a sympatric three-species radiation on San Salvador Island, Bahamas diversified 1,445 times faster than neighboring islands in jaw length due to evolution of a novel scale-eating adaptive zone from a generalist ancestral niche. I then sampled 22 generalist populations on seven neighboring islands and measured morphological diversity, stomach content diversity, dietary isotopic diversity, genetic diversity, lake/island areas, macroalgae richness, and Caribbean-wide patterns of gene flow. None of these standard metrics of ecological opportunity or gene flow were associated with adaptive radiation, except for slight increases in macroalgae richness. Thus, exceptional trophic diversification is highly localized despite myriad generalist populations in comparable environmental and genetic backgrounds. This study provides a strong counterexample to the ecological/hybrid-swarm theories of adaptive radiation and suggests that diversification of novel specialists on a sparse fitness landscape is constrained by more than ecological opportunity and gene flow.', u'/content/early/2016/05/12/053140', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
