[u'Vertical organization of freshwater sediment microbial communities: implications for microbial activities and burial processes', ['Christian Wurzbacher', 'Andrea Fuchs', 'Katrin Attermeyer', 'Katharina Frindte', 'Hans-Peter Grossart', 'Michael Hupfer', 'Peter Casper', 'Michael T Monaghan'], u'June 4, 2016.', u'Microbial activity in lake sediments is essential for cycling of organic matter that continuously sinks from the water column. Its ongoing accumulation and subsequent burial at the sediment surface has unknown implications for the structure and function of microbial communities. We performed a full biogeochemical and microbial community analysis of 4 replicate sediment cores in a clear lake. The 30 cm cores spanned ca. 170 years of accumulation according to 137Cs dating. Simultaneous DNA-metabarcoding of archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes delineated three clusters corresponding to three discrete depths (0-5 cm, 5-14 cm, 14-30 cm). Taxa community structure was partitioned into replacement and richness components, and a fuzzy set analysis was used to determine correlates of each component. The two clusters of the upper sediment (covering the last 70 years) were determined by taxonomic replacement and microbial activity, and the replacement component was correlated with parameters indicative of ongoing biological processes (e.g., protein production). In contrast, the lower cluster was dominated by the richness component correlated with conservative, often historical parameters (e.g., metals). The upper two clusters form an upper horizon termed the "replacement zone" and includes a redox-stratified as well as a transition zone. The lower CO2 and CH4 rich horizon, termed the "depauperate zone", was characterized by taxa impoverishment and a dominance of archaea, frequently found in marine systems. Our study uncovered a highly structured microbial community in yet unexplored freshwater sediments. Based on biogeochemical and microbial characteristics, we here propose a general model of freshwater sediment structure and function.', u'/content/early/2016/06/04/057117', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Gothenburg, Sweden;', u'Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Germany;', u'Uppsala University, Sweden;', u'Bonn University, Germany']]
[u'High selfing capability and low pollinator visitation in the epiphyte Pitcairnia heterophylla (Bromeliaceae) at a Costa Rican cloud forest', ['Luis Diego Rios', 'Alfredo Cascante-Marin'], u'June 4, 2016.', u'Most epiphytic bromeliads exhibit specialized pollination systems likely to promote out-crossing but, at the same time, possess floral traits that promote autonomous selfing. Adaptations that promote selfing in flowering plants with specialized pollination systems have been considered as a mechanism for reproductive assurance. In this paper, we analyzed the breeding system and pollinator visitation rate of the hummingbird-pollinated bromeliad Pitcairnia heterophylla in order to see if they fit such trend. We performed hand pollination experiments, video recording of floral visitors, and recorded floral traits in order to describe the reproductive and pollination system of the studied species in a cloud forest in Costa Rica. Results from the pollination treatments indicated that P. heterophylla is self-compatible (SCIf  = 0.77), capable of autonomous pollination (AFI f = 0.78), and non-agamospermous (AGf  = 0.01). Floral traits, such as scentless red flowers, with tubular corolla and nectar production, suggested ornithophily which was confirmed by the video recording of Lampornis calolaemus (Trochilidae) visiting flowers. However, the visitation rate was low (0.6 visits day-1 per plant) based on 918 hours of video recording using trail cameras. We suggest that the high selfing capability of the studied population of P. heterophylla might be related to the low pollinator visitation rate. If low pollinator visitation is common among hummingbird-pollinated and epiphytic bromeliads, then selfing could be a widespread mechanism to enhance their reproductive success.', u'/content/early/2016/06/04/057109', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Universidad de Costa Rica']]
