[u'Directed Network Discovery with Dynamic Network Modeling', ['Stefano Anzellotti', 'Dorit Kliemann', 'Nir Jacoby', 'Rebecca Saxe'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Cognitive tasks recruit multiple brain regions. Understanding how these regions influence each other (the network structure) is an important\nstep to characterize the neural basis of cognitive processes. Often, limited evidence is available to restrict the range of hypotheses a priori, and techniques that sift efficiently through a large number of possible network structures are needed (network discovery). This article introduces a novel modeling technique for network discovery (Dynamic Network Modeling or DNM) that builds on ideas from Granger Causality and Dynamic Causal Modeling introducing three key changes: 1) regularization is exploited for efficient network discovery, 2) the magnitude and sign of each influence are tested with a random effects model across participants, and 3) variance explained in independent data is used as an absolute (rather than relative) measure of the quality of the network model. In this article, we outline the functioning of DNM and we report an example of its application to the investigation of influences between regions during emotion recognition. Across two experiments, DNM individuates a stable set of\ninfluences between face-selective regions during emotion recognition.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074286', [], [u'MIT;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'A bromodomain-DNA interaction facilitates acetylation-dependent bivalent nucleosome recognition by the BET protein BRDT', ['Thomas CR Miller', 'Bernd Simon', 'Vladimir Rybin', 'Helga Grotsch', 'Sandrine Curtet', 'Saadi Khochbin', 'Teresa Carlomagno', 'Christoph W Muller'], u'September 12, 2016.', u"Bromodomains are critical components of many chromatin modifying/remodeling proteins and are emerging therapeutic targets, yet how they interact with nucleosomes, rather than acetylated peptides, remains unclear. Using BRDT as a model, we characterized how the BET family of bromodomains interacts with site-specifically acetylated nucleosomes. We find that BRDT interacts with nucleosomes through its first (BD1), but not second (BD2) bromodomain, and that acetylated histone recognition by BD1 is complemented by a novel bromodomain-DNA interaction. Simultaneous DNA and histone recognition enhances BRDT's nucleosome binding affinity, specificity, and ability to localize to and compact acetylated chromatin. Conservation of DNA binding in bromodomains of BRD2, BRD3 and BRD4, indicates that bivalent nucleosome recognition is a key feature of these bromodomains and possibly others. Our results elucidate the molecular mechanism of BRDT association with nucleosomes and identify new structural features of BET bromodomains that may be targeted for therapeutic inhibition.", u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074773', [], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL);', u'CNRS UMR 5309, INSERM, U1209;', u'Leibniz University Hannover, Centre for Biomolecular Drug Research']]
[u'A large collection of novel nematode-infecting microsporidia and their diverse interactions with C. elegans and other related nematodes', ['Gaotian Zhang', 'Martin Sachse', 'Marie-Christine Prevost', 'Robert J Luallen', 'Emily Troemel', 'Marie-Anne Felix'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Microsporidia are fungi-related intracellular pathogens that may infect virtually all animals, but are poorly understood. The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has recently become a model host for studying microsporidia through the identification of its natural microsporidian pathogen Nematocida parisii. However, it was unclear how widespread and diverse microsporidia infections are in C. elegans or other related nematodes in the wild. Here we describe the isolation and culture of 47 nematodes with microsporidian infections. N. parisii is found to be the most common microsporidia infecting C. elegans in the wild. In addition, we further describe and name six new species in the Nematocida genus. Our sampling and phylogenetic analysis further identify two subclades that are genetically distinct from Nematocida, and we name them Enteropsectra and Pancytospora. Interestingly, unlike Nematocida, these two genera belong to the main clade of microsporidia that includes human pathogens. All of these microsporidia are horizontally transmitted and most specifically infect intestinal cells, except Pancytospora epiphaga that replicates mostly in the epidermis of its Caenorhabditis host. At the subcellular level in the infected host cell, spores of the novel genus Enteropsectra show a characteristic apical distribution and exit via budding off of the plasma membrane, instead of exiting via exocytosis as spores of Nematocida. Host specificity is broad for some microsporidia, narrow for others: indeed, some microsporidia can infect Oscheius tipulae but not its sister species, and conversely. We also show that N. ausubeli fails to strongly induce in C. elegans the transcription of genes that are induced by other Nematocida species, suggesting it has evolved mechanisms to prevent induction of this host response. Altogether, these newly isolated species illustrate the diversity and ubiquity of microsporidian infections in nematodes, and provide a rich resource to investigate host-parasite coevolution in tractable nematode hosts.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074757', [], [u'Institut de Biologie de Ecole Normale Superieure, CNRS, Inserm, ENS, PSL Research University, 7500;', u'Ultrapole, Institute Pasteur, 75015 Paris, France;', u'University of California at San Diego;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'PRIMA: a gene-centered, RNA-to-protein method for mapping RNA-protein interactions', ['Alex M Tamburino', 'Ebru Kaymak', 'Shaleen Shrestha', 'Amy D Holdorf', 'Sean P Ryder', 'Marian (Albertha) Walhout'], u'September 12, 2016.', u"Interactions between RNA binding protein (RBP) and mRNAs are critical to post-transcriptional gene regulation. Eukaryotic genomes encode thousands of mRNAs and hundreds of RBPs. However, in contrast to interactions between transcription factors (TFs) and DNA, the interactome between RBPs and RNA has been explored for only a small number of proteins and RNAs. This is largely because the focus has been on using 'protein-centered' (RBP-to-RNA) interaction mapping methods that identify the RNAs with which an individual RBP interacts. While powerful, these methods cannot as of yet be applied to the entire RBPome. Moreover, it may be desirable for a researcher to identify the repertoire of RBPs that can interact with an mRNA of interest - in a 'gene-centered' manner, yet few such techniques are available. Here, we present Protein-RNA Interaction Mapping Assay (PRIMA) with which an RNA 'bait' can be tested versus multiple RBP 'preys' in a single experiment. PRIMA is a translation-based assay that examines interactions in the yeast cytoplasm, the cellular location of mRNA translation. We show that PRIMA can be used with small RNA elements, as well as with full-length Caenorhabditis elegans 3'UTRs. PRIMA faithfully recapitulates numerous well-characterized RNA-RBP interactions and also identified novel interactions, some of which were confirmed in vivo. We envision that PRIMA will provide a complementary tool to expand the depth and scale with which the RNA-RBP interactome can be explored.", u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074823', [], [u'University of Massachusetts Medical School']]
[u'Quantifying the extent to which index event biases influence large genetic association studies', ['Hanieh Yaghootkar', 'Michael Bancks', 'Sam Jones', 'Aaron McDaid', 'Robin Beaumont', 'Louise Donnelly', 'Andrew Wood', 'Archie Campbell', 'Jessica Tyrrell', 'Lynne Hocking', 'Marcus Tuke', 'Katherine Ruth', 'Ewan Pearson', 'Anna Murray', 'Rachel Freathy', 'Patricia Munroe', 'Caroline Hayward', 'Colin Palmer', 'Michael Weedon', 'James Pankow', 'Timothy Frayling', 'Zoltan Kutalik'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'As genetic association studies increase in size to 100,000s of individuals, subtle biases may influence conclusions. One possible bias is \u2033index event bias\u2033 (IEB), also called \u2033collider bias\u2033, caused by the stratification by, or enrichment for, disease status when testing associations between gene variants and a disease-associated trait. We first provided a statistical framework for quantifying IEB then identified real examples of IEB in a range of study and analytical designs. We observed evidence of biased associations for some disease alleles and genetic risk scores, even in population-based studies. For example, a genetic risk score consisting of type 2 diabetes variants was associated with lower BMI in 113,203 type 2 diabetes controls from the population based UK Biobank study (-0.010 SDs BMI per allele, P=5E-4), entirely driven by IEB. Three of 11 individual type 2 diabetes risk alleles, and 10 of 25 hypertension alleles were associated with lower BMI at p<0.05 in UK Biobank when analyzing disease free individuals only, of which six hypertension alleles remained associated at p<0.05 after correction for IEB. Our analysis suggested that the associations between CCND2 and TCF7L2 diabetes risk alleles and BMI could (at least partially) be explained by IEB. Variants remaining associated after correction may be pleiotropic and include those in CYP17A1 (allele associated with hypertension risk and lower BMI). In conclusion, IEB may result in false positive or negative associations in very large studies stratified or strongly enriched for/against disease cases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074781', [], [u'University of Exeter;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Lausanne University Hospital;', u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Aberdeen;', u'Queen Mary University of London']]
[u'Fast algorithm for determining orientations using angular correlation functions and Bayesian statistics', ['Lanqing Huang', 'Haiguang Liu'], u'September 12, 2016.', u"Cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) method achieved revolutionary improvement in the past a few years, yet the orientation recovery for each particle remains computational challenging. Orientation determination can be solved using Bayesian approach, through which a model can be constructed to best match a whole set of experimental projections at their 'correct orientations'. Without considering the centering of each particle projection, there are three degrees of freedoms (three Euler angles) that need to be fixed, usually resulting a computational complexity O(n3) where n is the number of discretization for each rotation angle. Here, we propose a method based on Maximum Likelihood approach with angular auto-correlation function of each projection, which is utilized to decouple the determination of three Euler angles to stepwise determination of two Euler angles and the subsequent third angle, the in-plane rotation. This approach reduces computational complexity from O(n3) to O(n2). Using simulation data, the accuracy and speed of the method is compared with the original maximum likelihood approach. We also investigated the impact of noise to the performance of this proposed method.", u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074732', [], [u'Beijing Computational Science Research Center']]
[u'Relating dynamic brain states to dynamic machine states: human and machine solutions to the speech recognition problem', ['Cai Wingfield', 'Li Su', 'Xunying Liu', 'Chao Zhang', 'Philip Woodland', 'Andrew Thwaites', 'Elisabeth Fonteneau', 'William D Marslen-Wilson'], u'September 12, 2016.', u"There is widespread interest in the relationship between the neurobiological systems supporting human cognition and emerging computational systems capable of emulating these capacities. Human speech comprehension, poorly understood as a neurobiological process, is an important case in point. Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) systems with near-human levels of performance are now available, which provide a computationally explicit solution for the recognition of words in continuous speech. This research aims to bridge the gap between speech recognition processes in humans and machines, using novel multivariate techniques to compare incremental 'machine states', generated as the ASR analysis progresses over time, to the incremental 'brain states', measured using combined electro- and magneto-encephalography (EMEG), generated as the same inputs are heard by human listeners. This direct comparison of dynamic human and machine internal states, as they respond to the same incrementally delivered sensory input, revealed a significant correspondence between neural response patterns in human superior temporal cortex and the structural properties of ASR-derived phonetic models. Spatially coherent patches in human temporal cortex responded selectively to individual phonetic features defined on the basis of machine-extracted regularities in the speech to lexicon mapping process. These results demonstrate the feasibility of relating human and ASR solutions to the problem of speech recognition, provide support for a preferred analysis process in terms of articulatory phonetic features, and suggest the potential for further studies relating complex neural computations in human speech comprehension to the rapidly evolving ASR systems that address the same problem domain.", u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074799', [], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge;', u'Department of Systems Engineering and Engineering Management, The Chinese University of Hong Kong;', u'Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Metagenomic sequencing of dung beetle intestinal contents directly detects and identifies mammalian fauna', ['Conrad P.D.T. Gillett', 'Andrew J Johnson', 'Iain Barr', 'Jiri Hulcr'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Summary\n1.\tCost, time, and expertise constraints limit traditional observation-based comprehensive biodiversity assessment. Therefore, surrogate focal taxa representative of wider biodiversity are commonly used as an imperfect "proxy". Contemporary biodiversity assessments are also increasingly benefiting from the combination of high-throughput sequencing and metagenomic methodologies that enable identification of environmental DNA samples. However, there is a need for empirical studies combining the use of surrogate taxa with metagenomic approaches, that promise rapid and efficient biodiversity assessment.\n2.\tWe here tested for the first time the possibility of using the intestinal contents of wild-collected dung beetles (Scarabaeidae) as a source of mammalian DNA, in a metagenomics proof-of-concept approach to directly detect and identify mammals from an area of savanna-scrub in southern Africa.  Dung beetles have been purveyed as an indirect proxy measure of mammalian diversity, owing to their dependence upon vertebrate dung as a food source, and the ease with which they can be comprehensively sampled using simple and repeatable trapping protocols, achievable much faster than vertebrate surveys.\n3.\tFollowing shotgun sequencing of gut content DNA extractions from ten dung beetle species, we used in silico filters to identify mammals by searching the resulting reads against known mammalian mitochondrial DNA from online sequence repositories, matching 546 paired reads to known mitogenomes held in GenBank, and 634 reads to known mammal barcode sequences held in BOLD. Identified mammalian sequences were consistent with wild and domesticated ungulates known from the sampling site, and included blue wildebeest, plains zebra, and domestic cattle and goat. Four dung beetle samples yielded sufficient sequence data to successfully assemble the near-complete mitogenome of blue wildebeest at up to 21 X mean coverage, despite low initial DNA concentrations, unambiguously corroborating identification.\n4.\tIt is conceptually and practically possible to rapidly and economically apply metagenomic techniques in dung beetle gut sequencing to detect the presence of mammals upon whose dung the beetles have fed. Since the approach can be readily scaled up, it may prove to be of practical use as a complement to traditional biodiversity assessment methods, and should be tested in usefulness for detecting rare, endangered or cryptic mammal species.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074849', [], [u'University of Florida;', u'University of East Anglia']]
[u'Annotation and differential analysis of alternative splicing using de novo assembly of RNAseq data', ['Clara Benoit-Pilven', 'Camille Marchet', 'Emilie Chautard', 'Leandro Lima', 'Marie-Pierre Lambert', 'Gustavo Sacomoto', 'Amandine Rey', 'Cyril Bourgeois', 'Didier Auboeuf', 'Vincent Lacroix'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Genome-wide analyses reveal that more than 90% of multi exonic human genes produce at least two transcripts through alternative splicing (AS). Various bioinformatics methods are available to analyze AS from RNAseq data. Most methods start by mapping the reads to an annotated reference genome, but some start by a de novo assembly of the reads. In this paper, we present a systematic comparison of a mapping-first approach (FaRLine) and an assembly-first approach (KisSplice). These two approaches are event-based, as they focus on the regions of the transcripts that vary in their exon content. We applied these methods to an RNAseq dataset from a neuroblastoma SK-N-SH cell line (ENCODE) differentiated or not using retinoic acid. We found that the predictions of the two pipelines overlapped (70% of exon skipping events were common), but with noticeable differences. The assembly-first approach allowed to find more novel variants, including novel unannotated exons and splice sites. It also predicted AS in families of paralog genes. The mapping-first approach allowed to find more lowly expressed splicing variants, and was better in predicting exons overlapping repeated elements. This work demonstrates that annotating AS with a single approach leads to missing a large number of candidates. We further show that these candidates cannot be neglected, since many of them are differentially regulated across conditions, and can be validated experimentally. We therefore advocate for the combine use of both mapping-first and assembly-first approaches for the annotation and differential analysis of AS from RNAseq data.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074807', [], [u'Universite de Lyon, ENS de Lyon, Universite Claude Bernard, CNRS UMR 5239, INSERM U1210, LBMC;', u'IRISA Inria Rennes Bretagne Atlantique CNRS UMR 6074, Universite Rennes 1, GenScale team;', u'Universite de Lyon ; Universite Lyon 1 ; CNRS, UMR5558, LBBE ; INRIA Erable;', u'Universite de Lyon; Universite Lyon 1 ; CNRS, UMR5558, LBBE; INRIA Erable;', u'Universite de Lyon, ENS de Lyon, Universite Lyon 1, CNRS UMR 5239, INSERM U1210, LBMC;', u'Universite de Lyon, ; Universite Lyon 1 ; CNRS, UMR5558, LBBE ; INRIA Erable']]
[u'Universal attenuators and their interactions with feedback loops in gene regulatory networks', ['Dianbo Liu', 'Luca Albergante', 'Timothy Newman'], u'September 12, 2016.', u"Using a combination of mathematical modelling, statistical simulation and large-scale data analysis we study the properties of linear regulatory chains (LRCs) within gene regulatory networks (GRNs). Our modelling indicates that downstream genes embedded within LRCs are highly insulated from the variation in expression of upstream genes, and thus LRCs act as attenuators. This observation implies a progressively weaker functionality of LRCs as their length increases. When analysing the preponderance of LRCs in the GRNs of E. coli K12 and several other organisms, we find that very long LRCs are essentially absent. In both E. coli and M. tuberculosis we find that four-gene LRCs are intimately linked to identical feedback loops that are involved in potentially chaotic stress response, indicating that the dynamics of these potentially destabilising motifs are strongly restrained under homeostatic conditions. The same relationship is observed in a human cancer cell line (K562), and we postulate that four-gene LRCs act as 'universal attenuators'. These findings suggest a role for long LRCs in dampening variation in gene expression, thereby protecting cell identity, and in controlling dramatic shifts in cell-wide gene expression through inhibiting chaos-generating motifs.", u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074716', [], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Dundee;', u'University of Dundee/Institut Curie']]
[u'HDP-Align: Hierarchical Dirichlet Process Clustering for Multiple Peak Alignment of Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry Data.', ['Joe Wandy', 'Ronan Daly', 'Simon Rogers'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Matching peak features across multiple LC-MS runs (alignment) is an integral part of all LC-MS data processing pipelines. Alignment is challenging due to variations in the retention time of peak features across runs and the large number of peak features produced by a single compound in the analyte. In this paper, we propose a Bayesian non-parametric model that aligns peaks via a hierarchical cluster model using both peak mass and retention time. Crucially, this method provides confidence values in the form of posterior probabilities allowing the user to distinguish between aligned peaksets of high and low confidence. The results from our experiments on a diverse set of proteomic, glycomic and metabolomic data show that the proposed model is able to produce alignment results competitive to other widely-used benchmark methods, while at the same time, provide a probabilistic measure of confidence in the alignment results, thus allowing the possibility to trade precision and recall.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074831', [], [u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Chromatin marks govern mutation landscape of cancer at early stage of progression', ['Kyungsik Ha', 'Hong-Gee Kim', 'Hwajin Lee'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Accumulation of somatic mutations over time leads to tissue abnormalities, such as cancer. Somatic mutation rates vary across the genome in a cell-type specific manner, depending on the types of mutation processes1-7. Although recent studies have identified several determinants relevant to the establishment of the cancer mutation landscape8-13, these studies have yet to propose the major time point at which these factors come into play during cancer progression. Here, we analyzed whole genome sequencing data from two different types of precancerous tissues, monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis and Barrett\u2032s esophagus, and their matching cancer types along with 423 epigenetic features from normal tissues to determine the critical time point when chromatin features contribute to the formation of the somatic mutation landscape. Our analyses revealed that a subset of cell-of-origin associated chromatin features can explain more than 80% of the regional mutation variance for both types of precancerous tissues, comparable to the variance explained level for the genomes of matching cancer types. In particular, major significant chromatin features explaining the mutation landscape of Barrett\u2032s esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma were derived from stomach tissues, indicating that mutation landscape establishment occurs mostly after environment-mediated epigenetic changes during gastric metaplasia. Analyses of the genome of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma tissues demonstrated that the proposed time point for mutation landscape establishment of Barrett\u2032s esophagus and esophageal adenocarcinoma were specific to the occurrence of cell-type shift. Thus, our data suggest that the major time point for the mutation landscape establishment dictated by chromatin features is early in the process of cancer progression, and epigenetic changes due to environmental conditions at early stages can dramatically impact the somatic mutation landscape of cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074724', [u'Genomics'], [u'Biomedical Knowledge Engineering Laboratory, School of Dentistry, Seoul National University, Seoul']]
[u'A note on detecting statistical outliers in psychophysical data', ['Pete R Jones'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'This paper considers how best to identify statistical outliers in psychophysical datasets, where the underlying sampling distributions are unknown. Eight methods are described, and each is evaluated using Monte Carlo simulations of a typical psychophysical experiment. The best method is shown to be one based on a measure of absolute-deviation known as Sn. This method is shown to be more accurate than popular heuristics based on standard deviations from the mean, and more robust than non-parametric methods based on interquartile range. Matlab code for computing Sn is included.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074591', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCL Institute of Ophthalmology']]
[u'Graph Theory Approaches for Optimizing Biomedical Data Analysis Using Reproducible Workflows', ['Gaurav Kaushik', 'Sinisa Ivkovic', 'Janko Simonovic', 'Nebojsa Tijanic', 'Brandi Davis-Dusenbery', 'Deniz Kural'], u'September 12, 2016.', u"As biomedical data becomes increasingly easy to generate in large quantities, the methods used to analyze it have proliferated rapidly. However, for the insights gained from these analyses to be meaningful, the analysis methods themselves must be transparent and reproducible. To address this issue, numerous groups have developed workflow standards or specifications that provide a common framework with which to describe a given analysis method. The diversity of methods demands that the specification be robust and flexible to accurately describe a specific biomedical data analysis. However, a powerful specification alone is insufficient to drive reproducible analysis - even the most completely described workflow must also be 'runnable' on diverse architectures. Thus the complete reproducible workflow ecosystem includes one or more well defined workflow definitions or specifications as well as the software components needed to implement these specifications. Such implementations allow adaptation to diverse environments, provide optimizations to workflow execution, improve computing efficiency, and support reproducibility through task logging and provenance. To meet these requirements, we have developed the Rabix Executor, an open-source workflow engine which utilizes graph theory approaches to enable computational optimization of complex, dynamic workflows, and supports reproducibility in biomedical data analysis.", u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074708', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Seven Bridges Genomics']]
[u'Single-cell transcriptome analysis of fish immune cells provides insight into the evolution of vertebrate immunity', ['Santiago J Carmona', 'Sarah A Teichmann', 'Lauren Ferreira', 'Iain C Macaulay', 'Michael J.T. Stubbington', 'Ana Cvejic', 'David Gfeller'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'The immune system of vertebrate species consists of many different cell types that have distinct functional roles and are subject to different evolutionary pressures. Here, we first analysed gene conservation of all major immune cell types in human and mouse. Our results revealed higher gene turnover and faster evolution of trans-membrane proteins in NK cells compared to other immune cell populations, and especially T cells, but similar conservation of nuclear and cytoplasmic protein coding genes. To validate these findings in a distant vertebrate species, we used single-cell RNA-Sequencing of lck:GFP cells in zebrafish to obtain the first transcriptome of specific immune cell types in a non-mammalian species. Unsupervised clustering and single-cell TCR locus reconstruction identified three cell populations, T-cells, a novel type of NK-like cells and a smaller population of myeloid-like cells. Differential expression analysis uncovered new immune cell specific genes, including novel immunoglobulin-like receptors, and neofunctionalization of recently duplicated paralogs. Evolutionary analyses confirmed a higher gene turnover and lower conservation of trans-membrane proteins in NK cells compared to T cells in fish species, suggesting that this is a general property of immune cell types across all vertebrates.', u'/content/early/2016/09/12/074344', [u'Immunology'], [u'Ludwig Center for Cancer Research, University of Lausanne; Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Sanger Institute, EBI Single Cell Genomics Centre;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory European Bioinformatics Institute,;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute; Department of Haematology, University of Cambridge']]
[u'UCHIME2: improved chimera prediction for amplicon sequencing', ['Robert Edgar'], u'September 12, 2016.', u'Amplicon sequencing generates chimeric reads which can cause spurious inferences of biological variation. I describe UCHIME2, an update of the popular UCHIME chimera detection algorithm with new modes optimized for high-resolution biological sequence reconstruction ("denoising") and other applications. I show that chimera frequency correlates inversely with divergence, that error-free chimera prediction from sequence is impossible in principle, and that UCHIME2 achieves higher detection accuracy than previous methods.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074252', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Independent Scientist']]
