[u'Potential energy landscapes reveal the information-theoretic nature of the epigenome', ['Garrett Jenkinson', 'Elisabet Pujadas', 'John Goutsias', 'Andrew P Feinberg'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Epigenetics is defined as genomic modifications carrying information independent of DNA sequence heritable through cell division. In 1940, Waddington coined the term "epigenetic landscape" as a metaphor for pluripotency and differentiation, but epigenetic potential energy landscapes have not yet been rigorously defined. Using well-grounded biological assumptions and principles of statistical physics and information theory, we derive potential energy landscapes from whole genome bisulfite sequencing data that allow us to quantify methylation stochasticity genome-wide and discern epigenetic differences using Shannon\'s entropy and the Jensen-Shannon distance. We discover a "developmental wheel" of germ cell lineages and an association between entropy and chromatin structure. Viewing methylation maintenance as a communications system, we introduce methylation channels and show that higher-order chromatin organization can be predicted from their informational properties. Our results provide a fundamental understanding of the information-theoretic nature of the epigenome and a powerful methodology for studying its role in disease and aging.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059766', [], [u'The Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'RSQ: a statistical method for quantification of isoform-specific structurome using transcriptome-wide structural profiling data', ['Yunfei Wang', 'Zhenyu Xuan', 'Xiaopeng Zhu', 'Ming Sun', 'Yong Chen', 'Michael Q Zhang', 'Min Chen', 'Yiwen Chen', 'Shikui Tu'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'The structure of RNA, which is considered to be a second layer of information alongside the genetic code, provides fundamental insights into the cellular function of both coding and non-coding RNAs. Several high-throughput technologies have been developed to profile transcriptome-wide RNA structures, i.e., the structurome. However, it is challenging to interpret the profiling data because the observed data represent an average over different RNA conformations and isoforms with different abundance. To address this challenge, we developed an RNA structurome quantification method (RSQ) to statistically model the distribution of reads over both isoforms and RNA conformations, and thus provide accurate quantification of the isoform-specific structurome. The quantified RNA structurome enables the comparison of isoform-specific conformations between different conditions, the exploration of RNA conformation variation affected by single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) , and the measurement of RNA accessibility for binding of either small RNAs in RNAi-based assays or RNA binding protein in transcriptional regulation. The model used in our method sheds new light on the potential impact of the RNA structurome on gene regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/043232', [], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Center for Systems Biology, The University of Texas at Dallas;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'The University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson;', u'The University of Texas at Dallas']]
[u'The role of single occupancy effects on integrase dynamics in a cell-free system', ['Georgios Artavanis', 'Victoria Hsiao', 'Clarmyra A Hayes', 'Richard M Murray'], u'June 18, 2016.', u"Phage integrase-based circuits are an alternative approach to relying on transcriptional and translational repression for biomolecular circuits. Previous research has shown that circuits based on integrases can perform a variety of functions, including counters, Boolean logic operators, memory modules and temporal event detectors. It is therefore essential to develop a principled theoretical and experimental framework for the design, implementation and study of such circuits. One of the fundamental questions that such a framework should address concerns the functionality limitations and temporal dynamics of the integrases as regulatory elements. Here, we test the functionality of several large serine integrases from a recently published library in a cell-free transcription-translation (TX-TL) platform. Additionally, we use a combination of experimental data and models to investigate integrase dynamics as a function of enzyme concentration and number of binding sites. \nWe report that sequestration of integrase molecules, either in the form of monomers or dimers, by the integrase's own binding sites dominates integrase dynamics, and that the delay in the activation of the reporter is negatively correlated with integrase plasmid concentration. We have validated our sequestration hypothesis by building a model with MATLAB's SimBiology toolbox, and running simulations with various integrase and binding sites concentrations. The simulation results qualitatively match the experimental results, and offer further insights into the system.", u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059675', [], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Caltech']]
[u'Shedding light on the grey zone of speciation along a continuum of genomic divergence', ['Camille Roux', 'Christelle Fraisse', 'Jonathan Romiguier', 'Yoann Anciaux', 'Nicolas Galtier', 'Nicolas Bierne'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Speciation results from the progressive accumulation of mutations that decrease the probability of mating between parental populations, or reduce the fitness of hybrids - the so-called species barriers. The speciation genomic literature, however, is mainly a collection of case studies, each with its own approach and specificities, such that a global view of the gradual process of evolution from one to two species is currently lacking. Of primary importance is the prevalence of gene flow between diverging entities, which is central in most species concepts, and has been widely discussed in recent years. Here we explore the continuum of speciation thanks to a comparative analysis of genomic data from 61 pairs of populations/species of animals with variable levels of divergence. Gene flow between diverging gene pools is assessed under an Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) framework. We show that the intermediate, "grey zone" of speciation, in which taxonomy is often controversial, spans around one order of magnitude of net molecular divergence, from 0.5% to 4%, irrespective of species life-history traits or ecology. Thanks to appropriate modeling of among-loci variation in genetic drift and introgression rate, we clarify the status of the majority of ambiguous cases and uncover a number of cryptic species. Our framework also allowed to reveal the high incidence in animals of semi-isolated species, when some but not all loci are affected by barriers to gene flow, and highlights the intrinsic difficulty, both statistical and conceptual, of delineating species in the grey zone of speciation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059790', [], [u'Universite de Montpellier;', u'IST']]
[u'Firing patterns of serotonin neurons underlying cognitive flexibility', ['Sara Pinto dos Santos Matias', 'Eran Lottem', 'Guillaume Pierre Dugue', 'Zachary Frank Mainen'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Serotonin is implicated in mood and affective disorders but growing evidence suggests that its core endogenous role may be to promote flexible adaptation to changes in the causal structure of the environment. This stems from two functions of endogenous serotonin activation: inhibiting learned responses that are not currently adaptive and driving plasticity to reconfigure them. These mirror dual functions of dopamine in invigorating reward-related responses and promoting plasticity that reinforces new ones. However, while dopamine neurons are known to be activated by reward prediction errors, consistent with theories of reinforcement learning, the reported firing patterns of serotonin neurons do not accord with any existing theories. Here, we used long-term photometric recordings in mice to study a genetically-defined population of dorsal raphe serotonin neurons whose activity we could link to normal reversal learning. We found that these neurons are activated by both positive and negative prediction errors, thus reporting the kind of surprise signal proposed to promote learning in conditions of uncertainty. Furthermore, by comparing cue responses of serotonin and dopamine neurons we found differences in learning rates that could explain the importance of serotonin in inhibiting perseverative responding. Together, these findings show how the firing patterns of serotonin neurons support a role in cognitive flexibility and suggest a revised model of dopamine-serotonin opponency with potential clinical implications.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059758', [], [u'Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown;', u'Institut de Biologie de la Ecole Normale Superieure']]
[u'ADAR-Independent A-to-I RNA Editing is Generally Adaptive for Sexual Reproduction in Fungi', ['Qinhu Wang', 'Cong Jiang', 'Huiquan Liu', 'Jin-Rong Xu'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'ADAR-mediated A-to-I RNA editing is a well-known RNA modification mechanism in metazoans that can cause nonsynonymous changes leading to amino acid substitutions.  Despite a few cases that are clearly functionally important, the biological significance of most nonsynonymous editing sites in animals remains largely unknown.  Recently, genome-wide A-to-I editing was found to occur mainly in the coding regions and specifically during sexual reproduction in the wheat scab fungus Fusarium graminearum that lacks ADAR orthologs.  In this study, we found that both the frequency and editing level of nonsynonymous editing is significantly higher than those of synonymous editing, suggesting that nonsynonymous editing is generally beneficial and under positive selection in F. graminearum.  We also showed that nonsynonymous editing favorably targets functionally more important and more conserved genes, but at less-conserved sites, indicating that the RNA editing system is adapted to fine turn protein functions by avoiding potentially deleterious editing events.  Furthermore, nonsynonymous editing in F. graminearum was found to be under codon-specific selection and most types of codon changes tend to cause amino acid substitutions with distinct physical-chemical properties and smaller molecular weights, which likely have more profound impact on protein structures and functions.  In addition, we found that the most abundant synonymous editing of leucine codons is adapted to fine turn the protein expression by increasing codon usage bias.  These results clearly show that A-to-I RNA editing in fungi is generally adaptive and recoding RNA editing may play an important role in sexual development in filamentous ascomycetes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059725', [], [u'College of Plant Protection, Northwest A&F University;', u'Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Purdue University']]
[u'The role of evolutionary selection in the dynamics of protein structure evolution', ['Amy I. Gilson', 'Ahmee Marshall-Christensen', 'Jeong-Mo Choi', 'Eugene I. Shakhnovich'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Emergence of new protein structures has proved difficult to trace in nature and engineer in the laboratory. However, one aspect of structure evolution has proved immensely helpful for determining the three-dimensional structure of proteins from their sequences: in the vast majority of cases, proteins that share more than 30% sequence identity have similar structures. Below this mark is the "twilight zone" where proteins may have identical or very different structures. These observations form the foundational intuition behind structure homology modeling. Despite their importance, however, they have never received a comprehensive biophysical justification. Here we show that the onset of the twilight zone is more gradual for proteins with low contact density, a proxy for low thermodynamic stability, than proteins with high contact density. Then we present an analytical model that treats divergent fold evolution as an activated process, in analogy to chemical kinetics, where sequence evolution must overcome thermodynamically unstable evolutionary intermediates to discover new folds. This model explains the existence of a twilight zone and explains why its onset is more abrupt for some classes of proteins than for others. We test the assumptions of the model and characterize the dynamics of fold evolution using evolutionary simulations of model proteins and cell populations. Overall these results show how fundamental biophysical constraints directed evolutionary dynamics leading to the Universe of modern protein structures and sequences.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059741', [], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Enhanced gene expression plasticity as a mechanism of adaptation to a variable environment in a reef-building coral', ['Carly Kenkel', 'Mikhail V Matz'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Local adaptation is ubiquitous, but the molecular mechanisms giving rise to this ecological phenomenon remain largely unknown. A year-long reciprocal transplant of mustard hill coral (Porites astreoides) between a highly environmentally variable inshore habitat and more stable offshore habitat demonstrated that both inshore and offshore populations exhibit elevated growth, protein and lipid content in their home reef environment, indicative of local adaptation. Here, we characterized the genomic basis of this adaptation in both coral hosts and their intracellular algal symbionts (Symbiodinium sp.) using genome-wide gene expression profiling and gene coexpression network analysis. Inshore and offshore coral populations differ primarily in their capacity for gene expression plasticity: upon transplantation to a novel environment inshore corals were able to match expression profiles of the local population significantly better than offshore corals. Furthermore, elevated plasticity in expression of environmental stress response (ESR) genes was adaptive in the inshore environment: it correlated with the least susceptibility to a natural summer bleaching event, whereas higher constitutive ESR gene expression ("frontloading" sensu Barshis et al. 2013) did not. Our results reveal a novel genomic mechanism of resilience to a variable environment, demonstrating that corals are capable of a more diverse molecular response to environmental stress than previously thought.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059667', [u'Genomics'], [u'Australian Institute of Marine Science;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Decoding brain activity using a large-scale probabilistic functional-anatomical atlas of human cognition', ['Timothy N Rubin', 'Oluwasanmi Koyejo', 'Krzysztof J Gorgolewski', 'Michael N Jones', 'Russell A Poldrack', 'Tal Yarkoni'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'A central goal of cognitive neuroscience is to decode human brain activity--i.e., to infer mental processes from observed patterns of whole-brain activation. Previous decoding efforts have focused on classifying brain activity into a small set of discrete cognitive states. To attain maximal utility, a decoding framework must be open-ended, systematic, and context-sensitive--i.e., capable of interpreting numerous brain states, presented in arbitrary combinations, in light of prior information. Here we take steps towards this objective by introducing a Bayesian decoding framework based on a novel topic model---Generalized Correspondence Latent Dirichlet Allocation---that learns latent topics from a database of over 11,000 published fMRI studies. The model produces highly interpretable, spatially-circumscribed topics that enable flexible decoding of whole-brain images. Importantly, the Bayesian nature of the model allows one to "seed" decoder priors with arbitrary images and text--enabling researchers, for the first time, to generative quantitative, context-sensitive interpretations of whole-brain patterns of brain activity.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059618', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Indiana University Bloomington;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Stanford University;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u"'Gap hunting' to identify multimodal distributions of DNA methylation", ['Shan V. Andrews', 'Christine Ladd-Acosta', 'Andrew P. Feinberg', 'Kasper D. Hansen', 'M. Daniele Fallin'], u'June 18, 2016.', u"Background: The Illumina 450K array has been widely used in epigenetic association studies. Current quality-control (QC) pipelines typically remove certain sets of probes, such as those containing a SNP or with multiple mapping locations. An additional set of potentially problematic probes are those with multi-modal DNA methylation (DNAm) distributions characterized by two or more distinct clusters separated by gaps. Data-driven identification of such probes may offer additional insights for downstream analyses. \nResults: We developed a method, termed 'gap hunting', to identify probes showing multi-modal distributions. Among 590 peripheral blood samples from the Study to Explore Early Development, we identified 11,007 'gap probes'. The vast majority (8,763) are likely attributed to an underlying SNP(s) in the probe, although SNP-affected probes exist that do not produce gap signals.  Specific factors predict which SNPs lead to gap signals, including type of nucleotide change, probe type, DNA strand, and overall methylation state. These expected effects are demonstrated in paired genotype and 450k data on the same samples. Gap probes can also serve as a surrogate for the local genetic sequence on a haplotype scale and can be used to adjust for population stratification. \nConclusions: The characteristics of gap probes reflect potentially informative biology. QC pipelines may benefit from an efficient data-driven approach that 'flags' gap probes, rather than filtering such probes, followed by careful interpretation of downstream association analyses. Our results should translate directly to the recently released Illumina 850K EPIC array given the similar chemistry and content design.", u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059659', [u'Genomics'], [u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Analysis of recent and ancestral recombination reveals high-resolution population structure in Streptococcus pneumoniae', ['Rafal Mostowy', 'Nicholas J. Croucher', 'Cheryl P. Andam', 'Jukka Corander', 'William P. Hanage', 'Pekka Marttinen'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Bacterial population genomic analyses rely on identification of genetic recombinations, but growing databases represent a challenge for computational methods to detect these recombinations and interpret sequence ancestry. We introduce a novel algorithm called fastGEAR which identifies major lineages in diverse microbial alignments and recombinations between them. The algorithm can detect not only recent recombinations, but also the ancestral ones affecting entire lineages. Using simulated data, fastGEAR demonstrates outstanding power to detect ancestral recombination events compared to other state-of-the-art methods. The utility is further demonstrated by analysing 616 whole genomes of Streptococcus pneumoniae, providing novel insights into the evolution of recombinogenic bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059642', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'Aalto University']]
[u'Temporal Modulations Reveal Distinct Rhythmic Properties of Speech and Music', ['Nai Ding', 'Aniruddh Patel', 'Lin Chen', 'Henry Butler', 'Cheng Luo', 'David Poeppel'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Speech and music have structured rhythms, but these rhythms are rarely compared empirically. This study, based on large corpora, quantitatively characterizes and compares a major acoustic correlate of spoken and musical rhythms, the slow (0.25- 32 Hz) temporal modulations in sound intensity. We show that the speech modulation spectrum is highly consistent cross 9 languages (including languages with typologically different rhythmic characteristics, such as English, French, and Mandarin Chinese). A different, but similarly consistent modulation spectrum is observed for Western classical music played by 6 different instruments. Western music, including classical music played by single instruments, symphonic, jazz, and rock music, contains more energy than speech in the low modulation frequency range below 4 Hz. The temporal modulations of speech and music show broad but well-separated peaks around 5 and 2 Hz, respectively. These differences in temporal modulations alone, without any spectral details, can discriminate speech and music with high accuracy. Speech and music therefore show distinct and reliable statistical regularities in their temporal modulations that likely facilitate their perceptual analysis and its neural foundations.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059683', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Zhejiang University;', u'Tufts University;', u'New York University']]
[u'Higher stress and immunity responses are associated with higher mortality in reef-building coral exposed to a bacterial challenge', ['Rachel M Wright', 'Carly D. Kenkel', 'Carly E. Dunn', 'Erin N. Shilling', 'Line K. Bay', 'Mikhail V. Matz'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Understanding the drivers of intraspecific variation in susceptibility is essential to manage increasingly frequent coral disease outbreaks. We challenged replicate fragments of eight Acropora millepora genotypes with Vibrio spp. to quantify variation in lesion development and to identify host and coral-associated microbial community properties associated with resistance. While Vibrio spp. remained relatively rare in the microbiome of challenged corals, other stress-associated microbial taxa significantly increased in abundance. Contrary to expectations, higher constitutive immunity and more active immune responses did not confer higher resistance to bacterial challenge. Furthermore, more pronounced gene expression responses to bacterial challenge were associated with higher rather than lower mortality. A newly developed gene expression assay based on two genes related to inflammation and immune responses, deleted in malignant brain tumors 1 and a matrix metalloproteinase, predicted mortality under Vibrio treatment both in the initial experiment and in a validation experiment involving another 20 A. millepora genotypes. Instead of mounting more robust responses, resistant corals were largely unaffected by the bacterial challenge and maintained gene expression signatures of healthier condition, including elevated fluorescent proteins and ribosomal biosynthesis along with diminished ubiquitination. Overall, our results support the view that coral disease and mortality is commonly due to opportunistic pathogens exploiting physiologically compromised hosts rather than specific infections, and show, contrary to the prevailing wisdom, that greater immune responses do not necessarily translate into greater disease resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059444', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'Australian Institute of Marine Science']]
[u'The genetics of an early Neolithic pastoralist from the Zagros, Iran', ['Marcos Gallego Llorente', 'Sarah Connell', 'Eppie R Jones', 'Deborah Merrett', 'Jeonsu Jeon', 'Anders Eriksson', 'Veronika Siska', 'Cristina Gamba', 'Chris Meiklejohn', 'Robert Beyer', 'Sungwon Jeon', 'Yung Sung Cho', 'Michael Hofreiter', 'Jong Bhak', 'Andrea Manica', 'Ron Pinhasi'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'The agricultural transition profoundly changed human societies. We sequenced and analysed the first genome (1.39x) of an early Neolithic woman from Ganj Dareh, in the Zagros Mountains of Iran, a site with early evidence for an economy based on goat herding,ca. 10,000 BP. We show that Western Iran was inhabited by a population genetically most similar to hunter-gatherers from the Caucasus, but distinct from the Neolithic Anatolian people who later brought food production into Europe. The inhabitants of Ganj Dareh made little direct genetic contribution to modern European populations, suggesting they were somewhat isolated from other populations in the region. Runs of homozygosity are of a similar length to those from Neolithic Anatolians, and shorter than those of Caucasus and Western Hunter-Gatherers, suggesting that the inhabitants of Ganj Dareh did not undergo the large population bottleneck suffered by their northern neighbours. While some degree of cultural diffusion between Anatolia, Western Iran and other neighbouring regions is possible, the genetic dissimilarity of early Anatolian farmers and the inhabitants of Ganj Dareh supports a model in which Neolithic societies in these areas were distinct.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059568', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University College Dublin;', u'Simon Fraser University;', u'Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST);', u'University of Winnipeg;', u'University of Potsdam']]
[u'Comparing alternative pipelines for cross-platform microarray gene expression data integration with RNA-seq data in breast cancer', ['Alina Frolova', 'Vladyslav Bondarenko', 'Maria Obolenska'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Background: According to major public repositories statistics an overwhelming majority of the existing and newly uploaded data originates from microarray experiments. Unfortunately, the potential of this data to bring new insights is limited by the effects of individual study-specific biases due to small number of biological samples. Increasing sample size by direct microarray data integration increases the statistical power to obtain a more precise estimate of gene expression in a population of individuals resulting in lower false discovery rates. However, despite numerous recommendations for gene expression data integration, there is a lack of a systematic comparison of different processing approaches aimed to asses microarray platforms diversity and ambiguous probesets to genes correspondence, leading to low number of studies applying integration.\nResults: Here, we investigated five different approaches of the microarrays data processing in comparison with RNA-seq data on breast cancer samples. We aimed to evaluate different probesets annotations as well as different procedures of choosing between probesets mapped to the same gene. We show that pipelines rankings are mostly preserved across Affymetrix and Illumina platforms. BrainArray approach based on updated annotation and redesigned probesets definition and choosing probeset with the maximum average signal across the samples have best correlation with RNA-seq, while averaging probesets signals as well as scoring the quality of probes sequences mapping to the transcripts of the targeted gene have worse correlation. Finally, randomly selecting probeset among probesets mapped to the same gene significantly decreases the correlation with RNA-seq.\nConclusion: We show that methods, which rely on actual probesets signal intensities, are advantageous to methods considering biological characteristics of the probes sequences only and that cross-platform integration of datasets improves correlation with the RNA-seq data. We consider the results obtained in this paper contributive to the integrative analysis as a worthwhile alternative to the classical meta-analysis of the multiple gene expression datasets.\nKeywords: microarray; cross-platform data integration; probesets to genes correspondence; probesets re-annotation; RNA-seq', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059600', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of NASU;', u'Taras Shevchenko National University of Kyiv']]
[u'Meta population modelling of narwhals in East Canada and West Greenland', ['Lars Witting'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'This paper combines the catch allocation model for narwhals in East Canada and West Greenland with Bayesian population modelling of the eight summer aggregations of narwhals in the region. The catch allocation model allocates the catches in different hunting areas and seasons to the different summer aggregations, and the population models analyse the impact of these catches on the population dynamics of the eight narwhal aggregations.\n\nThe population models run from 1970, and the catch allocation model needs population trajectories from 1970 to the present in order to estimate the catches taken from the different summer aggregations during this period. In an initial run it uses linear transitions between the available abundance estimates; but more elaborate population trajectories are estimated by the fit of the population models to the abundance data. The two models are therefore run in an iterative manner until the catch histories that are estimated by the allocation model, and the abundance trajectories that are estimated by the population models, converge between runs.\n\nGiven a converged model and potential future catch options for the different hunts, the model estimates the probabilities of fulfilling management options for eight summer aggregations of narwhals.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059691', [u'Ecology'], [u'Greenland Institute of Natural Resources']]
[u'Complex admixture preceded and followed the extinction of wisent in the wild', ['Karolina Wecek', 'Stefanie Hartmann', 'Johanna L. A. Paijmans', 'Ulrike Taron', 'Georgios Xenikoudakis', 'James A. Cahill', 'Peter D. Heintzman', 'Beth Shapiro', 'Gennady Baryshnikov', 'Aleksei N. Bunevich', 'Jennifer J. Crees', 'Roland Dobosz', 'Ninna Manaserian', 'Henryk Okarma', 'Malgorzata Tokarska', 'Samuel T. Turvey', 'Jan M. Wojcik', 'Waldemar Zyla', 'Jacek M. Szymura', 'Michael Hofreiter', 'Axel Barlow'], u'June 18, 2016.', u"Retracing complex population processes that precede extreme population bottlenecks is often impossible based solely on data from living individuals. Such knowledge, however, can be crucial both to elucidate evolutionary histories and to inform appropriate conservation measures. The wisent (Bison bonasus), Europe's largest terrestrial mammal, represents a species that is exemplary for such a population history. Wisent went extinct in the wild within the last century, largely as a result of anthropogenic factors, but were restored by captive breeding starting from a small group of individuals. We investigate patterns of admixture occurring before and after this extinction using low-coverage genomic data from modern individuals, as well as from four historical samples representing two of the original founding lowland wisent and two individuals of the now extinct Caucasian wisent subspecies. Phylogenetic analysis of genomic blocks returns lowland and Caucasian wisent as reciprocally monophyletic across slightly more than half the genomic alignment. Thus, almost half of the complete genomic alignment contradicts the species tree, which is sufficient for whole genome averages to fail to recover the true population history. We also find evidence of admixture between lowland and Caucasian wisent and also, preceding wisent extinction in the wild, between wisent and the cattle/aurochs lineage. In a modern individual that is descended from both lowland wisent and the last surviving Caucasian wisent bull, we are able to not only detect a significant component of Caucasian wisent ancestry, but also to accurately map likely admixed genomic blocks along each chromosome. Overall, our study shows that the evolution of wisent has been substantially more complex than previously thought. We also establish wisent as an exemplary taxon for the study of admixture in wild populations.", u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059527', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Comparative Anatomy, Institute of Zoology, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland;', u'Institute for Biochemistry and Biology, University of Potsdam, Potsdam, Germany;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA, 95064, USA;', u'University of California Santa Cruz Genomics Institute, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA;', u'Laboratory of Theriology, Zoological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Russia;', u'State National Park, Belovezhskaya Pushcha, Kamieniuki, Belarus;', u"Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London, Regent's Park, London NW1 4RY, UK;", u'Upper Silesian Museum, Bytom, Poland;', u'Institute of Zoology, Armenian National Academy of Sciences, Yerevan, Armenia;', u'Institute of Nature Conservation, Polish Academy of Sciences, Krakow, Poland;', u'Mammal Research Institute, Polish Academy of Sciences, Bia\u0142owieza, Poland']]
[u'Protocol: Genome-scale CRISPR-Cas9 Knockout and Transcriptional Activation Screening', ['Julia Joung', 'Silvana Konermann', 'Jonathan S Gootenberg', 'Omar O Abudayyeh', 'Randall J Platt', 'Mark D Brigham', 'Neville E Sanjana', 'Feng Zhang'], u'June 18, 2016.', u'Forward genetic screens are powerful tools for the unbiased discovery and functional characterization of specific genetic elements associated with a phenotype of interest. Recently, the RNA-guided endonuclease Cas9 from the microbial immune system CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats) has been adapted for genome-scale screening by combining Cas9 with guide RNA libraries. Here we describe a protocol for genome-scale knockout and transcriptional activation screening using the CRISPR-Cas9 system. Custom- or ready-made guide RNA libraries are constructed and packaged into lentivirus for delivery into cells for screening. As each screen is unique, we provide guidelines for determining screening parameters and maintaining sufficient coverage. To validate candidate genes identified from the screen, we further describe strategies for confirming the screening phenotype as well as genetic perturbation through analysis of indel rate and transcriptional activation. Beginning with library design, a genome-scale screen can be completed in 6-10 weeks followed by 3-4 weeks of validation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/18/059626', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Broad Institute; McGovern Institute at MIT']]
