[u'Novel metrics to measure coverage in whole exome sequencing datasets reveal local and global non-uniformity', ['Qingyu Wang', 'Shashikant Cooduvalli', 'Naomi S Altman', 'Santhosh Girirajan'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'Whole Exome Sequencing (WES) is a powerful clinical diagnostic tool for discovering the genetic basis of many diseases. A major shortcoming of WES is uneven coverage of sequence reads over the exome targets contributing to many low coverage regions, which hinders accurate variant calling. In this study, we devised two novel metrics, Cohort Coverage Sparseness (CCS) and Unevenness (UE) Scores for a detailed assessment of the distribution of coverage of sequence reads. Employing these metrics we revealed non-uniformity of coverage in the WES data generated by three different platforms. This non-uniformity of coverage is both local (coverage of a given exon across different platforms) and global (coverage of all exons across the genome in the given platform). The low coverage regions encompassing functionally important genes were often associated with high GC content, repeat elements and segmental duplications. Some of the problems associated with WES are due to extrapolation of technologies primarily designed for Whole Genome Sequencing platforms. Further refinements in these technologies have potential to enhance the clinical applications of WES platforms.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051888', [], [u'Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Meta-analysis reveals pathway signature of Septic Shock', ['Samanwoy Mukhopadhyay', 'Abhaydeep Pandey', 'Pravat Thatoi', 'Bidyut K Das', 'Balachandran Ravindran', 'Samsiddhi Bhattacharjee', 'Saroj Kant Mohapatra'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'Background: Septic shock is a major medical problem with high morbidity and mortality and incompletely understood biology. Availability of genome-wide expression data from different studies on septic shock empowers the quest for hitherto unidentified pathways by integration and meta-analysis of multiple data sets.\nMethods: Electronic search was performed on medical literature and gene expression databases. Selection of studies was based on the organism (human subjects), tissue of origin (circulating leukocytes) and the platform technology (gene expression microarray). Gene-level meta-analysis was conducted on the six selected studies to identify the genes consistently differentially expressed in septic shock. These genes were then subjected to pathway analysis.\nResults: The identified up-regulated pathway hsa04380 (Osteoclast Differentiation) was validated in an independent cohort of patients. A simplified model was generated showing the major gene-modules dysregulated in SS.\nConclusions: In the light of this finding, altered osteoclast differentiation in septic shock deserves greater attention.\nKeywords: Septic Shock; Genome-wide Gene Expression; hsa04380; Osteoclast differentiation; Meta-analysis; Pathway Analysis', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051706', [], [u'National Institute of Biomedical Genomics;', u'SCB Medical College, Cuttack, Odisha;', u'Institute of Life Sciences']]
[u'Maximum intrinsic rate of population increase in sharks, rays, and chimaeras: the importance of survival to maturity', ['Sebastian A. Pardo', 'Holly K. Kindsvater', 'John D. Reynolds', 'Nicholas K. Dulvy'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'The maximum intrinsic rate of population increase rmax is a commonly estimated demographic parameter used in assessments of extinction risk. In teleosts, rmax can be calculated using an estimate of spawners per spawner, but for chondrichthyans, most studies have used annual reproductive output b instead. This is problematic as it effectively assumes all juveniles survive to maturity. Here, we propose an updated rmax equation that uses a simple mortality estimator which also accounts for survival to maturity: the reciprocal of average lifespan. For 94 chondrichthyans, we now estimate that rmax values are on average 10% lower than previously published. Our updated rmax estimates are lower than previously published for species that mature later relative to maximum age and those with high annual fecundity. The most extreme discrepancies in rmax values occur in species with low age at maturity and low annual reproductive output. Our results indicate that chondrichthyans that mature relatively later in life, and to a lesser extent those that are highly fecund, are less resilient to fishing than previously thought.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051482', [], [u'Simon Fraser University;', u'Rutgers University']]
[u'Shear-induced nitric oxide production by endothelial cells', ['Krishna Sriram', 'Justin G. Laughlin', 'Padmini Rangamani', 'Daniel M. Tartakovsky'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'We present a biochemical model of the wall shear stress (WSS)-induced activation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in an endothelial cell (EC). The model includes three key mechanotransducers: mechanosensing ion channels, integrins and G-protein-coupled receptors. The reaction cascade consists of two interconnected parts. The first is rapid activation of calcium, which results in  formation of calcium-calmodulin complexes, followed by recruitment of eNOS from caveolae. The second is phosphoryaltion of eNOS by protein kinases PKC and AKT. The model also includes a negative feedback loop due to  inhibition of calcium influx into the cell by cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). In this feedback, increased nitric oxide (NO) levels cause an increase in cGMP levels, so that cGMP inhibition of calcium influx can limit NO production. The model was used to predict the dynamics of NO production by an EC subjected to a step increase of WSS from zero to a finite physiologically relevant value. Among several experimentally observed features, the model predicts a highly nonlinear, biphasic transient behavior of eNOS activation and NO production: a rapid initial activation due to the very rapid influx of calcium into the cytosol (occurring within 1 to 5 minutes) is followed by a sustained period of activation due to protein kinases.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051946', [], [u'UCSD']]
[u'A novel homology-based algorithm for the identification of physically linked clusters of paralogous genes', ['Juan F Ortiz', 'Antonis Rokas'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'Highly diverse phenotypic traits are often encoded by clusters of gene paralogs that are physically linked on chromosomes. Examples include olfactory receptor gene clusters involved in the recognition of diverse odors, defensin and phospholipase gene clusters involved in snake venoms, and Hox gene clusters involved in morphological diversity. Historically, gene clusters have been identified subjectively as genomic neighborhoods containing several paralogs, however, their genomic arrangements are often highly variable with respect to gene number, intergenic distance, and synteny. For example, the prolactin gene cluster shows variation in paralogous gene number, order and intergenic distance across mammals, whereas animal Hox gene clusters are often broken into sub-clusters of different sizes. A lack of formal definition for clusters of gene paralogs does not only hamper the study of their evolutionary dynamics, but also the discovery of novel ones in the exponentially growing body of genomic data. To address this gap, we developed a novel homology-based algorithm, CGPFinder, which formalizes and automates the identification of clusters of gene paralogs (CGPs) by examining the physical distribution of individual gene members of families of paralogous genes across chromosomes. Application of CGPFinder to diverse mammalian genomes accurately identified CGPs for many well-known gene clusters in the human and mouse genomes (e.g., Hox, protocadherin, Siglec, and beta-globin gene clusters) as well as for 20 other mammalian genomes. Differences were due to the exclusion of non-homologous genes that have historically been considered parts of specific gene clusters, the inclusion or absence of one or more genes between the CGPs and their corresponding gene clusters, and the splitting of certain gene clusters into distinct CGPs. Finally, examination of human genes showing tissue-specific enhancement of their expression by CGPFinder identified members of several well-known gene clusters (e.g., cytochrome P450, aquaporins, and olfactory receptors) and revealed that they were unequally distributed across tissues. By formalizing and automating the identification of CGPs and of genes that are members of CGPs, CGPFinder will facilitate furthering our understanding of the evolutionary dynamics of genomic neighborhoods containing CGPs, their functional implications, and how they are associated with phenotypic diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051953', [], [u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Separating spandrels from phenotypic targets of selection in adaptive molecular evolution', ['Stevan A Springer', 'Michael Manhart', 'Alexandre V Morozov'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'There are many examples of adaptive molecular evolution in natural populations, but there is no existing method to verify which phenotypic changes were directly targeted by selection. The problem is that correlations between traits make it difficult to distinguish between direct and indirect selection. A phenotype is a direct target of selection when that trait in particular was shaped by selection to better perform a function. An indirect target of selection, also known as an evolutionary spandrel, is a phenotype that changes only because it is correlated with another trait under direct selection. Studies that mutate genes and examine the phenotypic consequences are increasingly common, and these experiments could estimate the mutational accessibility of the phenotypic changes that arise during an instance of adaptive molecular evolution. Under indirect selection, we expect phenotypes to evolve toward states that are more accessible by mutation. Deviation from this null expectation (evolution toward a phenotypic state rarely produced by mutation) would be compelling evidence of adaptation, and could be used to distinguish direct selection from indirect selection on correlated traits. To be practical, this molecular test of adaptation requires phenotypic differences that are caused by changes in a small number of genes. These kinds of genetically simple traits have been observed in many empirical studies of adaptive evolution. Here we describe how to use mutational accessibility to separate spandrels from direct targets of selection and thus verify adaptive hypotheses for phenotypes that evolve by adaptive molecular changes at one or a few genes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051862', [], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'Harvard University;', u'Rutgers University']]
[u'From epigenetic landscape to phenotypic fitness landscape: evolutionary effect of pathogens on host traits', ['Jomar F. Rabajante', 'Mark Jayson V. Cortez', 'Jerrold M. Tubay', 'Ariel L. Babierra'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'The epigenetic landscape illustrates how cells differentiate into different types through the control of gene regulatory networks. Numerous studies have investigated epigenetic gene regulation but there are limited studies on how the epigenetic landscape and the presence of pathogens influence the evolution of host traits. Here we formulate a multistable decision-switch model involving many possible phenotypes with the antagonistic influence of parasitism. As expected, pathogens can drive dominant (common) phenotypes to become inferior, such as through negative frequency-dependent selection. Furthermore, novel predictions of our model show that parasitism can steer the dynamics of phenotype specification from multistable equilibrium convergence to oscillations. This oscillatory behavior could explain pathogen-mediated epimutations and excessive phenotypic plasticity. The Red Queen dynamics also occur in certain parameter space of the model, which demonstrates winnerless cyclic phenotype-switching in hosts and in pathogens. The results of our simulations elucidate how epigenetic landscape is associated with the phenotypic fitness landscape and how parasitism facilitates non-genetic phenotypic diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051904', [], [u'Institute of Mathematical Sciences and Physics, University of the Philippines Los Banos']]
[u'Estimating effective population size from temporal allele frequency changes in experimental evolution', ['Agnes Jonas', 'Thomas Taus', 'Carolin Kosiol', 'Christian Schlotterer', 'Andreas Futschik'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'The effective population size (Ne) is a major factor determining allele frequency changes in natural and experimental populations. Temporal methods provide a powerful and simple approach to estimate short-term Ne. They use allele frequency shifts between temporal samples to calculate the standardized variance, which is directly related to Ne. Here we focus on experimental evolution studies that often rely on repeated sequencing of samples in pools (Pool-Seq). Pool-Seq is cost-effective and outperforms individual-based sequencing in estimating allele frequencies, but it is associated with atypical sampling properties:  additional to sampling individuals, sequencing DNA in pools leads to a second round of sampling increasing the estimated allele frequency variance. We propose a new estimator of Ne, which relies on allele frequency changes in temporal data and corrects for the variance in both sampling steps. In simulations, we obtain accurate Ne estimates, as long as the drift variance is not too small compared to the sampling and sequencing variance. In addition to genome-wide Ne estimates, we extend our method using a recursive partitioning approach to estimate Ne locally along the chromosome. Since type I error is accounted for, our method permits the identification of genomic regions that differ significantly in Ne. We present an application to Pool-Seq data from experimental evolution with Drosophila, and provide recommendations for whole-genome data. The estimator is computationally efficient and available as an R-package at https://github.com/ThomasTaus/Nest.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051854', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institut f\xfcr Populationsgenetik Vetmeduni Vienna;', u'Johannes Kepler Universit\xe4t Linz']]
[u'A signature of neural coding at human perceptual limits', ['Paul Bays'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'Simple visual features, such as orientation, are thought to be represented in the spiking of visual neurons using population codes. I show that optimal decoding of such activity predicts characteristic deviations from the normal distribution of errors at low gains. Examining human perception of orientation stimuli, I show that these predicted deviations are present at near-threshold levels of contrast. As well as varying in error magnitude, perceptual judgments differ in certainty about what was seen. I demonstrate that variations in the total spiking activity of a neural population can account for the empirical relationship between subjective confidence and precision. These results establish population coding and decoding as the neural basis of perception and perceptual confidence.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051714', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Genetic evidence for natural selection in humans in the contemporary United States', ['Jonathan Beauchamp'], u'May 5, 2016.', u"Recent findings from molecular genetics now make it possible to test directly for natural selection by analyzing whether genetic variants associated with various phenotypes have been under selection. I leverage these findings to construct polygenic scores that use individuals' genotypes to predict their body mass index, educational attainment (EA), glucose concentration, height, schizophrenia, total cholesterol, and (in females) age at menarche. I then examine associations between these scores and fitness to test whether natural selection has been occurring. My study sample includes individuals of European ancestry born between 1931 and 1953 in the Health and Retirement Study, a representative study of the US population. My results imply that natural selection has been slowly favoring lower EA in both females and males, and are suggestive that natural selection may have favored a higher age at menarche in females. For EA, my estimates imply a rate of selection of about -1.5 months of education per generation (which pales in comparison with the increases in EA observed in contemporary times). Though they cannot be projected over more than one generation, my results provide additional evidence that humans are still evolving--albeit slowly, especially when compared to the rapid secular changes that have occurred over the past few generations due to cultural and environmental factors.", u'/content/early/2016/05/05/037929', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Bracken: Estimating species abundance in metagenomics data', ['Jennifer Lu', 'Florian P Breitwieser', 'Peter Thielen', 'Steven L Salzberg'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'We describe a new, highly accurate statistical method that computes the abundance of species in DNA sequences from a metagenomics sample. Bracken (Bayesian Reestimation of Abundance after Classification with KrakEN) uses the taxonomy labels assigned by Kraken, a highly accurate metagenomics classification algorithm, to estimate the number of reads originating from each species present in a sample. Kraken classifies reads to the best matching location in the taxonomic tree, but does not estimate abundances of species. We use the Kraken database itself to derive probabilities that describe how much sequence from each genome is shared with other genomes in the database, and combine this information with the assignments for a particular sample to estimate abundance at the species level, the genus level, or above. Combined with the Kraken classifier, Bracken produces accurate species- and genus-level abundance estimates even when a sample contains multiple near-identical species.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051813', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine']]
[u'Consensus Phylogenetic trees of Fifteen Prokaryotic Aminoacyl-tRNA Synthetase Polypeptides based on Euclidean Geometry of All-Pairs Distances and Concatenation', ['Rhishikesh R Bargaje', 'Milner Kumar', 'Sohan P Modak'], u'May 5, 2016.', u"Background\nMost molecular phylogenetic trees depict the relative closeness or the extent of similarity among a set of taxa based on comparison of sequences of homologous genes or proteins. Since the tree topology for individual monogenic traits varies among the same set of organisms and does not overlap taxonomic hierarchy, hence there is a need to generate multidimensional phylogenetic trees. \nResults\nPhylogenetic trees were constructed for 119 prokaryotes representing 2 phyla under Archaea and 11 phyla under Bacteria after comparing multiple sequence alignments for 15 different aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase polypeptides. The topology of Neighbor Joining (NJ) trees for individual tRNA synthetase polypeptides varied substantially. We use Euclidean geometry to estimate all-pairs distances in order to construct phylogenetic trees. Further, we used a novel 'Taxonomic fidelity' algorithm to estimate clade by clade similarity between the phylogenetic tree and the taxonomic tree. We find that, as compared to trees for individual tRNA synthetase polypeptides and rDNA sequences, the topology of our Euclidean tree and that for aligned and concatenated sequences of 15 proteins are closer to the taxonomic trees and offer the best consensus. We have also aligned sequences after concatenation, and find that by changing the order of sequence joining prior to alignment,  the tree topologies vary. In contrast, changing the types of polypeptides in the grouping for Euclidean trees does not affect the tree topologies. \nConclusions\nWe show that a consensus phylogenetic tree of 15 polypeptides from 14 aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases for 119 prokaryotes using Euclidean geometry exhibits better taxonomic fidelity than trees for individual tRNA synthetase polypeptides as well as 16S rDNA. We have also examined Euclidean N-dimensional trees for 15 tRNA synthetase polypeptides which give the same topology as that constructed after amalgamating 3-dimensional Euclidean trees for groups of 3 polypeptides. Euclidean N-dimensional trees offer a reliable future to multi-genic molecular phylogenetics.", u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051623', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Open Vision']]
[u'Lysis, Lysogeny, and Virus-Microbe Ratios', ['Joshua Weitz', 'Stephen J Beckett', 'Jennifer R Brum', 'B. B. Cael', 'Jonathan Dushoff'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'We show that neither the Piggyback-the-Winner model nor coral reef virome data presented in Knowles et al. (Nature, 2016) support a mechanistic link between increases in lysogeny, suppression of lysis, and the decline of the virus-to-microbial cell ratio (VMR) at high microbial cell densities across environmental and human-associated systems.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051805', [u'Ecology'], [u'Georgia Tech;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology;', u'The Ohio State University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'McMaster University']]
[u'Methods for High-Throughput Drug Combination Screening and Synergy Scoring', ['Liye He', 'Evgeny Kulesskiy', 'Jani Saarela', 'Laura Turunen', 'Krister Wennerberg', 'Tero Aittokallio', 'Jing Tang'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'Gene products or pathways that are aberrantly activated in cancer but not in normal tissue hold great promises for being effective and safe anticancer therapeutic targets. Many targeted drugs have entered clinical trials but so far showed limited efficacy mostly due to variability in treatment responses and often rapidly emerging resistance. Towards more effective treatment options, we will critically need multi-targeted drugs or drug combinations, which selectively inhibit the cancer cells and block distinct escape mechanisms for the cells to become resistant. Functional profiling of drug combinations requires careful experimental design and robust data analysis approaches. At the Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), we have developed an experimental-computational pipeline for high-throughput screening of drug combination effects in cancer cells. The integration of automated screening techniques with advanced synergy scoring tools allows for efficient and reliable detection of synergistic drug interactions within a specific window of concentrations, hence accelerating the identification of potential drug combinations for further confirmatory studies.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051698', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, Finland']]
[u'Membrane state diagrams make electrophysiological models simple', ['Robert Law', 'Stephanie R Jones'], u'May 5, 2016.', u'Ion channels are ubiquitous in living systems. Through interactions with membrane potential, ion channels both control metabolic events and mediate cell communication. Consequentially, membrane bioelectricity bears on fields ranging from cancer etiology to computational neuroscience. Conductance models have proven successful in quantitatively capturing these dynamics but are often considered difficult, with interpretation relegated to specialists. To facilitate research in membrane dynamics, especially in fields where roles for ion channels are just beginning to be quantified, we must make these models easy to understand.\n\nHere, we show that the membrane differential equation central to conductance models can be understood using simple circular geometry. The membrane state diagrams we construct are compact, faithful representations of conductance model state, designed to look like circular "cells" with currents flowing in and out. Every feature of a membrane state diagram corresponds to a physiological variable, so that insight taken from a diagram can be translated back to the underlying model. The construction is elementary: we convert conductances to angles subtended on the circle and potentials to radii; currents are then areas of the enclosed annular sectors. \n\nOur method clarifies a powerful but prohibitive modeling approach and has the potential for widespread use in both electrophysiological research and pedagogy. We illustrate how membrane state diagrams can augment traditional methods in the stability analysis of voltage equilibria and in depicting the Hodgkin-Huxley action potential, and we use the diagrams to infer the possibility of nontrivial fixed-voltage channel population dynamics by visual inspection rather than linear algebra.', u'/content/early/2016/05/05/051839', [u'Physiology'], [u'Brown University']]
[u'Age differences in brain white matter microstructure in UK Biobank (N = 3,513)', ['Simon R Cox', 'Stuart J Ritchie', 'Elliot M Tucker-Drob', 'David C Liewald', 'Saskia P Hagenaars', 'Gail Davies', 'Joanna M Wardlaw', 'Catharine R Gale', 'Mark E Bastin', 'Ian J Deary'], u'May 4, 2016.', u"Quantifying the microstructural properties of the human brain's connections is necessary for understanding normal ageing and disease states. We examined brain white matter MRI data in 3,513 generally healthy people aged 45-75 years from the UK Biobank sample. Using conventional water diffusion measures and newer, as-yet rarely-studied indices from neurite orientation dispersion and density imaging (NODDI), we document large age differences in white matter microstructure. Mean diffusivity was the most age-sensitive diffusion measure, with negative age associations strongest in the thalamic radiation and association fibres. Inter-individual differences in white matter microstructure across brain tracts become increasingly correlated in older age. This connectivity 'de-differentiation' may reflect an age-related aggregation of systemic detrimental effects on the brain. We report several other novel results, including comparative age associations with volumetric indices and associations with hemisphere and sex. Results from this unusually large, single-scanner sample provide one of the most definitive characterisations to date of age differences in major white matter tracts in the human brain.", u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051771', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Interactions between Nodal and Wnt signalling Drive Robust Symmetry Breaking and Axial Organisation in Gastruloids (Embryonic Organoids)', ['David Andrew Turner', 'Cherise R Glodowski', 'Alonso-Crisostomo Luz', 'Peter Baillie-Johnson', 'Penny C Hayward', 'Jerome Collignon', 'Carsten Gustavsen', 'Palle Serup', 'Christian Schroter', 'Alfonso Martinez Arias'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'Generation of asymmetry within the early embryo is a critical step in the establishment of the three body axes, providing a reference for the patterning of the organism. To study the establishment of asymmetry and the development of the anteroposterior axis (AP) in culture, we utilised our Gastruloid model system. Gastruloids, highly reproducible embryonic organoids formed from aggregates of mouse embryonic stem cells, display symmetry-breaking, polarised gene expression and axial development, mirroring the processes on a time-scale similar to that of the mouse embyro. Using Gastruloids formed from mouse ESCs containing reporters for Wnt, FGF and Nodal signalling, we were able to quantitatively assess the contribution of these signalling pathways to the establishment of asymmetry through single time-point and live-cell fluorescence microscopy.\nDuring the first 24-48h of culture, interactions between the Wnt/\u03b2-Catenin and Nodal/TGF\u03b2 signalling pathways promote the initial symmetry-breaking event, manifested through polarised Brachyury (T/Bra) expression. Neither BMP nor FGF signalling is required for the establishment of asymmetry, however Wnt signalling is essential for the amplification and stability of the initial patterning event. Additionally, low, endogenous levels of FGF (24-48h) has a role in the amplification of the established pattern at later time-points.\nOur results confirm that Gastruloids behave like epiblast cells in the embryo, leading us to translate the processes and signalling involved in pattern formation of Gastruloids in culture to the development of the embryo, firmly establishing Gastruloids as a highly reproducible, robust model system for studying cell fate decisions and early pattern formation in culture.', u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051722', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Institut Jacques Monod;', u'DanStem, University of Copenhagen;', u'Max Plank Institute of Molecular Physiology']]
[u'Chytrid fungi construct actin-rich pseudopods, implicating actin regulators WASP and SCAR in an ancient mode of cell motility', ['Lillian K. Fritz-Laylin', 'Samuel J. Lord', 'R. Dyche Mullins'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'Various cells scattered throughout the eukaryotic tree crawl across surfaces or through three-dimensional environments. Evidence now indicates that cell crawling is not a single behavior, but rather a collection of processes, driven by different molecular mechanisms. Understanding these mechanisms and their evolutionary relationships first requires narrowly defining mechanical modes of locomotion, and then identifying phenotypic and molecular markers of each. Here, we focus on a widely dispersed form of cell crawling characterized by dynamic, actin-filled pseudopods and weak, nonspecific adhesion to external substrates, a mode we refer to as "\u03b1-motility." Finding \u03b1-motility in cells ranging from free-living amoebae to immune cells hints at a single evolutionary origin of this complex process. By mining recently published genomic data, we identified a clear trend: only organisms with both WASP and SCAR/WAVE---two activators of branched actin assembly---make dynamic, three-dimensional pseudopods. While SCAR has been shown in some organisms to be an important driver of pseudopod formation, a role for WASP in this process is less clear. We hypothesize that these genes together represent a genetic signature of \u03b1-motility, and both proteins are used for pseudopod formation. We test our hypothesis by depleting WASP from human neutrophils, and confirm that both proteins are needed for explosive actin polymerization, pseudopod formation, and rapid cell migration. We also found that WASP and SCAR colocalize to the same dynamic signaling structures in living cells. Moreover, genomic retention of WASP together with SCAR also correctly predicts the presence of pseudopods in the disease-causing fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis, making it the first fungus reported to undergo \u03b1-motility. By narrowing our focus to a single mode of cell migration while expanding our phylogenetic analysis to a variety of eukaryotes, we identified WASP together with SCAR as a conserved genetic marker of fast, low-adhesion cell crawling. Our cell-biology experiments argue that this conservation reflects their collaboration in the explosive actin assembly required to build dynamic pseudopods. These results represent the clearest evidence for a widely distributed mode of cell crawling with a single evolutionary origin.', u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051821', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'UCSF']]
[u'Reconstitution of three-phase microtubule polymerisation dynamics', ['Takashi Moriwaki', 'Gohta Goshima'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'Cytoplasmic microtubules (MTs) undergo growth, shrinkage, and pausing. However, how MT polymerisation cycles are produced and spatiotemporally regulated at a molecular level is unclear, as the entire cycle has not been recapitulated in vitro with defined components. In this study, we reconstituted dynamic MT plus end behaviour involving all three phases, by mixing tubulin with five Drosophila proteins, EB1, XMAP215Msps, Sentin, kinesin-13Klp10A, and CLASPMast/Orbit. When singly mixed with tubulin, CLASPMast/Orbit strongly inhibited MT catastrophe and reduced the growth rate. However, in the presence of the other four factors, CLASPMast/Orbit acted as an inducer of pausing. The mitotic kinase Plk1Polo modulated the activity of CLASPMast/Orbit and kinesin-13Klp10A, and increased the dynamic instability of MTs, reminiscent of mitotic cells. These results suggest that five conserved proteins constitute the core factors for creating dynamic MTs in cells, and that Plk1-dependent phosphorylation is a crucial event for switching from the interphase to mitotic mode.', u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051672', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Nagoya University']]
[u'Calcium imaging reveals coordinated simple spike pauses in populations of Cerebellar Purkinje cells', ['Jorge Enrique Ramirez', 'Brandon M Stell'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'The brain\'s control of movement is thought to involve coordinated activity between cerebellar Purkinje cells.  The results reported here demonstrate that somatic calcium imaging is a faithful reporter of sodium-dependent "simple spike" pauses and enables us to optically record changes in firing rates in populations of Purkinje cells.  This simultaneous calcium imaging of populations of Purkinje cells reveals a striking spatial organization of pauses in Purkinje cell activity between neighboring cells.  The source of this organization is shown to be the presynaptic GABAergic network and blocking GABA-A receptors abolishes the synchrony.  These data suggest that presynaptic interneurons synchronize (in)activity between neighboring Purkinje cells and thereby maximize their effect on downstream targets in the deep cerebellar nuclei.', u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051730', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CNRS']]
