[u'Post-selection Inference Following Aggregate Level Hypothesis Testing in Large Scale Genomic Data', ['Ruth Heller', 'Nilanjan Chatterjee', 'Abba Krieger', 'Jianxin Shi'], u'June 11, 2016.', u'In many genomic applications, hypotheses tests are performed by aggregating test-statistics across units within naturally defined classes for powerful identification of signals. Following class-level testing, it is naturally of interest to identify the lower level units which contain true signals.  Testing the individual units within a class without taking into account the fact that the class was selected using an aggregate-level test-statistic, will produce biased inference. We develop a hypothesis testing framework that guarantees control for false positive rates conditional on the fact that the class was selected. Specifically, we develop procedures for calculating unit level p-values that allows rejection of null hypotheses controlling for two types of conditional error rates, one relating to family wise rate and the other relating to false discovery rate. We use simulation studies to illustrate validity and power of the proposed procedure in comparison to several possible alternatives. We illustrate the power of the method in a natural application involving whole-genome expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis across 17 tissue types using data from The Cancer Genome Atlas  (TCGA) Project.', u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058404', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tel-Aviv Universtiy;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'National Cancer Institute']]
[u'Structural changes following the reversal of a Y chromosome to an autosome in \n\nDrosophila pseudoobscura', ['Ching-Ho Chang', 'Amanda M Larracuente'], u'June 11, 2016.', u'Robertsonian translocations resulting in fusions between sex chromosomes and autosomes shape karyotype evolution in animals by creating new sex chromosomes from autosomes. These translocations can also reverse sex chromosomes back into autosomes, which is especially intriguing given that autosomes and sex chromosomes differ in gene regulation and chromatin environment. While researchers are beginning to understand X chromosomes reversals to autosomes at a genomic level, it is difficult to study reversals of Y chromosomes because of their rapid sequence turnover and high repeat content. To gain insight into the genomic events following a Y chromosome reversal, we investigated an autosome-Y translocation in a well-studied and tractable organism, Drosophila pseudoobscura. About 10-15 Mya, the ancestral Y chromosome fused to a small autosome (the dot chromosome) in an ancestor of D. pseudoobscura. We used single molecule real-time sequencing reads to assemble the genic part of the D. pseudoobscura dot chromosome, including this Y-to-dot translocation. We find that the intervening sequence between the ancestral Y and the rest of the dot chromosome is only ~78 Kb and has a low repeat density, suggesting that the centromere now falls outside, rather than between, the fused chromosomes. The Y-to-dot region is 100 times smaller than the D. melanogaster Y chromosome, owing to repeat landscape changes. Previous studies suggest that recurrent selective sweeps favoring shorter introns helped to shrink the Y-to-dot following the translocation. Our results suggest that genetic drift and a small ancestral Y chromosome may also help explain the compact size of the Y-to-dot translocation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058412', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Rochester']]
[u'Exploring the genetic architecture of inflammatory bowel disease by whole genome sequencing identifies association at ADCY7', ['Yang Luo', 'Katrina M de Lange', 'Luke Jostins', 'Loukas Moutsianas', 'Joshua Randall', 'Nicholas A Kennedy', 'Christopher A Lamb', 'Shane McCarthy', 'Tariq Ahmad', 'Cathryn Edwards', 'Eva Goncalves Serra', 'Ailsa Hart', 'Chris Hawkey', 'John C Mansfield', 'Craig Mowat', 'William G Newman', 'Sam Nichols', 'Martin Pollard', 'Jack Satsangi', 'Alison Simmons', 'Mark Tremelling', 'Holm Uhlig', 'David W Wilson', 'James C Lee', 'Natalie J Prescott', 'Charlie W Lees', 'Christopher G Mathew', 'Miles Parkes', 'Jeffrey C Barrett', 'Carl A Anderson'], u'June 11, 2016.', u'In order to further resolve the genetic architecture of the inflammatory bowel diseases, ulcerative colitis and Crohn\u2032s disease, we sequenced the whole genomes of 4,280 patients at low coverage, and compared them to 3,652 previously sequenced population controls across 73.5 million variants. To increase power we imputed from these sequences into new and existing GWAS cohorts, and tested for association at ~12 million variants in a total of 16,432 cases and 18,843 controls. We discovered a 0.6% frequency missense variant in ADCY7 that doubles risk of ulcerative colitis, and offers insight into a new aspect of disease biology. Despite good statistical power, we did not identify any other new low-frequency risk variants, and found that such variants as a class explained little heritability.  We did detect a burden of very rare, damaging missense variants in known Crohn\u2032s disease risk genes, suggesting that more comprehensive sequencing studies will continue to improve our understanding of the biology of complex diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058347', [u'Genetics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics;', u'University of Exeter;', u'Newcastle University;', u'Torbay Hospital;', u"St Mark's Hospital;", u'Queens Medical Centre;', u'Ninewells Hospital and Medical School;', u'Manchester Academic Health Science Centre;', u'Wester General Hospital University of Edinburgh;', u'John Radcliffe Hospital;', u'Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Royal Hospital for Sick Children;', u"Addenbrooke's Hospital;", u"King's College London, Guy's Hospital"]]
[u'Estimating the efficacy of transcranial magnetic stimulation in small animals', ['Lari M Koponen', 'Jaakko O Nieminen', 'Risto J Ilmoniemi'], u'June 11, 2016.', u'The efficacy of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is determined by the magnitude and direction of the induced electric field in the cortex. The electric field distribution is influenced by the conductivity structure, in particular, the size of the head and the shapes of conductivity boundaries. We show that neglecting the head size can result in overestimating the stimulus intensity by a factor of 5-8 in the case of the rat brain. In the current modelling literature, the TMS-induced electric field is estimated with detailed computational simulations; however, in many experimental studies, less attention is paid on modelling. We attempt to bridge this gap by suggesting the use of simple simulations, for example with the spherical head model, when studying bioelectromagnetic phenomena.', u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058271', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Aalto University']]
[u'An ancient fecundability-associated polymorphism switches a repressor into an enhancer of endometrial TAP2 expression', ['Katelyn M. Mika', 'Vincent J. Lynch'], u'June 11, 2016.', u'Variation in female reproductive traits such as fertility, fecundity, and fecundability are heritable in humans, but identifying and functionally characterizing genetic variants associated with these traits has been challenging. Here we explore the functional significance and evolutionary history of a C/T polymorphism of SNP rs2071473, which we have previously shown is an eQTL for TAP2 and significantly associated with fecundability (time to pregnancy). We replicated the association between rs2071473 genotype and TAP2 expression using GTEx data and demonstrate that TAP2 is expressed by decidual stromal cells at the maternal-fetal interface. Next, we show that rs2071473 is located within a progesterone responsive cis-regulatory element that functions as a repressor with the T allele and an enhancer with the C allele. Remarkably, we found this polymorphism arose before the divergence of modern and archaic humans, is segregating at intermediate to high frequencies across human populations, and has genetic signatures of long-term balancing selection. This variant has also previously been identified in GWA studies of immune related disease, suggesting both alleles are maintained due to antagonistic pleiotropy.', u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058388', [u'Genetics'], [u'The University of Chicago']]
