[u'Combining complex networks and data mining: why and how', ['Massimiliano Zanin', 'David Papo', 'Pedro A. Sousa', 'Ernestina Menasalvas', 'Andrea Nicchi', 'Elaine Kubik', 'Stefano Boccaletti'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'The increasing power of computer technology does not dispense with the need to extract meaningful in- formation out of data sets of ever growing size, and indeed typically exacerbates the complexity of this task. To tackle this general problem, two methods have emerged, at chronologically different times, that are now commonly used in the scientific community: data mining and complex network theory. Not only do complex network analysis and data mining share the same general goal, that of extracting information from complex systems to ultimately create a new compact quantifiable representation, but they also often address similar problems too. In the face of that, a surprisingly low number of researchers turn out to resort to both methodologies. One may then be tempted to conclude that these two fields are either largely redundant or totally antithetic. The starting point of this review is that this state of affairs should be put down to contingent rather than conceptual differences, and that these two fields can in fact advantageously be used in a synergistic manner. An overview of both fields is first provided, some fundamental concepts of which are illustrated. A variety of contexts in which complex network theory and data mining have been used in a synergistic manner are then presented. Contexts in which the appropriate integration of complex network metrics can lead to improved classification rates with respect to classical data mining algorithms and, conversely, contexts in which data mining can be used to tackle important issues in complex network theory applications are illustrated. Finally, ways to achieve a tighter integration between complex networks and data mining, and open lines of research are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054064', [], [u'INNAXIS Foundation & Research Institute;', u'Universidad Politecnica de Madrid;', u'Universidade Nova de Lisboa;', u'Universita degli Studi Guglielmo Marconi;', u'Columbia University;', u'CNR- Institute of Complex Systems']]
[u'Scalable Design of Paired CRISPR Guide RNAs for Genomic Deletion', ['Estel Aparicio-Prat', 'Carme Arnan', 'Taisia Polidori', 'Toni Hermoso', 'Emilio Palumbo', 'Julia Ponomarenko', 'Roderic Guigo', 'Rory Johnson'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Using CRISPR/Cas9, diverse genomic elements may be studied in their endogenous context. Pairs of single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) are used to delete regulatory elements and small RNA genes, while longer RNAs can be silenced through promoter deletion. We here present CRISPETa, a bioinformatic pipeline for flexible and scalable paired sgRNA design based on an empirical scoring model. Multiple sgRNA pairs are returned for each target. Any number of targets can be analyzed in parallel, making CRISPETa equally appropriate for studies of individual elements, or complex library screens. Fast run-times are achieved using a precomputed off-target database. sgRNA pair designs are output in a convenient format for visualisation and oligonucleotide ordering. We present a series of pre-designed, high-coverage library designs for entire classes of non-coding elements in human, mouse, zebrafish, Drosophila and C. elegans. Using an improved version of the DECKO deletion vector, together with a quantitative deletion assay, we test CRISPETa designs by deleting an enhancer and exonic fragment of the MALAT1 oncogene. These achieve efficiencies of \u226550%, resulting in production of mutant RNA. CRISPETa will be useful for researchers seeking to harness CRISPR for targeted genomic deletion, in a variety of model organisms, from single-target to high-throughput scales.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/052795', [], [u'CRG']]
[u'Parvalbumin interneuron dysfunction in a thalamus - prefrontal cortex circuit in Disc1 deficiency mice', ['Kristen Delevich', 'Hanna Jaaro-Peled', 'Mario Penzo', 'Akira Sawa', 'Bo Li'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Two of the most consistent findings across disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1 (DISC1) mouse models are impaired working memory and reduced number or function of parvalbumin interneurons within the prefrontal cortex. While these findings suggest parvalbumin interneuron dysfunction in DISC1-related pathophysiology, to date, cortical inhibitory circuit function has not been investigated in depth in DISC1 deficiency mouse models. Here we assessed the function of a feedforward circuit between the mediodorsal thalamus (MD) and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) in mice harboring a deletion in one allele of the Disc1 gene. We found that the inhibitory drive onto layer 3 pyramidal neurons in the mPFC was significantly reduced in the Disc1 deficient mice. This reduced inhibition was accompanied by decreased GABA release from local parvalbumin, but not somatostatin, inhibitory interneurons, and by impaired feedforward inhibition in the MD-mPFC circuit. Our results reveal a cellular mechanism by which deficiency in DISC1 causes neural circuit dysfunction frequently implicated in psychiatric disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054759', [], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine']]
[u'Substoichiometric molecular control and amplification of the initiation and nature of amyloid fibril formation: lessons from and for blood clotting. BioRXiv preprint.', ['Douglas B Kell', 'Etheresia Pretorius'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'The chief and largely terminal element of normal blood clotting is considered to involve the polymerisation of the mainly alpha-helical fibrinogen to fibrin, with a binding mechanism involving "knobs and holes" but with otherwise littl change in protein secondary structure. We recognise, however, that extremely unusual mutations, or mechanical stressing, can cause fibrinogen to adopt a conformation containing extensive beta-sheets. Similarly, prions can change morphology from a largely alpha-helical to a largely beta-sheet conformation, and the latter catalyses both the transition and the self-organising polymerisation of the beta-sheet structures. Many other proteins can do this, where it is known as amyloidogenesis. When fibrin is formed in samples from patients harbouring different diseases it can have widely varying diameters and morphologies. We here develop the idea, and summarise the evidence, that in many cases the anomalous fibrin fibre formation seen in such diseases actually amounts to amyloidogenesis. In particular, fibrin can interact withthe amyloid-beta (Abeta) protein that is misfolded in Alzheimer\'s disease. Seeing these unusual fibrin morphologies as true amyloids explains a great deal about fibrin(ogen) biology that was previously opaque, and provides novel strategies for treating such coagulopathies. The literature on blood clotting can usefully both inform and be informed by that on prions and on the many other widely recognised (beta)-amyloid proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054734', [], [u'The University of Manchester;', u'University of Pretoria']]
[u'C2c2 is a single-component programmable RNA-guided RNA-targeting CRISPR effector', ['Omar O Abudayyeh', 'Jonathan S Gootenberg', 'Silvana Konermann', 'Julia Joung', 'Ian M Slaymaker', 'David BT Cox', 'Sergey Shmakov', 'Kira S Makarova', 'Ekaterina Semenova', 'Leonid Minakhin', 'Konstantin Severinov', 'Aviv Regev', 'Eric S Lander', 'Eugene V Koonin', 'Feng Zhang'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'The CRISPR-Cas adaptive immune system defends microbes against foreign genetic elements via DNA or RNA-DNA interference. We characterize the Class 2 type VI-A CRISPR-Cas effector C2c2 and demonstrate its RNA-guided RNase function. C2c2 from the bacterium Leptotrichia shahii provides interference against RNA phage. In vitro biochemical analysis show that C2c2 is guided by a single crRNA and can be programmed to cleave ssRNA targets carrying complementary protospacers. In bacteria, C2c2 can be programmed to knock down specific mRNAs. Cleavage is mediated by catalytic residues in the two conserved HEPN domains, mutations in which generate catalytically inactive RNA-binding proteins. These results broaden our understanding of CRISPR-Cas systems and suggest that C2c2 can be used to develop new RNA-targeting tools.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054742', [], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Rutgers University;', u'Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; McGovern Institute for Brain Research at MIT']]
[u'Improved methods for multi-trait fine mapping of pleiotropic risk loci', ['Gleb Kichaev', 'Megan Roytman', 'Ruth Johnson', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Sara Lindstroem', 'Peter Kraft', 'Bogdan Pasaniuc'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified thousands of regions in the genome that contain genetic variants that increase risk for complex traits and diseases. However, the variants uncovered in GWAS  are typically not biologically causal, but rather,  correlated to the true causal variant through linkage disequilibrium (LD). To discern the true causal variant(s), a variety of statistical fine-mapping methods have been proposed to prioritize variants for functional validation. In this work we introduce a new approach, fastPAINTOR, that leverages evidence across correlated traits, as well as functional annotation data, to improve fine-mapping accuracy at pleiotropic risk loci. To improve computational efficiency, we describe a new importance sampling scheme to perform model inference. First, we demonstrate in simulations that by leveraging functional annotation data, fastPAINTOR increases fine-mapping resolution relative to existing methods. Next, we show that jointly modeling pleiotropic risk regions improves fine-mapping resolution compared to standard single trait and pleiotropic fine mapping strategies. We report a reduction in the number of SNPs required for follow-up in order to capture 90% of the causal variants from 23 SNPs per locus using a single trait to 12 SNPs when fine-mapping two traits simultaneously. Finally, we analyze summary association data from a large-scale GWAS of lipids and show that these improvements are largely sustained in real data.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054684.1', [], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'University of Washington;', u'Harvard School of Public Health']]
[u'Isolation and characterization of electrochemically active subsurface Delftia and Azonexus species', ['Yamini Jangir', 'Sarah French', 'Lily M. Momper', 'Duane P. Moser', 'Jan P. Amend', 'Mohamed Y. El-Naggar'], u'May 21, 2016.', u"Continental subsurface environments can present significant energetic challenges to the resident microorganisms. While these environments are geologically diverse, potentially allowing energy harvesting by microorganisms that catalyze redox reactions, many of the abundant electron donors and acceptors are insoluble and therefore not directly bioavailable. Extracellular electron transfer (EET) is a metabolic strategy that microorganisms can deploy to meet the challenges of interacting with redox-active surfaces. Though mechanistically characterized in a few metal-reducing bacteria, the role, extent, and diversity of EET in subsurface ecosystems remains unclear. Since this process can be mimicked on electrode surfaces, it opens the door to electrochemical techniques to enrich for and quantify the activities of environmental microorganisms in situ. Here, we report the electrochemical enrichment of microorganisms from a deep fractured-rock aquifer in Death Valley, California, USA. In experiments performed in mesocosms containing a synthetic medium based on aquifer chemistry, four working electrodes were poised at different redox potentials (272, 373, 472, 572 mV vs. SHE) to serve as electron acceptors, resulting in anodic currents coupled to the oxidation of acetate during enrichment. The anodes were dominated by Betaproteobacteria from the families Comamonadaceae and Rhodocyclaceae. A representative of each dominant family was subsequently isolated from electrode-associated biomass. The EET abilities of the isolated Delftia strain (designated WE1-13) and Azonexus strain (designated WE2-4) were confirmed in electrochemical reactors using working electrodes poised at 522 mV vs. SHE. The rise in anodic current upon inoculation was correlated with a modest increase in total protein content. Both genera have been previously observed in mixed communities of microbial fuel cell enrichments, but this is the first direct measurement of their electrochemical activity. While alternate metabolisms (e.g. nitrate reduction) by these organisms were previously known, our observations suggest that additional 'hidden' interactions with external electron acceptors are also possible. Electrochemical approaches are well positioned to dissect such extracellular interactions that may be prevalent in the subsurface.", u'/content/early/2016/05/21/046979', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Southern California;', u'Desert Research Institute']]
[u'A full characterization of evolutionary tree topologies', ['Caroline Colijn', 'Giacomo Plazzotta'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'The topologies of evolutionary trees are shaped by the nature of the evolutionary process, but comparisons of trees from different processes are hindered by the challenge of completely describing tree topology. We present a full characterization of the topologies of rooted branching trees in a form that lends itself to natural tree comparisons. The resulting metric distinguishes trees from random models known to produce different tree topologies. It separates trees derived from tropical vs USA influenza A sequences, indicating that the different epidemiology of tropical and seasonal flu leaves strong signatures in the tree topology. Our approach allows us to construct addition and multiplication on trees, and to create a convex metric on tree topologies which formally allows computation of average trees.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054544', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Coalescent inferences in conservation genetics: should the exception become the rule?', ['Valeria Montano'], u'May 21, 2016.', u"Genetic estimates of effective population size (Ne) are an established means to develop informed conservation policies. Another key goal to pursue the conservation of endangered species is keeping the connectivity across fragmented environments, to which genetic inferences of gene flow and dispersal greatly contribute. Most current statistical tools for estimating such population demographic parameters are based on Kingman's coalescent (KC). However, KC is inappropriate for taxa displaying skewed reproductive variance, a property widely observed in natural species. Coalescent models that consider skewed reproductive success - called multiple merger coalescent (MMCs) - have been shown to substantially improve estimates of Ne when the distribution of offspring per capita is highly skewed. MMCs predictions of standard population genetic parameters, including the rate of loss of genetic variation and the fixation probability of strongly selected alleles, substantially depart from KC predictions. These extended models also allow studying gene genealogies in a spatial continuum, providing a novel theoretical framework to investigate spatial connectivity. Therefore, development of statistical tools based on MMC's should substantially improve estimates of population demographic parameters with major conservation implications.", u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054528', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'EPFL']]
[u'Steep difference between ecotypes and intermediate phenotype depression for shell trait integration in a marine snail hybrid zone.', ['Carlos Garcia'], u'May 21, 2016.', u"Multivariate analyses of phenotypic integration for a set of characters provide information about biological systems that cannot be obtained in univariate studies of these characters. We studied phenotypic integration for seven shell measures across the phenotypic gradient in a hybrid zone of the marine snail Littorina saxatilis in Galicia, NW Iberia. We found clear differences in the degree of integration between the two ecotypes involved in the hybrid zone, likely related to differences in the strength of natural selection acting on the snails' shells in each ecotype's habitat. We found also evidence of a decrease in integration in the phenotypically intermediate, hybrid snails, consistent with hybridization resulting in a release of multivariate  variation and increased evolvability. Across the phenotypic gradient, decreases in overall integration tended to be accompanied by increases in some measures of modularity, but the latter did nor reflect high correlation structure. The increases occurred only in a proportional sense, correlations among modules tending to decrease faster than within modules for low overall integration tiers. Integration analyses based on non partial and partial correlations tended to produce contrasting results, which suggested hierarchical sources of shell integration. Given that the two ecotypes could have differentiated in situ according to a parapatric model, our results would show that changes in integration can occur in a short evolutionary time and be maintained in the presence of gene flow, and also that this gene flow could result in the hybrid release of multi character variation.", u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054569', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Santiago de Compostela University']]
[u'Cryptic diversity and population structure at small scales: The freshwater snail Ancylus (Planorbidae, Pulmonata) in the Montseny mountain range', ['Jan Niklas Macher', 'Martina Weiss', 'Arne Beermann', 'Florian Leese'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Anthropogenic impacts like intensified land use and climate change are severe threats to freshwater biodiversity and effective biodiversity monitoring is therefore one of the most urgent tasks. This is however often hampered by the lack of knowledge regarding the number and ecology of species. Molecular tools have shown many freshwater taxa to comprise morphologically cryptic species, which often occur in sympatry on a small geographic scale. Here, we studied the freshwater snail Ancylus fluviatilis (MUELLER, 1774) species complex in the Iberian Montseny Mountains. We hypothesised 1) that several species of A. fluviatilis sensu lato occur in the Montseny, 2) that different Ancylus species seldom co-occur in syntopy due to different ecological demands or interspecific competition, and 3) that species show a pattern of strong population structure within streams or catchments due to ecological preferences or local adaptation. We barcoded 180 specimens from 36 sites in the Montseny for the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) barcoding gene and molecularly identified two Ancylus species. These species seldom occurred in syntopy and a species distribution modelling approach showed differing bioclimatic preferences of the species. One species mainly occurs in cooler, higher altitude streams while the second species occurs in lower-altitude areas with higher temperatures. Tests of population structure showed that both species possibly do not disperse well in the study area and that populations within species are likely adapted to certain bioclimatic conditions in different regions of the Montseny. Our results highlight the need to incorporate molecular techniques into routine monitoring programmes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054551', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Robust Gap Repair in the Contractile Ring Ensures Timely Completion of Cytokinesis', ['Ana Marta Silva', 'Daniel Sampaio Osorio', 'Antonio Jose Pereira', 'Helder Maiato', 'Ines Mendes Mendes Pinto', 'Boris Rubinstein', 'Reto Gassmann', 'Ivo Andreas A Telley', 'Ana Xavier de Carvalho'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Cytokinesis in animal cells requires the constriction of an actomyosin contractile ring, whose architecture and mechanism remain poorly understood. We use laser microsurgery to explore the biophysical properties of constricting contractile rings in C. elegans embryos. Laser cutting causes rings to snap open, which is a sign of tension release. However, instead of disintegrating, ring topology recovers and constriction proceeds. In response to severing, a finite gap forms that is proportional to ring perimeters before cutting, demonstrating that tension along the ring decreases throughout constriction. Severed rings repair their gaps by recruiting new material and subsequently increase constriction rate and complete cytokinesis with the same timing as uncut rings. Rings repair successive cuts and exhibit substantial constriction when gap repair is prevented. Our analysis suggests that cytokinesis is accomplished by contractile modules that assemble and contract autonomously, enabling local repair of the actomyosin network throughout constriction. Consequently, cytokinesis is a highly robust process impervious to discontinuities in contractile ring structure.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/052704', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'i3S Instituto de Investigacao e Inovacao em Saude, Universidade do Porto, Portugal;', u'International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory INL, Braga, Portugal;', u'Stowers Institute for Medical Research, Kansas City, MO, USA;', u'Instituto Gulbenkian Ciencia IGC, Oeiras, Portugal']]
[u'The evolution of alternative splicing in Drosophila', ['Lauren Gibilisco', 'Qi Zhou', 'Shivani Mahajan', 'Doris Bachtrog'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Alternative pre-mRNA splicing (\u201cAS\u201d) greatly expands proteome diversity, but little is known about the evolutionary landscape of AS in Drosophila, and how it differs between embryonic and adult stages, or males and females. Here we study the transcriptome from several tissues and developmental stages in males and females from four species across the Drosophila genus. We find that 20-37% of multi-exon genes are alternatively spliced. While males generally express a larger number of genes, AS is more prevalent in females, suggesting that the sexes adopt different expression strategies for their specialized function. While the number of total genes expressed increases during early embryonic development, the proportion of expressed genes that are alternatively spliced is highest in the very early embryo, before the onset of zygotic transcription. This indicates that females deposit a diversity of isoforms into the egg, consistent with abundant AS found in ovary. Cluster analysis by gene expression levels (\u201cGE\u201d) show mostly stage-specific clustering in embryonic samples, and tissue-specific clustering in adult tissues. Clustering embryonic stages and adult tissues based on AS profiles results in stronger species-specific clustering, and over development, samples segregate by developmental stage within species.  Most sex-biased AS found in flies is due to AS in gonads, with little sex-specific splicing in somatic tissues.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054700', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'The Use of Informativity in the Development of Robust Metaviromics-based Examinations', ['Siobhan C Watkins', 'Thomas Hatzopoulos', 'Catherine Putonti'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'The field of metagenomics has developed insight into many of the complex microbial communities responsible for maintaining life on this planet. Sequencing efforts often uncover novel genetic content; this is most evident for viral metagenomics, in which upwards of 90% of all sequences demonstrate no sequence similarity with present databases. For the small fraction which can be identified, the top BLAST hit is often posited as being representative of the phage taxon. However, as previous research has shown, the top BLAST hit is sometimes misinterpreted. Furthermore, the appearance of a particular gene homolog is frequently not representative of the presence of the particular taxon in question. To circumvent these limitations, we have developed a new method for the analysis of metaviromic datasets. BLAST hits are weighted, integrating the sequence identity and length of alignments as well as a phylogenetic signal. A genic rather than genomic approach is presented in which each gene is evaluated with respect to its information content. Through this quantifiable metric, predictions of viral community structure can be made with greater confidence. As a proof-of-concept, the approach presented here was implemented and applied to seven metaviromes. While providing a more robust means of evaluating metaviromic data, the tool is versatile and can easily be customized to investigations of any environment or biome.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054635', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Loyola University Chicago']]
[u'Circadian rhythms have significant effects on leaf-to-canopy gas exchange under field conditions', ['Victor Resco de Dios', 'Arthur Gessler', 'Juan Pedro Ferrio', 'Josu G. Alday', 'Michael Bahn', 'Jorge del Castillo', 'Sebastien Devidal', 'Sonia Garcia-Munoz', 'Zachary Kayler', 'Damien Landais', 'Paula Martin-Gomez', 'Alexandru Milcu', 'Clement Piel', 'Karin Pirhofer-Walzl', 'Olivier Ravel', 'Serajis Salekin', 'David T Tissue', 'Mark G Tjoelker', 'Jordi Voltas', 'Jacques Roy'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Molecular clocks drive oscillations in leaf photosynthesis, stomatal conductance and other cell and leaf level processes over ~24 h under controlled laboratory conditions. The influence of such circadian regulation over whole canopy fluxes remains uncertain and diurnal CO2 and H2O vapor flux dynamics in the field are currently interpreted as resulting almost exclusively from direct physiological responses to variations in light, temperature and other environmental factors. We tested whether circadian regulation would affect plant and canopy gas exchange at the CNRS Ecotron. Canopy and leaf level fluxes were constantly monitored under field-like environmental conditions, and also under constant environmental conditions (no variation in temperature, radiation or other environmental cues). Here we show first direct experimental evidence at canopy scales of circadian gas exchange regulation: 20-79% of the daily variation range in CO2 and H2O fluxes occurred under circadian entrainment in canopies of an annual herb (bean) and of a perennial shrub (cotton). We also observed that considering circadian regulation improved performance in commonly used stomatal conductance models. Overall, our results show that overlooked circadian controls affect diurnal patterns of CO2 and H2O fluxes in entire canopies and in field-like conditions, although this process is currently unaccounted for in models.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054593', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Universitat de Lleida;', u'WSL;', u'University of Innsbruck;', u'CNRS;', u'IMIDRA;', u'ZALF;', u'Western Sydney University']]
[u'Tellurium: A Python Based Modeling and Reproducibility Platform for Systems Biology', ['Herbert M Sauro', 'Kiri Choi', 'Jesse Kyle Medley', 'Carroline Cannistra', 'Matthias Konig', 'Lucian Smith', 'Kaylene Stocking'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'In this article, we present Tellurium, a powerful Python-based integrated environment designed for model building, analysis, simulation and reproducibility in systems and synthetic biology. Tellurium is a modular, cross-platform, and open-source integrated development environment (IDE) composed of multiple libraries, plugins, and specialized modules and methods. Tellurium ensures exchangeability and reproducibility of computational models by supporting SBML (Systems Biology Markup Language), SED-ML (Simulation Experiment Description Markup Language), the COMBINE archive, and SBOL (Synthetic Biology Open Language). Tellurium is a self-contained modeling platform which comes with a fully configured Python distribution independent of other local Python installations on the target machine. The main interface is based on the Spyder IDE which has a highly accessible user interface akin to MATLAB (https://www.mathworks.com/). Tellurium uses libRoadRunner as the default SBML simulation engine due to its superior performance, scalability and ease of integration. libRoadRunner supports deterministic simulations, stochastic simulations and steady state analyses. Tellurium also includes Antimony, a human-readable model definition language which can be converted to and from SBML. Other standard Python scientific libraries such as NumPy, SciPy, and matplotlib are included by default. Additionally, we include several user-friendly plugins and advanced modules for a wide-variety of applications, ranging from visualization tools to complex algorithms for bifurcation analysis and multi-dimensional parameter scanning. By combining multiple libraries, plugins, and modules into a single package, Tellurium provides a unified but extensible solution for biological modeling and simulation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054601', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Humboldt University of Berlin']]
[u'Sort-Seq Tools: sequence-function relationship modeling for massively parallel assays', ['William T. Ireland', 'Justin B. Kinney'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'A variety of massively parallel assays for measuring high-resolution sequence-function relationships have been developed in recent years. However, software for learning quantitative models from these data is lacking. Here we describe Sort-Seq Tools, a software package that allows multiple types of quantitative models to be fit to massively parallel data in multiple different ways. We demonstrate Sort-Seq Tools on both simulated and published data from Sort-Seq studies, massively parallel reporter assays, and deep mutational scanning experiments. We observe that, as an inference method, information maximization generally outperforms both least squares optimization and enrichment ratio calculations.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054676', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'Identifying outlier loci in admixed and in continuous populations using ancestral population differentiation statistics', ['Helena Martins', 'Kevin Caye', 'Keurcien Luu', 'Michael GB Blum', 'Olivier Francois'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'Finding genetic signatures of local adaptation is of great interest for many population genetic studies. Common approaches to sorting selective loci from their genomic background focus on the extreme values of the fixation index, Fst, across loci. However, the computation of the fixation index becomes challenging when the population is genetically continuous, when predefining subpopulations is a difficult task, and in the presence of admixed individuals in the sample. In this paper, we present a new method to identify loci under selection based on an extension of the Fst statistic to samples with admixed individuals. In our approach, Fst values are computed from the coefficients obtained with ancestry estimation programs. More specifically, we used factor models to estimate Fst, and we compared our neutrality tests with those derived from a principal component analysis approach. The performances of the tests were illustrated using simulated data, by re-analyzing genomic data from European lines of the plant species Arabidopsis thaliana, and by re-analyzing human genomic data from the population reference sample, POPRES.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054585', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Univ. Grenoble-Alpes;', u'Univ Grenoble-Alpes']]
