[u'Zika virus infection as a cause of congenital brain abnormalities and Guillain-Barre syndrome: systematic review', ['Fabienne Krauer', 'Maurane Riesen', 'Ludovic Reveiz', 'Olufemi T Oladapo', 'Ruth Martinez-Vega', 'Teegwende V Porgo', 'Anina Haefliger', 'Nathalie J Broutet', 'Nicola Low', 'WHO Zika Causality Working Group'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'Background\nThe World Health Organization stated in March 2016 that there was scientific consensus that the mosquito-borne Zika virus was a cause of the neurological disorder Guillain-Barre syndrome and of microcephaly and other congenital brain abnormalities, based on rapid evidence assessments. Decisions about causality require systematic assessment to guide public health actions. The objectives of this study were: to update and re-assess the evidence for causality through a rapid and systematic review about links between Zika virus infection and a) congenital brain abnormalities, including microcephaly, in the foetuses and offspring of pregnant women and b) Guillain-Barre syndrome in any population; and to describe the process and outcomes of an expert assessment of the evidence about causality.\nMethods and findings\nThe study had three linked components. First, in February 2016, we developed a causality framework that defined questions about the relationship between Zika virus infection and each of the two clinical outcomes in 10 dimensions; temporality, biological plausibility, strength of association, alternative explanations, cessation, dose-response, animal experiments, analogy, specificity and consistency. Second, we did a systematic review (protocol number CRD42016036693). We searched multiple online sources up to May 30, 2016 to find studies that directly addressed either outcome and any causality dimension, used methods to expedite study selection, data extraction and quality assessment, and summarised evidence descriptively. Third, a multidisciplinary panel of experts assessed the review findings and reached consensus on causality. We found 1091 unique items up to May 30, 2016. For congenital brain abnormalities, including microcephaly, we included 72 items; for eight of 10 causality dimensions (all except dose-response relationship and specificity) we found that more than half the relevant studies supported a causal association with Zika virus infection. For Guillain-Barre syndrome, we included 36 items, of which more than half the relevant studies supported a causal association in seven of ten dimensions (all except dose-response relationship, specificity and animal experimental evidence). Articles identified non-systematically from May 30-July 29, 2016 strengthened the review findings. The expert panel concluded that: a) the most likely explanation of available evidence from outbreaks of Zika virus infection and clusters of microcephaly is that Zika virus infection during pregnancy is a cause of congenital brain abnormalities including microcephaly; and b) the most likely explanation of available evidence from outbreaks of Zika virus infection and Guillain-Barre syndrome is that Zika virus infection is a trigger of Guillain-Barre syndrome. The expert panel recognised that Zika virus alone may not be sufficient to cause either congenital brain abnormalities or Guillain-Barre syndrome but agreed that the evidence was sufficient to recommend increased public health measures. Weaknesses are the limited assessment of the role of dengue virus and other possible co-factors, the small number of comparative epidemiological studies, and the difficulty in keeping the review up to date with the pace of publication of new research.\nConclusions\nRapid and systematic reviews with frequent updating and open dissemination are now needed, both for appraisal of the evidence about Zika virus infection and for the next public health threats that will emerge. This rapid systematic review found sufficient evidence to say that Zika virus is a cause of congenital abnormalities and is a trigger of Guillain-Barre situation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073098', [], [u'University of Bern;', u'Pan American Health Organization;', u'World Health Organization;', u'Universidad Nacional de Santander;', u'Laval University']]
[u'Virus genomes reveal the factors that spread and sustained the West African Ebola epidemic.', ['Gytis Dudas', 'Luiz Max Carvalho', 'Trevor Bedford', 'Andrew J Tatem', 'Guy Baele', 'Nuno Faria', 'Daniel Park', 'Jason Ladner', 'Armando Arias', 'Danny Asogun', 'Filip Bielejec', 'Sarah Caddy', 'Matt Cotten', 'Jonathan Dambrozio', 'Simon Dellicour', 'Antonino Di Caro', 'Joseph Diclaro', 'Sophie Duraffour', 'Mike Elmore', 'Lawrence Fakoli', 'Merle Gilbert', 'Sahr M Gevao', 'Stephen Gire', 'Adrianne Gladden-Young', 'Andreas Gnirke', 'Augustine Goba', 'Donald Grant', 'Bart Haagmans', 'Julian Hiscox', 'Umaru Jah', 'Brima Kargbo', 'Jeffrey Kugelman', 'Di Liu', 'Jia Lu', 'Christine Malboeuf', 'Suzanne Mate', 'David Matthews', 'Christian Matranga', 'Luke Meredith', 'James Qu', 'Joshua Quick', 'Susan Pas', 'My Phan', 'Georgios Poliakis', 'Chantal Reusken', 'Mariano Sanchez-Lockhart', 'Stephen Schaffner', 'John Schieffelin', 'Rachel Sealfon', 'Etienne Simon-Loriere', 'Saskia Smits', 'Kilian Stoecker', 'Lucy Thorne', 'Ekaete Alice Tobin', 'Mohamed Vandi', 'Simon Watson', 'Kendra West', 'Shannon Whitmer', 'Michael Wiley', 'Sarah Winnicki', 'Shirlee Wohl', 'Roman Wolfel', 'Nathan Yozwiak', 'Kristian Andersen', 'Sylvia Blyden', 'Fatorma Bolay', 'Miles Carroll', 'Boubacar Diallo', 'Pierre Formenty', 'Christophe Fraser', 'George Gao', 'Robert Garry', 'Ian Goodfellow', 'Stephan Gunther', 'Christian Happi', 'Edward Holmes', 'Brima Kargbo', 'Paul Kellam', 'Marion Koopmans', 'Nicholas Loman', "N'Faly Magassouba", 'Dhamari Naidoo', 'Stuart Nichol', 'Tolbert Nyenswah', 'Gustavo Palacios', 'Oliver Pybus', 'Pardis Sabeti', 'Amadou Sall', 'Ute Stroher', 'Isatta Wury', 'Marc Suchard', 'Philippe Lemey', 'Andrew Rambaut'], u'September 2, 2016.', u"The 2013-2016 epidemic of Ebola virus disease in West Africa was of unprecedented magnitude, duration and impact. Extensive collaborative sequencing projects have produced a large collection of over 1600 Ebola virus genomes, representing over 5% of known cases, unmatched for any single human epidemic. In this comprehensive analysis of this entire dataset, we reconstruct in detail the history of migration, proliferation and decline of Ebola virus throughout the region. We test the association of geography, climate, administrative boundaries, demography and culture with viral movement among 56 administrative regions. Our results show that during the outbreak viral lineages moved according to a classic 'gravity' model, with more intense migration between larger and more proximate population centers. Notably, we find that despite a strong attenuation of international dispersal after border closures, localized cross-border transmission beforehand had already set the seeds for an international epidemic, rendering these measures relatively ineffective in curbing the epidemic. We use this empirical evidence to address why the epidemic did not spread into neighboring countries, showing that although these regions were susceptible to developing significant outbreaks, they were also at lower risk of viral introductions. Finally, viral genome sequence data uniquely reveals this large epidemic to be a heterogeneous and spatially dissociated collection of transmission clusters of varying size, duration and connectivity. These insights will help inform approaches to intervention in such epidemics in the future.", u'/content/early/2016/09/02/071779.1', [], [u"Institute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh, King's Buildings, Edinburgh, EH9 3FL, UK;", u'Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'WorldPop, Department of Geography and Environment, University of Southampton, Highfield, UK;', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Rega Institute, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium;', u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3PS, UK;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA;', u'Center for Genome Sciences, U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases,Fort Detrick;', u"Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, CB2 2QQ, UK;", u'Institute of Lassa Fever Research and Control, Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, Irrua, Nigeria;', u'Virus Genomics, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, United Kingdom;', u"National Institute for Infectious Diseases 'L. Spallanzani' - IRCCS, Via Portuense 292, 00149 Rome;", u'Naval Medical Research Unit 3, 3A Imtidad Ramses Street, Cairo, 11517, Egypt;', u'Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine, 20359 Hamburg, Germany;', u'National Infections Service, Public Health England, Porton Down, Salisbury, Wilts SP4 0JG, UK;', u'Liberian Institute for Biomedical Research, Charlesville, Liberia;', u'University of Sierra Leone, Freetown, Sierra Leone;', u'Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Program, Kenema Government Hospital, 1 Combema Road, Kenema, Sierra Leone;', u'Department of Viroscience, Erasmus University Medical Centre, 300 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands;', u'Institute of Infection and Global Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 2BE, United Kingdom;', u'University of Makeni, Makeni, Sierra Leone;', u'Ministry of Health and Sanitation, 4th Floor Youyi Building, Freetown, Sierra Leone;', u'Institute of Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100101, China;', u'University of Bristol, BS8 1TD, United Kingdom;', u'Institute of Microbiology and Infection, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK;', u'Department of Pediatrics, Section of Infectious Diseases, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA;', u'Institut Pasteur, Functional Genetics of Infectious Diseases Unit, 28 rue du Docteur Roux, Paris;', u'Bundeswehr Institute of Microbiology, Neuherbergstrasse 11, 80937 Munich, Germany;', u'Viral Special Pathogens Branch, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia;', u'The Scripps Research Institute, Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, La Jolla, CA;', u'World Health Organization, Conakry, Guinea;', u'WHO Ebola Response Team;', u'Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, UK;', u'Department of Microbiology & Immunology, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA;', u"Redeemer's University, Ede, Osun State, Nigeria;", u'Marie Bashir Institute for Infectious Diseases and Biosecurity, University of Sydney, Australia;', u'Universite Gamal Abdel Nasser de Conakry, Laboratoire des Fievres Hemorragiques en Guinee, Conakry;', u'Minstry of Health Liberia, Monrovia, Liberia;', u'Ministry of Health Guinea, Conakry, Guinea;', u'Dept of Biostatistics, UCLA Fielding School of Public Health, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Reductive Analytics on Big MS Data leads to tremendous reduction in time for peptide deduction', ['Muaaz Gul Awan', 'Fahad Saeed'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'In this paper we present a feasibility of using a\ndata-reductive strategy for analyzing big MS data. The proposed method utilizes our reduction algorithm MS-REDUCE\nand peptide deduction is accomplished using Tide with hiXcorr. Using this approach we were able to process 1 million spectra in under 3 hours. Our results showed that running peptide deduction with smaller amount of selected peaks made the computations much faster and scalable with increasing resolution of MS data. Quality assessment experiments performed on experimentally generated datasets showed good quality peptide matches can be made using the reduced datasets. We anticipate that the proteomics and systems biology community will widely adopt our reductive strategy due to its efficacy and reduced\ntime for analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073064', [], [u'Western Michigan University']]
[u'Learning improves conscious access at the bottom, but not the top: Reverse hierarchical effects in perceptual learning and metacognition', ['Benjamin Chen', 'Matthew Mundy', 'Naotsugu Tsuchiya'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'Experience with visual stimuli can improve their perceptual performance, a phenomenon termed visual perceptual learning (VPL), but how does VPL shape our conscious experience of learned stimuli? VPL has been found to improve measures of metacognition, suggesting increased conscious stimulus accessibility. Such studies however, have largely failed to control objective task accuracy, which typically correlates with metacognition. Here, using a staircase method to control this confound, we investigated whether VPL improves the metacognitive accuracy of perceptual judgements. Across three consecutive days, subjects learned to discriminate faces based on either their identity or contrast. Holding objective accuracy constant, perceptual thresholds improved in both tasks, while metacognitive accuracy diverged, with face contrast VPL improving metacognition, and face identity VPL failing to. Our findings can be interpreted in a reverse hierarchy theory-like model of VPL, which counterintuitively predicts that the VPL of low- but not high-level stimulus properties should improve conscious stimulus accessibility.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073130', [], [u'Monash University']]
[u'Zika virus replication in the mosquito Culex quinquefasciatus in Brazil', ['Duschinka R.D. Guedes', 'Marcelo H.S. Paiva', 'Mariana M.A. Donato', 'Priscilla P. Barbosa', 'Larissa Krokovsky', 'Sura W. dos S. Rocha', 'Karina L.A. Saraiva', 'Monica M. Crespo', 'Rosangela M.R. Barbosa', 'Claudia M.F. Oliveira', 'Maria A.V. Melo-Santos', 'Lindomar Pena', 'Marli T. Cordeiro', 'Rafael F. de O. Franca', 'Andre L.D. de Oliveira', 'Walter S. Leal', 'Christina A. Peixoto', 'Constancia F.J. Ayres'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) is a flavivirus that has recently been associated with increased incidence of\nneonatal microcephaly and other neurological disorders. The virus is primarily transmitted by\nmosquito bite, although other routes of infection have been implicated in some cases. The\nAedes aegypti mosquito is considered to be the main vector to humans worldwide, but there is\nevidence of other mosquito species, including Culex quinquefasciatus, playing a role in the\nBrazilian outbreak. To test this hypothesis, we experimentally compared the vectorial\ncompetence of laboratory-reared A. aegypti and C. quinquefasciatus. We found ZIKV in the midgut, salivary glands, and saliva of artificially fed C. quinquefasciatus. Additionally, we\ncollected ZIKV-infected C. quinquefasciatus from urban areas of high microcephaly\nincidence in Recife, Brazil. Take into account; these findings indicate that there may be a\nwider range of vectors for ZIKV than anticipated.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073197', [], [u'Department of Entomology, Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhaes, Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz-Pernambuco;', u'Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, Centro Academico do Agreste;', u'Laboratory of Virology and Experimental Therapy (LAVITE), Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhaes;', u'Center for Statistics and Geoprocessing, Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhaes, Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz;', u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California-Davis']]
[u'Using high-resolution variant frequencies to empower clinical genome interpretation', ['Nicola Whiffin', 'Eric Minikel', 'Roddy Walsh', "Anne O'Donnell-Luria", 'Konrad Karczewski', 'Alexander Y Ing', 'Paul J R Barton', 'Birgit Funke', 'Stuart A Cook', 'Daniel G MacArthur', 'James S Ware'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'Whole exome and genome sequencing have transformed the discovery of genetic variants that cause human Mendelian disease, but discriminating pathogenic from benign variants remains a daunting challenge. Rarity is recognised as a necessary, although not sufficient, criterion for pathogenicity, but frequency cutoffs used in Mendelian analysis are often arbitrary and overly lenient. Recent very large reference datasets, such as the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC), provide an unprecedented opportunity to obtain robust frequency estimates even for very rare variants. Here we present a statistical framework for the frequency-based filtering of candidate disease-causing variants, accounting for disease prevalence, genetic and allelic heterogeneity, inheritance mode, penetrance, and sampling variance in reference datasets. Using the example of cardiomyopathy, we show that our approach reduces by two-thirds the number of candidate variants under consideration in the average exome, and identifies 43 variants previously reported as pathogenic that can now be reclassified. We present precomputed allele frequency cutoffs for all variants in the ExAC dataset.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073114', [], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit;', u'Laboratory for Molecular Medicine;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Trends in DNA methylation with age replicate across diverse human populations', ['Shyamalika Gopalan', 'Oana Carja', 'Maud Fagny', 'Etienne Patin', 'Justin W Myrick', 'Lisa McEwen', 'Sarah M Mah', 'Michael S Kobor', 'Alain Froment', 'Marcus W Feldman', 'Lluis Quintana-Murci', 'Brenna M Henn'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'Aging is associated with widespread changes in genome-wide patterns of DNA methylation. Thousands of CpG sites whose tissue-specific methylation levels are strongly correlated with chronological age have been previously identified. However, the majority of these studies have focused primarily on cosmopolitan populations living in the developed world; it is not known if age-related patterns of DNA methylation at these loci are similar across a broad range of human genetic and ecological diversity. We investigated genome-wide methylation patterns using saliva and whole blood derived DNA from two traditionally hunting and gathering African populations: the Baka of the western Central African rainforest and the \u2260Khomani San of the South African Kalahari Desert. We identify hundreds of CpG sites whose methylation levels are significantly associated with age, thousands that are significant in a meta-analysis, and replicate trends previously reported in populations of non-African descent. We confirm that an age-associated site in the gene ELOVL2 shows a remarkably congruent relationship with aging in humans, despite extensive genetic and environmental variation across populations. We also demonstrate that genotype state at methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTLs) can affect methylation trends at some known age-associated CpG sites. Our study explores the relationship between CpG methylation and chronological age in populations of African hunter-gatherers, who rely on different diets across diverse ecologies. While many age-related CpG sites replicate across populations, we show that considering common genetic variation at meQTLs further improves our ability to detect previously identified age associations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073171', [], [u'Stony Brook University;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'University of California at Los Angeles;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Ankyrin G membrane partners drive the establishment and maintenance of the axon initial segment', ['Christophe Leterrier', 'Nadine Clerc', 'Fanny Rueda-Boroni', 'Audrey Montersino', 'Benedicte Dargent', 'Francis Castets'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'The axon initial segment (AIS) is a specialized neuronal compartment that plays a key role in neuronal development and excitability. It concentrates multiple ion channels and cell adhesion molecules. The anchoring of these AIS membrane components is known to be highly dependent of the scaffold protein ankyrin G (ankG) but whether ankG membrane partners play a reciprocal role in ankG targeting and stabilization has not been studied yet. In cultured hippocampal neurons and cortical organotypic slices, we found that shRNA-mediated knockdown of ankG membrane partners led to a decrease of ankG concentration and perturbed the AIS formation and maintenance. These perturbations were rescued by expressing an AIS-targeted sodium channel, or a minimal construct containing the ankyrin-binding domain of Nav1.2 and a membrane anchor. We thus demonstrate that a tight and precocious association of ankG to its membrane partners is crucial for the establishment and maintenance of the AIS.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073163', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Aix Marseille University, CNRS, CRN2M UMR7286, 13344 cedex 15, Marseille, France']]
[u'Comprehensive Analysis of Two Shank3 and the Cacna1c Mouse Models of Autism Spectrum Disorder', ['Patricia A Kabitzke', 'Daniela Brunner', 'Dansha He', 'Pamela A Fazio', 'Kimberly Cox', 'Jane Sutphen', 'Lucinda Thiede', 'Emily Sabath', 'Taleen Hanania', 'Vadim Alexandrov', 'Randall Rasmusson', 'Will Spooren', 'Anirvan Ghosh', 'Pamela Feliciano', 'Barbara Biemans', 'Marta Benedetti', 'Alice Luo Clayton'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'To expand, analyze and extend published behavioral phenotypes relevant to autism spectrum disorder (ASD), we present a study of three ASD genetic mouse models: Feng\u2032s Shank3tm2Gfng model, hereafter Shank3/F, Jiang\u2032s Shank3tm1Yhj model, hereafter Shank3/J, and the Cacna1c deletion model. The Shank3/F and Shank3/J models mimick gene mutations associated with Phelan-Mcdermid syndrome and the Cacna1c model recapitulates the deletion underlying Timothy syndrome. The current study utilizes both standard and novel, computer-vision based behavioral tests, the same methdology used in our previously published companion report on the Cntnap2 null and 16p11.2 deletion models. Overall, some but not all behaviors replicated published findings. Those that replicated, such as social behavior and overgrooming in Shank3 models, also tended to be milder than previous reports. The Shank3/F model, and to a much lesser extent, the Shank3/J and Cacna1c models, showed hypoactivity and a general anxiety-like behavior triggered by external stimuli which pervaded social interactions. We did not detect deficits in a cognitive procedural learning test nor did we observe perseverative behavior in these models. We did, however, find differences in exploratory patterns of Cacna1c mutant mice suggestive of a behavioral effect in a social setting. In addition, Shank3/F but not Shank3/J KO or Cacna1c HET showed differences in sensory-gating. Discrepancies in our current results from previous reports may be dependent on subtle differences in testing conditions, housing enrichment, or background strain. Both positive and negative results from this study will be useful in identifying the most robust and replicable behavioral signatures within and across mouse models of autism. Understanding these phenotypes may shed light of which features to study when screening compounds for potential therapeutic interventions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/068866', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'PsychoGenics, Inc.;', u'PsychoGenics Inc.;', u'SUNY Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences;', u'Roche Pharma Research and Early Development, NORD, Roche Innovation Center Basel;', u'Simons Foundation Autism Research Initiative']]
[u'Sexual dimorphism in the Drosophila metabolome increases throughout development', ['Fiona C Ingleby', 'Edward H Morrow'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'The expression of sexually dimorphic phenotypes from a shared genome between males and females is a longstanding puzzle in evolutionary biology. Increasingly, research has made use of transcriptomic technology to examine the molecular basis of sexual dimorphism through gene expression studies, but even this level of detail misses the metabolic processes that ultimately link gene expression with the whole organism phenotype. We use metabolic profiling in Drosophila melanogaster to complete this missing step, with a view to examining variation in male and female metabolic profiles, or metabolomes, throughout development. We show that the metabolome varies considerably throughout larval, pupal and adult stages. We also find significant sexual dimorphism in the metabolome, although only in pupae and adults, and the extent of dimorphism tends to increase throughout development. We compare this to transcriptomic data from the same population and find that the general pattern of increasing sex differences throughout development is mirrored in RNA expression. We discuss our results in terms of the usefulness of metabolic profiling in linking genotype and phenotype to more fully understand the basis of sexually dimorphic phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/073148', [u'Physiology'], [u'University of Sussex']]
[u'The visual white matter: The application of diffusion MRI and fiber tractography to vision science', ['Ariel Rokem', 'Hiromasa Takemura', 'Andrew Bock', 'K. Suzanne Scherf', 'Marlene Behrmann', 'Brian Wandell', 'Ione Fine', 'Holly Bridge', 'Franco Pestilli'], u'September 2, 2016.', u'Visual neuroscience has traditionally focused much of its attention on understanding the response properties of neurons along the visual pathways. This review focuses instead on the properties of the white matter connections between these neurons. Specifically, we provide an introduction to methods to study the human visual white matter using diffusion MRI (dMRI). This method allows us to measure the white matter connections in individual visual systems in vivo, allows us to trace long-range connections between different parts of the visual system, and to measure the biophysical properties of these connections. We explain the principles underlying dMRI measurements and the basics of modeling these data. We review a range of findings from recent studies on connections between different visual field maps, on the effects of visual impairment on the white matter, and on the properties underlying networks that process visual information that supports visual face recognition. Finally, we discuss a few promising directions for future studies. These include new methods for analysis of MRI data, open data-sets that are becoming available to study brain connectivity and white matter properties, and open-source software for the analysis of these data.', u'/content/early/2016/09/02/072793', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Washington eScience Institute, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'Center for Information and Neural Networks (CiNet), National Institute of Information and Communicat;', u'University of Pennsylvania, Phildelphia, PA, USA;', u'Penn State University, State College, PA, USA;', u'Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA;', u'Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA;', u'University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'Oxford University, UK;', u'Indiana University, Bloomington, IN']]
