[u'An interaction map of circulating metabolites, immune gene networks and their genetic regulation', ['Artika P Nath', 'Scott C Ritchie', 'Sean G Byars', 'Liam G Fearnley', 'Aki S Havulinna', 'Anni Joensuu', 'Antti J Kangas', 'Pasi Soininen', 'Annika Wennerstrom', 'Lili Milani', 'Andres Metspalu', 'Satu Mannisto', 'Peter Wurtz', 'Johannes Kettunen', 'Emma Raitoharju', 'Mika Kahonen', 'Markus Juonala', 'Aarno Palotie', 'Mika Ala-Korpela', 'Samuli Ripatti', 'Terho Lehtimaki', 'Gad Abraham', 'Olli Raitakari', 'Veikko Salomaa', 'Markus Perola', 'Michael Inouye'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'The interaction between metabolism and the immune system plays a central role in many cardiometabolic diseases. We integrated blood transcriptomic, metabolomic, and genomic profiles from two population-based cohorts, including a subset with 7-year follow-up sampling. We identified topologically robust gene networks enriched for diverse immune functions including cytotoxicity, viral response, B cell, platelet, neutrophil, and mast cell/basophil activity. These immune gene modules showed complex patterns of association with 158 circulating metabolites, including lipoprotein subclasses, lipids, fatty acids, amino acids, and CRP. Genome-wide scans for module expression quantitative trait loci (mQTLs) revealed five modules with mQTLs of both cis and trans effects. The strongest mQTL was in ARHGEF3 (rs1354034) and affected a module enriched for platelet function. Mast cell/basophil and neutrophil function modules maintained their metabolite associations during 7-year follow-up, while our strongest mQTL in ARHGEF3 also displayed clear temporal stability. This study provides a detailed map of natural variation at the blood immuno-metabolic interface and its genetic basis, and facilitates subsequent studies to explain inter-individual variation in cardiometabolic disease.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089839', [u'Genomics'], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, University of Melbourne;', u'National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki 00271, Finland;', u'Computational Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oulu, Oulu 90014, Finland;', u'University of Tartu, Estonian Genome Center, Tartu 51010, Estonia;', u'Department of Clinical Chemistry, Fimlab Laboratories, School of Medicine, University of Tampere;', u'Dept of Clinical Physiology, University of Tampere and Tampere University Hospital;', u'Department of Medicine, University of Turku and Division of Medicine, Turku University Hospital;', u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland, University of Helsinki, Helsinki 00014, Finland;', u'Department of Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine, Turku University Hospital, Turku']]
[u'PolyCut: a computer programme for assignments of MSn signals of metallo-biomolecules by considering the entire isotope patterns', ['Zhenyu Shi', 'Chak Ming Sze'], u'November 26, 2016.', u"A computer programme 'PolyCut' has been written to assist mass spectrometry-based bioinorganic studies via top-down and bottom-up approaches in positive and negative ion modes. PolyCut is designed to cope with metalloproteins, metallo-polymers and biomolecules with heavy element(s) as one (or more) of the charging agents at defined but different oxidation states. It does automatic assignment by considering the entire experimental and simulated isotopic patterns of an ion rather than reading only the mono-isotopic and average m/z values (and/or mass values). The calculation of chemical formula and the simulation of isotopic pattern for an ion at various charge states require PolyCut to be informed of the user-defined elements, the user-defined abundance of isotopes for each element, the user-defined oxidation state of an element, the user-defined residues and sequence of a polymer, and the user-defined fragmentation (or digestion). The programme successfully assisted MSn studies of two copper proteins coordinated to platinum(II) centres (a functional group possessing an intrinsic positive charge rather than a neutral organic modification), published as J. Biol. Inorg. Chem. 2009, 14(2), 163-165; Metallomics 2013, 5(8), 946-954. Besides polypeptides, polynucleotides and polysaccharides, PolyCut can be extended to other polymers using user-defined monomer residues.", u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089706', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'Structural and Functional Characterization of the Alanine Racemase from Streptomyces coelicolor A3(2)', ['Raffaella Tassoni', 'Lizah van der Aart', 'Marcellus Ubbink', 'Gilles P. van Wezel', 'Navraj Pannu'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'The conversion of L-alanine (L-Ala) into D-alanine (D-Ala) in bacteria is performed by pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes called alanine racemases. D-Ala is an essential component of the bacterial peptidoglycan and hence required for survival. The Gram-positive bacterium Streptomyces coelicolor has at least one alanine racemase encoded by alr. Here, we describe an alr deletion mutant of S. coelicolor which depends on D-Ala for growth and shows increased sensitivity to the antibiotic D-cycloserine (DCS). The crystal structure of the alanine racemase (Alr) was solved with and without the inhibitors DCS or propionate. The crystal structures revealed that Alr is a homodimer with residues from both monomers contributing to the active site. The dimeric state of the enzyme in solution was confirmed by gel filtration chromatography, with and without L-Ala or D-cycloserine. Specificity of the enzyme was 66 +/- 3 U mg-1 for the racemization of L- to D-Ala, and 104 +/- 7 U mg-1 for the opposite direction. Comparison of Alr from S. coelicolor with orthologous enzymes from other bacteria, including the closely related D-cycloserine-resistant Alr from S. lavendulae, strongly suggests that structural features such as the hinge angle or the surface area between the monomers do not contribute to D-cycloserine resistance, and the molecular basis for resistance therefore remains elusive.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089938', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Leiden University']]
[u'Baseline mutation profiling of 1134 samples of circulating cell-free DNA and blood cells from healthy individuals', ['Ligang Xia', 'Zhoufang Li', 'Bo Zhou', 'Geng Tian', 'Lidong Zeng', 'Hongyu Dai', 'Fang Deng', 'Yuancai Xie', 'Shixin Lu', 'Xiaohua Li', 'Chaoyu Liu', 'Weiren Huang', 'Jiankui He'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'The molecular alteration in circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in plasma can reflect the status of the human body in a timely manner. Hence, cfDNA has emerged as important biomarkers in clinical diagnostics, particularly in cancer. However, somatic mutations are also commonly found in healthy individuals, which extensively interfere with the diagnostic results in cancer. This study was designed to examine the background somatic mutations in white blood cells (WBC) and cfDNA for healthy controls based on the sequencing data from 1134 samples, to understand the patterns and origin of mutations detected in cfDNA. We determined the mutation frequencies in both the WBC and cfDNA groups of the samples by a panel of 50 cancer-associated genes which covered 20K nucleotide regions using ultra-deep sequencing with average depth >40000 folds. Our results showed that most of mutations in cfDNA originated from WBC. We also observed that NPM1 gene was the most frequently mutant gene in both WBC and cfDNA. Our study highlighted the importance of sequencing both cfDNA and WBC, to improve the sensitivity and accuracy for calling cancer-related mutations from circulating tumor DNA, and shielded light on developing the early cancer diagnosis by cfDNA sequencing.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089813', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Shenzhen Peoples Hospital;', u'South University of Science and Technology of China;', u'Shenzhen Second Peoples Hospital;', u'Direct Genomics Co., Ltd.;', u'Shenzhen GeneHealth Co., Ltd.;', u'Anhui Provincial Cancer Hospital;', u'Peking University Shenzhen Hospital']]
[u'Hyphal aggregation and surface attachment of Streptomyces is governed by extracellular poly-\u03b2-1,6-N-acetylglucosamine', ['Dino van Dissel', 'Joost Willemse', 'Boris Zacchetti', 'Dennis Claessen', 'Gerald Pier', 'Gilles van Wezel'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'Streptomycetes are multicellular filamentous microorganisms, which are major producers of antibiotics, anticancer drugs and industrial enzymes. When grown in submerged cultures, the preferred enzyme producer, Streptomyces lividans, forms dense mycelial aggregates or pellets, which requires the activity of the proteins encoded by the matAB and cslA-glxA. Here we show that matAB encodes the biosynthetic genes for the extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) poly-\u03b2-1,6-N-acetylglucosamine or PNAG. Heterologous expression of matAB in actinomycetes that naturally lack these genes was sufficient for PNAG production and induction of mycelial aggregation. Also, overexpression of matAB in a non-pelleting cslA mutant restored pellet formation, which could effectively be antagonized by the PNAG-specific hydrolase, dispersin B. Extracellular accumulation of PNAG allowed Streptomyces to attach to hydrophilic surfaces, unlike attachment to hydrophobic surfaces, which involves a cellulase-degradable EPS produced by CslA. Altogether, our data support a model in which pellet formation depends on hydrophilic interactions mediated by PNAG and hydrophobic interactions involving the EPS produced by CslA. These new insights may be harnessed to improve growth and industrial exploitation of these highly versatile natural product and enzyme producers.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089920', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Leiden University;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Investigating side effect modules in the interactome and their use in drug adverse effect discovery', ['Emre Guney'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'One of the biggest challenges in drug development is increasing costs of bringing new drugs to the market. Many candidate drugs fail during phase II and III trials due to unexpected side effects and experimental methods remain cost ineffective for large scale discovery of adverse effects. Alternatively, computational methods are used to characterize\ndrug side effects, but they often rely on training predictors based on\ndrug and side effect similarity. Moreover, these methods are typically tailored to the  underlying data set and provide little mechanistic insights on the predicted associations. In this study, we investigate the role of network topology in explaining observed side effects of drugs. We find that drug targets are closer in the interactome to the proteins inducing the known side effects of the drug compared to the proteins associated with the rest of the side effects. We show that the interactome based proximity can be used to identify side effects\nand we highlight a use case in which interactome-based side effect prediction can give insights on drug side effects observed in the clinic.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089730', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'IRB Barcelona']]
[u'fMRI Correlates of Reaction Time Prolongation during intentional False Responding; an inter-individual difference study', ['Morteza Pishnamazi', 'Maral Yeganeh Doost', 'Habib Ganjgahi', 'Hamed Ekhtiari', 'Mohammad Ali Oghabian'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'Reaction time (RT) is chiefly longer when people lie. However, the baseline speed in answering questions and the amount of RT prolongation during lying show considerable amount of inter-individual variability. In the current study, we exploited this fact to glean insights on the contribution of each lie-related brain region to hampering of response speeds when people try to be deceitful. In an event-related fMRI session, participants were interrogated by yes-no autobiographical questions and were instructed to intentionally provide false responses to a pre-selected subset of questions. Data from twenty healthy volunteers were analyzed. Baseline speed [RTtruth] and relative appended lie RT [(RTlie \u2212 RTtruth) \u2215 RTtruth] measures were calculated for each participant and were included in the group level analysis of [lie > truth] BOLD contrasts. Lying RTs were significantly longer than truth telling RTs. Lie-related increase in activity of right ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) and bilateral paracingulate cortex correlated with the baseline speed of participants, while the increase in activity of Left VLPFC, left lateral occipital cortex and bilateral anterior cingulate areas directly correlated with the amount of lying reaction time cost. Activity within bilateral posterior cingulate cortex and right insular cortex inversely correlated with lying RT-cost. Bilateral supplementary motor areas, internal capsule white matter and left angular gyrus showed lie-related increase in activity but did not correlate with either of behavioral measures. Provisional implications regarding the contribution of these regions to RT prolongation and their cognitive role in deceitful behavior are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089847', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Tehran University of Medical Sciences;', u'Universite catholique de Louvain;', u'University of Warwick Coventry']]
[u'Metabolome Identification by Systematic Stable Isotope Labeling Experiments and False Discovery Analysis with a Target-Decoy Strategy', ['Drew R. Jones', 'Xusheng Wang', 'Tim Shaw', 'Ji-Hoon Cho', 'Ping-Chung Chen', 'Kaushik Kumar Dey', 'Suiping Zhou', 'Yuxin Li', 'Nam Chul Kim', 'J. Paul Taylor', 'Udhghatri Kolli', 'Jiaxu Li', 'Junmin Peng'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'We introduce a formula-based strategy and algorithm (JUMPm) for global metabolite identification and false discovery analysis in untargeted mass spectrometry-based metabolomics. JUMPm determines the chemical formulas of metabolites from unlabeled and stable-isotope labeled metabolome data, and derives the most likely metabolite identity by searching structure databases. JUMPm also estimates the false discovery rate (FDR) with a target-decoy strategy based on the octet rule of chemistry. With systematic stable isotope labeling of yeast, we identified 2,085 chemical formulas (10% FDR), 892 of which were assigned with metabolite structures. We evaluated JUMPm with a library of synthetic standards, and found that 96% of the formulas were correctly identified. We extended the method to mammalian cells with direct isotope labeling and by heavy yeast spike-in. This strategy and algorithm provide a powerful a practical solution for global identification of metabolites with a critical measure of confidence.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089904', [u'Biochemistry'], [u"St. Jude Children's Research Hospital;", u'Mississippi State University']]
[u'Global-scale structure of the eelgrass microbiome', ['Ashkaan K Fahimipour', 'Melissa R Kardish', 'Jonathan A Eisen', 'Jenna M Lang', 'Jessica L Green', 'John J Stachowicz'], u'November 26, 2016.', u"Plant-associated microorganisms are essential for their hosts' survival and performance. Yet, most plant microbiome studies to date have focused on terrestrial plant species sampled across relatively small spatial scales. Here we report results of a global-scale analysis of microbial communities associated with leaf and root surfaces of the marine eelgrass Zostera marina throughout the Northern Hemisphere. By contrasting host microbiomes with those of their surrounding seawater and sediment communities, we defined the structure, composition and variability of microbial communities associated with Z. marina. We also investigated hypotheses about the mechanisms driving assembly of the eelgrass microbiome using a whole-genomic metabolic modeling approach. Our results reveal aboveground leaf communities displaying high variability and spatial turnover, that strongly mirror their adjacent coastal seawater microbiomes. In contrast, eelgrass roots showed relatively low spatial turnover and were compositionally distinct from surrounding sediment communities - a result largely driven by the enrichment of predicted sulfur-reducing bacterial taxa on root surfaces. Metabolic modeling of enriched taxa was consistent with an assembly process whereby similarity in resource use drives taxonomic co-occurrence patterns on belowground, but not aboveground, host tissues. Our work provides evidence for a core Z. marina root microbiome with putative functional roles and highlights potentially disparate processes influencing microbiome assembly on different plant compartments.", u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089797', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Oregon;', u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Heat-stable preservation of protein expression systems for portable therapeutics production', ['David Karig', 'Seneca Bessling', 'Peter Thielen', 'Sherry Zhang', 'Joshua Wolfe'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'Many biotechnology capabilities are limited by stringent storage needs of reagents, largely prohibiting use outside of specialized laboratories.  Focusing on a large class of protein-based biotechnology applications, we address this issue by developing a method for preserving cell-free protein expression systems under months of heat stress.  Our approach realizes an unprecedented degree of long term heat stability by leveraging the sugar alcohol trehalose, a simple, low-cost, open-air drying step, and strategic separation of sets of reaction components during drying.  The resulting preservation capacity opens the door for efficient production of a wide range of on-demand proteins under adverse conditions, for instance during emergency outbreaks or in remote or otherwise inaccessible locations.  As such, our preservation method stands to advance a great number of different cell-free technologies, including remediation efforts, point of care therapeutics, and large-scale biosensing.  To demonstrate this application potential, we use cell-free reagents subjected to months of heat stress and atmospheric conditions to produce sufficient concentrations of a pyocin protein to kill Pseudomonas aeruginosa, one of the most troublesome pathogens for traumatic and burn wound injuries.  Our work makes possible new biotechnology applications that demand both ruggedness and scalability.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089664', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory']]
[u'Enhancing Knowledge Discovery from Cancer Genomics Data with Galaxy', ['Marco A Albuquerque', 'Bruno M Grande', 'Elie Ritch', 'Selin Jessa', 'Martin I Krzywinski', 'Jasleen Grewal', 'Sohrab Shah', 'Paul Boutros', 'Ryan Morin'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'We present a collection of Galaxy tools representing many popular algorithms for detecting somatic genetic alterations from cancer genome and exome data. We implemented methods for parallelization of these tools within Galaxy to accelerate runtime and have demonstrated their usability on cloud-based infrastructure and commodity hardware. Some tools represents extensions or refinement of existing toolkits to yield visualizations suited to cohort-wide cancer genomic analysis. For example, we present Oncocircos and Oncoprintplus, which generate data-rich summaries of exome-derived somatic mutation. Workflows that integrate several of these to perform some standard data integration and visualization tasks are demonstrated on a cohort of 96 diffuse large B-cell lymphomas, enabling the discovery of multiple candidate lymphoma-related genes that have not been reported previously.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089631', [u'Genomics'], [u'Simon Fraser University;', u'Genome Sciences Centre;', u'BC Cancer Agency;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research']]
[u'Time-dependent-asymmetric-linear-parsimonious ancestral state reconstruction', ['Gilles Didier'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'The time-dependent-asymmetric-linear parsimony is an ancestral state reconstruction method which extends the standard linear parsimony (a.k.a. Wagner parsimony) approach by taking into account both branch lengths and asymmetric evolutionary costs for reconstructing quantitative characters (asymmetric costs amount to assuming an evolutionary trend toward the direction with the lowest cost).\n\nA formal study of the influence of the asymmetry parameter shows that the time-dependent-asymmetric-linear parsimony infers states which are all taken among the known states, except for some degenerate cases corresponding to special values of the asymmetry parameter. This remarkable property holds in particular for the Wagner parsimony.\n\nThis study leads to a polynomial algorithm which determines, and provides a compact representation of, the parametric reconstruction of a phylogenetic tree, that is for all the unknown nodes, the set of all the possible reconstructed states associated to the asymmetry parameters leading to them. The time-dependent-asymmetric-linear parsimony is finally illustrated with the parametric reconstruction of the body size of cetaceans.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089805', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CNRS']]
[u'FlyLimbTracker: an active contour based approach for leg segment tracking in unmarked, freely behaving Drosophila', ['Virginie Uhlmann', 'Pavan Ramdya', 'Ricard Delgado-Gonzalo', 'Richard Benton', 'Michael Unser'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'Understanding the biological underpinnings of movement and action requires the development of tools for precise, quantitative, and high-throughput measurements of animal behavior. Drosophila melanogaster provides an ideal model for developing such tools: the fly has unparalleled genetic accessibility and depends on a relatively compact nervous system to generate sophisticated limbed behaviors including walking, reaching, grooming, courtship, and boxing. Here we describe a method that uses active contours to semi-automatically track body and leg segments from video image sequences of unmarked, freely behaving Drosophila. We show that this approach is robust to wide variations in video spatial and temporal resolution and that it can be used to measure leg segment motions during a variety of locomotor and grooming behaviors. FlyLimbTracker, the software implementation of this method, is open-source and our approach is generalizable. This opens up the possibility of tracking leg movements in other species by modifications of underlying active contour models.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089714', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Centre Suisse d Electronique et Microtechnique (CSEM);', u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Locus-specific ChIP combined with NGS analysis reveals genomic regulatory regions that physically interact with the Pax5 promoter in a chicken B cell line', ['Toshitsugu Fujita', 'Fusako Kitaura', 'Miyuki Yuno', 'Yutaka Suzuki', 'Sumio Sugano', 'Hodaka Fujii'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'Chromosomal interactions regulate genome functions, such as transcription, via dynamic chromosomal organization in the nucleus. In this study, we identified genomic regions that physically bind to the promoter region of the Pax5 gene in the chicken B-cell line DT40, with the goal of obtaining mechanistic insight into transcriptional regulation through chromosomal interaction. Using insertional chromatin immunoprecipitation (iChIP) in combination with next-generation sequencing (NGS) (iChIP-Seq), we found that the Pax5 promoter bound to multiple genomic regions. The identified chromosomal interactions were independently confirmed by in vitro engineered DNA-binding molecule-mediated ChIP (in vitro enChIP) in combination with NGS (in vitro enChIP-Seq). Comparing chromosomal interactions in wild-type DT40 with those in a macrophage-like counterpart, we found that some of the identified chromosomal interactions were organized in a B cell\u2013specific manner. In addition, deletion of a B cell\u2013specific interacting genomic region in chromosome 11, which was marked by active enhancer histone modifications, resulted in moderate but significant down-regulation of Pax5 transcription. Together, these results suggested that Pax5 transcription in DT40 cells is regulated by inter-chromosomal interactions. Moreover, these analyses showed that iChIP-Seq and in vitro enChIP-Seq are useful for non-biased identification of functional genomic regions that physically interact with a locus of interest.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089821', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Osaka University;', u'The University of Tokyo']]
[u'Inference of candidate germline mutator loci in humans from genome-wide haplotype data', ['Cathal Seoighe', 'Aylwyn Scally'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'The rate of germline mutation varies widely between species but little is known about the extent of variation in the germline mutation rate between individuals of the same species. Here we demonstrate that an allele that increases the rate of germline mutation can result in a distinctive signature in the genomic region linked to the affected locus, characterized by a number of haplotypes with a locally high proportion of derived alleles, against a background of haplotypes carrying a typical proportion of derived alleles. We searched for this signature in human haplotype data from phase 3 of the 1000 Genomes Project and report a number of candidate mutator loci, several of which are located close to or within genes involved in DNA repair or the DNA damage response. To investigate whether mutator alleles remained active at any of these loci, we used de novo mutation counts from human parent-offspring trios in the 1000 Genomes and Genome of the Netherlands cohorts, looking for an elevated number of de novo mutations in the offspring of parents carrying a candidate mutator haplotype at each of these loci. We found some support for two of the candidate loci, including one locus just upstream of the BRSK2 gene, which is expressed in the testis and has been reported to be involved in the response to DNA damage.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089623', [u'Genetics'], [u'National University of Ireland, Galway;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Structural reorganization of the chromatin remodeling enzyme Chd1 upon engagement with nucleosomes.', ['Ramasubramanian Sundaramoorthy', 'Amanda L Hughes', 'Vijender Singh', 'Nicola Wiechens', 'Daniel P Ryan', 'Hassane El-Mkami', 'Maxim Petoukhov', 'Dmitri I Svergun', 'Barbara Treuutlein', 'Monika Fischer', 'Jens Michaelis', 'Bettina Bottcher', 'David G Norman', 'Tom Owen-Hughes'], u'November 26, 2016.', u'The yeast Chd1 protein acts to position nucleosomes across genomes. Here we model the structure of the Chd1 protein in solution and when bound to nucleosomes. In the apo state the DNA binding domain contacts the edge of the nucleosome while in the presence of the non-hydrolyzable ATP analog, ADP-beryllium fluoride, we observe additional interactions between the ATPase domain and the adjacent DNA gyre 1.5 helical turns from the dyad axis of symmetry. Binding in this conformation involves unravelling the outer turn of nucleosomal DNA and requires substantial reorientation of the DNA binding domain with respect to the ATPase domains. The orientation of the DNA-binding\ndomain is mediated by sequences in the N-terminus and mutations to this part of the protein have positive and negative effects on Chd1 activity. These observations indicate that the unfavourable alignment of C-terminal DNA binding region in solution contributes to an auto-inhibited state.', u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089581', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'Univesrity of Dundee;', u'The Australian National University;', u'University of St Andrews;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'European Molecular Biology Organisation;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology;', u'University of Ulm;', u'University of Wuerzburg']]
[u'Inference of evolutionary jumps in large phylogenies using Levy processes', ['Pablo Duchen', 'Christoph Leuenberger', 'Sandor M Szilagyi', 'Luke Harmon', 'Jonathan Eastman', 'Manuel Schweizer', 'Daniel Wegmann'], u'November 26, 2016.', u"While it is now widely accepted that the rate of phenotypic evolution may not necessarily be constant across large phylogenies, the frequency and phylogenetic position of periods of rapid evolution remain unclear. In his highly influential view of evolution, G. G. Simpson supposed that such evolutionary jumps occur when organisms transition into so called new adaptive zones, for instance after dispersal into a new geographic area, after rapid climatic changes, or following the appearance of an evolutionary novelty. Only recently, large, accurate and well calibrated phylogenies have become available that allow testing this hypothesis directly, yet inferring evolutionary jumps remains computationally very challenging. Here, we develop a computationally highly efficient algorithm to accurately infer the rate and strength of evolutionary jumps as well as their phylogenetic location. Following previous work we model evolutionary jumps as a compound process, but introduce a novel approach to sample jump configurations that does not require matrix inversions and thus naturally scales to large trees. We then make use of this development to infer evolutionary jumps in Anolis lizards and Loriinae parrots where we find strong signal for such jumps at the basis of clades that transitioned into new adaptive zones, just as postulated by Simpson's hypothesis.", u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089276', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Fribourg;', u'Department of Mathematics, University of Fribourg;', u'Department of Informatics, Petru Maior University;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho;', u'Bern Natural History Museum;', u'University of Fribourg']]
