[u'A Thousand Fly Genomes: An Expanded Drosophila Genome Nexus', ['Justin B Lack', 'Jeremy D Lange', 'Alison B Tang', 'Russell B Corbett-Detig', 'John E Pool'], u'July 12, 2016.', u"The Drosophila Genome Nexus is a population genomic resource that provides D. melanogaster genomes from multiple sources.  To facilitate comparisons across data sets, \ngenomes are aligned using a common reference alignment pipeline which involves two rounds of mapping.  Regions of residual heterozygosity, identity-by-descent, and recent population admixture are annotated to enable data filtering based on the user's needs.  Here, we present a significant expansion of the Drosophila Genome Nexus, which brings the current data object to a total of 1,122 wild-derived genomes.  New additions include 306 previously unpublished genomes from inbred lines representing six population samples in Egypt, Ethiopia, France, and South Africa, along with another 193 genomes added from recently-published data sets.  We also provide an aligned D. simulans genome to facilitate divergence comparisons.  This improved resource will broaden the range of population genomic questions that can addressed from multi-population allele frequencies and haplotypes in this model species.  The larger set of genomes will also enhance the discovery of functionally relevant natural variation that exists within and between populations.", u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063537', [], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Phylogenetic scale in ecology and evolution', ['Catherine H. Graham', 'Antonin Machac', 'David Storch'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'It has been widely acknowledged that many phenomena in ecology and evolution depend on spatial and temporal scale. However, important patterns and processes may also vary across the phylogeny and depend on phylogenetic scale. Though phylogenetic scale has been implicitly considered in some previous studies, it has never been formally conceptualized and its potential remains unexplored. Here, we develop the concept of phylogenetic scale and, building on previous work in the field, we introduce phylogenetic grain and extent, phylogenetic scaling and the domains of phylogenetic scale. We use examples from published research to demonstrate how phylogenetic scale has been considered so far and illustrate how it can inform, and possibly resolve, some of the longstanding controversies in evolutionary biology, community ecology, biogeography and macroecology. To promote the concept of phylogenetic scale empirically, we propose methodological guidelines for its treatment.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063560', [], [u'Stony Brook University;', u'CMEC, University of Copenhagen;', u'Charles University, Prague']]
[u'Parallel Evolution of Cold Tolerance Within Drosophila melanogaster', ['John E Pool', 'Dylan T Braun', 'Justin B Lack'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Drosophila melanogaster originated in tropical Africa before expanding into strikingly different temperate climates in Eurasia and beyond.  Here, we show that elevated cold tolerance has arisen at least three times within this species:  beyond the well-studied non-African case, we show that populations from the highlands of Ethiopia and South Africa have significantly increased cold tolerance as well.  We observe greater cold tolerance in outbred versus inbred flies, but only in populations with higher inversion frequencies.  Each cold-adapted population shows lower inversion frequencies than a closely-related warm-adapted population, suggesting that inversion frequencies may decrease with altitude in addition to latitude.  Using the FST-based "Population Branch Excess" statistic (PBE), we found only limited evidence for parallel genetic differentiation at the scale of ~4 kb windows, specifically between Ethiopian and South African cold-adapted populations.  And yet, when we looked for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with codirectional frequency change in two or three cold-adapted populations, strong genomic enrichments were observed from all comparisons.  These findings could reflect an important role for selection on standing genetic variation leading to "soft sweeps".  One SNP showed sufficient codirectional frequency change in all cold-adapted populations to achieve experiment-wide significance: an intronic variant in the synaptic gene Prosap.  More generally, proteins involved in neurotransmission were enriched as potential targets of parallel adaptation.  The ability to study cold tolerance evolution in a parallel framework will enhance this classic study system for climate adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063545', [], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'A cloud-based workflow to quantify transcript-expression levels in public cancer compendia', ['PJ Tatlow', 'Stephen R Piccolo'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Public compendia of raw sequencing data are now measured in petabytes. Accordingly, it is becoming infeasible for individual researchers to transfer these data to local computers. Recently, the National Cancer Institute funded an initiative to explore opportunities and challenges of working with molecular data in cloud-computing environments. With data in the cloud, it becomes possible for scientists to take their tools to the data and thereby avoid large data transfers. It also becomes feasible to scale computing resources to the needs of a given analysis. To evaluate this concept, we quantified transcript-expression levels for 12,307 RNA-Sequencing samples from the Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia and The Cancer Genome Atlas. We used two cloud-based configurations to process the data and examined the performance and cost profiles of each configuration. Using "preemptible virtual machines," we processed the samples for as little as $0.09 (USD) per sample. In total, we processed the TCGA samples (n=11,373) for only $1,065.49 and simultaneously processed thousands of samples at a time. As the samples were being processed, we collected detailed performance metrics, which helped us to track the duration of each processing step and to identify computational resources used at different stages of sample processing. Although the computational demands of reference alignment and expression quantification have decreased considerably, there remains a critical need for researchers to optimize preprocessing steps (e.g., sorting, converting, and trimming sequencing reads). We have created open-source Docker containers that include all the software and scripts necessary to process such data in the cloud and to collect performance metrics. The processed data are available in tabular format and in Google\'s BigQuery database (see https://osf.io/gqrz9).', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063552', [], [u'Brigham Young University']]
[u'Association of environmental markers with childhood type 1 diabetes mellitus revealed by a long questionnaire on early life exposures and lifestyle in a case-control study', ['Felix BALAZARD', 'Sophie Le Fur', 'Sophie Valtat', 'Alain-Jacques Valleron', 'Pierre Bougneres'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Background: The incidence of childhood type 1 diabetes (T1D) incidence is rising in many countries, supposedly because of changing environmental factors, which are yet largely unknown. Purpose: To unravel environmental markers associated with T1D. Methods: Cases were children with T1D from the French Isis-Diab cohort. Controls were schoolmates or friends of the patients. Parents were asked to fill a 845-item questionnaire investigating the child s environment before diagnosis. The analysis took into account the matching between cases and controls. A second analysis used propensity score methods. Results: We found a negative association of several lifestyle variables, gastroenteritis episodes, dental hygiene, hazelnut cocoa spread consumption, wasp and bee stings with T1D, consumption of vegetables from a farm and death of a pet by old age. Conclusions: The found statistical association of new environmental markers with T1D calls for replication in other cohorts and investigation of new environmental areas.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063438', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Inserm U1169;', u'INSERM U1169']]
[u'Microbial Mat Functional and Compositional Sensitivity to Environmental Disturbance', ['Eva Christine Preisner', 'Erin Biers Fichot', 'Robert Sean Norman'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'The ability of ecosystems to adapt to environmental perturbations depends on the duration and intensity of change and the overall biological diversity of the system. While studies have indicated that rare microbial taxa may provide a biological reservoir that supports long-term ecosystem stability, how this dynamic population is influenced by environmental parameters remains unclear. In this study, a microbial mat ecosystem located on San Salvador Island, The Bahamas was used as a model to examine how environmental disturbance affects the activity of rare and abundant archaeal and bacterial communities and how these changes impact potential biogeochemical processes. While this ecosystem undergoes a range of seasonal variation, it experienced a large shift in salinity (230 to 65 g kg-1) during 2011-2012 following the landfall of Hurricane Irene on San Salvador Island. High throughput sequencing and analysis of 16S rRNA and rRNA genes from samples before and after the pulse disturbance showed significant changes in the diversity and activity of abundant and rare taxa, suggesting overall functional and compositional sensitivity to environmental change. In both archaeal and bacterial communities, while the majority of taxa showed low activity across conditions, the total number of active taxa and overall activity increased post-disturbance, with significant shifts in activity occurring among abundant and rare taxa across and within phyla. Broadly, following the post-disturbance reduction in salinity, taxa within Halobacteria decreased while those within Crenarchaeota, Thaumarchaeota, Thermoplasmata, Cyanobacteria, and Proteobacteria, increased in abundance and activity. Quantitative PCR of genes and transcripts involved in nitrogen and sulfur cycling showed concomitant shifts in biogeochemical cycling potential. Post-disturbance conditions increased the expression of genes involved in N-fixation, nitrification, denitrification, and sulfate reduction. Together, our findings show complex community adaptation to environmental change and help elucidate factors connecting disturbance, biodiversity, and ecosystem function that may enhance ecosystem models.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063370', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of South Carolina']]
[u'Metabolomic-based biomarker discovery for non-invasive lung cancer screening: A case study', ["Keiron O'Shea", 'Simon JS Cameron', 'Keir E Luis', 'Chuan Lu', 'Luis AJ Mur'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Background: Lung cancer (LC) is one of the leading lethal cancers worldwide, with an estimated 18.4% of all cancer deaths being attributed to the disease. Despite developments in cancer diagnosis and treatment over the previous thirty years, LC has seen little to no improvement in the overall five year survival rate after initial diagnosis.\n\nMethods: In this paper, we extended a recent study which profiled the metabolites in sputum from patients with lung cancer and age-matched volunteers smoking controls using flow infusion electrospray ion mass spectrometry.\n\nWe selected key metabolites for distinguishing between different classes of lung cancer, and employed artificial neural networks and leave-one-out cross-validation to evaluate the predictive power of the identified biomarkers.\n\nResults: The neural network model showed excellent performance in classification\nbetween lung cancer and control groups with the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.99. The sensitivity and specificity of for detecting cancer from controls were 96% and 94% respectively.\n\nFurthermore, we have identified six putative metabolites that were able to discriminate between sputum samples derived from patients suffering small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer. These metabolites achieved excellent cross validation performance with a sensitivity of 80% and specificity of 100% for predicting SCLC.\n\nConclusions: These results indicate that sputum metabolic profiling may have potential for screening of lung cancer and lung cancer recurrence, and may greatly improve effectiveness of clinical intervention.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063321', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Aberystwyth University;', u'Imperial College London;', u'Prince Phillip Hospital, Llanelli']]
[u'Fast genotyping of known SNPs through approximate k-mer matching', ['Ariya R Shajii', 'Deniz Yorukoglu', 'Y. William Yu', 'Bonnie Berger'], u'July 12, 2016.', u"Motivation: As the volume of next-generation sequencing (NGS) data increases, faster algorithms become necessary. Although speeding up individual components of a sequence analysis pipeline (e.g. read mapping) can reduce the computational cost of analysis, such approaches do not take full advantage of the particulars of a given problem. One problem of great interest, genotyping a known set of variants (e.g. dbSNP or Affymetrix SNPs), is important for characterization of known genetic traits and causative disease variants within an individual, as well as the initial stage of many ancestral and population genomic pipelines (e.g. GWAS).\nResults: We introduce LAVA (Lightweight Assignment of Variant Alleles), an NGS-based genotyping algorithm for a given set of SNP loci, which takes advantage of the fact that approximate matching of mid-size k-mers (with k = 32) can typically uniquely identify loci in the human genome without full read alignment. LAVA accurately calls the vast majority of SNPs in dbSNP and Affymetrix's Genome-Wide Human SNP Array 6.0 up to about an order of magnitude faster than standard NGS genotyping pipelines. For Affymetrix SNPs, LAVA has significantly higher SNP calling accuracy than existing pipelines while using as low as \u223c5GB of RAM. As such, LAVA represents a scalable computational method for population-level genotyping studies as well as a flexible NGS-based replacement for SNP arrays.\nAvailability: LAVA software is available at http://lava.csail.mit.edu.", u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063446', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'MIT']]
[u'Visual guidance of bimanual coordination relies on movement direction', ['Janina Brandes', 'Farhad Rezvani', 'Tobias Heed'], u'July 12, 2016.', u"Bimanual coordination is more precise for symmetrical than parallel finger movements. This symmetry advantage persists when the hands are oriented differently, despite then requiring the use of non-homologous muscles in the two hands. This finding suggests that coordination is partly guided by perceptual principles. It is unknown what kind of information induces this advantage for perceptual over anatomical movement coding. Here, we tested how different types of visual information affect the symmetry bias. Human participants made rhythmic, symmetrical and parallel, bimanual index finger movements with the hands held in the same or in different orientations. We manipulated visual feedback by placing a mirror between the hands so that participants saw the image of the left at the location of the right hand, creating the impression of bimanual symmetry independent of the right hand's true movement. We replicated the symmetry bias, that is, symmetrical movements were generally performed more precisely than parallel movements, regardless of muscle homology. Furthermore, symmetrical mirror feedback impaired parallel movements, independent of hand posture and muscle homology. Conversely, mirror feedback improved symmetrical movements compared with regular hand view. These results suggest that immediate visual feedback about movement direction, but not about the configuration to achieve the movement, such as posture and muscle homology, determines the bimanual symmetry bias.", u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063404', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Faculty of Psychology and Human Movement Science, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany']]
[u'A conditional likelihood is required to estimate the selection coefficient in ancient DNA', ['Angelo Valleriani'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Time-series of allele frequencies are a useful and unique set of data to determine the strength of natural selection on the background of genetic drift.  Technically, the selection coefficient is estimated by means of a likelihood function built under the hypothesis that the available trajectory spans a sufficiently large portion of the fitness landscape. Especially for ancient DNA, however, often only one single such trajectories is available and the coverage of the fitness landscape is very limited. In fact, one single trajectory is more representative of a process conditioned both in the initial and in the final condition than of a process free to visit the available fitness landscape. Based on two models of population genetics, here we show how to build a likelihood function for the selection coefficient that takes the statistical peculiarity of single trajectories into account. We show that this conditional likelihood delivers a precise estimate of the selection coefficient also when allele frequencies are close to fixation whereas the unconditioned likelihood fails. Finally, we discuss the fact that the traditional, unconditioned likelihood always delivers an answer, which is often unfalsifiable and appears reasonable also when it is not correct.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063396', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Colloids and Interfaces']]
[u'Using qualitative models to define sustainable management for the commons in data poor conditions.', ['Francesca Mancini', 'George M. Coghill', 'David Lusseau'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Nearly 50 years after Hardin\'s "tragedy of the commons", we have not yet found an analytical solution to the issue of governing common-pool resources (CPR). We often have a good understanding of the qualitative relationships between the principal actors in socioecological systems (SESs), but classical quantitative approaches require a tremendous amount of data to understand the drivers of SESs sustainability. Here we show that qualitative modelling approaches can provide important governance insights for SESs that are understood but not quantified. \nWe used Loop Analysis to test the outcomes of different management regimes on a simple nature-based tourism SES described by economic, social and environmental variables. We tested the sustainability of different management scenarios on this system and we identified the necessary conditions to achieve it. Here, sustainability is defined as the presence of a stable equilibrium and the maintenance of economic profitability of the industry, environmental quality and social justice (triple bottom line- TBL- sustainability).\nWe found that hybrid management strategies have higher potential for sustainable development than exclusively market-based or centralised governance structures. Management regimes where property rights and responsibilities are shared between different stakeholders are more likely to be successful. However, the system is generally highly unstable and it is important to tune each strategy to each particular situation. The conditions for sustainability found across the different systems tested were: a low reinvestment rate of tourist revenues into new infrastructures and a low growth rate of the environment. Management strategies based on maximum sustainable yield, which keep the environment far from its carrying capacity, have less chance to be sustainable. \nQualitative models of SESs are powerful diagnostic tools; they can help identifying variables that play an important role in determining socioecological sustainability in data-poor circumstances and guide the design of efficient data collection programmes. Our results highlight the importance of careful planning when designing management strategies for nature-based tourism. The application of one-size-fits-all solutions to every situation is likely to lead to the failure of the commons; however tourism-based SESs can be sustainable if management strategies are tuned to each particular case.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063479', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Aberdeen']]
[u'discoal: flexible coalescent simulations with selection', ['Andrew D. Kern', 'Daniel Schrider'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Here we describe discoal, a coalescent simulator able to generate population samples that include selective sweeps in a feature-rich, flexible manner. discoal can perform simulations conditioning on the fixation of an allele due to drift or either hard or soft selective sweeps, even those occurring a large genetic distance away from the simulated locus. discoal can simulate sweeps with recurrent mutation to the adaptive allele, recombination, and gene conversion, under non-equilibrium demographic histories and without specifying an allele frequency trajectory in advance.\nAvailability and Implementation: Availability and implementation: discoal is implemented in the C programming language. Source code is freely available on GitHub (https://github.com/kern-lab/discoal_multipop) under a GNU General Public License.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063453', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey']]
[u'Differential paralog divergence modulates evolutionary outcomes in yeast', ['Monica Rose Sanchez', 'Aaron W. Miller', 'Ivan Liachko', 'Anna B. Sunshine', 'Bryony Lynch', 'Mei Huang', 'Christopher G. DeSevo', 'Dave A. Pai', 'Cheryl M. Tucker', 'Margaret L. Hoang', 'Maitreya J. Dunham'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Evolutionary outcomes depend not only on the selective forces acting upon a species, but also on the genetic background.  However, large timescales and uncertain historical selection pressures can make it difficult to discern such important background differences between species. Experimental evolution is one tool to compare evolutionary potential of known genotypes in a controlled environment.  Here we utilized a highly reproducible evolutionary adaptation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to investigate whether other yeast species would adopt similar evolutionary trajectories.  We evolved populations of S. cerevisiae, S. paradoxus, S. mikatae, S. uvarum, and interspecific hybrids between S. uvarum and S. cerevisiae for ~200-500 generations in sulfate-limited continuous culture.  Wild-type S. cerevisiae cultures invariably amplify the high affinity sulfate transporter gene, SUL1.  However, while amplification of the SUL1 locus was detected in S. paradoxus and S. mikatae populations, S. uvarum cultures instead selected for amplification of the paralog, SUL2.  We measured the relative fitness of strains bearing deletions and amplifications of both SUL genes from different species, confirming that, converse to S. cerevisiae, S. uvarum SUL2 contributes more to fitness in sulfate limitation than S. uvarum SUL1.  By measuring the fitness and gene expression of chimeric promoter-ORF constructs, we were able to delineate the cause of this differential fitness effect primarily to the promoter of S. uvarum SUL1.  Our data show evidence of differential sub-functionalization among the sulfur transporters across Saccharomyces species through recent changes in noncoding sequence.  Furthermore, these results show a clear example of how such background differences due to paralog divergence can drive significant changes in evolutionary trajectories of eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063248', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Princeton University;', u'Carnegie Institution']]
[u'Whole genome view of the consequences of a population bottleneck using 2926 genome sequences from Finland and United Kingdom', ['Himanshu Chheda', 'Priit Palta', 'Matti Pirinen', 'Shane McCarthy', 'Klaudia Walter', 'Seppo Koskinen', 'Veikko Salomaa', 'Mark Daly', 'Richard Durbin', 'Aarno Palotie', 'Tero Aittokallio', 'Samuli Ripatti'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Isolated populations with enrichment of variants due to recent population bottlenecks provide a powerful resource for identifying disease-associated genetic variants and genes. As a model of an isolate population, we sequenced the genomes of 1463 Finnish individuals as part of the Sequencing Initiative Suomi (SISu) Project. We compared the genomic profiles of the 1463 Finns to a sample of 1463 British individuals that were sequenced in parallel as part of the UK10K Project. Whereas there were no major differences in the allele frequency of common variants, a significant depletion of variants in the rare frequency spectrum was observed in Finns when comparing the two populations. On the other hand, we observed >2.1 million variants that were twice as frequent among Finns compared to Britons and 800,000 variants that were more than 10 times more frequent in Finns. Furthermore, in Finns we observed a relative proportional enrichment of variants in the minor allele frequency range between 2 - 5% (p < 2.2x10-16). When stratified by their functional annotations, loss-of-function (LoF) variants showed the highest proportional enrichment in Finns (p = 0.0291). In the non-coding part of the genome, variants in conserved regions (p = 0.002) and promoters (p = 0.01) were also significantly enriched in the Finnish samples. These functional categories represent the highest a priori power for downstream association studies of rare variants using population isolates.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063388', [u'Genetics'], [u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, United Kingdom;', u'National Institute of Health and Welfare, Department of Health, Helsinki, Finland;', u'Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'The combinatorics of discrete time-trees: theory and open problems', ['Alex Gavryushkin', 'Chris Whidden', 'Frederick Matsen'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'A time-tree is a rooted phylogenetic tree such that all internal nodes are equipped with absolute divergence dates and all leaf nodes are equipped with sampling dates. Such time-trees have become a central object of study in phylogenetics. Here we introduce and study a hierarchy of discrete approximations of the space of time-trees from the graph-theoretic and algorithmic point of view. One of the basic and widely used phylogenetic graphs, the NNI graph, is the roughest approximation and bottom level of our hierarchy. More refined approximations discretize the relative timing of evolutionary divergence and sampling dates. We study basic graph-theoretic questions for these graphs including the size of neighborhoods, diameter upper and lower bounds, and the problem of finding shortest paths. We settle many of these questions by applying the concept of graph grammars introduced by Sleator, Tarjan, and Thurston to our graphs. Furthermore, we design an efficient algorithm for constructing these graphs.\n\nOur results open up a number of possible directions for theoretical investigation of graph-theoretic and algorithmic properties of the time-tree graphs. We discuss the directions that are most valuable for phylogenetic applications and give a list of open problems of prominent importance for those applications.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063362', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'ETH Zurich;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Antiparallel protocadherin homodimers use distinct affinity- and specificity mediating regions in cadherin repeats 1-4', ['John M. Nicoludis', 'Bennett E. Vogt', 'Anna G. Green', 'Charlotta P.I. Scharfe', 'Debora S. Marks', 'Rachelle Gaudet'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'Protocadherins (Pcdhs) are cell adhesion and signaling proteins used by neurons to develop and maintain neuronal networks, relying on trans homophilic interactions between their extracellular cadherin (EC) repeat domains. We present the structure of the antiparallel EC1-4 homodimer of human Pcdh\u03b3B3, a member of the \u03b3 subfamily of clustered Pcdhs.  Structure and sequence comparisons of \u03b1, \u03b2, and \u03b3 clustered Pcdh isoforms illustrate that subfamilies encode specificity in distinct ways through diversification of loop region structure and composition in EC2 and EC3, which contains isoform-specific conservation of primarily polar residues. In contrast, the EC1/EC4 interface comprises hydrophobic interactions that provide non-selective dimerization affinity. Using sequence coevolution analysis, we found evidence for a similar antiparallel EC1-4 interaction in non-clustered Pcdh families. We thus deduce that the EC1-4 antiparallel homodimer is a general interaction strategy that evolved before the divergence of these distinct protocadherin families.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063289', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'University of T\xfcbingen']]
[u'A compound interest approach to HIV cure', ['Daniel Reeves', 'Elizabeth Duke', 'Martin Prlic', 'Florian Hladik', 'Joshua Schiffer'], u'July 12, 2016.', u'In the era of antiretroviral therapy (ART), HIV-1 infection is no longer tantamount to early death. Yet the benefits of treatment are available only to those who can access, afford, and tolerate taking daily pills. True cure is challenged by HIV latency, the ability of integrated virus to persist within memory CD4+T cells in a transcriptionally quiescent state and reactivate when ART is discontinued. Using a mathematical model of HIV dynamics, we demonstrate that treatment strategies offering modest but continual enhancement of reservoir clearance rates result in faster cure than abrupt, one-time reductions in reservoir size. We frame this concept in terms of compounding interest: small changes in interest rate drastically improve returns over time. On ART, latent cell proliferation rates are orders of magnitude larger than activation rates. Contingent on subtypes of cells that may make up the reservoir and their respective proliferation rates, our model predicts that coupling clinically available, anti-proliferative therapies with ART would result in functional cure within 2-10 years rather than many decades on ART alone.', u'/content/early/2016/07/12/063305', [u'Immunology'], [u'Fred Hutch']]
