[u'Dendritic spine taxonomy and shape transition analysis', ['Tomasz Kusmierczyk', 'Micha ukasik', 'Marta Magnowska', 'Matylda Roszkowska', 'Grzegorz Bokota', 'Dariusz Plewczynski'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'The common approach in morphological analysis of dendritic spines is to categorize spines into subpopulations based on whether they are stubby, mushroom, thin, or filopodia. Corresponding cellular models of synaptic plasticity, long-term potentiation, and long-term depression associate synaptic strength with either spine enlargement or spine shrinkage. Although a variety of automatic spine segmentation and feature extraction methods were developed recently, no approaches allowing for an automatic and unbiased distinction between dendritic spine subpopulations and detailed computational models of spine behavior exist.\n\nWe propose an automatic and statistically based method for the unsupervised construction of spine shape taxonomy based on arbitrary features. The taxonomy is then utilized in the newly introduced computational model of behavior, which relies on transitions between shapes.  Models of different populations are compared using supplied bootstrap-based statistical tests. \n\nWe compared two populations of spines at two time points. The first population was stimulated with long-term potentiation, and the other in the resting state was used as a control. The comparison of shape transition characteristics allowed us to identify differences between population behaviors. Although some extreme changes were observed in the stimulated population, statistically significant differences were found only when whole models were compared. Therefore, we hypothesize that the learning process is related to the subtle changes in the whole ensemble of different dendritic spine structures, but not at the level of single shape classes.\n\nThe source code of our software is freely available for non-commercial use https://bitbucket.org/3dome/spines Contact: d.plewczynski@cent.uw.edu.pl.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051227', [], [u'Department of Computer and Information Science, Norwegian University of Science and Technology;', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Sheffield;', u'Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology, Polish Academy of Sciences;', u'Centre of New Technologies, University of Warsaw, Warsaw, Poland']]
[u'Synthetic lipid-containing scaffolds enhance production by co-localizing enzymes', ['Cameron A. Myhrvold', 'Jessica K. Polka', 'Pamela A. Silver'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Subcellular organization is critical for isolating, concentrating, and protecting biological activities. Natural subcellular organization is often achieved using co-localization of proteins on scaffold molecules, thereby enhancing metabolic fluxes and enabling co-regulation. Synthetic scaffolds extend these benefits to new biological processes, and are typically constructed from proteins or nucleic acids. To expand the range of available building materials, we use a minimal set of components from the lipidencapsulated bacteriophage \u03c66 to form synthetic lipid-containing scaffolds (SLSs) in E. coli. Analysis of diffusive behavior by tracking particles in live cells indicates that SLSs are >20 nm in diameter; furthermore, density measurements demonstrate that SLSs contain a mixture of lipids and proteins. The fluorescent proteins mCitrine and mCerulean can be co-localized to SLSs. To test for effects on enzymatic production, we localized two enzymes involved in indigo biosynthesis to SLSs. We observed a scaffold-dependent increase in indigo production, showing that SLSs can enhance metabolic reactions.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/052035', [], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'A nonsurgical rat model of an occult chronic neuritis uses tissue repair to create neural pain responses and histology as seen in humans: analgesics and local erythropoietin in the NeuroDigm GEL\u2122 model', ['Mary R. Hannaman', 'Douglas A. Fitts', 'Rose M. Doss', 'David E. Weinstein', 'Joseph L. Bryant'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Many humans, suffering from neuropathic pain symptoms, have no clinical evidence of a lesion or disease affecting their somatosensory system. The most common factor, in many of those affected, is that the pain occurred after the healing of a soft tissue injury. The reason for the gradual appearance of chronic pain, following soft tissue trauma, could be the universal changes of tissue repair that follow at the injury site. The remodeling of tissue may result in nerve compression, with the delayed onset of pain in some humans. To study this phenomenon, we created a rat model of a mononeuritis with neuropathic pain behavior lasting months using induced tissue remodeling, the prolonged last stage of tissue repair. Thirty-six adult (550g average weight) male rats were randomly assigned to one of three groups: GEL, sham or control. Animals in the control group had a biological gel implanted percutaneously, in the neural tunnel of the distal tibial nerve. Pain behaviors began to appear over 2-3 weeks, with robust persistence of the mechanical hyperalgesia for over 4 months, until the end of the study. Pain behaviors spread contralaterally 2-3 weeks after appearing ipsilaterally. During this time morphine 3 mg/kg, celecoxib 10 mg/kg, gabapentin 25 mg/kg and duloxetine 10 mg/kg were screened 3 times each; all given subcutaneously. Analgesia was similar to the well-characterized responses of humans with post-trauma pain syndromes: morphine had less analgesia over time, celecoxib had no analgesic effects, while gabapentin and duloxetine produced marked analgesia at all times. The anatomic changes seen on histology in the GEL group were consistent with active remodeling of neural tissue. At the conclusion of this study, we tested the analgesic effects of a local injection of the erythropoietin analog, epoetin alfa. The injection of epoetin alfa at the GEL\u2122 procedure site extinguished pain behaviors established for over 4 months.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051979', [], [u'NeuruoDigm Corp;', u'University of Washington;', u'University of Colorado;', u'RiverTown Therapeutics, Inc;', u'University of Maryland School of Medicine']]
[u'Complementary learning systems within the hippocampus: A neural network modeling approach to reconciling episodic memory with statistical learning', ['Anna C Schapiro', 'Nicholas B Turk-Browne', 'Matthew M Botvinick', 'Kenneth A Norman'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'A growing literature suggests that the hippocampus is critical for the rapid extraction of regularities from the environment. Although this fits with the known role of the hippocampus in rapid learning, it seems at odds with the idea that the hippocampus specializes in memorizing individual episodes. In particular, the Complementary Learning Systems theory argues that there is a computational trade-off between learning the specifics of individual experiences and regularities that hold across those experiences. We asked whether it is possible for the hippocampus to handle both statistical learning and memorization of individual episodes. We exposed a neural network model that instantiates known properties of hippocampal projections and subfields to sequences of items with temporal regularities. We found that the monosynaptic pathway - the pathway connecting entorhinal cortex directly to region CA1 - was able to support statistical learning, while the trisynaptic pathway - connecting entorhinal cortex to CA1 through dentate gyrus and CA3 - learned only individual episodes, with apparent representations of regularities resulting from associative reactivation through recurrence. Thus, in paradigms involving rapid learning, the computational trade-off between learning episodes and regularities may be handled by separate anatomical pathways within the hippocampus itself.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051870', [], [u'Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center / Harvard Medical School;', u'Princeton University;', u'Google DeepMind']]
[u'GeMSTONE: Orchestrated Prioritization of Human Germline Mutations in the Cloud', ['Siwei Chen', 'Juan Felipe Beltran', 'Xiaomu Wei', 'Steven Lipkin', 'Clara Esteban-Jurado', 'Sebastia Franch-Exposito', 'Sergi Castellvi-Bel', 'Haiyuan Yu'], u'May 6, 2016.', u"Integrative analysis of whole-genome/exome-sequencing data has been challenging, especially for the non-programming research community, as it requires leveraging an inordinate number of computational tools. Even computational biologists find it unexpectedly difficult to reproduce results from others or optimize their own strategies in an end-to-end workflow. We introduce Germline Mutation Scoring Tool fOr Next-generation sEquencing data (GeMSTONE), a cloud- based variant prioritization tool with high-level customization and a comprehensive collection of bioinformatics tools and data libraries (http://gemstone.yulab.org/). GeMSTONE generates and readily accepts a sharable 'recipe' file for each run to either replicate existing results or analyze new data with identical parameters.", u'/content/early/2016/05/06/052001', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Cornell University;', u'Weill Cornell College of Medicine;', u'University of Barcelona']]
[u'GEFs and Rac GTPases control directional specificity of neurite extension along the anterior-posterior axis', ['Martin Chalfie', 'Chaogu Zheng', 'Margarete Diaz-Cuadros'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Although previous studies have identified many extracellular guidance molecules and intracellular signaling proteins that regulate axonal outgrowth and extension, most were conducted in the context of unidirectional neurite growth, in which the guidance cues either attract or repel growth cones. Very few studies addressed how intracellular signaling molecules differentially specify bidirectional outgrowth. Here, using the bipolar PLM neurons in C. elegans, we show that the guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) UNC-73/Trio and TIAM-1 promote anterior and posterior neurite extension, respectively. The Rac subfamily GTPases act downstream of the GEFs; CED-10/Rac1 is activated by TIAM-1, whereas CED-10 and MIG-2/RhoG act redundantly downstream of UNC-73. Moreover, these two pathways antagonize each other and, thus, regulate the directional bias of neuritogenesis. Our study suggests that directional specificity of neurite extension is conferred through the intracellular activation of distinct GEFs and Rac GTPases.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/052019', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Inference of maternal allele inheritance via hierarchical Bayesian model in noninvasive prenatal diagnosis', ['Chunxuan Shao'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Noninvasive prenatal diagnosis (NIPD) poses a promising solution for detecting genetic alterations in fetus genome. However, inference the maternal allele inheritance of monogenic autosomal recessive disease is still challenging. We perform the null hypothesis testing of haplotype frequency using a hierarchical Bayesian model to deduce the allele inheritance. The Bayesian approach, which does not depend on the fetus DNA proportion in maternal plasma, provides accurate estimations on real and simulated datasets, moreover, it is most robust than current methods in analyzing noisy or even erroneous datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051995', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'German Cancer Research Center']]
[u'AtRTD2: A Reference Transcript Dataset for accurate quantification of alternative splicing and expression changes in Arabidopsis thaliana RNA-seq data', ['Runxuan Zhang', 'Cristiane P G Calixto', 'Yamile Marquez', 'Peter Venhuizen', 'Nikoleta A Tzioutziou', 'Wenbin Guo', 'Mark Spensley', 'Nicolas Frei dit Frey', 'Heribert Hirt', 'Allan B James', 'Hugh G Nimmo', 'Andrea Barta', 'Maria Kalyna', 'John W S Brown'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Background\nAlternative splicing is the major post-transcriptional mechanism by which gene expression is regulated and affects a wide range of processes and responses in most eukaryotic organisms. RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) can generate genome-wide quantification of individual transcript isoforms to identify changes in expression and alternative splicing. RNA-seq is an essential modern tool but its ability to accurately quantify transcript isoforms depends on the diversity, completeness and quality of the transcript information. \nResults\nWe have developed a new Reference Transcript Dataset for Arabidopsis (AtRTD2) for RNA-seq analysis containing over 82k non-redundant transcripts, whereby 74,194 transcripts originate from 27,667 protein-coding genes. A total of 13,524 protein-coding genes have at least one alternatively spliced transcript in AtRTD2 such that about 60% of the 22,453 protein-coding, intron-containing genes in Arabidopsis undergo alternative splicing. More than 600 putative U12 introns were identified in more than 2,000 transcripts. AtRTD2 was generated from transcript assemblies of ca. 8.5 billion pairs of reads from 285 RNA-seq data sets obtained from 129 RNA-seq libraries and merged along with the previous version, AtRTD, and Araport11 transcript assemblies. AtRTD2 increases the diversity of transcripts and through application of stringent filters represents the most extensive and accurate transcript collection for Arabidopsis to date. We have demonstrated a generally good correlation of alternative splicing ratios from RNA-seq data analysed by Salmon and experimental data from high resolution RT-PCR. However, we have observed inaccurate quantification of transcript isoforms for genes with multiple transcripts which have variation in the lengths of their UTRs. This variation is not effectively corrected in RNA-seq analysis programmes and will therefore impact RNA-seq analyses generally. To address this, we have tested different genome-wide modifications of AtRTD2 to improve transcript quantification and alternative splicing analysis. As a result, we release AtRTD2-QUASI specifically for use in Quantification of Alternatively Spliced Isoforms and demonstrate that it out-performs other available transcriptomes for RNA-seq analysis.\nConclusions\nWe have generated a new transcriptome resource for RNA-seq analyses in Arabidopsis (AtRTD2) designed to address quantification of different isoforms and alternative splicing in gene expression studies.  Experimental validation of alternative splicing changes identified inaccuracies in transcript quantification due to UTR length variation. To solve this problem, we also release a modified reference transcriptome, AtRTD2-QUASI for quantification of transcript isoforms, which shows high correlation with experimental data.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051938', [u'Genomics'], [u'The James Hutton Institute;', u'University of Dundee;', u'Centre for Genomic Regulation;', u'Medical University of Vienna;', u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Toulouse;', u'University of Science and Technology;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences - BOKU']]
[u'Data-Driven Phenotypic Categorization for Neurobiological Analyses: Beyond DSM-5 Labels', ['Nicholas Van Dam', "David O'Connor", 'Enitan T Marcelle', 'Erica J Ho', 'Richard Cameron Craddock', 'Russell H Tobe', 'Vilma Gabbay', 'James J Hudziak', 'Francisco Xavier Castellanos', 'Bennett L Leventhal', 'Michael P Milham'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Background: Data-driven approaches can capture behavioral and biological variation currently unaccounted for by contemporary diagnostic categories, thereby enhancing the ability of neurobiological studies to characterize brain-behavior relationships. \nMethods: A community-ascertained sample of individuals (N=347, ages 18-59) completed a battery of behavioral measures, psychiatric assessment, and resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (R-fMRI) in a cross-sectional design. Bootstrap-based exploratory factor analysis was applied to 49 phenotypic subscales from 10 measures. Hybrid Hierarchical Clustering was applied to resultant factor scores to identify nested groups. Adjacent groups were compared via independent samples t-tests and chi-square tests of factor scores, syndrome scores, and psychiatric prevalence. Multivariate Distance Matrix Regression examined functional connectome differences between adjacent groups. \nResults: Reduction yielded six factors, which explained 77.8% and 65.4% of the variance in exploratory and constrained exploratory models, respectively. Hybrid Hierarchical Clustering of these 6 factors identified 2, 4, and 8 nested groups (i.e., phenotypic communities). At the highest clustering level, the algorithm differentiated functionally adaptive and maladaptive groups. At the middle clustering level, groups were separated by problem type (maladaptive groups; internalizing vs. externalizing problems) and behavioral type (adaptive groups; sensation-seeking vs. extraverted/emotionally stable). Unique phenotypic profiles were also evident at the lowest clustering level. Group comparisons exhibited significant differences in intrinsic functional connectivity at the highest clustering level in somatomotor, thalamic, basal ganglia, and limbic networks. \nConclusions: Data-driven approaches for identifying homogenous subgroups, spanning typical function to dysfunction not only yielded clinically meaningful groups, but captured behavioral and neurobiological variation among healthy individuals as well.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051789', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Child Mind Institute;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Nathan Kline Institute;', u'University of Vermont;', u'New York University School of Medicine;', u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'High-yield methods for accurate two-alternative visual psychophysics in head-fixed mice', ['Christopher P Burgess', 'Nicholas Steinmetz', 'Armin Lak', 'Zatka-Haas Peter', 'Adam Ranson', 'Miles Wells', 'Sylvia Schroeder', 'Elina A K Jacobs', 'Charu Bai Reddy', 'Sofia Soares', 'Jennnifer F Linden', 'Joseph J Paton', 'Kenneth D Harris', 'Matteo Carandini'], u'May 6, 2016.', u'Research in neuroscience relies increasingly on the mouse, a mammalian species that affords unparalleled genetic tractability and brain atlases. Here we introduce high-yield methods for probing mouse visual decisions. Mice are head-fixed, which facilitates repeatable visual stimulation, eye tracking, and brain access. They turn a steering wheel to make two-alternative choices, forced or unforced. Learning is rapid thanks to intuitive coupling of stimuli to wheel position. The mouse decisions deliver high-quality psychometric curves for detection and discrimination, and conform to the predictions of a simple probabilistic observer model. The task is readily paired with two-photon imaging of cortical activity. Optogenetic inactivation reveals that the task requires the visual cortex. Mice are motivated to perform the task by fluid reward or optogenetic stimulation of dopaminergic neurons. This stimulation elicits larger number of trials and faster learning. These methods provide a platform to accurately probe mouse vision and its neural basis.', u'/content/early/2016/05/06/051912', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown']]
