[u'Integrating Molecular QTL Data into Genome-wide Genetic Association Analysis: Probabilistic Assessment of Enrichment and Colocalization', ['Xiaoquan Wen', 'Roger Pique-Regi', 'Francesca Luca'], u'October 2, 2016.', u'We propose a novel statistical framework for integrating genetic data from molecular quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping into genome-wide genetic association analysis of complex traits, with the primary objectives of quantitatively assessing the enrichment of the molecular QTLs in complex trait-associated genetic variants and the colocalizations of the two types of association signals. We introduce a  natural Bayesian hierarchical model that treats the latent association status of molecular QTLs as SNP-level annotations for candidate SNPs for complex traits.  We detail a computational procedure to seamlessly perform enrichment, fine-mapping and colocalization analyses, which is a distinct feature compared to the existing colocalization analysis procedures in the literature.  The proposed approach is computationally efficient and requires only summary-level statistics. We evaluate and demonstrate the proposed computational approach through extensive simulation studies and the analysis of blood lipid data and the whole blood eQTL data from the GTEx project. In addition, a useful utility from our proposed method enables the computation of expected colocalization signals, which is analogous to the power calculation in genetic association studies. Using this utility, we further illustrate the importance of enrichment analysis on the ability of discovering colocalized signals and the potential limitations of currently available molecular QTL data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078667', [u'Genetics'], [u'Univ. Michigan;', u'Wayne State University']]
[u'Co-expression networks reveal the tissue-specific regulation of transcription and splicing', ['Ashis Saha', 'Yungil Kim', 'Ariel D. H. Gewirtz', 'Brian Jo', 'Chuan Gao', 'Ian C McDowell', 'Barbara E Engelhardt', 'Alexis Battle'], u'October 2, 2016.', u'Gene co-expression networks capture biologically important patterns in gene expression data, enabling functional analyses of genes, discovery of biomarkers, and interpretation of regulatory genetic variants. Most network analyses to date have been limited to assessing correlation between total gene expression levels in a single or small sets of tissues. Here, we have reconstructed networks that capture a much more complete set of regulatory relationships, specifically including regulation of relative isoform abundance and splicing, and tissue-specific connections unique to each of a diverse set of tissues. Using the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project v6 RNA-sequencing data across 44 tissues in 449 individuals, we evaluated shared and tissue-specific network relationships. First, we developed a framework called Transcriptome Wide Networks (TWNs) for combining total expression and relative isoform levels into a single sparse network, capturing the complex interplay between the regulation of splicing and transcription. We built TWNs for sixteen tissues, and found that hubs with isoform node neighbors in these networks were strongly enriched for splicing and RNA binding genes, demonstrating their utility in unraveling regulation of splicing in the human transcriptome, and providing a set of candidate shared and tissue-specific regulatory hub genes. Next, we used a Bayesian biclustering model that identifies network edges between genes with co-expression in a single tissue to reconstruct tissue-specific networks (TSNs) for 27 distinct GTEx tissues and for four subsets of related tissues. Using both TWNs and TSNs, we characterized gene co-expression patterns shared across tissues. Finally, we found genetic variants associated with multiple neighboring nodes in our networks, supporting the estimated network structures and identifying 33 genetic variants with distant regulatory impact on transcription and splicing. Our networks provide an improved understanding of the complex relationships between genes in the human transcriptome, including tissue-specificity of gene co-expression, regulation of splicing, and the coordinated impact of genetic variation on transcription.', u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078741', [u'Genomics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Princeton University;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Unbiased K-mer Analysis Reveals Changes in Copy Number of Highly Repetitive Sequences During Maize Domestication and Improvement', ['Sanzhen Liu', 'Jun Zheng', 'Pierre Migeon', 'Jie Ren', 'Ying Hu', 'Cheng He', 'Hongjun Liu', 'Junjie Fu', 'Frank F White', 'Christopher Toomajian', 'Guoying Wang'], u'October 2, 2016.', u'The major component of complex genomes is repetitive elements, which remain recalcitrant to characterization. Using maize as a model system, we analyzed whole genome shotgun (WGS) sequences for the two maize inbred lines B73 and Mo17 using k-mer analysis to quantify the differences between the two genomes. Significant differences were identified in highly repetitive sequences, including centromere repeats, 45S ribosomal DNA (rDNA), knob, and telomere repeats. Previously unknown genotype specific 45S rDNA sequences were discovered. The B73-specific 45S rDNA is not only located on the nucleolus organizer region (NOR) on chromosome 6 but also dispersed on all the chromosomes in B73, indicating the relatively recent spread of 45S rDNA from the NOR. The B73 and Mo17 polymorphic k-mers were used to examine allele-specific expression of 45S rDNA. Although Mo17 contains higher copy number than B73, equivalent levels of overall 45S rDNA expression indicates that dosage compensation operates for the 45S rDNA in the hybrids. Using WGS sequences of B73xMo17 double haploids (DHs), genomic locations showing differential repetitive contents were genetically mapped. Analysis of WGS sequences of HapMap2 lines, including maize wild progenitor teosintes, landraces, and improved lines, decreases and increases in abundance of additional sets of k-mers associated with centromere repeats, 45S rDNA, knob, and retrotransposon sequences were found between teosinte and maize lines, revealing global evolutionary trends of genomic repeats during maize domestication and improvement.', u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078790', [u'Genomics'], [u'Kansas State University, United States;', u'Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China;', u'Shandong Agricultural University, United States;', u'University of Florida, United States']]
[u'Fine mapping of Ur-3, a historically important rust resistance locus in common bean', ['Oscar P. Hurtado-Gonzales', 'Giseli Valentini', 'Thiago A. S. Gilio', 'Alexandre M. Martins', 'Qijian Song', 'Marcial A. Pastor-Corrales'], u'October 2, 2016.', u'Bean rust is a devastating disease of common bean in the Americas and Africa. The historically important Ur-3 gene confers resistance to many races of the highly variable bean rust pathogen that overcome all known rust resistance genes. Existing molecular markers tagging Ur-3 for use in marker assisted selection produce false results. We described here the fine mapping of Ur-3 for the development of highly accurate markers linked to this gene. An F2 population from Pinto 114 \xd7 Aurora was evaluated for its reaction to four different races of the bean rust pathogen. A bulked segregant analysis using the SNP chip BARCBEAN6K_3 positioned the approximate location of the Ur-3 locus to the lower arm of chromosome Pv11. Specific SSR and SNP markers and haplotype analysis of 18 sequenced bean lines led to position the Ur-3 locus to a 46.5 Kb genomic region. We discovered a KASP marker, SS68 that was tightly linked to the Ur-3 locus. Validation of SS68 on a panel of 130 diverse common bean lines and varieties containing all known rust resistance genes revealed that it was highly accurate producing no false results. The SS68 marker will be of great value to pyramid Ur-3 with other rust resistance genes. It will also reduce significantly time and labor associated with the current phenotypic detection of Ur-3. This is the first utilization of fine mapping to discover markers linked to a rust resistance in common bean.', u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078782', [u'Genetics'], [u'USDA-ARS BARC-WEST;', u'Departamento de Agronomia, Universidade Estadual de Maring\xe1;', u'Coordenacao de Aperfeicoamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior']]
[u'Crystal structure and RNA-binding properties of an Hfq homolog from the deep-branching Aquificae: Conservation of the lateral RNA-binding mode', ['Kimberly A Stanek', 'Jennifer Patterson West', 'Peter S Randolph', 'Cameron Mura'], u'October 1, 2016.', u"The host factor Hfq, as the bacterial branch of the Sm family, is an RNA-binding protein involved in post-transcriptional regulation of mRNA expression and turnover. Hfq facilitates pairing between small regulatory RNAs (sRNA) and their corresponding mRNA targets by binding both RNAs and bringing them into close proximity. Hfq homologs self-assemble into homo-hexameric rings, with at least two distinct surfaces that bind RNA. Recently, another binding site\u2212dubbed the 'lateral rim'\u2212has been implicated in sRNA\xb7mRNA annealing; the RNA-binding properties of this site appear to be rather subtle, and its degree of evolutionary conservation is unknown. An Hfq homolog has been identified in the phylogenetically deep-branching thermophile Aquifex aeolicus (Aae), but little is known about the structures and functions of Hfq from basal bacterial lineages such as the Aquificae.  Thus, we have cloned, overexpressed, purified, crystallized, and biochemically characterized Aae Hfq.  We have determined the structures of Aae Hfq in space-groups P1 and P6, both to 1.5 \xc5 resolution, and we have discovered nanomolar-scale binding affinities for uridine- and adenosine-rich RNAs.  Co-crystallization with U6 RNA reveals that the outer rim of the Aae Hfq hexamer features a well-defined binding pocket that is selective for uracil. This Aae Hfq structure, combined with biochemical and biophysical characterization of the homolog, reveals deep evolutionary conservation of the lateral RNA-binding mode, and lays a foundation for further studies of Hfq-associated RNA biology in ancient bacterial phyla.", u'/content/early/2016/10/01/078733', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Virginia']]
[u'Oligodendrocytes in the mouse optic nerve originate in the preoptic area', ['Katsuhiko Ono', 'Kengo Yoshii', 'Hiroyuki Tominaga', 'Hitoshi Gotoh', 'Tadashi Nomura', 'Hirohide Takebayashi', 'Kazuhiro Ikenaka'], u'October 1, 2016.', u'The present study aims to examine the origin of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in the mouse optic nerve (ON) by labeling OPCs in the fetal forebrain.  The labeling of OPCs in the ON was performed by injection of a retrovirus vector carrying the lacZ gene into the lateral ventricle, or by inducible Cre/loxP of Olig2-positive cells.  The retrovirus labeling revealed that ventricular zone-derived cells of the fetal forebrain relocated to the ON and differentiated into oligodendrocytes.  In addition, lineage tracing of Olig2-positive cells and whole mount staining of PDGFR\u03b1-positive cells demonstrated that OPCs appeared by E12.5 in the preoptic area, and spread caudally to enter the ON.  Our results also suggest that OPCs generated during the early stage are depleted from the ON after maturation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/01/078774', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine;', u'Niigata University;', u'National Institute for Physiological Sciences']]
[u'Multiplex gene editing by CRISPR-Cpf1 through autonomous processing of a single crRNA array', ['Bernd Zetsche', 'Matthias Heidenreich', 'Prarthana Mohanraju', 'Iana Fedorova', 'Jeroen Kneppers', 'Ellen M DeGennaro', 'Nerges Winblad', 'Sourav R Choudhury', 'Omar O Abudayyeh', 'Jonathan S Gootenberg', 'Wen Y Wu', 'David A Scott', 'Konstantin Severinov', 'John van der Oost', 'Feng Zhang'], u'October 1, 2016.', u'Microbial CRISPR-Cas defense systems have been adapted as a platform for genome editing applications built around the RNA-guided effector nucleases, such as Cas9. We recently reported the characterization of Cpf1, the effector nuclease of a novel type V-A CRISPR system, and demonstrated that it can be adapted for genome editing in mammalian cells. Unlike Cas9, which utilizes a trans-activating crRNA (tracrRNA) as well as the endogenous RNaseIII for maturation of its dual crRNA:tracrRNA guides, guide processing of the Cpf1 system proceeds in the absence of tracrRNA or other Cas (CRISPR associated) genes, suggesting that Cpf1 is sufficient for pre-crRNA maturation. This has important implications for genome editing, as it would provide a simple route to multiplex targeting. Here, we show for two Cpf1 orthologs that no other factors are required for array processing and demonstrate multiplex gene editing in mammalian cells as well as in the mouse brain by using a designed single CRISPR array.', u'/content/early/2016/10/01/049122', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard; McGovern Institute, MIT;', u'Wageningen University;', u'Rutgers University']]
