[u'The genome-wide transcriptional response to varying RpoS levels in Escherichia coli K-12', ['Garrett T Wong', 'Richard P Bonocora', 'Alicia N Schep', 'Suzannah M Beeler', 'Anna Lee', 'Lauren Shull', 'Lakshmi Batachari', 'Moira Dillon', 'Ciaran Evans', 'Johanna Hardin', 'Joseph T Wade', 'Daniel M Stoebel'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'The alternative sigma factor RpoS is a central regulator of a many stress responses in Escherichia coli. The level of functional RpoS differs depending on the stress. The effect of these differing concentrations of RpoS on global transcriptional responses remains unclear. We investigated the effect of RpoS concentration on the transcriptome during stationary phase in rich media. We show that 23% of genes in the E. coli genome are regulated by RpoS level, and we identify many RpoS-transcribed genes and promoters. We observe three distinct classes of response to RpoS by genes in the regulon: genes whose expression changes linearly with increasing RpoS level, genes whose expression changes dramatically with the production of only a little RpoS ("sensitive" genes), and genes whose expression changes very little with the production of a little RpoS ("insensitive"). We show that sequences outside the core promoter region determine whether a RpoS-regulated gene in sensitive or insensitive. Moreover, we show that sensitive and insensitive genes are enriched for specific functional classes, and that the (in)sensitivity of a gene to RpoS corresponds to the timing of induction as cells enter stationary phase. Thus, promoter sensitivity to RpoS is a mechanism to coordinate specific cellular processes with growth phase, and may also contribute to the diversity of stress responses directed by RpoS.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082537', [], [u'Harvey Mudd College;', u'Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health;', u'Pomona College;', u'Wadsworth Center, NY Dept of Health & Dept of Biomedical Sciences, U of Albany']]
[u'Transposable elements reveals punctuated patterns of evolution in Mammals', ['Marco Ricci', 'Valentina Peona', 'Etienne Guichard', 'Alessio Boattini'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Transposable elements (TEs) play an essential role in shaping eukaryotic genomes and in organismal diversification. It has been hypothesized that bursts of TEs may correspond to punctuated events of speciation (CArrier SubPopulation, Epi-Transposon, TE-Thrust hypotheses), thus it is expected that highly differentiated taxa bear highly active TEs in their genomes. To test this hypothesis, we designed two new parameters: the Relative Rate of Speciation (RRS) and the Density of Insertions (DI). These parameters measure, respectively, how much the taxa are undergoing an adaptive radiation and the magnitude of TE activity in their genomes. We call "hot" and "cold" those genomes with high and low DI, respectively. In this study, we test the association between RRS and DI ("Cold Genome Hypothesis") in Mammalian families and superorders. Furthermore, since the age of TEs can be inferred by calculating the distance from their respective consensus sequences, we subset TEs in different age classes in order to study the evolution of genomes at different time scales. Here, we consider "recent" TEs (divergence <1%) and "less recent" TEs (divergence <5%). Comparing the TE activity in 19 pairs of species belonging to different mammalian families and the average TE activity of sampled species from the four superorders of Placentalia, we assessed the correlation between taxa with high RRS and "hot genomes" and between taxa with low RRS and "cold genomes". Specifically, the density of recent insertions correlates with recent macroevolutionary events while the density of less recent insertions with old events. The results are strongly validated by statistical tests and they are coherent with the "Cold Genome Hypothesis".\nOur study supports the Punctuated Equilibria theory in both the phases of radiation and stasis, corroborating the hypothesis that Mammals evolved through punctuated mechanisms rather than through gradualistic ones.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082248', [], [u'University of Bologna']]
[u'Binary Relation Extraction from Biomedical Literature using Dependency Trees and SVMs', ['Anuj Sharma', 'Vassilis Virvilis', 'Tina Lekka', 'Christos Andronis'], u'October 21, 2016.', u"The goal of Biomedical relation extraction is to uncover high-quality relations from life science literature with diverse\napplications in the fields of Biology and Medicine. In the last decade, several methods can be found in published literature ranging from\nbinary to complex relation extraction. In this work, we present a binary relation extraction system that relies on sentence level\ndependency features. We use a novel approach to map dependency tree based rules to feature vectors that can be used to train a\nclassifier. We build a SVM classifier using these feature vectors and our experimental results show that it outperforms simple\nco-occurrence and rule-based systems. Through our experiments, using two 'real-world' examples, we quantify the positive impact of\nimproved relation extraction on Literature Based Discovery.", u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082479', [], [u'Biovista']]
[u'Fidelity of parent-offspring transmission and the evolution of social behavior in structured populations', ['Florence Debarre'], u'October 21, 2016.', u"The theoretical investigation of how spatial structure affects the evolution of social behavior has mostly been done under the assumption that parent-offspring strategy transmission is perfect, ie, for genetically transmitted traits, that mutation is very weak or absent. \nHere, we investigate the evolution of social behavior in structured populations under arbitrary mutation probabilities. \nWe consider populations of fixed size N, structured such that in the absence of selection, all individuals have the same probability of reproducing or dying (neutral reproductive values are the all same). \nTwo types of individuals, A and B, corresponding to two types of social behavior, are competiting; the fidelity of strategy transmission from parent to offspring is tuned by a parameter \u03bc. \nSocial interactions have a direct effect on individual fecundities. \nUnder the assumption of small phenotypic differences (weak selection), we provide a formula for the expected frequency of type A individuals in the population, and deduce conditions for the long-term success of one strategy against another. \nWe then illustrate this result with three common life-cycles (Wright-Fisher, Moran Birth-Death and Moran Death-Birth), and specific population structures (graph-structured populations). \nQualitatively, we find that some life-cycles (Moran Birth-Death, Wright-Fisher) prevent the evolution of altruistic behavior, confirming previous results obtained with perfect strategy transmission. \nWe also show that computing the expected frequency of altruists on a regular graph may require knowing more than just the graph's size and degree.", u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082503', [], [u'CNRS']]
[u'Studying vertical microbiome transmission from mothers to infants by strain-level metagenomic profiling', ['Francesco Asnicar', 'Serena Manara', 'Moreno Zolfo', 'Duy Tin Truong', 'Matthias Scholz', 'Federica Armanini', 'Pamela Ferrretti', 'Valentina Gorfer', 'Anna Pedrotti', 'Adrian Tett', 'Nicola Segata'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'The infant gut microbiome starts to be shaped in the first days of life and continues to increase its diversity during the first months. Several investigations are assessing the link between the configuration of the infant gut microbiome and infant health, but a comprehensive strain-level assessment of vertically transmitted microbes from mother to infant is still missing. We longitudinally collected fecal and breast milk samples from multiple mother-infant pairs during the first year of life of the infants, and applied shotgun metagenomic sequencing followed by strain-level profiling. We observed several specific strains including those from Bifidobacterium bifidum, Coprococcus comes, and Ruminococcus bromii, that were present in samples from the same mother-infant pair, while being clearly distinct from those carried by other pairs, which is indicative of vertical transmission. We further applied metatranscriptomics to study the in vivo expression of vertically transmitted microbes, for example Bacteroides vulgatus and Bifidobacterium spp., thus suggesting that transmitted strains are functionally active in the two rather different environments of the adult and infant guts. By combining longitudinal microbiome sampling and newly developed computational tools for strain-level microbiome analysis, we showed that it is possible to track vertical transmission of members of the microbiome from mother to infants and characterize their transcriptional activity. Our work poses the basis for surveying at larger scale the sources of microbial diversity in the infants and start associating non-physiological transmissions with microbiome dysbiosis at later infant development stages.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/081828', [], [u'Centre for Integrative Biology, University of Trento, Italy;', u'Azienda Provinciale per i Servizi Sanitari, Trento, Italy']]
[u'Probing the effect of uniaxial compression on cell migration', ['Nishit Srivastava', 'Robert R Kay', 'Alexandre J Kabla'], u'October 21, 2016.', u"The chemical, physical and mechanical properties of the extra-cellular environment have a strong effect on cell migration. Aspects such as pore-size or stiffness\nof the matrix influence the selection of the mechanism used by cells to propel themselves, including pseudopod or blebbing. How a cell perceives its environment,and how such a cue triggers a change in behaviour are largely unknown, but mechanics is likely to be involved. Because mechanical conditions are often\ncontrolled by modifying the composition of the environment, separating chemical and physical contributions is difficult and requires multiple controls. Here we propose a simple method to impose a mechanical compression on individual cells without altering the composition of the gel. Live imaging during compression provides accurate information about the cell's morphology and migratory phenotype. Using Dictyostelium as a model, we observe that a compression of the order of 500Pa flattens the cells under gel by up to 50%. This uniaxial compression\ndirectly triggers a transition in the mode of migration, from primarily pseudopodial to bleb driven, in less than 30 sec. This novel device is therefore capable of influencing cell migration in real time and offers a convenient approach to systematically study mechanotransduction in confined environments.", u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082461', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology;', u'Department of Engineering']]
[u'Regulation of sleep plasticity by a thermo-sensitive circuit in Drosophila', ['Angelique Lamaze', 'Arzu Ozturk-Colak', 'Robin Fischer', 'Nicolai Peschel', 'Kyunghee Koh', 'James E.C Jepson'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Sleep is a highly conserved and essential behaviour in many species, including the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. In the wild, sensory signalling encoding environmental information must be integrated with sleep drive to ensure that sleep is not initiated during detrimental conditions. However, the molecular and circuit mechanisms by which sleep timing is modulated by the environment are unclear. Here we introduce a novel behavioural paradigm to study this issue. We show that in male fruit flies, onset of the daytime siesta is delayed by ambient temperatures above 29 degrees Celsius. We term this effect Prolonged Morning Wakefulness (PMW). We show that signalling through the TrpA1 thermo-sensor is required for PMW, and that TrpA1 specifically impacts siesta onset, but not night sleep onset, in response to elevated temperatures. We identify two critical TrpA1-expressing circuits and show that both contact DN1p clock neurons, the output of which is also required for PMW. Finally, we identify the circadian blue-light photoreceptor CRYPTOCHROME as a molecular regulator of PMW. We propose a model in which the Drosophila nervous system integrates information encoding temperature, light, and time to dynamically control when sleep is initiated. Our results provide a platform to investigate how environmental inputs co-ordinately regulate sleep plasticity.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082487', [], [u'UCL Institute of Neurology;', u'Thomas Jefferson University;', u'University of Wurzburg']]
[u'Cell-to-cell Modelling of the inter-phase between Atrial and Sinoatrial Anisotropic Heterogeneous Nets', ['Gabriel Lopez', 'Norma Pilar Castellanos', 'Rafael Godinez'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'The transition between Sinoatrial cells and Atrial cells in the Heart is not fully understood. This paper focus in cell-to-cell mathematical models involving typical Sinoatrial cells and Atrial cells connected with experimentally observed conductance values exclusively. We are interested mainly  in the geometry of the microstructure of the conduction paths in the Sinoatrial Node. We show with some models that appropriate source-sink relationships between Atrial and Sinoatrial cells may occur according to certain geometric arrangements.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082529', [], [u'Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana;', u'Universidad Autonoma Metropoilitana']]
[u'Reverse-engineering human olfactory perception from chemical features of odor molecules', ['Andreas Keller', 'Richard C. Gerkin', 'Yuanfang Guan', 'Amit Dhurandhar', 'Gabor Turu', 'Bence Szalai', 'Joel D. Mainland', 'Yusuke Ihara', 'Chung Wen Yu', 'Russ Wolfinger', 'Celine Vens', 'Leander Schietgat', 'Kurt De Grave', 'Raquel Norel', 'Gustavo Stolovitzky', 'Guillermo Cecchi', 'Leslie B. Vosshall', 'Pablo Meyer'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Despite 25 years of progress in understanding the molecular mechanisms of olfaction, it is still not possible to predict whether a given molecule will have a perceived odor, or what olfactory percept it will produce. To address this stimulus-percept problem for olfaction, we organized the crowd-sourced DREAM Olfaction Prediction Challenge. Working from a large olfactory psychophysical dataset, teams developed machine learning algorithms to predict sensory attributes of molecules based on their chemoinformatic features. The resulting models predicted odor intensity and pleasantness with high accuracy, and also successfully predicted eight semantic descriptors (garlic, fish, sweet, fruit, burnt, spices, flower, sour). Regularized linear models performed nearly as well as random-forest-based approaches, with a predictive accuracy that closely approaches a key theoretical limit. The models presented here make it possible to predict the perceptual qualities of virtually any molecule with an impressive degree of accuracy to reverse-engineer the smell of a molecule.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082495', [], [u'Rockefeller University;', u'Arizona State University;', u'University of Michigan;', u'IBM; TJ Watson, Computational Biology Center;', u'Semmelweis University and MTA-SE;', u'Monell Chemical Senses Center and University of Pennsylvania;', u'Monell Chemical Senses Center and Institution for Innovation, Ajinomoto Co., Inc.;', u'Monell Chemical Senses Center;', u'SAS Institute, Inc.;', u'KU Leuven;', u'KU Leuven and Flanders Make;', u'The Rockefeller University and HHMI']]
[u'Estimating the implicit component of visuomotor rotation learning by constraining movement preparation time.', ['Li-Ann Leow', 'Welber Marinovic', 'Reece Gunn', 'Timothy J Carroll'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'When sensory feedback is perturbed, accurate movement is restored by implicit error-driven processes, as well as deliberate, explicit re-aiming to strategically compensate for errors. How these processes interact to co-determine behaviour during sensorimotor adaptation is not completely understood. To characterise implicit learning, previous work subtracted reported aiming directions from actual movement directions, or attempted to suppress explicit re-aiming via dual-task conditions or by constraining movement preparation time. Here, by instructing participants to re-aim in the absence of a sensory perturbation, we show that re-aiming is possible even with very short preparation times. Nonetheless, re-aiming is effortful and comes at the cost of increased movement variability, so we also tested whether constraining preparation time is sufficient to suppress strategic re-aiming during adaptation to visuomotor rotation. The rate and extent of error reduction under preparation time constraints were similar to estimates of implicit learning obtained from measures of self-report without time pressure. This suggests that participants chose not to apply a re-aiming strategy to correct visual errors when preparation time was constrained. Surprisingly, participants who reported aiming directions during adaptation showed less implicit learning according to an alternative measure, obtained during trials performed without cursor feedback. This suggests that the process of reporting aiming direction can affect the extent or persistence of implicit learning. In sum, the data indicate that restricting preparation time can suppress explicit re-aiming, and provide an estimate of implicit visuomotor rotation learning that does not require participants to report their aiming directions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082420', [], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'Curtin University of Technology']]
[u'How to fold intricately: using theory and experiments to unravel the properties of knotted proteins', ['Sophie E. Jackson', 'Antonio Suma', 'Cristian Micheletti'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Over the years, advances in experimental and computational methods have helped us to understand the role of thermodynamic, kinetic and active (chaperone-aided) effects in coordinating the folding steps required to achieving a knotted native state. Here, we review such developments by paying particular attention to the complementarity of experimental and computational studies. Key open issues that could be tackled with either or both approaches are finally pointed out.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082446', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avanzati']]
[u"Shorter neural adaptation to sounds accounts for dyslexics' abnormal perceptual and reading dynamics", ['Sagi Jaffe-Dax', 'Orr Frenkel', 'Merav Ahissar'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Dyslexia is a prevalent reading disability whose underlying mechanisms are still disputed. We studied the neural mechanisms underlying dyslexia using a simple frequency-discrimination task. Though participants were asked to compare the 2-tones in each trial, implicit memory of previous trials affected their responses. We hypothesized that implicit memory decays faster among dyslexics. We tested this by increasing the temporal intervals between consecutive trials, and measuring the behavioral impact and ERP responses from the auditory cortex. Dyslexics showed a faster decay of implicit memory effects on both measures, with similar time constants. Finally, faster decay for dyslexics also characterized their benefits in oral reading rate. It decreased faster as a function of the time interval from the previous reading of the same non-word. We propose that shorter neural adaptation among dyslexics paradoxically accounts for their longer reading times, since it induces noisier and less reliable predictions for both simple and complex stimuli.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082370', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University and Hebrew University;', u'Hebrew University']]
[u'Empirical Bayes estimation of semi-parametric hierarchical mixture models for unbiased characterization of polygenic disease architectures', ['jo nishino', 'Yuta Kochi', 'Daichi Shigemizu', 'Mamoru Kato', 'Katsunori Ikari', 'Hidenori Ochi', 'Hisashi Noma', 'Kota Matsui', 'Takashi Morizono', 'Keith A Anthony Boroevich', 'Tatsuhiko Tsunoda', 'Shigeyuki Matsui'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) suggest that the genetic architecture of complex diseases consists of unexpectedly numerous variants with small effect sizes. However, the polygenic architecture of many diseases has not been accurately assessed due to lack of simple and fast methods for unbiased estimation of the underlying proportion of disease-associated variants and their effect-size distribution. Applying empirical Bayes estimation of semi-parametric hierarchical mixture models to GWAS summary statistics, we confirmed that schizophrenia was extremely polygenic (~30% risk variants of independent genome-wide SNPs, most within odds ratio (OR)=1.03), whereas rheumatoid arthritis was less polygenic (2.5~5.0% risk variants, significant portion reaching OR=1.05~1.1). For rheumatoid arthritis, stratified estimations revealed that expression quantitative loci in blood explained large genetic variance, and low- and high-frequency derived alleles were prone to be risk and protective, respectively, suggesting a predominance of deleterious-risk and advantageous-protective mutation. Despite genetic correlation, effect-size distributions for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder differed across allele frequency. These analyses distinguished disease polygenic architectures and provided clues for etiological differences in complex diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/080945', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biostatistics, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine;', u'Laboratory for Autoimmune Diseases, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences;', u'Department of Medical Science Mathematics, Medical Research Institute;', u'Department of Bioinformatics, National Cancer Center Research Institute;', u"Institute of Rheumatology, Tokyo Women's Medical University;", u'Department of Medicine and Molecular Science, Division of Frontier Medical Science;', u'Department of Data Science, The Institute of Statistical Mathematics;', u'Laboratory for Medical Science Mathematics, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences']]
[u'geneXtendeR: R/Bioconductor package for functional annotation of histone modification ChIP-seq data in a 3D genome world', ['Bohdan Khomtchouk', 'Derek Van Booven', 'Claes Wahlestedt'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Functional genomic annotation of epigenetic histone modification ChIP-seq data is a computationally challenging task. Epigenetic histone modifications that have inherently broad peaks with a diffuse range of signal enrichment (e.g., H3K9me1, H3K27me3) differ significantly from narrow peaks that exhibit a compact and localized enrichment pattern (e.g., H3K4me3, H3K9ac). Varying degrees of tissue-dependent broadness of the specific epigenetic mark coupled with environmentally mediated 3D-folding of chromosomes for long-range communication make it difficult to accurately and reliably link sequencing data to biological function. Hence, it would be useful to develop a software program that can precisely tailor the computational analysis of a histone modification ChIP-seq dataset to the specific tissue-dependent, environmentally mediated characteristics of the data.\n\ngeneXtendeR is an R/Bioconductor package designed to optimally annotate a histone modification ChIP-seq peak input file with functionally important genomic features (e.g., genes associated with peaks) based on optimization calculations. geneXtendeR optimally extends the boundaries of every gene in a genome by some genomic distance (in DNA base pairs) for the purpose of flexibly incorporating cis and trans- regulatory elements, such as enhancers and promoters, as well as downstream elements that are important to the function of the gene relative to an epigenetic histone modification ChIP-seq dataset. geneXtendeR computes optimal gene extensions tailored to the broadness of the specific epigenetic mark (e.g., H3K9me1, H3K27me3), as determined by a user-supplied ChIP-seq peak input file. As such, geneXtendeR maximizes the signal-to-noise ratio of locating genes closest to and directly under peaks that may be linked by epigenetic regulation. By performing a computational expansion of this nature, ChIP-seq reads that would initially not map strictly to a specific gene can now be optimally mapped to the regulatory regions of the gene, thereby implicating the gene as a potential candidate, and thereby making the ChIP- seq experiment more successful. Such an approach becomes particularly important when working with epigenetic histone modifications that have inherently broad peaks. We have tested geneXtendeR on 547 human transcription factor ChIP-seq ENCODE datasets and 215 human histone modification ChIP-seq ENCODE datasets, providing the analysis results as case studies.\n\nThe geneXtendeR R/Bioconductor package (including detailed introductory vignettes) is available under the GPL-3 Open Source license and is freely available to download from Bioconductor at: https://bioconductor.org/packages/geneXtendeR/.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082347', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Miami Miller School of Medicine']]
[u'The human functional genome defined by genetic diversity', ['Julia di Iulio', 'Istvan Bartha', 'Emily Wong', 'Hung-Chun Yu', 'Michael Hicks', 'Naisha Shah', 'Victor Lavrenko', 'Ewen Kirkness', 'Martin Fabani', 'Dongchan Yang', 'Inkyung Jung', 'Williams Biggs', 'Bing Ren', 'J. Craig Venter', 'Amalio Telenti'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Large scale efforts to sequence whole human genomes provide extensive data on the non-coding portion of the genome. We used variation information from 11,257 human genomes to describe the spectrum of sequence conservation in the population. We established the genome-wide variability for each nucleotide in the context of the surrounding sequence in order to identify departure from expectation at the population level (context-dependent conservation). We characterized the population diversity for functional elements in the genome and identified the coordination of conserved sequences of distal and cis enhancers, chromatin marks, promoters, coding and intronic regions. The most context-dependent conserved regions of the genome are associated with unique functional annotations and a genomic organization that spreads up to one megabase. Importantly, these regions are enriched by over 100-fold of non-coding pathogenic variants. This analysis of human genetic diversity thus provides a detailed view of sequence conservation, functional constraint and genomic organization of the human genome. Specifically, it identifies highly conserved non-coding sequences that are not captured by analysis of interspecies conservation and are greatly enriched in disease variants.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082362', [u'Genomics'], [u'Human Longevity Inc.;', u'Human Longevity, inc;', u'Kaist;', u'UCSD;', u'JCVI']]
[u'Bees Without Flowers: Before Peak Bloom, Diverse Native Bees Visit Insect-produced Honeydew Sugars', ['Joan M Meiners', 'Terry L Griswold', 'David J Harris', 'S.K. Morgan Ernest'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Bee foragers respond to complex visual, olfactory, and extrasensory cues to optimize searches for floral rewards. Their abilities to detect and distinguish floral colors, shapes, volatiles, and ultraviolet signals, and even gauge nectar availability from changes in floral humidity or electric fields are well studied. Bee foraging behaviors in the absence of floral cues, however, are rarely considered. We observed forty-four species of wild bees visiting inconspicuous, non-flowering shrubs during early spring in a protected, Mediterranean habitat. We determined experimentally that these bees were accessing sugary honeydew secretions from scale insects without the aid of standard cues. While honeydew use is known among some social Hymenoptera, its use across a diverse community of mostly solitary bees is a novel observation. The widespread ability of native bees to locate and use unadvertised, non-floral sugars suggests unappreciated sensory mechanisms and/or the existence of a social foraging network among solitary bees that may influence how native bee communities cope with increasing environmental change.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082271', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Florida;', u'USDA-ARS Pollinating Insects Research Unit']]
[u'Selection Corrected Statistical Inference for Region Detection with High-throughput Assays', ['Yuval Benjamini', 'Jonathan Taylor', 'Rafael A Irizarry'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Scientists use high-dimensional measurement assays to detect and prioritize regions of strong signal in a spatially organized domain. Examples include finding methylation enriched genomic regions using microarrays and identifying active cortical areas using brain-imaging. The most common procedure for detecting potential regions is to group together neighboring sites where the signal passed a threshold. However, one needs to account for the selection bias induced by this opportunistic procedure to avoid diminishing effects when generalizing to a population.\nIn this paper, we present a model and a method that permit population inference for these detected regions. In particular, we provide non-asymptotic point and confidence interval estimates for mean effect in the region, which account for the local selection bias and the non-stationary covariance that is typical of these data. Such summaries allow researchers to better compare regions of different sizes and different correlation structures. Inference is provided within a conditional one-parameter exponential family for each region, with truncations that match the constraints of selection. A secondary screening-and-adjustment step allows pruning the set of detected regions, while con- trolling the false-coverage rate for the set of regions that are reported. We illustrate the benefits of the method by applying it to detected genomic regions with differing DNA-methylation rates across tissue types. Our method is shown to provide superior power compared to non-parametric approaches.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082321', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Hebrew University;', u'Stanford University;', u'Harvar University']]
[u'The p150N domain of Chromatin Assembly Factor-1 regulates Ki-67 accumulation on the mitotic perichromosomal layer', ['Timothy Matheson', 'Paul Kaufman'], u'October 21, 2016.', u'Chromatin Assembly Factor 1 (CAF-1) deposits histones during DNA synthesis. The p150 subunit of human CAF-1 contains an N-terminal domain (p150N) that is dispensable for histone deposition but which promotes the localization of specific loci (Nucleolar-Associated Domains, or NADs) and proteins to the nucleolus during interphase.  One of the p150N-regulated proteins is proliferation antigen Ki-67, whose depletion also decreases the nucleolar association of NADs.  Ki-67 is also a fundamental component of the perichromosomal layer (PCL), a sheath of proteins surrounding condensed chromosomes during mitosis.  We show here that a subset of p150 localizes to the PCL during mitosis, and that p150N is required for normal levels of Ki-67 accumulation on the PCL. This activity requires the Sumoylation Interacting Motif (SIM) within p150N, which is also required for the nucleolar localization of NADs and Ki-67 during interphase.  In this manner, p150N coordinates both interphase and mitotic nuclear structures via Ki67.', u'/content/early/2016/10/21/082339', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Massachusetts Medical School']]
