[u'Soft sweeps are the dominant mode of adaptation in the human genome', ['Daniel R. Schrider', 'Andrew D. Kern'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'The degree to which adaptation in recent human evolution shapes genetic variation remains controversial. This is in part due to the limited evidence in humans for classic \u201chard selective sweeps,\u201d wherein a novel beneficial mutation rapidly sweeps through a population to fixation. However, positive selection may often proceed via \u201csoft sweeps\u201d acting on mutations already present within a population. Here we examine recent positive selection across six human populations using a powerful machine learning approach that is sensitive to both hard and soft sweeps. We found evidence that soft sweeps are widespread and account for the vast majority of recent human adaptation. Surprisingly, our results also suggest that linked positive selection affects patterns of variation across much of the genome, and may increase the frequencies of deleterious mutations. Our results also reveal insights into the role of sexual selection, cancer risk, and central nervous system development in recent human evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090084', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Rutgers University']]
[u'Behavioral evidence for feedback gain control by the inhibitory microcircuit of the substantia nigra', ['Jennifer Brown', 'Kathleen A Martin', 'Joshua Dudman'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'We recently demonstrated that the collaterals of substantia nigra (SN) projection neurons can implement divisive feedback inhibition, or gain control (Brown et al., 2014). While in vivo recordings were consistent with divisive feedback inhibition, a causal test was lacking. A gain control model of the nigral microcircuit implies behavioral effects of disrupting intranigral inhibition that are distinct from previous functional models. To test the model predictions experimentally, we develop a chemogenetic approach that can selectively suppress synaptic release within the substantial nigra without affecting the propagation of activity to extranigral targets. We observe behavioral consequences of suppressing intranigral inhibition that are uniquely consistent with a gain control model. Our data further suggest that if endogenous metabotropic signaling can modulate intranigral synapses, this would provide a circuit mechanism for an exploitation/exploration trade-off in which the timing and variability of goal-directed movements are controlled independently of changes in action.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090209', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Janelia Research Campus of HHMI']]
[u'Sphingolipid metabolic flow controls phosphoinositide turnover at the trans Golgi network', ['Serena Capasso', 'Lucia Sticco', 'Riccardo Rizzo', 'Marinella Pirozzi', 'Domenico Russo', 'Nina Dathan', 'Felix Campelo', 'Josse van Galen', 'Angelika Hausser', 'Vivek Malhotra', 'Seetharaman Parashuraman', 'Alberto Luini', "Giovanni D'Angelo"], u'November 28, 2016.', u'Sphingolipids are membrane lipids, which are globally required for eukaryotic life. Sphingolipid composition varies among endomembranes with pre- and post-Golgi compartments being poor and rich in sphingolipids, respectively. Thanks to this different sphingolipid content, pre- and post-Golgi membranes serve different cellular functions. Nevertheless, how subcellular sphingolipid levels are maintained in spite of trafficking and metabolic fluxes is only partially understood. Here we describe a homeostatic control circuit that controls sphingolipid levels at the trans Golgi network. Specifically, we show that sphingomyelin production at the trans Golgi network triggers a signalling reaction leading to PtdIns(4)P dephosphorylation. Since PtdIns(4)P is required for cholesterol, and sphingolipid transport to the trans Golgi network, PtdIns(4)P consumption leads to the interruption of this transport in response to excessive sphingomyelin production. Based on this evidence we envisage a model where this homeostatic circuit maintains the sphingolipid composition of trans Golgi network and thus of post-Golgi compartments constant, against instant fluctuations in the sphingolipid biosynthetic flow.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090142', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Research Council of Italy Institute of Protein Biochemistry;', u'ICFO-The Institute of Photonic Sciences Av. Carl Friedrich Gauss;', u'ICFO-Institut de Ciencies Fotoniques, The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology;', u'University of Stuttgart, Institute of Cell Biology and Immunology;', u'Centre for Genomic Regulation, The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology']]
[u'Chemotherapy weakly contributes to predicted neoantigen expression in ovarian cancer', ["Timothy O'Donnell", 'Elizabeth L. Christie', 'Jacqueline Buros', 'Bulent Arman Aksoy', 'David D. L. Bowtell', 'Alexandra Snyder Charen', 'Jeffrey Hammerbacher'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'Background:\nPatients with highly mutated tumors, such as melanoma or smoking-related lung cancer, have higher rates of response to immune checkpoint blockade therapy, perhaps due to increased neoantigen expression. Many chemotherapies including platinum compounds are known to be mutagenic, but the impact of standard treatment protocols on mutational burden and resulting neoantigen expression in most human cancers is unknown.\n\nMethods:\nWe sought to quantify the effect of chemotherapy treatment on computationally predicted neoantigen expression for 12 high grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) patients with pre- and post-chemotherapy samples collected in the Australian Ovarian Cancer Study. We additionally analyzed 16 patients from the cohort with post-treatment samples only, including five primary surgical samples exposed to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Our approach integrates tumor whole genome and RNA sequencing with class I MHC binding prediction and mutational signatures of chemotherapy exposure extracted from two preclinical studies.\n\nResults:\nThe mutational signatures for cisplatin and cyclophosphamide identified in a preclinical model had significant but inexact associations with the relevant exposure in the clinical samples. In an analysis stratified by tissue type (solid tumor or ascites), relapse samples collected after chemotherapy harbored a median of 90% more expressed neoantigens than untreated primary samples, a figure that combines the effects of chemotherapy and other mutagenic processes operative during relapse. Neoadjuvant-treated primary samples showed no detectable increase over untreated samples. The contribution from chemotherapy-associated signatures was small, accounting for a mean of 5% (range 0-16) of the expressed neoantigen burden in relapse samples. In both treated and untreated samples, most neoantigens were attributed to COSMIC Signature (3), associated with BRCA disruption, Signature (1), associated with a slow mutagenic process active in healthy tissue, and Signature (8), of unknown etiology.\n\nConclusion:\nRelapsed HGSC tumors harbor nearly double the predicted expressed neoantigen burden of primary samples, but mutations associated with chemotherapy signatures account for only a small part of this increase. The mutagenic processes responsible for most neoantigens are similar between primary and relapse samples. Our analyses are based on mutations detectable from whole genome sequencing of bulk samples and do not account for neoantigens present in small populations of cells.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090134', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Mount Sinai School of Medicine;', u'Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, Weill Cornell Medical College']]
[u'Intra- and inter-specific variations of gene expression levels in yeast are largely neutral', ['Jian-Rong Yang', 'Calum Maclean', 'Chungoo Park', 'Huabin Zhao', 'Jianzhi Zhang'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'It is commonly, although not universally, accepted that most intra- and inter-specific genome sequence variations are more or less neutral, whereas a large fraction of organism-level phenotypic variations are adaptive.  Gene expression levels are molecular phenotypes that bridge the gap between genotypes and corresponding organism-level phenotypes.  Yet, it is unknown whether natural variations in gene expression levels are mostly neutral or adaptive.  Here we address this fundamental question by genome-wide profiling and comparison of gene expression levels in nine yeast strains belonging to three closely related Saccharomyces species and originating from five different ecological environments.  We find that the transcriptome-based clustering of the nine strains approximates the genome sequence-based phylogeny irrespective of their ecological environments.  Remarkably, only ~0.5% of genes exhibit similar expression levels among strains from a common ecological environment, no greater than that among strains with comparable phylogenetic relationships but different environments.  These and other observations strongly suggest that most intra- and inter-specific variations in yeast gene expression levels result from the accumulation of random mutations rather than environmental adaptations.  This finding has profound implications for understanding the driving force of gene expression evolution, genetic basis of phenotypic adaptation, and general role of stochasticity in evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/089995', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Retrotransposon Activation Contributes to Neurodegeneration in a Drosophila TDP-43 Model of ALS.', ['Lisa Krug', 'Nabanita Chatterjee', 'Rebeca Borges-Monroy', 'Stephen Hearn', 'Wen-Wei Liao', 'Kathleen Morrill', 'Lisa Prazak', 'Yung-Heng Chang', 'Richard M Keegan', 'Nikolay Rozhkov', 'Delphine Theodorou', 'Molly Hammell', 'Josh Dubnau'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) are two incurable neurodegenerative disorders that exist on a symptomological spectrum and share both genetic underpinnings and pathophysiological hallmarks. Functional abnormality of TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), an aggregation-prone RNA and DNA binding protein, is observed in the vast majority of both familial and sporadic ALS cases and in ~40% of FTLD cases, but the cascade of events leading to cell death are not understood. We have expressed human TDP-43 (hTDP-43) in Drosophila neurons and glia, a model that recapitulates many of the characteristics of TDP-43-linked human disease including protein aggregation pathology, locomotor impairment, and premature death. We report that such expression of hTDP-43 impairs small interfering RNA (siRNA) silencing, which is the major post-transcriptional mechanism of retrotransposable element (RTE) control in somatic tissue. This is accompanied by de-repression of a panel of both LINE and LTR families of RTEs, with somewhat different elements being active in response to hTDP-43 expression in glia versus neurons. hTDP-43 expression in glia causes an early and severe loss of control of a specific RTE, the endogenous retrovirus (ERV) gypsy. We demonstrate that gypsy causes the degenerative phenotypes in these flies because we are able to rescue the toxicity of glial hTDP-43 either by genetically blocking expression of this RTE or by pharmacologically inhibiting RTE reverse transcriptase activity. Moreover, we provide evidence that activation of DNA damage-mediated programmed cell death underlies both neuronal and glial hTDP-43 toxicity, consistent with RTE-mediated effects in both cell types. Our findings suggest a novel mechanism in which RTE activity contributes to neurodegeneration in TDP-43-mediated diseases such as ALS and FTLD.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090175', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Watson School of Biological Sciences, Cold Spring Harbor Lab;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Lab;', u'Farmingdale State College, Farmingdale, NY 11735;', u'Stony Brook School of Medicine;', u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'The Global Avian Invasions Atlas - A database of alien bird distributions worldwide', ['Ellie E Dyer', 'David W Redding', 'Tim M Blackburn'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'The introduction of species to locations where they do not naturally occur (termed aliens) can have far-reaching and unpredictable environmental and economic consequences. Therefore there is a strong incentive to stem the tide of alien species introduction and spread. In order to identify broad patterns and processes of alien invasions, a spatially referenced, global dataset on the historical introductions and alien distributions of a complete taxonomic group is required. \nHere we present the Global Avian Invasions Atlas (GAVIA) - a new spatial and temporal dataset comprising 27,723 distribution records for 971 alien bird species introduced to 230 countries and administrative areas spanning the period 6000BCE - AD2014. GAVIA was initiated to provide a unified database of records on alien bird introductions, incorporating records from all stages of invasion, including introductions that have failed as well as those that have succeeded. GAVIA represents the most comprehensive resource on the global distribution of alien species in any major taxon, allowing the spatial and temporal dynamics of alien bird distributions to be examined.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090035', [u'Ecology'], [u'University College London']]
[u'Seasonal succession influences the functioning of a host-associated microbial food web', ['David W Armitage'], u'November 28, 2016.', u"Ecosystem development theory predicts that successional turnover in community composition can influence ecosystem functioning. However, tests of this theory in natural systems are made difficult by a lack of independent replicates. Using the microbial digestive associates of a carnivorous pitcher plant, I tested hypotheses linking age-driven microbial succession to host functioning. Monitoring the yearlong development of independent digestive communities in two pitcher plant populations revealed a number of trends in community succession matching theoretical predictions. These included mid-successional peaks in bacterial diversity and metabolic substrate use, predictable and parallel successional trajectories among leaf communities, and convergence giving way to divergence in community composition and carbon substrate use. Bacterial composition, biomass, and diversity positively influenced the rate of prey decomposition, which was in turn positively associated with a host leaf's nitrogen uptake efficiency. These results highlight links between community succession and ecosystem functioning and extend succession theory to host-associated microbial communities.", u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090225', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Notre Dame']]
[u'Retrotransposons are specified as DNA replication origins in the gene-poor regions of Arabidopsis heterochromatin', ['Zaida Vergara', 'Joana Sequeira-Mendes', 'Jordi Morata', 'Elizabeth Henaff', 'Ramon Peiro', 'Celina Costas', 'Josep M Casacuberta', 'Crisanto Gutierrez'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'Genomic stability depends on faithful genome replication. This is achieved by the concerted activity of thousands of DNA replication origins (ORIs) scattered throughout the genome. In spite of multiple efforts, the DNA and chromatin features that determine ORI specification are not presently known. We have generated a high-resolution genome-wide map of ORIs in cultured Arabidopsis thaliana cells that rendered a collection of 3230 ORIs. In this study we focused on defining the features associated with ORIs in heterochromatin. We found that while ORIs tend to colocalize with genes in euchromatic gene-rich regions, they frequently colocalize with transposable elements (TEs) in pericentromeric gene-poor domains. Interestingly, ORIs in TEs associate almost exclusively with retrotransposons, in particular, of the Gypsy family. ORI activity in retrotransposons occurs independently of TE expression and while maintaining high levels of H3K9me2 and H3K27me1, typical marks of repressed heterochromatin. ORI-TEs largely colocalize with chromatin signatures defining GC-rich heterochromatin. Importantly, TEs with active ORIs contain a local GC content higher than the TEs lacking them. Our results lead us to conclude that ORI colocalization with TEs is largely limited to retrotransposons, which are defined by their transposition mechanisms based on transcription, and they occur in a specific chromatin landscape. Our detailed analysis of ORIs responsible for heterochromatin replication has also implications on the mechanisms of ORI specification in other multicellular organisms in which retrotransposons are major components of heterochromatin as well as of the entire genome.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090183', [u'Genomics'], [u'Centro de Biolog\xeda Molecular Severo Ochoa, CSIC-UAM;', u'Center for Research in Agricultural Genomics']]
[u'The natural selection of metabolism explains curvature in allometric scaling', ['Lars Witting'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'I simulate the evolution of metabolism and mass to explain the curvature in the metabolic allometry for placental and marsupial mammals. I assume that the release of inter-specific competition by the extinction of dinosaurs 65 million years ago made it possible for each clade to diversity into a multitude of species across a wide range of niches. The natural selection of metabolism and mass was then fitted to explain the maximum observed body masses over time, as well as the current inter-specific allometry for metabolism. The estimated selection of mass specific metabolism was found to bend the metabolic allometry over time, with the strongest curvature in the placental clade. The rate of exponential increase in mass specific metabolism for placentals was estimated to 9.3x10^-9 (95% CI: 7.3x10^-9 - 1.1x10^-8) on the per generation time-scale. This is an order of magnitude larger than the estimate for marsupials, in agreement with an average metabolism that is 30% larger in placentals relative to marsupials of similar size.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090191', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Greenland Institute of Natural Resources']]
[u'SCnorm: A quantile-regression based approach for robust normalization of single-cell RNA-seq data', ['Rhonda Bacher', 'Li-Fang Chu', 'Ning Leng', 'Audrey P. Gasch', 'James A. Thomson', 'Ron M. Stewart', 'Michael Newton', 'Christina Kendziorski'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'Normalization of RNA-sequencing data is essential for accurate downstream inference, but the assumptions upon which most methods are based do not hold in the single-cell setting. Consequently, applying existing normalization methods to single-cell RNA-seq data introduces artifacts that bias downstream analyses. To address this, we introduce SCnorm for accurate and efficient normalization of scRNA-seq data.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090167', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Morgridge Institute for Research']]
[u'Hydrogen Bond Networks and Hydrophobic Effects in the Amyloid \u03b230-35 Chain in Water: A Molecular Dynamics Study', ['Kwang Hyok Jong', 'Luca Grisanti', 'Ali Hassanali'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'We study the conformational landscape of the C-terminal fragment of the Amyloid protein A\u03b230\u221235 in water using well-tempered metadynamics simulations and find that it resembles an intrinsically disordered protein. The conformational fluctuations of the protein are facilitated by a collective reorganization of both protein and water hydrogen bond networks, combined with electrostatic interactions between termini as well as hydrophobic interactions of the side chains. The stabilization of hydrophobic interactions in one of the conformers involves a collective collapse of the sidechains along with a squeeze out of water sandwiched in between. The charged N and C termini play a critical role in stabilizing different types of protein conformations including those involving contact ion salt-bridges as well as solvent mediated interactions of the termini and amide backbone. We examine this by probing the distribution of directed water wires forming the hydrogen bond network enveloping the polypeptide. Water wires and their fluctuations form an integral part of structural signature of the protein conformation.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090092', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'SISSA-International School for Advanced Studies;', u'International Centre for Theoretical Physics']]
[u'Structure of general-population antibody titer distributions to influenza A virus', ['Nguyen Thi Duy Nhat', 'Stacy Todd', 'Erwin de Bruin', 'Tran Thi Nhu Thao', 'Nguyen Ha Thao Vy', 'Tran Minh Quan', 'Dao Nguyen Vinh', 'Janko van Beek', 'Pham Hong Anh', 'Ha Minh Lam', 'Nguyen Thanh Hung', 'Nguyen Thi Le Thanh', 'Huynh Le Anh Huy', 'Vo Thi Hong Ha', 'Stephen Baker', 'Guy E Thwaites', 'Nguyen Thi Nam Lien', 'Tran Thi Kim Hong', 'Jeremy Farrar', 'Cameron P Simmons', 'Nguyen Van Vinh Chau', 'Marion Koopmans', 'Maciej F Boni'], u'November 28, 2016.', u"Seroepidemiological studies aim to understand population-level exposure and immunity to infectious diseases.  Results from serological assays are normally presented as binary outcomes describing the presence or absence of pathogen-specific antibody, despite the fact that many assays measure continuous quantities.  A population's natural distribution of antibody titers to an endemic infectious disease may in fact include information on multiple serological states - e.g. naivete, recent infection, non-recent infection - depending on the disease in question and the acquisition and waning patterns of host immunity.  In this study, we investigate a collection of 20,152 general-population serum samples from southern Vietnam collected between 2009 and 2013 from which we report antibody titers to the influenza virus HA1 protein using a continuous titer measurement from a protein microarray assay.  We describe the distributions of antibody titers to subtypes 2009 H1N1 and H3N2.  Using a model selection approach to fit mixture distributions, we show that 2009 H1N1 antibody titers fall into four titer subgroups and that H3N2 titers fall into three subgroups.  For H1N1, our interpretation is that the two highest-titer subgroups correspond to recent infection and historical infection, which is consistent with 2009 pandemic attack rates.  For H3N2, observations censored at the highest titer dilutions make similar interpretations difficult to validate.", u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090076', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit;', u'Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine;', u'Erasmus Medical Centre;', u'Dutch National Institute for Public Health and Environment;', u'Khanh Hoa Provincial Hospital;', u'Hue Provincial Hospital;', u'Dak Lak General Hospital;', u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, The Wellcome Trust;', u'University of Melbourne;', u'Hospital for Tropical Diseases']]
[u'TriPer, an optical probe tuned to the endoplasmic reticulum, tracks H2O2 consumption by glutathione', ['Eduardo Pinho Melo', 'Carlos Lopes', 'Peter Gollwitzer', 'Stephan Lortz', 'Sigurd Lenzen', 'Ilir Mehmeti', 'Clemens F Kaminski', 'David Ron', 'Edward Avezov'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'The fate of H2O2 in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) has been inferred indirectly from the activity of ER localized thiol oxidases and peroxiredoxins, in vitro, and the consequences of their genetic manipulation, in vivo. Here we report on the development of TriPer, a vital optical probe sensitive to changes in the concentration of H2O2 in the thiol-oxidizing environment of the ER. Consistent with the hypothesized contribution of oxidative protein folding to H2O2 production, ER-localized TriPer detected an increase in the luminal H2O2 signal upon induction of pro-insulin (a disulfide bonded protein of pancreatic \u03b2-cells), which was attenuated by the ectopic expression of catalase in the ER lumen. Interfering with glutathione production in the cytosol by buthionine sulfoximine (BSO) or enhancing its localized destruction by expression of the glutathione-degrading enzyme ChaC1 in lumen of the ER, enhanced further the luminal H2O2 signal and eroded \u03b2-cell viability. Tracking ER H2O2 in live cells points to an unanticipated role for glutathione in H2O2 turnover.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/088351', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Center for Biomedical Research, Universidade do Algarve, Faro, Portugal;', u'University of Cambridge, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research;', u'Institute of Clinical Biochemistry, Hannover Medical School, Hannover 30625, Germany;', u'University of Cambridge, Department of Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology, Cambridge, UK']]
