[u'The evolution of coercive policing in genetically mixed groups: the case of plasmid copy number control', ['Kyriakos Kentzoglanakis', 'Sam Brown', 'Richard Goldstein'], u'May 22, 2016.', u'Policing is a widespread mechanism regulating cooperation in both human and animal social groups. Policing can promote the evolution and maintenance of cooperation among non-relatives by tying the reproductive success of individuals to the efficiency and success of the group. In this paper, we investigate the evolution of reproductive policing using a multi-scale computational model inspired by the copy number control system of conjugative bacterial plasmids. Our results show that the repression of competition through policing can evolve across a very broad range of migration (plasmid conjugation) rates, improving system-level performance and bringing efficiency gains to the group beyond those achievable by pure self-restraint. Reproductive policing acts to increase genetic relatedness by reducing variation in group size which, in turn, reduces the heterogeneity of the plasmid population. When among-group migration is high, coercive policing strategies are favoured, characterized by high levels of policing coupled with relatively lower obedience. Coercive policing strategies preferentially limit the reproduction of rival lineages while, at the same time, maintaining effective collective reproductive control.', u'/content/early/2016/05/22/053579', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University College London;', u'School of Biology - Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Scaffolding and Completing Genome Assemblies in Real-time with Nanopore Sequencing', ['Minh Duc Cao', 'Son Hoang Nguyen', 'Devika Ganesamoorthy', 'Alysha Elliott', 'Matthew Cooper', 'Lachlan J M Coin'], u'May 22, 2016.', u'Genome assemblies obtained from short read sequencing technologies are often fragmented into many contigs because of the abundance of repetitive sequences. Long read sequencing technologies allow the generation of reads spanning most repeat sequences, providing the opportunity to complete these genome assemblies. However, substantial amounts of sequence data and computational resources are required to overcome the high per-base error rate inherent to these technologies. Furthermore, most existing methods only assemble the genomes after sequencing has completed which could result in either generation of more sequence data at greater cost than required or a low-quality assembly if insufficient data are generated. Here we present the first computational method which utilises real-time nanopore sequencing to scaffold and complete short-read assemblies while the long read sequence data is being generated. The method reports the progress of completing the assembly in real-time so users can terminate the sequencing once an assembly of sufficient quality and completeness is obtained. We use our method to complete four bacterial genomes and one eukaryotic genome, and show that it is able to construct more complete and more accurate assemblies, and at the same time, requires less sequencing data and computational resources than existing pipelines. We also demonstrate that the method can facilitate real-time analyses of positional information such as identification of bacterial genes encoded in plasmids and pathogenicity islands.', u'/content/early/2016/05/22/054783', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'University of Queensland']]
[u'Apontic regulates cell proliferation and development by activating the expression of hedgehog and cyclin E', ['Xian-Feng Wang', 'Qian Cheng', 'Chong-Lei Fu', 'Zi-Zhang Zhou', 'Susumu Hirose', 'Qing-Xin Liu'], u'May 22, 2016.', u'Hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway and Cyclin E are key players in cell proliferation and development. Hyperactivation of hh and cyclin E has been linked to several types of cancer. However, transcriptional regulation of hh and cyclin E are not well understood. Here we show that an evolutionarily conserved transcription factor Apontic (Apt) is an activator of hh and cyclin E in Drosophila. Apt directly promotes the expression of hh and cyclin E through its binding site in the promoter regions of hh and cyclin E during wing development. This Apt-dependent proper expression of hh and cyclin E is required for cell proliferation and development of the wing. Apt-mediated expression of hh and cyclin E can direct proliferation of Hh-expressing cells and simultaneous growth, patterning and differentiation of Hh-recipient cells. The discovery of the coordinated expression of Hh and principal cell-cycle regulator Cyclin E by Apt implicates insight into the mechanism by which deregulated hh and cyclin E promotes tumor formation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/22/054809', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Shandong Agricultural University;', u'National Institute of Genetics']]
[u'Evolution of local mutation rate and its determinants', ['Nadezhda V Terekhanova', 'Vladimir Seplyarskiy', 'Ruslan A. Soldatov', 'Georgii A Bazykin'], u'May 22, 2016.', u'Mutation rate varies along the human genome, and part of this variation is explainable by measurable local properties of the DNA molecule. Moreover, mutation rates differ between orthologous genomic regions of different species, but the drivers of this change are unclear. Here, we compare the local mutation rates of several species. We show that these rates are very similar between human and apes, implying that their variation has a strong underlying cryptic component not explainable by the known genomic features. Mutation rates become progressively less similar in more distant species, and these changes are partially explainable by changes in the local genomic features of orthologous regions, most importantly, in the recombination rate. However, they are much more rapid, implying that the cryptic component underlying the mutation rate is more ephemeral than the known genomic features. These findings shed light on the determinants of mutation rate evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/05/22/054825', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Institute for Information Transmission Problems RAS;', u'IITP RAN;', u'M. V. Lomonosov Moscow State University;', u'IITP RAS']]
[u'Predicting Peptide-MHC Binding Affinities With Imputed Training Data', ['Alex Rubinsteyn', "Timothy O'Donnell", 'Nandita Damaraju', 'Jeffrey Hammerbacher'], u'May 22, 2016.', u'Predicting the binding affinity between MHC proteins their peptide ligands is a key problem in computational immunology. State of the art performance is currently achieved by the allele-specific predictor NetMHC and the pan-allele predictor NetMHCpan, both of which are ensembles of shallow neural networks. We explore an intermediate between allele-specific and pan-allele prediction: training allele-specific predictors with synthetic samples generated by imputation of the peptide-MHC affinity matrix. We find that the imputation strategy is useful on alleles with very little training data. We have implemented our predictor as an open-source software package called MHCflurry and show that MHCflurry achieves competitive performance to NetMHC and NetMHCpan.', u'/content/early/2016/05/22/054775', [u'Immunology'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Nonessential nucleoporins Nup2, Nup60 and Nup84 are required for normal meiosis in budding yeast', ['Daniel B Chu', 'Sean M Burgess'], u'May 21, 2016.', u'The nuclear pore complex (NPC) selectively transports cargo between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The inner nuclear membrane (INM) face of the NPC also serves as a hub where gene silencing and DNA repair are spatially coordinated. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, partitioning of active and silenced chromatin at subtelomeric regions depends on the boundary activity of nonessential nucleoporin proteins Nup2 and Nup60, along with Htz1, the histone variant H2A.Z. The INM is also important for the chromosome events of meiosis since Ndj1-mediated telomere attachment and clustering at the INM is required for efficient homolog pairing, recombination, and segregation. Here we tested possible meiotic roles for Nup2, Nup60, Htz1, and other nonessential nucleoporins by analyzing the effects of deletion mutations on sporulation, spore viability and possible phenotypic epistasis with ndj1\u0394. Deleting NUP2, NUP60, and HTZ1 reduced spore viability compared to wild-type (WT). A detailed analysis of spore lethality indicated that homolog nondisjunction in these mutants was elevated compared to WT, yet unlike ndj1\u0394, this was not the predominant cause of spore death. Deleting NUP84 reduced meiosis I nuclear divisions, while deleting NUP53, NUP100, and NUP157 had no effect on sporulation, spore viability, or the kinetics of meiosis I progression. Surprisingly, nup2\u0394 ndj1\u0394 uniquely failed to undergo meiosis I nuclear divisions, suggesting Nup2 and Ndj1 function in partially redundant pathways or create a poisonous intermediate. The meiosis I division was also delayed by 2 hours in nup2\u0394 compared to WT pointing to a specialized role for Nup2 in the meiotic program.', u'/content/early/2016/05/21/054791', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California, Davis, United States']]
