[u'Microbes use encapsulin protein organelles to sequester toxic reactions', ['Tobias Wolfgang Giessen', 'Pamela Ann Silver'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Cells organize and regulate their metabolism via membrane- or protein-bound organelles. In this way, incompatible processes can be spatially separated and controlled. In prokaryotes, protein-based compartments are used to sequester harmful reactions and store useful compounds. These protein compartments play key roles in various metabolic and ecological processes ranging from iron homeostasis to carbon fixation. We identified more than 900 proteinaceous encapsulin nanocompartment systems in bacterial and archaeal genomes. Encapsulins can be found in 15 bacterial and 2 archaeal phyla. Our analysis reveals 1 new capsid type and 9 previously unknown cargo proteins targeted to the interior of encapsulins. We experimentally characterize 3 newly identified encapsulin systems and illustrate their involvement in iron mineralization, oxidative and nitrosative stress resistance and anaerobic ammonium oxidation, a process responsible for 30% of the N lost from the oceans. We propose that encapsulins represent a widespread strategy for toxic reaction sequestration in prokaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085266', [], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Automating Morphological Profiling with Generic Deep Convolutional Networks', ['Nick Pawlowski', 'Juan C Caicedo', 'Shantanu Singh', 'Anne E Carpenter', 'Amos Storkey'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Morphological profiling aims to create signatures of genes, chemicals and diseases from microscopy images. Current approaches use classical computer vision-based segmentation and feature extraction. Deep learning models achieve state-of-the-art performance in many computer vision tasks such as classification and segmentation. We propose to transfer activation features of generic deep convolutional networks to extract features for morphological profiling. Our approach surpasses currently used methods in terms of accuracy and processing speed. Furthermore, it enables fully automated processing of microscopy images without need for single cell identification.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085118', [], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Exploring Anti-correlated Resting State BOLD Signals Through Dynamic Functional Connectivity and Whole-brain Computational Modeling', ['Murat Demirtas', 'Matthieu Gilson', 'John D. Murray', 'Dina Popovic', 'Eduard Vieta', 'Luis Pintor', 'Vesna Prckovska', 'Pablo Villoslada', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion weight imaging became a conventional tool to study brain connectivity in healthy and diseased individuals. However, both techniques provide indirect measures of brain connectivity leading to controversies on their interpretation. Among these controversies, interpretation of anti-correlated functional connections and global average signal is a major challenge for the field. In this paper, we used dynamic functional connectivity to calculate the probability of anti-correlations between brain regions. The brain regions forming task-positive and task-negative networks showed high anti-correlation probabilities. The fluctuations in anti-correlation probabilities were significantly correlated with those in global average signal and functional connectivity. We investigated the mechanisms behind these fluctuations using whole-brain computational modeling approach. We found that the underlying effective connectivity and intrinsic noise reflect the static spatiotemporal patterns, whereas the hemodynamic response function is the key factor defining the fluctuations in functional connectivity and anti-correlations. Furthermore, we illustrated the clinical implications of these findings on a group of bipolar disorder patients suffering a depressive relapse (BPD).', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085274', [], [u'Yale University;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona;', u'IDIBAPS, Barcelona;', u'IDIBAPS, Barcelona; Mint Labs, Barcelona;', u'IDIBAPS, Barcelona; University of California San Diego, USA']]
[u'Predicting Enhancer-Promoter Interaction from Genomic Sequence with Deep Neural Networks', ['Shashank Singh', 'Yang Yang', 'Barnabas Poczos', 'Jian Ma'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'In the human genome, distal enhancers are involved in regulating target genes through proximal promoters by forming enhancer-promoter interactions. However, although recently developed high-throughput experimental approaches have allowed us to recognize potential enhancer-promoter interactions genome-wide, it is still largely unknown whether there are sequence-level instructions encoded in our genome that help govern such interactions. Here we report a new computational method (named "SPEID") using deep learning models to predict enhancer-promoter interactions based on sequence-based features only, when the locations of putative enhancers and promoters in a particular cell type are given. Our results across six different cell types demonstrate that SPEID is effective in predicting enhancer-promoter interactions as compared to state-of-the-art methods that use non-sequence features from functional genomic signals. This work shows for the first time that sequence-based features alone can reliably predict enhancer-promoter interactions genome-wide, which provides important insights into the sequence determinants for long-range gene regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085241', [], [u'Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'Quod erat demonstrandum? No restriction endonuclease fold in MIF', ['Lakshminarayan M Iyer', 'L Aravind'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'It was claimed in a recently published article that MIF functions as an exo/endo-DNase mediating cell-death upon being induced by DNA damage and PARP1. MIF, for which tautomerase activity has been previously reported, is a member of the tautomerase superfamily which does not feature nucleases. The central premise of the authors to suggest that MIF functions as a DNase is the supposed structural relationship to nucleases of the Restriction endonuclease (REase) fold, which frequently but not always contain a motif of the form PD-(D/E)XK. However, we present evidence to show that this claim is entirely unsupported.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085258', [], [u'NCBI/NLM/NIH;', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information']]
[u'First Indications for Long-Term Benzodiazepine and Z-drugs use in the United Kingdom', ['James Davies', 'Todd Rae', 'Luke Montagu'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Benzodiazepines and Z-drugs (BZDs), hypnotic drugs used for insomnia and anxiety, are prescribed millions of times a year in the UK. Although guidance from the relevant regulatory authorities (NICE and BNF) indicates them only for short-term use, the evidence suggests that many patients have been taking these drugs for much longer, often for decades. At present, there are no up-to-date, evidence-based estimates of the scale of long-term BZD use in the UK, which has prevented making a strong case for the need for withdrawal services. However, data obtained recently on BZD use from a number of GP surgeries (covering nearly 100,000 registered patients) in the North of England, allow such projections to be calculated. Scaling the results to a national level suggests that there are over a quarter of a million patients in the UK using BZDs for periods far longer than recommended. The projections also suggest that nearly half this number may be willing to accept help to stop their dependency on BZDs. These results indicate a serious problem, which should be addressed by more research into the harms associated with long-term BZD use, the provision of withdrawal services, and a national helpline to support patients with BZD dependency.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085183', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'University of Roehampton;', u'All Party Parliamentary Group for Prescribed Drug Dependence']]
[u'Engineering Genetically-Encoded Mineralization and Magnetism via Directed Evolution', ['Xueliang Leon Liu', 'Paola A Lopez', 'Tobias W Giessen', 'Michael Giles', 'Jeffrey C Way', 'Pamela A Silver'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Genetically encoding the synthesis of functional nanomaterials such as magnetic nanoparticles enables sensitive and non-invasive biological sensing and control. Via directed evolution of the natural iron-sequestering ferritin protein, we discovered key mutations that lead to significantly enhanced cellular magnetism, resulting in increased physical attraction of ferritin-expressing cells to magnets and increased contrast for cellular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The magnetic mutants further demonstrate increased iron biomineralization measured by a novel fluorescent genetic sensor for intracellular free iron. In addition, we engineered Escherichia coli cells with multiple genomic knockouts to increase cellular accumulation of various metals. Lastly to explore further protein candidates for biomagnetism, we characterized members of the DUF892 family using the iron sensor and magnetic columns, confirming their intracellular iron sequestration that results in increased cellular magnetization.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085233', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Graduate Program in Bioengineering UC Berkeley/UCSF;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering']]
[u'A Rhizobiales-specific unipolar polysaccharide adhesin contributes to Rhodopseudomonas palustris biofilm formation across diverse photoheterotrophic conditions', ['Ryan K Fritts', 'Breah LaSarre', 'Ari M Stoner', 'Amanda L Posto', 'James B McKinlay'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Bacteria predominantly exist as members of surfaced-attached communities known as biofilms. Many bacterial species initiate biofilms and adhere to each other using cell surface adhesins. This is the case for numerous ecologically diverse \u03b1-proteobacteria, which use polar exopolysaccharide adhesins for cell-cell adhesion and surface attachment. Here, we show that Rhodopseudomonas palustris, a metabolically versatile member of the \u03b1-proteobacterial order Rhizobiales, encodes a functional unipolar polysaccharide (UPP) biosynthesis gene cluster. Deletion of genes predicted to be critical for UPP biosynthesis and export abolished UPP production. We also found that R. palustris uses UPP to mediate biofilm formation across diverse photoheterotrophic growth conditions, wherein light and organic substrates are used to support growth. However, UPP was less important for biofilm formation during photoautotrophy, where light and CO2 support growth, and during aerobic respiration with organic compounds. Expanding our analysis beyond R. palustris, we examined the phylogenetic distribution and genomic organization of UPP gene clusters among Rhizobiales species that inhabit diverse niches. Our analysis suggests that UPP is a conserved ancestral trait of the Rhizobiales but that it has been independently lost multiple times during the evolution of this clade, twice coinciding with adaptation to intracellular lifestyles within animal hosts.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085225', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Indiana University']]
[u'Smooth Quantile Normalization', ['Stephanie C Hicks', 'Kwame Okrah', 'Joseph N Paulson', 'John Quackenbush', 'Rafael A Irizarry', 'Hector Corrada Bravo'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Between-sample normalization is a critical step in genomic data analysis to remove systematic bias and unwanted technical variation in high-throughput data. Global normalization methods are based on the assumption that observed variability in global properties is due to technical reasons and are unrelated to the biology of interest. For example, some methods correct for differences in sequencing read counts by scaling features to have similar median values across samples, but these fail to reduce other forms of unwanted technical variation. Methods such as quantile normalization transform the statistical distributions across samples to be the same and assume global differences in the distribution are induced by only technical variation. However, it remains unclear how to proceed with normalization if these assumptions are violated, for example if there are global differences in the statistical distributions between biological conditions or groups, and external information, such as negative or control features, is not available. Here we introduce a generalization of quantile normalization, referred to as smooth quantile normalization (qsmooth), which is based on the assumption that the statistical distribution of each sample should be the same (or have the same distributional shape) within biological groups or conditions, but allowing that they may differ between groups. We illustrate the advantages of our method on several high-throughput datasets with global differences in distributions corresponding to different biological conditions. We also perform a Monte Carlo simulation study to illustrate the bias-variance tradeoff of qsmooth compared to other global normalization methods. A software implementation is available from https://github.com/stephaniehicks/qsmooth.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085175', [u'Genomics'], [u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'Genentech;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institue;', u'University of Maryland']]
[u'A positive association between population genetic differentiation and speciation rates in New World birds', ['Michael Harvey', 'Glenn F Seeholzer', 'Brian Tilston Smith', 'Daniel L Rabosky', 'Andres M Cuervo', 'John T Klicka', 'Robb T Brumfield'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Although an implicit assumption of speciation biology is that population differentiation is an important stage of evolutionary diversification, its true significance remains largely untested. If population differentiation within a species is related to its speciation rate over evolutionary time, the causes of differentiation could also be driving dynamics of organismal diversity across time and space. Alternatively, geographic variants might be short-lived entities with rates of formation that are unlinked to speciation rates, in which case the causes of differentiation would have only ephemeral impacts. Combining population genetics datasets including 17,746 individuals from 176 New World bird species with speciation rates estimated from phylogenetic data, we show that the population differentiation rates within species predict their speciation rates over long timescales. Although relatively little variance in speciation rate is explained by population differentiation rate, the relationship between the two is robust to diverse strategies of sampling and analyzing both population-level and species-level datasets. Population differentiation occurs at least three to five times faster than speciation, suggesting that most populations are ephemeral. Population differentiation and speciation rates are more tightly linked in tropical species than temperate species, consistent with a history of more stable diversification dynamics through time in the Tropics. Overall, our results suggest investigations into the processes responsible for population differentiation can reveal factors that contribute to broad-scale patterns of diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085134', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'Department of Biological Sciences and Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Museum of Zoology, University of Michigan;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Tulane University;', u'Department of Biology and the Burke Museum of Natural History and Culture, University of Washington']]
[u'Folding Principle of Chromosome Emerges from Mapping of Genome Features onto its 3D Structure', ['Wen Jun Xie', 'Luming Meng', 'Sirui Liu', 'Ling Zhang', 'Xiaoxia Cai', 'Yi Qin Gao'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'How chromosomes fold into 3D structures and how genome functions are affected or even controlled by their spatial organization remain challenging questions. Hi-C data are used here to construct the 3D chromatin structure and then shown to be closely connected with a plethora of genetic and epigenetic features and functions. The chromatin structures are characterized by two spatially segregated compartments, which are further dissected into two types of domains with clearly different intra contact patterns and most importantly, the size of chromatin loops. The chromatin loops segregate in the space according to their sizes, reflecting the entropic effect in chromatin structure formation as well as chromosome positioning. Taken together, these results provide clues to the folding and principles of the spatial organization of chromatin fiber, and the resulted clustering of many genome features in the 3D space.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085167', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Peking University']]
[u'Habitat preference predicts genetic diversity and population divergence in Amazonian birds', ['Michael Harvey', 'Alexandre Aleixo', 'Camila C Ribas', 'Robb T Brumfield'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'The ecological traits of organisms may predict important evolutionary parameters such as genetic diversity, population genetic structure, and demographic history. Making these ecological-evolutionary links is difficult because robust, comparable genetic estimates are required from many species with differing ecologies. In Amazonian birds, differences in habitat preference are an important component of ecological diversity. A subset of Amazonian birds is restricted to forest edge and open forest along floodplains, whereas another subset occurs only in the interior of tall, upland forest. Here, we examine the link between habitat and evolutionary metrics using 20 pairs of closely related and co-distributed bird species in which one member of the pair occurs primarily in forest edge and floodplains, and the other occurs in upland forest interior. We use standardized geographic sampling and genomic data from the same set of 2,416 independent markers to estimate genetic diversity, population structure, and demographic history in each species. We find that species of upland forest have higher genetic diversity, greater divergence across the landscape, more genetically distinct populations, and deeper gene histories than floodplain species. Our results reveal that species ecology in the form of habitat preference is an important predictor of genetic diversity and divergence and suggest that floodplain and upland avifaunas in the Amazon may be on separate evolutionary trajectories and require different conservation strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085126', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'Museu Paraense Em\xedlio Goeldi (MPEG);', u'Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amaz\xf4nia (INPA);', u'Department of Biological Sciences and Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University']]
[u'Dynamic Modeling, Parameter Estimation and Uncertainty Analysis in R', ['Daniel Kaschek', 'Wolfgang Mader', 'Mirjam Fehling-Kaschek', 'Marcus Rosenblatt', 'Jens Timmer'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'In a wide variety of research fields, dynamic modeling is employed as an instrument to learn and understand complex systems. The differential equations involved in this process are usually non-linear and depend on many parameters whose values decide upon the characteristics of the emergent system. The inverse problem, i.e. the inference or estimation of parameter values from observed data, is of interest from two points of view. First, the existence point of view, dealing with the question whether the system is able to reproduce the observed dynamics for any parameter values. Second, the identifiability point of view, investigating invariance of the prediction under change of parameter values, as well as the quantification of parameter uncertainty.\nIn this paper, we present the R package dMod providing a framework for dealing with the inverse problem in dynamic systems. The particularity of the approach taken by dMod is to provide and propagate accurate derivatives computed from symbolic expressions wherever possible. This derivative information highly supports the convergence of optimization routines and enhances their numerical stability, a requirement for the applicability of sofisticated uncertainty analysis methods. Computational efficiency is achieved by automatic generation and execution of C code. The framework is object oriented (S3) and provides a variety of functions to set up dynamic models, observation functions and parameter transformations for multi-conditional parameter estimation.\nThe key elements of the framework and the methodology implemented in dMod are highlighted by an application on a three-compartment transporter model.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085001', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Freiburg']]
[u'The HTM Spatial Pooler: a neocortical algorithm for online sparse distributed coding', ['Yuwei Cui', 'Subutai Ahmad', 'Jeff Hawkins'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Each region in the cortex receives input through millions of axons from sensory organs and from other cortical regions. It remains a mystery how cortical neurons learn to form specific connections from this large number of unlabeled inputs in order to support further computations. Hierarchical temporal memory (HTM) provides a theoretical framework for understanding the computational principles in the neocortex. In this paper we describe an important component of HTM, the HTM spatial pooler that models how neurons learn feedforward connections. The spatial pooler converts arbitrary binary input patterns into sparse distributed representations (SDRs) using competitive Hebbian learning rules and homeostasis excitability control mechanisms. Through a series of simulations, we demonstrate the key computational properties of HTM spatial pooler, including preserving semantic similarity among inputs, fast adaptation to changing statistics of the inputs, improved noise robustness over learning, efficient use of all cells and flexibility in the event of cell death or loss of input afferents. To quantify these properties, we developed a set of metrics that can be directly measured from the spatial pooler outputs. These metrics can be used as complementary performance indicators for any sparse coding algorithm. We discuss the relationship with neuroscience and previous studies of sparse coding and competitive learning. The HTM spatial pooler represents a neurally inspired algorithm for learning SDRs from noisy data streams online.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085035', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Numenta, Inc']]
[u'TrkB signaling underlies the rapid antidepressant effects of isoflurane', ['Hanna Antila', 'Plinio Casarotto', 'Dina Popova', 'Pia Sipila', 'Ramon Guirado', 'Samuel Kohtala', 'Maria Ryazantseva', 'Liisa Vesa', 'Jesse Lindholm', 'Ipek Yalcin', 'Vinicius Sato', 'Helka Goos', 'Sarah Lempriere', 'Joshua Cordeira', 'Henri Autio', 'Mikhail Kislin', 'Maribel Rios', 'Samia Joca', 'Leonard Khiroug', 'Sari Lauri', 'Markku Varjosalo', 'Seth G.N. Grant', 'Tomi Taira', 'Eero Castren', 'Tomi Rantamaki'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Neuronal plasticity induced by signaling through BDNF receptor TrkB has been implicated in the actions of antidepressants, including the rapid-acting antidepressant ketamine. We show that isoflurane induced transphosphorylation of TrkB by Src family kinases, stimulates the mTor signaling pathway and promotes neuronal plasticity and antidepressant-like behavior in rodents. Our findings provide a neurobiological basis for the clinically observed antidepressant effects of isoflurane and encourage its further evaluation as a rapid-acting antidepressant treatment devoid of the psychotomimetic side effects of ketamine.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084525', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki, Finland;', u'Department of Biosciences, University of Helsinki, Finland;', u'INCI, Strasbourg, France;', u'School of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Ribeirao Preto, Brazil;', u'eInstitute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland;', u'University of Edinburgh, UK;', u'Tufts University, Boston, MA, USA;', u'Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Finland']]
[u'PopPAnTe: population and pedigree association testing for quantitative data', ['Alessia Visconti', 'Mashael Al-Shafai', 'Wadha A Al Muftah', 'Shaza B Zaghlool', 'Massimo Mangino', 'Karsten Suhre', 'Mario Falchi'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Family-based designs, from twin studies to isolated populations with their complex genealogical data, are a valuable resource for genetic studies of heritable molecular biomarkers. Existing software for family-based studies have mainly focused on facilitating association between response phenotypes and genetic markers, and no user-friendly tools are at present available to straightforwardly extend association studies in related samples to large datasets of generic quantitative data, as those generated by current -omics technologies.\nWe developed PopPAnTe, a user-friendly Java program, which evaluates the association of quantitative data in related samples. Additionally, PopPAnTe implements data pre and post processing, region based testing, and empirical assessment of associations.\nPopPAnTe is an integrated and flexible framework for pairwise association testing in related samples with a large number of predictors and response variables. It works either with family data of any size and complexity, or, when the genealogical information is unknown, it uses genetic similarity information between individuals as those inferred from genome-wide genetic data. It can therefore be particularly useful in facilitating usage of biobank data collections from population isolates when extensive genealogical information is missing.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084871', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u"King's College London;", u'Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar, Doha, Qatar']]
[u'Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome carrier frequency and estimates of in utero mortality rates', ['Gabriel A. Lazarin', 'Imran S Haque', 'Eric A Evans', 'James D. Goldberg'], u'November 2, 2016.', u"Objective: To tabulate individual allele frequencies and total carrier frequency for Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS) and compare expected versus observed birth incidences.  Design: Retrospective analysis of patients from the general population who have undergone carrier screening for SLOS.  Setting: Individuals were offered and elected carrier screening in their respective physician's offices.\nPatients: 262,399 individuals with no indication of family or personal history of Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, primarily US-based, screened for Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome mutations as part of an expanded carrier screening panel.  Intervention(s): Data on mutations in the DHCR7 gene causing SLOS were analyzed to estimate carrier frequencies in multiple ethnic groups. SLOS birth incidences obtained from existing literature are then compared to our data to estimate the effect of SLOS on fetal survival.  Main Outcome Measure(s): Individual and cumulative allele frequencies stratified by self-reported patient ethnicity.  Results: SLOS carrier frequency is highest in individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry (1 in 43) and Northern Europeans (1 in 54). Comparing predicted birth incidence to that observed in published literature suggests that approximately 42% to 88% of affected conceptuses experience fetal demise.  Conclusion: SLOS is relatively frequent in certain populations and, due to its impact on fetal survival, merits preconception screening.", u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085084', [u'Genetics'], [u'Counsyl']]
[u'Prioritisation of Structural Variant Calls in Cancer Genomes', ['Miika J Ahdesmaki', 'Brad Chapman', 'Pablo E Cingolani', 'Oliver Hofmann', 'Aleksandr Sidoruk', 'Zhongwu Lai', 'Gennadii Zakharov', 'Mikhail Rodichenko', 'Mikhail Alperovich', 'David Jenkins', 'T. Hedley Carr', 'Daniel Stetson', 'Brian Dougherty', 'J. Carl Barrett', 'Justin J Johnson'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Sensitivity of short read DNA-sequencing for gene fusion detection is improving, but is hampered by the significant amount of noise composed of uninteresting or false positive hits in the data. In this paper we describe a tiered prioritisation approach to extract high impact gene fusion events. Using cell line and patient DNA sequence data we improve the annotation and interpretation of structural variant calls to best highlight likely cancer driving fusions. We also considerably improve on the automated visualisation of the high impact structural variants to highlight the effects of the variants on the resulting transcripts. The resulting framework greatly improves on readily detecting clinically actionable structural variants.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084640', [u'Genomics'], [u'AstraZeneca;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'Kew Inc.;', u'University of Melbourne Centre for Cancer Research;', u'EPAM Inc;', u'EPAM Inc.;', u'Boston University']]
[u'Individual differences in functional connectivity during naturalistic viewing conditions', ['Tamara Vanderwal', 'Jeffrey Eilbott', 'Emily S. Finn', 'R. Cameron Craddock', 'Adam G. Turnbull', 'Francisco Xavier Castellanos'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Naturalistic viewing paradigms such as movies have been shown to reduce participant head motion and improve arousal during fMRI scanning relative to task-free rest, and have been used to study both functional connectivity and task-evoked BOLD-signal changes. These task-evoked changes result in cortical activity that is synchronized across subjects and involves large areas of the cortex, and it is unclear whether individual differences in functional connectivity are enhanced or diminished under such naturalistic conditions. This work first aims to characterize variability in functional connectivity (FC) across two distinct movie conditions and eyes-open rest (n=34 healthy adults, 2 scan sessions each). At the whole-brain level, we found that movies have higher intra- and inter-subject correlations in cluster-wise FC relative to rest. The anatomical distribution of inter-subject variability was similar across conditions, with higher variability occurring at the lateral prefrontal lobes and temporoparietal junctions. Second, we used an unsupervised test-retest matching (or \u201cfinger- printing\u201d) algorithm that identifies individual subjects from within a group based on functional connectivity patterns, quantifying the accuracy of the algorithm across the three conditions. We also evaluated the impact of parcellation resolution, scan duration, and number of edges on observed inter-individual differences. The movies and resting state all enabled identification of individual subjects based on FC matrices, with accuracies between 62 and 100%. Overall, pairings involving movies outperformed rest, and the more social and faster-paced movie attained 100% accuracy. When the parcellation resolution, scan duration and number of edges used were increased, accuracies improved across conditions, and the pattern of movies>rest was preserved. These results suggest that using dynamic stimuli such as movies enhances the detection of FC patterns that are distinct at the individual level.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084665', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Yale University;', u'Child Mind Institute;', u'Child Study Center at New York University Langone Medical Center']]
[u'Ventral tegmental area neurons use an ensemble code for representing information about ongoing actions', ['Jesse Wood', 'Nicholas W Simon', 'Spencer Koerner', 'Robert E Kass', 'Bita Moghaddam'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'We observed that ensembles of VTA neurons encode information about ongoing behavior in real-time. As rats executed varying numbers of actions to obtain the same reward, the firing rates of different neurons were preferentially tuned to low, medium, or high numbered bins of actions, allowing information about ongoing behavior to be decoded from the ensemble activity. This ensemble code could be used to organize and sustain behavioral responses.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084970', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pittsburgh;', u'University of Memphis;', u'Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'Longitudinal genomic surveillance of Plasmodium falciparum malaria parasites reveals complex genomic architecture of emerging artemisinin resistance in western Thailand', ['Gustavo C Cerqueira', 'Ian H Cheeseman', 'Steve F Schaffner', 'Shalini Nair', 'Marina McDew-White', 'Aung Pyae Phyo', 'Elizabeth A Ashley', 'Alexandre Melnikov', 'Peter Rogov', 'Bruce W Birren', 'Francois Nosten', 'Timothy J.C. Anderson', 'Daniel E Neafsey'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Background: Artemisinin-based combination therapies are the first line of treatment for Plasmodium falciparum infections worldwide, but artemisinin resistance (ART-R) has risen rapidly in in Southeast Asia over the last decade. Mutations in kelch13 have been associated with artemisinin (ART) resistance in this region. To explore the power of longitudinal genomic surveillance to detect signals in kelch13 and other loci that contribute to ART or partner drug resistance, we retrospectively sequenced the genomes of 194 P. falciparum isolates from five sites in Northwest Thailand, bracketing the era in which there was a rapid increase in ART-R in this region (2001 -2014).  Results: We evaluated statistical metrics for temporal change in the frequency of individual SNPs, assuming that SNPs associated with resistance should increase frequency over this period. After Kelch13-C580Y, the strongest temporal change was seen at a SNP in phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase (PI4K), situated in a pathway recently implicated in the ART-R mechanism. However, other loci exhibit temporal signatures nearly as strong, and warrant further investigation for involvement in ART-R evolution.  Through genome-wide association analysis we also identified a variant in a kelch-domain-containing gene on chromosome 10 that may epistatically modulate ART-R.  Conclusions: This analysis demonstrates the potential of a longitudinal genomic surveillance approach to detect resistance-associated loci and improve our mechanistic understanding of how resistance develops. Evidence for additional genomic regions outside of the kelch13 locus associated with ART-R parasites may yield new molecular markers for resistance surveillance and may retard the emergence or spread of ART-R in African parasite populations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084897', [u'Genomics'], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Texas Biomedical Research Institute;', u'Shoklo Malaria Research Unit, Mahidol University']]
[u'WhatsHap: fast and accurate read-based phasing', ['Marcel Martin', 'Murray Patterson', 'Shilpa Garg', 'Sarah Fischer', 'Nadia Pisanti', 'Gunnar W. Klau', 'Alexander Schoenhuth', 'Tobias Marschall'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Read-based phasing allows to reconstruct the haplotype structure of a sample purely from sequencing reads. While phasing is a required step for answering questions about population genetics, compound heterozygosity, and to aid in clinical decision making, there has been a lack of an accurate, usable and standards-based software.\n\nWhatsHap is a production-ready tool for highly accurate read-based phasing. It was designed from the beginning to leverage third-generation sequencing technologies, whose long reads can span many variants and are therefore ideal for phasing. WhatsHap works also well with second-generation data, is easy to use and will phase not only SNVs, but also indels and other variants. It is unique in its ability to combine read-based with genetic phasing, allowing to further improve accuracy if multiple related samples are provided.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085050', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Science for Life Laboratory;', u'Universite de Lyon;', u'Saarland University and Max Planck Institute for Informatics;', u'Saarland University;', u'University of Pisa;', u'Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI)']]
[u'Parasite-microbiota interactions potentially affect intestinal communities in wild mammals', ['Tuomas Aivelo', 'Anna Norberg'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Detecting interaction between species is notoriously difficult, and disentangling species associations in host-related gut communities is especially challenging. Nevertheless, due to contemporary methods, including metabarcoding and 16S sequencing, collecting observational data on community composition has become easier and much more common.  We studied the previously collected data sets of intestinal microbiota and parasite compositions within longitudinally followed mouse lemurs by analysing the potential interactions with diversity metrics and novel joint species distribution modelling. Both methods showed consistent statistical association between certain parasite species and microbiotal composition. Both unicellular Eimeria sp. and cestode Hymenolepis diminuta had an effect on diversity of gut microbiota. These parasite species also had negative associations with several bacterial orders. In comparison, closely related species H. nana did not have an effect on diversity, and it had positive associations with several bacterial orders. Our results reveal potential interactions between some, but not all, intestinal parasites and gut microbiota. While environmental variables explained almost half of the total variation, of which almost half could be explained by traits of parasites and microbiota, there were no clear patterns regarding mouse lemur individual variables explaining variation in the occurrence patterns of parasite and microbiota significantly. Our results provide new hypothesis for interactions between and among parasites and microbiota to be tested further with experimental studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/076059', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'Pre-Hospital Midazolam for Treatment of Status Epilepticus Before and After the Rapid Anticonvulsant Medication Prior to Arrival Trial (RAMPART): A National Observational Cohort Study', ['Eytan Shtull-Leber', 'Robert Silbergleit', 'William J Meurer'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Background: Implementation of evidence-based treatment for pre-hospital status epilepticus can improve outcomes. We hypothesized that publication of a pivotal pre-hospital clinical trial (RAMPART), demonstrating superiority of intramuscular midazolam over intravenous lorazepam, altered the national utilization rates of midazolam for pre-hospital treatment of status epilepticus, while upholding its safety and efficacy outside the trial setting.\nMethods and Findings: This is a retrospective, observational cohort study of pre-hospital patient encounters throughout the United States in the National Emergency Medicine Services Information System database, from January 2010 through December 2014. We compared the rates and odds of midazolam use as the first-line treatment for status epilepticus among all adult and pediatric benzodiazepine-treated seizures before and after RAMPART publication (February 2012). Secondary analyses were conducted for rates of airway interventions and rescue therapy, as proxies for safety and efficacy of seizure termination. 156,539 benzodiazepine-treated seizures were identified. Midazolam use increased from 26.1% in January 2010 to 61.7% in December 2014 (difference +35.6%, 95% CI, 32.7%-38.4%). The annual rate of midazolam adoption increased significantly from 5.9% per year to 8.9% per year after the publication of RAMPART (difference +3.0% per year; 95%CI, 1.6%-4.5% per year; adjusted OR 1.24; 95%CI, 1.17-1.32). Overall frequency of rescue therapy and airway interventions changed little after the publication of RAMPART. \nConclusions: These data are consistent with effective, ongoing, but incomplete clinical translation of the RAMPART results. The effects of the trial, however, cannot be isolated. The safety and effectiveness of midazolam for treatment of seizures in prehospital clinical practice appear consistent with trial data, which should encourage continuing increases in utilization.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084327', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'The Tension-sensitive Ion Transport Activity of MSL8 is Critical for its Function in Pollen Hydration and Germination', ['Eric S. Hamilton', 'Elizabeth S. Haswell'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'All cells respond to osmotic challenges, including those imposed during normal growth and development. Mechanosensitive (MS) ion channels provide a conserved mechanism for regulating osmotic forces by conducting ions in response to increased membrane tension. We previously demonstrated that the MS ion channel MscS-Like 8 (MSL8) is required for pollen to survive multiple osmotic challenges that occur during the normal process of fertilization, and that it can inhibit pollen germination. However, it remained unclear whether these physiological functions required ion flux through a mechanically gated channel provided by MSL8. We introduced two point mutations into the predicted pore-lining domain of MSL8 that disrupted normal channel function in different ways. The Ile711Ser mutation increased the tension threshold of the MSL8 channel while leaving conductance unchanged, and the Phe720Leu mutation severely disrupted the MSL8 channel. Both of these mutations impaired the ability of MSL8 to preserve pollen viability during hydration and to maintain the integrity of the pollen tube when expressed at endogenous levels. When overexpressed in a msl8-4 null background, MSL8I711S could partially rescue loss-of-function phenotypes, while MSL8F720L could not. When overexpressed in the wild type Ler background, MSL8I711S suppressed pollen germination, similar to wild type MSL8. In contrast, MSL8F720L failed to suppress pollen germination and increased pollen bursting, thereby phenocopying the msl8-4 mutant. Thus, an intact MSL8 channel is required to for normal pollen function during hydration and germination. These data establish MSL8 as the first plant MS channel to fulfill previously established criteria for assignment as a mechanotransducer.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084988', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Washington University;', u'Washington University in Saint Louis']]
[u'Major histocompatibility complex haplotyping and long-amplicon allele discovery in cynomolgus macaques from Chinese breeding facilities', ['Julie A Karl', 'Michael E Graham', 'Roger W Wiseman', 'Katelyn E Heimbruch', 'Samantha M Gieger', 'Gaby GM Doxiadis', 'Ronald E Bontrop', "David H O'Connor"], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Very little is currently known about the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) region of cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis; Mafa) from Chinese breeding centers. We performed comprehensive MHC class I haplotype analysis of 100 cynomolgus macaques from two different centers, with animals from different reported original geographic origins (Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Cambodian/Indonesian mixed-origin). Many of the samples were of known relation to each other (sire, dam, and progeny sets), making it possible to characterize lineage-level haplotypes in these animals. We identified 52 Mafa-A and 74 Mafa-B haplotypes in this cohort, many of which were restricted to specific sample origins. We also characterized full-length MHC class I transcripts using Pacific Biosciences (PacBio) RS II single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing. This technology allows for complete read-through of unfragmented MHC class I transcripts (~1,100 bp in length), so no assembly is required to unambiguously resolve novel full-length sequences. Overall, we identified 313 total full-length transcripts in a subset of 72 cynomolgus macaques from these Chinese breeding facilities; 131 of these sequences were novel and an additional 116 extended existing short database sequences to span the complete open reading frame. This significantly expands the number of Mafa-A, Mafa-B, and Mafa-I full-length alleles in the official cynomolgus macaque MHC class I database. The PacBio technique described here represents a general method for full-length allele discovery and genotyping that can be extended to other complex immune loci such as MHC class II, killer immunoglobulin-like receptors, and Fc gamma receptors.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084947', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Biomedical Primate Research Centre']]
[u'Multispot single-molecule FRET: high-throughput analysis of freely diffusing molecules', ['Antonino Ingargiola', 'Eitan Lerner', 'SangYoon Chung', 'Francesco Panzeri', 'Angelo Gulinatti', 'Ivan Rech', 'Massimo Ghioni', 'Shimon Weiss', 'Xavier Michalet'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'We describe an 8-spot confocal setup for high-throughput smFRET assays and illustrate its performance with two characteristic experiments. First, measurements on a series of freely diffusing doubly-labeled dsDNA samples allow us to demonstrate that data acquired in multiple spots in parallel can be properly corrected and result in measured sample characteristic identical to those obtained with a standard single-spot setup. We then take advantage of the higher throughput provided by parallel acquisition to address an outstanding question about the kinetics of the initial steps of bacterial RNA transcription. Our real-time kinetic analysis of promoter escape by bacterial RNA polymerase confirms results obtained by a more indirect route, shedding additional light on the initial steps of transcription.\nFinally, we discuss the advantages of our multispot setup, while pointing potential limitations of the current single laser excitation design, as well as analysis challenges and their solutions.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085027', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'Politecnico di Milano']]
[u'tRNA-derived small RNAs target transposable element transcripts', ['Sarah Choudury', 'Keith Slotkin', 'German Martinez'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'tRNA-derived RNA fragments (tRFs) are 18-26 nucleotide small RNAs that are not random degradation products, but are rather specifically cleaved from mature tRNA transcripts. Abundant in stressed or viral-infected cells, the function and potential targets of tRFs are not known. We identified that in the unstressed wild-type male gamete containing pollen of flowering plants, and analogous reproductive structure in non-flowering plant species, tRFs accumulate to high levels. In the reference plant Arabidopsis thaliana, tRFs are cleaved by Dicer-like 1 and incorporated into Argonaute1 (AGO1), akin to a microRNA. We utilized the fact that many plant small RNAs direct cleavage of their target transcripts to demonstrate that where the tRF-AGO1 complex acts to specifically target and cleave endogenous transposable element (TE) mRNAs produced from transcriptionally active TEs. The data presented here demonstrate that tRFs are bona-fide regulatory microRNA-like small RNAs involved in the regulation of genome stability through the targeting of TE transcripts.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085043', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'The Ohio State University;', u'Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and Linnean Center of Plant Biology']]
[u'HiC-bench: comprehensive and reproducible Hi-C data analysis designed for parameter exploration and benchmarking', ['Charalampos Lazaris', 'Stephen Kelly', 'Panagiotis Ntziachristos', 'Iannis Aifantis', 'Aristotelis Tsirigos'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Chromatin conformation capture techniques have evolved rapidly over the last few years and have provided new insights into genome organization at an unprecedented resolution. Analysis of Hi-C data is complex and computationally intensive involving multiple tasks and requiring robust quality assessment at each step of the analysis. This has led to the development of several tools and methods for processing Hi-C data. However, most of the existing tools do not cover all aspects of the analysis and only offer few quality assessment options. Additionally, availability of a multitude of tools makes scientists wonder how these tools and associated parameters can be optimally used, and how potential discrepancies can be interpreted and resolved. Most importantly, investigators need to be ensured that slight changes in parameters and/or methods do not affect the conclusions of their studies. Finally, any analysis, no matter how complex, should be reproducible by keeping track of the tool versions, parameters and input data. To address these issues (compare, explore and reproduce), we introduce HiC-bench, a configurable computational platform for comprehensive and reproducible analysis of Hi-C sequencing data. HiC-bench performs all common Hi-C analysis tasks, such as alignment, filtering, contact matrix generation and normalization, identification of topological domains, scoring and annotation of specific interactions using both published tools and our own. We have also embedded various tasks that perform quality assessment and visualization. HiC-bench is implemented as a data flow platform with an emphasis on analysis reproducibility. Additionally, the user can readily perform parameter exploration and comparison of different tools in a combinatorial manner that takes into account all desired parameter settings in each pipeline task. This unique feature facilitates the design and execution of complex benchmark studies that may involve combinations of multiple tool/parameter choices in each step of the analysis. To demonstrate the usefulness of our platform, we performed a comprehensive benchmark of existing and new TAD callers exploring different matrix correction methods, parameter settings and sequencing depths. Users can extend our pipeline by adding more tools as they become available. HiC-bench is distributed as free open-source software on GitHub and Zenodo, and our bioinformatics team offers installation and usage support.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084954', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'New York University;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'A mouse model of hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia generated by transmammary-delivered immunoblocking of BMP9 and BMP10', ['Santiago Ruiz', 'Haitian Zhao', 'Pallavi Chandakkar', 'Prodyot Chatterjee', 'Lionel Blanc', 'Christine Metz', 'Fabien Campagne', 'Philippe Marambaud'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is a potentially life-threatening genetic vascular disorder caused by loss-of-function mutations in the genes encoding activin receptor-like kinase 1 (ALK1), endoglin, Smad4, and bone morphogenetic protein 9 (BMP9). Injections of mouse neonates with BMP9/10 blocking antibodies lead to HHT-like vascular defects in the postnatal retinal angiogenesis model. Mothers and newborns share the same immunity through the transfer of maternal antibodies during breastfeeding. Here, we investigated whether the transmammary delivery route could improve the ease and consistency of administering anti-BMP9/10 antibodies in the postnatal retinal angiogenesis model. We found that anti-BMP9/10 antibodies, when intraperitoneally injected into lactating dams, are efficiently transferred into the circulation of breastfed neonatal pups. Strikingly, pups receiving anti-BMP9/10 antibodies via breastfeeding displayed consistent and robust vascular pathology in the retina, which included hypervascularization and defects in arteriovenous specification, as well as the presence of multiple and massive arteriovenous malformations. Furthermore, RNA-Seq analyses of neonatal retinas identified an increase in the key pro-angiogenic factor, angiopoietin-2, as the most significant change in gene expression triggered by the transmammary delivery of anti-BMP9/10 antibodies. Transmammary-delivered BMP9/10 immunoblocking in the mouse neonatal retina is therefore a practical, noninvasive, reliable, and robust model of HHT vascular pathology.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/084889', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'The Feinstein Institute - Northwell Health;', u'The Weill Cornell Medical College']]
[u'True causal effect size heterogeneity is required to explain trans-ethnic differences in GWAS signals', ['Daniela Zanetti', 'Michael E. Weale'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Through genome-wide association studies (GWASs), researchers have identified hundreds of genetic variants associated with particular complex traits. Previous studies have compared the pattern of association signals across different populations in real data, and these have detected differences in the strength and sometimes even the direction of GWAS signals. These differences could be due to a combination of (1) lack of power (insufficient sample sizes); (2) minor allele frequency (MAF) differences (again affecting power); (3) linkage disequilibrium (LD) differences (affecting power to tag the causal variant); and (4) true differences in causal variant effect sizes (defined by relative risks). In the present work, we sought to assess whether the first three of these reasons are sufficient on their own to explain the observed incidence of trans-ethnic differences in replications of GWAS signals, or whether the fourth reason is also required. We simulated case-control data of European, Asian and African ancestry, drawing on observed MAF and LD patterns seen in the 1000-Genomes reference dataset and assuming the true causal relative risks were the same in all three populations. We found that a combination of Euro-centric SNP selection and between population differences in LD, accentuated by the lower SNP density typical of older GWAS panels, was sufficient to explain the rate of trans-ethnic differences previously reported, without the need to assume between population differences in true causal SNP effect size. This suggests a cross population consistency that has implications for our understanding of the interplay between genetics and environment in the aetiology of complex human diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/085092', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Barcelona;', u'Kings College London']]
[u'Contribution of mobile elements to the uniqueness of human genome with more than 15,000 human-specific insertions', ['Wanxiangfu Tang', 'Seyoung Mun', 'Adiya Joshi', 'Kyundong Han', 'Ping Liang'], u'November 2, 2016.', u'Mobile elements (MEs) collectively constituted to at least 51% of the human genome. Due to their past incremental accumulation and ongoing DNA transposition of members from certain subfamilies, MEs serve as a significant source for both inter- and intra-species genetic diversity during primate and human evolution. Since MEs can exert direct impact on gene function via a plethora of mechanism, it is believed that the ME-derived genetic diversity has contributed to the phenotypic differences between human and non-human primates, as well as among human populations and individuals. To define the specific contribution of MEs in making Human sapiens as a genetically unique species in comparison to other primates, we aim to compile a complete list of MEs that are only uniquely present in the human genome, i.e., human specific MEs (HS-MEs). \n\nBy making use of the most recent reference genome sequences for human and many other primates and a more robust and integrative multi-way comparative genomic approach, we identified a total of 15,463 HS-MEs. This list of HS-MEs represents a 120% increase from prior studies with over 8,000 being newly identified as HS-MEs.  Collectively, these ~15,000 HS-MEIs have contributed to a total of 15 million base pair (Mbp) sequence increase through insertion, generation of target site duplications, and transductions, as well as a 0.5 Mbp sequence loss via insertion-mediated deletions, leading to a net total of 14.5 Mbp genome size increase. The availability of this comprehensive list of HS-MEIs permitted us to re-examine many important questions more accurately and gain new insights. New observations made with these HS-MEs include: 1) identification of several additional MEI subfamilies with significant transposition activities not visible with prior smaller datasets (e.g. L1HS, L1PA2, and HERV-K); 2) A clear similarity of the retrotransposition mechanism among L1, Alus, and SVAs that is distinct from HERVs based on the pre-integration site sequence motifs; 3) Y-chromosome as a strikingly hot target for HS-MEIs, particularly for LTRs, which showed an insertion rate 15 times higher than the genome average; 4) among the ME types, SVAs seem to show a very strong bias in inserting into existing SVAs. Among the HS-MEIs, more than 8,000 locate into the vicinity of ~4900 unique genes, in regions including CDS, untranslated exon regions, promoters, and introns of protein coding genes, as well as promoters and exons of non-coding RNAs.  Such HS-MEIs have the opportunities to impact the function of their host genes via participation in protein coding, alternative splicing, and regulation at both the transcription and post-transcription levels. In seven cases, five being SVAs, MEs participate in protein coding. \n\nIn conclusion, our results indicate that the amount of mobile elements uniquely occurred in the human genome is much higher than previously known, and we predict that the same is true regarding their impact on human genome evolution and function. The comprehensive list of human-specific mobile elements provides an important reference dataset for studying the impact of DNA transposition in human genome evolution and gene function.', u'/content/early/2016/11/02/083295', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Brock University;', u'Center for Regenerative Medicine, Dankook University;', u'Department of Nanobiomedical Science, Dankook University']]
