[u'Interplay of cis and trans mechanisms driving transcription factor binding, chromatin, and gene expression evolution', ['Emily S Wong', 'Bianca M Schmitt', 'Anastasiya Kazachenka', 'David Thybert', 'Aisling Redmond', 'Frances Connor', 'Tim F Rayner', 'Christine Feig', 'Anne C Ferguson-Smith', 'John C Marioni', 'Paul Flicek', 'Duncan T Odom'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'Noncoding regulatory variants play a central role in the genetics of human diseases and in evolution. We measured allele-specific TF binding affinity of three liver-specific TFs between crosses of two inbred mouse strains to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms underlying transcription factor (TF) binding variations in mammals. Our results highlight the pre- eminence of cis-acting variants on TF occupancy divergence. TF binding differences linked to cis-acting variants generally exhibit additive inheritance, while those linked to trans-acting variants are most often dominantly inherited. Cis-acting variants lead to local coordination of TF occupancies that decay with distance; distal coordination is also observed and may be modulated by long-range chromatin contacts. Our results reveal the regulatory mechanisms that interplay to drive TF occupancy, chromatin state, and gene expression in complex mammalian cell states.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059873', [], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'University of Cambridge, Cancer Research UK - Cambridge Institute;', u'University of Cambridge, Department of Genetics']]
[u'BlastPhyMe: A toolkit for rapid generation and analysis of protein-coding sequence datasets', ['Ryan K Schott', 'Daniel Gow', 'Belinda SW Chang'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'SUMMARY: We present BlastPhyMe (BLAST, Phylogenies, and Molecular Evolution) a new application to facilitate the fast and easy generation and analysis of protein-coding sequence datasets. The application uses a portable database framework to manage and organize sequences along with a graphical user interface (GUI) that makes the application extremely easy to use. BlastPhyMe utilizes several existing services and applications in a unique way that save researchers considerable time when building and analyzing protein-coding datasets. The application consists of two modules that can be used separately or together. The first module enables the assembly of coding sequence datasets. BLAST searches can be used to obtain all related sequences of interest from NCBI. Full GenBank records are saved within the database and coding sequences are automatically extracted. A feature of particular note is that sequences can be sorted based on NCBI taxonomic hierarchy before export to MEGA for visualization. The application provides GUIs for automatic alignment of sequences with the popular tools MUSCLE and PRANK, as well as for reconstructing phylogenetic trees using PhyML. The second module incorporates selection analyses using codon-based likelihood methods. The alignments and phylogenetic trees generated with the dataset module, or those generated elsewhere, can be used to run the models implemented in the codeml PAML package. A GUI allows easy selection of models and parameters. Importantly, replicate analyses with different parameter starting values can be automatically performed in order to ensure selection of the best-fitting model. Multiple analyses can be run simultaneously based on the number of processor cores available, while additional analyses will be run iteratively until completed. Results are saved within the database and can be exported to publication-ready Excel tables, which further automatically compute the appropriate likelihood ratio test between models in order to determine statistical significance. Future updates will add additional options for phylogenetic reconstruction (eg, MrBayes) and selection analyses (eg, HYPHY). BlastPhyMe saves researches of all bioinformatics experience levels considerable time by automating the numerous tasks required for the generation and analysis of protein-coding sequence datasets using a straightforward graphical interface.\nAVAILABILITY: Installation package and source code available from http://blastphyme.codeplex.com\nCONTACT: ryan.schott@utoronto.ca', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059881', [], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Emergence of wheat blast in Bangladesh was caused by a South American lineage of Magnaporthe oryzae', ['Tofazzal Islam', 'Daniel Croll', 'Pierre Gladieux', 'Darren Soanes', 'Antoine Persoons', 'Pallab Bhattacharjee', 'Shaid Hossain', 'Dipali Gupta', 'Md. Mahbubur Rahman', 'M Golam Mahboob', 'Nicola Cook', 'Moin Salam', 'Vanessa Bueno Sancho', 'Joao Nunes Maciel', 'Antonio Nani', 'Vanina Castroagudin', 'Juliana Teodora de Assis Reges', 'Paulo Ceresini', 'Sebastien Ravel', 'Ronny Kellner', 'Elisabeth Fournier', 'Didier Tharreau', 'marc-henri Lebrun', 'Bruce McDonald', 'Tim Stitt', 'Daniel Swan', 'Nicholas Talbot', 'Diane Saunders', 'Joe Win', 'Sophien Kamoun'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'In February 2016, a new fungal disease was spotted in wheat fields across eight districts in Bangladesh. The epidemic spread to an estimated 15,741 hectares, about 16% of cultivated wheat area in Bangladesh, with yield losses reaching up to 100%. Within weeks of the onset of the epidemic, we performed transcriptome sequencing of symptomatic leaf samples collected directly from Bangladeshi fields. Population genomics analyses revealed that the outbreak was caused by a wheat-infecting South American lineage of the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. We show that genomic surveillance can be rapidly applied to monitor plant disease outbreaks and provide valuable information regarding the identity and origin of the infectious agent.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059832', [], [u'Dept. of Biotechnology, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Ag Univ, Gazipur, Bangladesh;', u'Plant Pathology, Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zurich, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland;', u'INRA, UMR 385 BGPI, Montpellier, France;', u'College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, EX4 4QD, United Kingdom;', u'The Genome Analysis Centre, Norwich Research Park, NR4 7UH, United Kingdom;', u'Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute, Joydebpur 1701, Gazipur, Bangladesh;', u'Department of Agriculture and Food Western Australia (DAFWA), South Perth, WA  6151, Australia;', u'EMBRAPA Wheat/Trigo, Passo Fundo, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil;', u'University of Sao Paulo State - UNESP, Ilha Solteira Campus, Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'CIRAD, UMR 385 BGPI, Montpellier, France;', u'The Sainsbury Laboratory, Norwich Research Park, NR4 7UH, United Kingdom;', u'INRA, UMR 1290 Biologie et Gestion des Risques en agriculture BIOGER, Thiverval-Grignon, France;', u'The Sainsbury Laboratory']]
[u'Happens in the best of subfamilies: Replacement and internalisation of co-obligate Serratia endosymbionts in Lachninae aphids', ['Alejandro Manzano-Marin', 'Gitta Szabo', 'Jean-Christophe Simon', 'Matthias Horn', 'Amparo Latorre'], u'June 19, 2016.', u"Virtually all aphids maintain an obligate mutualistic symbiosis with bacteria from the Buchnera genus, which produce essential nutrients for their aphid hosts. Most aphids from the Lachninae subfamily have been consistently found to house additional endosymbionts, mainly Serratia symbiotica. This apparent dependence on secondary endosymbionts was proposed to have been triggered by the loss of the riboflavin biosynthetic capability by Buchnera in the Lachninae last common ancestor. However, an integral large-scale analysis of secondary endosymbionts in the Lachninae is still missing, hampering the interpretation of the evolutionary and genomic analyses of these endosymbionts. Here, we analysed the endosymbionts of selected representatives from seven different Lachninae genera and nineteen species, spanning four tribes, both by FISH (exploring the symbionts' morphology and tissue tropism) and 16S rRNA gene sequencing. We demonstrate that all analysed aphids possess dual symbiotic systems, and while most harbour S. symbiotica, some have undergone symbiont replacement by other phylogenetically-distinct bacterial taxa. We found that these secondary associates display contrasting cell shapes and tissue tropism, and some appear to be lineage-specific. We propose a scenario for symbiont establishment in the Lachninae, followed by independent internalisations into bacteriocytes and symbiont replacement events, thereby highlighting the extraordinary versatility of host-symbiont interactions.", u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059816', [], [u'Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva, Universitat de Val\xe8ncia;', u'Department of Microbiology and Ecosystem Science, University of Vienna;', u'UMR1349 Institut de G\xe9n\xe9tique, Environnement et Protection des Plantes (IGEPP), INRA']]
[u'Unsupervised Learning of Temporal Features for Word Categorization in a Spiking Neural Network Model of the Auditory Brain', ['Irina Higgins', 'Simon Stringer', 'Jan Schnupp'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'The nature of the code used in the auditory cortex to represent complex auditory stimuli, such as naturally spoken words, remains a matter of debate. Here we argue that such representations are encoded by stable spatio-temporal patterns of firing within cell assemblies known as polychronous groups, or PGs. We develop a physiologically grounded, unsupervised spiking neural network model of the auditory brain with local, biologically realistic, spike-time dependent plasticity (STDP) learning, and show that the plastic cortical layers of the network develop PGs which convey substantially more information about the speaker independent identity of two naturally spoken word stimuli than does rate encoding that ignores the precise spike timings. We furthermore demonstrate that such informative PGs can only develop if the input spatio-temporal spike patterns to the plastic cortical areas of the model are relatively stable.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059840', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Zika epidemic fueled by climate variations on multiple timescales', ['Angel G Munoz', 'Madeleine C Thomson', 'Lisa Goddard', 'Sylvain Aldighieri'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'Speculation exists that the emergence of Zika virus (ZIKV) as a public health emergency in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) is partially related to high temperatures associated with the 2015-2016 El Nino event. Analysis of related flaviviruses -such as dengue and chikungunya, which are transmitted by the same vectors- suggests that ZIKV is sensitive to climate. Quantifying the climate contribution to ZIKV transmission is an important step in better understanding the conditions conducive to the 2014-2016 epidemic, and permits the development of climate-informed short- and long-term strategies for ZIKV prevention and control. Using a novel timescale-decomposition methodology, here we demonstrate that extreme climate anomalies observed in most parts of South America during the current epidemic are not caused exclusively by El Nino or climate change -as speculated-, but are the result of a particular combination of climate signals acting at multiple timescales. In Brazil, the heart of the epidemic, we find that dry conditions present during 2013-2015 are explained primarily by year-to-year variability superimposed on decadal variability, but with little contribution of long-term trends. In contrast, the extreme warm temperatures of 2014-2015 resulted from the compound effect of climate change, decadal and year-to-year climate variability. The increasingly probable 2016-2017 La Nina suggests that ZIKV response strategies adapted for a drought context in Brazil may need to be revised to accommodate the likely return of heavy rainfall. Temperatures are likely to remain warm given the importance of long term and short term trends.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059808', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'AOS/GFDL - Princeton University;', u'International Research Institute for Climate and Society - Columbia University;', u'Pan American Health Organization - World Health Organization']]
[u'Novel Partitivirus Infection of Bat White-nose Syndrome\n\n(WNS) Fungal Pathogen Pseudogymnoascus destructans\n\nLinks Eurasian and North American Isolates', ['Ping Ren', 'Sunanda S. Rajkumar', 'Haixin Sui', 'Paul S. Masters', 'Natalia Martinkova', 'Alena Kubatova', 'Jiri Pikula', 'Sudha Chaturvedi', 'Vishnu Chaturvedi'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'Bat White-nose Syndrome (WNS) fungus Pseudogymnoascus destructans had caused mass mortality in the North American bats. A single clone of the pathogen (Hap_1) was likely introduced in the United States while Eurasian population comprised of several haplotypes. The origin and spread of P. destructans remain enigmatic due in part to a lack of precise population markers. We searched for P. destructans mycoviruses as they are highly host-specific, and their spread could provide a window on the origin of the host fungus. We discovered a P. destructans bipartite virus PdPV-1 with two double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) segments - LS (1,683 bp) and SS (1,524 bp) with motifs similar to viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) and putative capsid proteins (CPs), respectively. Both LS and SS ORFs were embedded only in the positive strand of each dsRNA segment. Sequence alignments and phylogenetic analysis suggested that both segments constitute the genome of a new virus similar to the mycoviruses in the family Partitiviridae genus Gammapartitivirus. Purified viral particles appeared as isometric virions with approximately 33 nm diameters typical of partitiviruses. A newly developed RT-PCR assay revealed that all US isolates and only a few Eurasian isolates were infected with PdPV-1. PdPV-1 was P. destructans - specific as closely related non-pathogenic fungi P. appendiculatus and P. roses tested negative. Thus, PdPV-1 establishes a link between the Eurasian and North American P. destructans. PdPV-1 could be used as an experimental tool to further investigate fungal biogeography, and the host \u2014 pathogen interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059709', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, Albany, New York;', u'Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Academy of Science of the Czech Republic, Konesin, Czech Republic;', u'Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, Praha, Czech Republic;', u'University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences Brno, Brno, Czech Republic;', u'Wadsworth Center, NYS Dept. of Health']]
[u'The Precision Medicine Knowledge Base: an online application for collaborative editing, maintenance and sharing of structured clinical-grade cancer mutations interpretations', ['Linda Huang', 'Helen Fernandes', 'Hamid Zia', 'Peyman Tavassoli', 'Hanna Rennert', 'David Pisapia', 'Marcin Imielinski', 'Andrea Sboner', 'Mark A Rubin', 'Michael Kluk', 'Olivier Elemento'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'This paper describes the Precision Medicine Knowledge Base (PMKB; https://pmkb.weill.cornell.edu), an interactive online application for collaborative editing, maintenance and sharing of structured clinical-grade cancer mutations interpretations.  PMKB was built using the Ruby on Rails Web application framework. Leveraging existing standards such as Human Genome Variation Society (HGVS) variant description format, we implemented a data model that links variants to tumor-specific and tissue-specific interpretations. Key features of PMKB include support for all major variant types, standardized authentication, distinct user roles including high-level approvers, detailed activity history. A REpresentational State Transfer (REST) application-programming interface (API) was implemented to query the PMKB programmatically. At the time of writing, PMKB contains 457 variant descriptions with 281 clinical-grade interpretations. The EGFR, BRAF, KRAS, and KIT genes are associated with the largest numbers of interpretable variants. The PMKB interpretations have been used in over 1,500 AmpliSeq tests and 750 whole exome sequencing tests. The interpretations are accessed either directly via the Web interface or programmatically via the existing API. An accurate and up-to-date knowledge base of genomic alterations of clinical significance is critical to the success of precision medicine programs. The open-access, programmatically accessible PMKB represents an important attempt at creating such a resource in the field of oncology. The PMKB was designed to help collect and maintain clinical-grade mutation interpretations and facilitates reporting for clinical cancer genomic testing. The PMKB was also designed to enable the creation of clinical cancer genomics automated reporting pipelines via an API.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059824', [u'Genomics'], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine']]
[u'High-throughput biochemical profiling reveals Cas9 off-target binding and unbinding heterogeneity', ['Evan August Boyle', 'Johan Oscar Lennart Andreasson', 'Lauren Mallory Chircus', 'Samuel Henry Sternberg', 'Michelle Jennifer Wu', 'Chantal Katrin Guegler', 'Jennifer Anne Doudna', 'William James Greenleaf'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'The bacterial adaptive immune system CRISPR-Cas9 has been appropriated as a versatile tool for editing genomes, controlling gene expression, and visualizing genetic loci. To analyze Cas9\u2032s ability to bind DNA rapidly and specifically, we measured the kinetics of catalytically dead Cas9 (dCas9) interactions with a library of potential binding partners. Using a massively parallel assay of protein-DNA interactions derived from a high-throughput sequencing flow cell (HiTS-FLIP) and building on the established importance of protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) and seed recognition, we identify two PAM-distal regions, proximal and distal to the seed region, with distinct behaviors: multiple mismatches in the seed-proximal region work in a highly synergistic manner to reduce Cas9 association whereas seemingly tolerated mismatches in the distal region precipitate comparatively rapid dissociation of Cas9. Together, these observations support a model for Cas9 specificity wherein gRNA-DNA mismatches at distinct domains of PAM-distal bases modulate different biophysical parameters of association and dissociation, opening the possibility of kinetic and thermodynamic tuning of the Cas9-DNA interaction and quantitative prediction of off-target binding behaviors.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059782', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'A phenome-wide examination of neural and cognitive function', ['Russell Poldrack', 'Eliza Congdon', 'William Triplett', 'Krzysztof Gorgolewski', 'Katherine Karlsgodt', 'Jeanette Mumford', 'Fred Sabb', 'Nelson Freimer', 'Edythe London', 'Tyrone Cannon', 'Robert Bilder'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'This data descriptor outlines a shared neuroimaging dataset from the UCLA Consortium for Neuropsychiatric Phenomics, which focused on understanding the dimensional structure of memory and cognitive control (response inhibition) functions in both healthy individuals (138 subjects) and individuals with neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia (58 subjects), bipolar disorder (49 subjects), and attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (45 subjects). The dataset includes an extensive set of task-based fMRI assessments, resting fMRI, structural MRI, and high angular resolution diffusion MRI. The dataset is shared through the OpenfMRI project, and is formatted according to the Brain Imaging Data Structure (BIDS) standard.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059733', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'UCLA;', u'University of Wisconsin - Madison;', u'University of Oregon;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Voodoo Machine Learning for Clinical Predictions', ['Sohrab Saeb', 'Luca Lonini', 'Arun Jayaraman', 'David C Mohr', 'Konrad P Kording'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'The availability of smartphone and wearable sensor technology is leading to a rapid accumulation of human subject data, and machine learning is emerging as a technique to map that data into clinical predictions. As machine learning algorithms are increasingly used to support clinical decision making, it is important to reliably quantify their prediction accuracy. Cross-validation is the standard approach for evaluating the accuracy of such algorithms; however, several cross-validations methods exist and only some of them are statistically meaningful. Here we compared two popular cross-validation methods: record-wise and subject-wise. Using both a publicly available dataset and a simulation, we found that record-wise cross-validation often massively overestimates the prediction accuracy of the algorithms. We also found that this erroneous method is used by almost half of the retrieved studies that used accelerometers, wearable sensors, or smartphones to predict clinical outcomes. As we move towards an era of machine learning based diagnosis and treatment, using proper methods to evaluate their accuracy is crucial, as erroneous results can mislead both clinicians and data scientists.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059774', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Northwestern University;', u'Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago / Northwestern University']]
[u'Accelerated cryo-EM structure determination with parallelisation using GPUs in RELION-2', ['Dari Kimanius', 'Bjorn O Forsberg', 'Sjors Scheres', 'Erik Lindahl'], u'June 19, 2016.', u'By reaching near-atomic resolution for a wide range of specimens, single-particle cryo-EM structure determination is transforming struc- tural biology. However, the necessary calculations come at increased computational costs, introducing a bottleneck that is currently limiting throughput and the development of new methods. Here, we present an implementation of the relion image processing software that uses graphics processors (GPUs) to address the most computationally intensive steps of its cryo-EM structure determination workflow. Both image classification and high-resolution refinement have been accelerated up to 40-fold, and template-based particle selection has been accelerated almost 1000-fold on desktop hardware. Memory requirements on GPUs have been reduced to fit widely available hard- ware, and we show that the use of single precision arithmetic does not adversely affect results. This enables high-resolution cryo-EM struc- ture determination in a matter of days on a single workstation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/19/059717', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stockholm University;', u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology']]
