[u'Disorder Atlas: a web service for the proteome-based interpretation of intrinsic disorder predictions', ['Michael Vincent', 'Santiago Schnell'], u'June 25, 2016.', u'Disorder Atlas is a web-based service that facilitates the interpretation of intrinsic disorder predictions using proteome-based descriptive statistics. This service is also equipped to facilitate large-scale systematic exploratory searches for proteins encompassing disorder features of interest, and further allows users to browse the prevalence of multiple disorder features at the proteome level. Disorder Atlas is freely available for non-commercial users at http://www.disorderatlas.org.', u'/content/early/2016/06/25/060699', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Michigan Medical School']]
[u'Disrupting dorsolateral prefrontal cortex by rTMS reduces the P300 based marker of deception', ['Inga Karton', 'Anni-Bessie Kitt', 'Renate Rutiku', 'Talis Bachmann'], u'June 25, 2016.', u'It is well known that electroencephalographic event related potential component P300 is sensitive to perception of critical items in a concealed information test. However, it is not known whether the relative level of expression of P300 as a neural marker of deception can be manipulated by means of non-invasive neuromodulation. Here, we show that while P300 exhibited systematic amplitude differences in response to the more as well as the less significant stimuli items encountered at the crime scene compared to neutral items, offline rTMS to dorsolateral prefrontal cortex attenuated P300 amplitude in response to the critical items. Yet, the individual subjects showed different sensitivity of the P300 as the marker of concealment. We conclude that rTMS can be used for subduing electrophysiological markers of deception, but this effect depends on whether the subject belongs to the group of CIT-sensitive individuals.', u'/content/early/2016/06/25/060723', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Tartu']]
[u'Inference of transmission network structure from HIV phylogenetic trees', ['Federica Giardina', 'Ethan Obie Romero-Severson', 'Jan Albert', 'Tom Britton', 'Thomas Kenneth Leitner'], u'June 25, 2016.', u'Phylogenetic inference is an attractive mean to reconstruct transmission histories and epidemics. As the interest lies in how HIV-1 spread in a human population, many previous studies have ignored details about the evolutionary process of the pathogen. Because phylogenetics investigates the evolutionary history of the pathogen rather than the spread between hosts per se, we first investigated the effects of including a within-host evolutionary model in epidemiological simulations. In particular, we investigated if the resulting phylogeny could recover different types of contact networks. To further improve realism, we also introduced patient-specific differences in infectivity across disease stages, and on the epidemic level we considered incomplete sampling and the age of the epidemic. Second, we implemented an inference method based on approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) to discriminate among three well-studied network models and jointly estimate both network parameters and key epidemiological quantities such as the infection rate. Our ABC framework used both topological and distance-based tree statistics for comparison between simulated and observed trees. Overall, our simulations showed that a virus time-scaled phylogeny (genealogy) may be substantially different from the between-host transmission tree. This has important implications for the interpretation of what a phylogeny reveals about the underlying epidemic contact network. In particular, we found that while the within-host evolutionary process obscures the transmission tree, the diversification process and infectivity dynamics also add discriminatory power to differentiate between different types of contact networks. We also found that the possibility to differentiate contact networks depends on how far an epidemic has progressed, where distance-based tree statistics have more power early in an epidemic. Finally, we applied our ABC inference on two different outbreaks from the Swedish HIV-1 epidemic.', u'/content/early/2016/06/25/059865', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Stockholm University;', u'Los Alamos National Laboratory;', u'Karolinska University Hospital']]
