[u'Melittin-induced alterations in morphology and deformability of human red blood cells using quantitative phase imaging techniques', ['Joonseok Hur', 'Kyoohyun Kim', 'SangYun Lee', 'Hyunjoo Park', 'YongKeun Park'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Here, the actions of melittin, the active molecule of apitoxin or bee venom, were investigated on human red blood cells (RBCs) using quantitative phase imaging techniques. High-resolution real-time 3-D refractive index (RI) measurements and dynamic 2-D phase images of individual melittin-bound RBCs enabled in-depth examination of melittin-induced biophysical alterations of the cells. From the measurements, morphological, biochemical, and mechanical alterations of the RBCs were analyzed quantitatively. Furthermore, leakage of haemoglobin (Hb) inside the RBCs at high melittin concentration was also investigated.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091991', [u'Biophysics'], [u'MIT;', u'KAIST']]
[u'A Phylogenetic Analysis of Shape Covariance Structure in the Anthropoid Skull', ['Guilherme Garcia', 'Felipe Bandoni de Oliveira', 'Gabriel Marroig'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Phenotypic traits evolve in a coordinated manner due to developmental and functional interactions, mediated by the dynamics of natural selection; the dependence between traits arising from these three factors is captured by genetic (G) and phenotypic (P) covariance matrices.\nMammalian skull development produces an intricate pattern of tissue organization and mutual signaling that integrates this structure, although the set of functions it performs is quite disparate.\nTherefore, the interplay between these interactions, and their relationships with the adaptive landscape may thus influence divergence in covariance structure among sister lineages.\nHere, we evaluate the stability of phenotypic covariance structure in skull size and shape along the diversification of Anthropoid Primates under a explicit phylogenetic framework.\nWe estimate diversity in covariance structure, testing hypotheses concerning the phylogenetic distribution of P-matrix variation and pinpoint which traits are associated with this variation.\nWe find that most changes occurred in the basal split between Platyrrhini and Catarrhini, and that these changes occurred within both Orbital and Basicranial trait sets, while Oral, Nasal and Vault trait sets present stable associations along the Anthropoid phylogeny.\nTherefore, changes in P-matrix structure among Anthropoids are restricted to trait sets whose functional significance is associated with the accommodation of the two precursor tissues that compose the skull, while the stability in the remaining regions hints at the stability of the underlying functional relationships imposed by the adaptive landscape.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/090910', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Universidade de Sao Paulo']]
[u'The adaptive significance of phasic colony cycles in army ants', ['Simon Garnier', 'Daniel J. C. Kronauer'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Army ants are top arthropod predators in tropical forests around the world. The colonies of many army ant species undergo stereotypical behavioral and reproductive cycles, alternating between brood care and reproductive phases. In the brood care phase, colonies contain a cohort of larvae that are synchronized in their development and have to be fed. In the reproductive phase larvae are absent and oviposition takes place. Despite these colony cycles being a striking feature of army ant biology, their adaptive significance is unclear. Here we use a modelling approach to show that cyclic reproduction is favored under conditions where per capita foraging costs decrease with the number of larvae in a colony ("High Cost of Entry" scenario), while continuous reproduction is favored under conditions where per capita foraging costs increase with the number of larvae ("Resource Exhaustion" scenario). We argue that the former scenario specifically applies to army ants, because large raiding parties are required to overpower prey colonies. However, once raiding is successful it provides abundant food for a large cohort of larvae. The latter scenario, on the other hand, will apply to non-army ants, because in those species local resource depletion will force workers to forage over larger distances to feed large larval cohorts. Our model provides the first quantitative framework for understanding the adaptive value of phasic colony cycles in ants.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091934', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'New Jersey Institute of Technology;', u'The Rockefeller University']]
[u'Non-random inversion landscapes in prokaryotic genomes are shaped by heterogeneous selection pressures', ['Jelena Repar', 'Tobias Warnecke'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Inversions are a major contributor to structural genome evolution in prokaryotes. Here, using a novel alignment-based method, we systematically compare 1651 bacterial and 98 archaeal genomes to show that inversion landscapes are frequently biased towards (symmetric) inversions around the origin-terminus axis. However, symmetric inversion bias is not a universal feature of prokaryotic genome evolution but varies considerably across clades. At the extremes, inversion landscapes in Bacillus-Clostridium and Actinobacteria are dominated by symmetric inversions, while there is little or no systematic bias favouring symmetric rearrangements in archaea with a single origin of replication. Within clades, we find strong but clade-specific relationships between symmetric inversion bias and different features of adaptive genome architecture, including the distance of essential genes to the origin of replication and the preferential localization of genes on the leading strand. We suggest that heterogeneous selection pressures have converged to produce similar patterns of structural genome evolution across prokaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/092056', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'MRC Clinical Sciences Centre;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'No evidence for genome editing of the endogenous DNA in mouse zygotes and HEK293T human cell line using the DNA-guided Natronobacterium gregoryi Argonaute (NgAgo).', ['Nay Chi Khin', 'Jenna Louise Lowe', 'Jensen M Lora', 'Gaetan Burgio'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'A recently published research article reported that the extreme halophile archaebacterium Natronobacterium gregoryi Argonaute enzyme (NgAgo) could cleave the cellular DNA under physiological temperature conditions in cell line and be implemented as an alternative to CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing technology. We assessed this claim in mouse zygotes for four loci (Sptb, Tet-1, Tet-2 and Tet-3) and in the human HEK293T cell line for the EMX1 locus. Over 100 zygotes were microinjected with nls-NgAgo-GK plasmid provided from Addgene and various concentrations of 5\u2032-phosphorylated guide DNA (gDNA) from 2.5 ng/\u03bcl to 50 ng/\u03bcl and cultured to blastocyst stage of development.  The presence of indels was verified using T7 endonuclease 1 assay (T7E1) and Sanger sequencing. We reported no evidence of successful editing of the mouse genome. We then assessed the lack of editing efficiency in HEK293T cell line for the EMX1 endogenous locus by monitoring the NgAgo protein expression level and the editing efficiency by T7E1 assay and Sanger sequencing. We reported that the NgAgo protein was expressed from 8 hours to a maximum expression at 48 hours post-transfection, confirming the efficient delivery of the plasmid and the gDNA but no evidence of successful editing of EMX1 target in all transfected samples. Together our findings indicate that NgAgo is unsuitable as a genome editing tool.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091678', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'John Curtin School of Medical Research, the Australian National University']]
[u'Resource-Driven Encounters and the Induction of Disease Among Consumers', ['Rebecca K. Borchering', 'Steve E. Bellan', 'Jason M. Flynn', 'Juliet R.C. Pulliam', 'Scott A. McKinley'], u'December 6, 2016.', u"Territorial animals share a variety of common resources, which can be a major driver of conspecific encounter rates. We examine how changes in resource availability influence the rate of encounters among individuals in a consumer population by implementing a spatially explicit model for resource visitation behavior by consumers. Using data from 2009 and 2010 in Etosha National Park, we verify our model's prediction that there is a saturation effect in the expected number of jackals that visit a given carcass site as carcasses become abundant. However, this does not directly imply that the overall resource-driven encounter rate among jackals decreases. This is because the increase in available carcasses is accompanied by an increase in the number of jackals that detect and potentially visit carcasses. Using simulations and mathematical analysis of our consumer-resource interaction model, we characterize key features of the relationship between resource-driven encounter rate and model parameters. These results are used to investigate a standing hypothesis that the outbreak of a fatal disease among zebras can potentially lead to an outbreak of an entirely different disease in the jackal population, a process we refer to as indirect induction of disease.", u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091850', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Florida;', u'University of Georgia;', u'Tulane University;', u'Stellenbosch University']]
[u'Community-level facilitation by macroalgal foundation species peaks at an intermediate level of environmental stress', ['Ricardo A Scrosati'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'This paper examines how community-level facilitation by macroalgal foundation species changes with environmental stress. In rocky intertidal habitats, abiotic stress (mainly due to desiccation and thermal extremes during low tides) increases sharply with elevation because of tide dynamics. A previous study done on the Atlantic coast of Nova Scotia (Canada) showed that, at low elevations, where conditions are benign because low tides are brief, fucoid algal canopies (Ascophyllum nodosum and Fucus spp.) do not affect the structure of benthic communities. However, at middle and high elevations, where low tides last longer, fucoid canopies limit abiotic extremes near the substrate and, in that way, increase the richness of benthic communities. Richness was measured as the number of benthic algal (except fucoids) and invertebrate species found in replicate quadrats. Using the published data from that study, the present study compares the intensity of facilitation and its importance (relative to all other sources of variation in richness) between middle and high elevations, which represent intermediate and high stress, respectively. Facilitation intensity was calculated as the percent increase in benthic richness between quadrats with low canopy cover and quadrats with high canopy cover, while the importance of facilitation was calculated as the percentage of observed variation in richness that was explained by canopy cover. Data for a total of 688 quadrats surveyed along 350 km of coastline were used. The analyses revealed that both the intensity and importance of facilitation were greater at middle elevations than at high elevations. As canopies were previously found not to affect benthic communities at low elevations, this study indicates that the facilitation-stress relationship viewed at the community level is unimodal for this marine system. Such a trend was already found for some terrestrial systems involving canopy-forming plants as foundation species. Thus, this unimodal pattern may be ubiquitous in nature and, as further studies refine it, might help to predict community-level facilitation depending on environmental stress.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091777', [u'Ecology'], [u'St. Francis Xavier University']]
[u"Non-linear tradeoffs allow cooperation to evolve from Prisoner's Dilemma to Snow Drift", ['Lin Chao', 'Santiago Elena'], u'December 6, 2016.', u"The existence of cooperation or the production of public goods is a major evolutionary conundrum.  Restricting the goods to kin or to reciprocating individuals is promoted as a solution, but that is inappropriate because the benefits are no longer public.  Without kinship or reciprocation, the evolution of cooperation is limited by the Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) game, which drives cooperators to extinction and selects for defectors that produce fewer public goods.  Here we use existing molecular and genetic information on RNA viruses to create a mathematical model for the evolution of cooperation as a function of group size.  While diffusible gene products are public goods, group size is represented by the number of virions co-infecting a host cell.  Our results show that if a virus' investment into replication versus making gene products conforms to a linear tradeoff, the viruses evolve into a monomorphic population that remains trapped by PD.  However, if the tradeoff is non-linear and group size exceeds a threshold, selection is diversifying and the population bifurcates into a dimorphic state with lineages of ultra-defectors and ultra-cooperators.  The modeling of a non-linear tradeoff and ultra-defectors was motivated by the existence of viral defective interfering (DI) particles, which are contracted viral genomes that lack coding regions and therefore gain an extra advantage by being smaller than defectors that make some public goods.  If group size is further increased, the ultra-cooperators evolve to produce public goods at a maximum rate that matches the production evolved by kin selection.  The emergence of ultra-defectors and ultra-cooperators in our model creates the Snow Drift (SD) game, which is the most advanced form of cooperation.  Thus, our model shows that evolution can easily transition from PD to SD via the increase of group size.  Although formulated for viruses, our model is easily adaptable to most biological systems.", u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091041', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Section of Ecology, Behavior and Evolution, Division of Biological Sciences, UCSD;', u'CSIC']]
[u'Homeostasis Back and Forth: An Eco-Evolutionary Perspective of Cancer', ['David Basanta', 'Alexander Anderson'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'The role of genetic mutations in cancer is indisputable: they are a key source of tumor heterogeneity and drive its evolution to malignancy. But the success of these new mutant cells relies on their ability to disrupt the homeostasis that characterizes healthy tissues. Mutated clones unable to break free from intrinsic and extrinsic homeostatic controls will fail to establish a tumor. Here we will discuss, through the lens of mathematical and computational modeling, why an evolutionary view of cancer needs to be complemented by an ecological perspective in order to understand why cancer cells invade and subsequently transform their environment during progression. Importantly, this ecological perspective needs to account for tissue homeostasis in the organs that tumors invade, since they perturb the normal regulatory dynamics of these tissues, often co-opting them for its own gain. Furthermore, given our current lack of success in treating advanced metastatic cancers through tumor centric therapeutic strategies, we propose that treatments that aim to restore homeostasis could become a promising venue of clinical research. This eco-evolutionary view of cancer requires mechanistic mathematical models in order to both integrate clinical with biological data from different scales but also to detangle the dynamic feedback between the tumor and its environment.  Importantly, for these models to be useful, they need to embrace a higher degree of complexity than many mathematical modelers are traditionally comfortable with.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/092023', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute']]
[u'Rice protein models from the Nutritious Rice for the World Project', ['Ling-Hong Hung', 'Ram Samudrala'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Background:  Many rice protein sequences are very different from the sequence of proteins with known structures. Homology modeling is not possible for many rice proteins. However, it is possible to use computational intensive de novo techniques to obtain protein models when the protein sequence cannot be mapped to a protein of known structure.  The Nutritious Rice for the World project generated 10 billion models encompassing more than 60,000 small proteins and protein domains for the rice strains Oryza sativa and Oryza japonica.  Findings:  Over a period of 1.5 years, the volunteers of World Community Grid supported by IBM generated 10 billion candidate structures, a task that would have taken a single CPU on the order of 10 millennia. For each protein sequence, 5 top structures were chosen using a novel clustering methodology developed for analyzing large datasets. These are provided along with the entire set of 10 billion conformers.  Conclusions:  We anticipate that the centroid models will be of use in visualizing and determining the role of rice proteins where the function is unknown.  The entire set of conformers is unique in terms of size and that they were derived from sequences that lack detectable homologs. Large sets of de novo conformers are rare and we anticipate that this set will be useful for benchmarking and developing new protein structure prediction methodologies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091975', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Washington Tacoma;', u'State University of New York (SUNY) Buffalo']]
[u'Understanding genetic changes underlying the molybdate resistance and the glutathione production in Saccharomyces cerevisiae wine strains using an evolution-based strategy', ['Francesco Mezzetti', 'Justin C. Fay', 'Paolo Giudici', 'Luciana De Vero'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'In this work we have investigated the genetic changes underlying the high glutathione (GSH) production showed by the evolved Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain UMCC 2581, selected in a molybdate-enriched environment after sexual recombination of the parental wine strain UMCC 855. To reach our goal, we first generated strains with the desired phenotype, and then we mapped changes underlying adaptation to molybdate by using a whole-genome sequencing. Moreover, we carried out the RNA-seq that allowed an accurate measurement of gene expression and an effective comparison between the transcriptional profiles of parental and evolved strains, in order to investigate the relationship between genotype and high GSH production phenotype. \nAmong all genes evaluated only two genes, MED2 and RIM15 both related to oxidative stress response, presented new mutations in the UMCC 2581 strain sequence and were potentially related to the evolved phenotype. \nRegarding the expression of high GSH production phenotype, it included over-expression of amino acids permeases and precursor biosynthetic enzymes rather than the two GSH metabolic enzymes, whereas GSH production and metabolism, transporter activity, vacuolar detoxification and oxidative stress response enzymes were probably added resulting in the molybdate resistance phenotype. This work provides an example of a combination of an evolution-based strategy to successful obtain yeast strain with desired phenotype and inverse engineering approach to genetic characterize the evolved strain. The obtained genetic information could be useful for further optimization of the evolved strains and for providing an even more rapid approach to identify new strains, with a high GSH production, through a marked-assisted selection strategy.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/092007', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Modena and Reggio Emilia;', u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'A new law of human perception', ['Xue-Xin Wei', 'Alan A Stocker'], u'December 6, 2016.', u"Perception is a subjective experience that depends on the expectations and beliefs of an observer. Psychophysical measures provide an objective yet indirect characterization of this experience by describing the dependency between the physical properties of a stimulus and the corresponding perceptually guided behavior. Two fundamental psychophysical measures characterize an observer's perception of a stimulus: how well the observer can discriminate the stimulus from similar ones (discrimination threshold) and how strongly the observer's perceived stimulus value deviates from the true stimulus value (perceptual bias). It has long been thought that these two perceptual characteristics are independent. Here we demonstrate that discrimination threshold and perceptual bias show a surprisingly simple mathematical relation. The relation, which we derived from assumptions of optimal sensory encoding and decoding, is well supported by a wide range of reported psychophysical data including perceptual changes induced by spatial and temporal context, and attention. The large empirical support suggests that the proposed relation represents a new law of human perception. Our results imply that universal rules govern the computational processes underlying human perception.", u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091918', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Columbia University;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Expanding the language network: Domain-specific hippocampal recruitment during high-level linguistic processing', ['Idan Blank', 'Melissa C Duff', 'Sarah Brown-Schmidt', 'Evelina Fedorenko'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Language processing requires us to encode linear relations between acoustic forms and map them onto hierarchical relations between meaning units. Such relational binding of linguistic elements might recruit the hippocampus given its engagement by similar operations in other cognitive domains. Historically, hippocampal engagement in online language use has received little attention because patients with hippocampal damage are not aphasic. However, recent studies have found that these patients exhibit language impairments when the demands on flexible relational binding are high, suggesting that the hippocampus does, in fact, contribute to linguistic processing. A fundamental question is thus whether language processing engages domain-general hippocampal mechanisms that are also recruited across other cognitive processes or whether, instead, it relies on certain language-selective areas within the hippocampus. To address this question, we conducted the first systematic analysis of hippocampal engagement during comprehension in healthy adults (n=150 across three experiments) using fMRI. Specifically, we functionally localized putative "language-regions" within the hippocampus using a language comprehension task, and found that these regions (i) were selectively engaged by language but not by six non-linguistic tasks; and (ii) were coupled in their activity with the cortical language network during both "rest" and especially story comprehension, but not with the domain-general "multiple-demand (MD)" network. This functional profile did not generalize to other hippocampal regions that were localized using a non-linguistic, working memory task. These findings suggest that some hippocampal mechanisms that maintain and integrate information during language comprehension are not domain-general but rather belong to the language-specific brain network.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091900', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MIT;', u'Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical Center;', u'Department of Psychology and Human Development, Vanderbilt University;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Cross-tissue integration of genetic and epigenetic data offers insight into autism spectrum disorder', ['Shan V. Andrews', 'Shannon E. Ellis', 'Kelly M. Bakulski', 'Brooke Sheppard', 'Lisa A. Croen', 'Irva Hertz-Picciotto', 'Craig J. Newschaffer', 'Andrew P. Feinberg', 'Dan E. Arking', 'Christine Ladd-Acosta', 'M. Daniele Fallin'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Epigenetics is an emerging area of investigation for Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Integration of epigenetic information with ASD genetic results may elucidate functional insights not possible via either source of information in isolation. We used concurrent genotype and DNA methylation (DNAm) data from cord blood and peripheral blood from preschool-aged children to identify SNPs associated with DNA methylation, or methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTLs), and combined this with publicly available fetal brain and lung meQTL lists to assess enrichment of ASD GWAS results for tissue-specific meQTLs. ASD-associated SNPs were enriched for fetal brain (OR = 3.55; p < 0.001) and peripheral blood meQTLs (OR = 1.58; p < 0.001). The CpG site targets of ASD meQTLs across cord, blood, and brain tissues were enriched for immune-related pathways, consistent with other expression and DNAm results in ASD, and revealing pathways not implicated by genes identified from ASD rare variant work. Further, DNaseI hypersensitive sites and the STAT1 and TAF1 transcription factor binding sites were enriched for meQTL target CpGs of SNPs associated with psychiatric conditions. This joint analysis of genotype and DNAm demonstrates the potential utility of both brain and blood-based DNAm for insights into ASD and psychiatric phenotypes more broadly.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091330', [u'Genomics'], [u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'University of Michigan School of Public Health;', u'Kaiser Permanente Northern California;', u'University of California Davis School of Medicine;', u'Drexel University Dornsife School of Public Health']]
[u'Spatiotemporal characterization of the neural correlates of outcome valence and surprise during reward learning in humans', ['Elsa Fouragnan', 'Filippo Queirazza', 'Chris Retzler', 'Karen J Mullinger', 'Marios G Philiastides'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Reward learning depends on accurate reward associations with potential choices. Two separate outcome dimensions, namely the valence (positive or negative) and surprise (the absolute degree of deviation from expectations) of an outcome are thought to subserve adaptive decision-making and learning, however their neural correlates and relative contribution to learning remain debated. Here, we coupled single-trial analyses of electroencephalography with simultaneously acquired fMRI, while participants performed a probabilistic reversal-learning task, to offer evidence of temporally overlapping but largely distinct spatial representations of outcome valence and surprise in the human brain. Electrophysiological variability in outcome valence correlated with activity in regions of the human reward network promoting approach or avoidance learning. Variability in outcome surprise correlated primarily with activity in regions of the human attentional network controlling the speed of learning. Crucially, despite the largely separate spatial extend of these representations we also found a linear superposition of the two outcome dimensions in a smaller network encompassing visuo-mnemonic and reward areas. This spatiotemporal overlap was uniquely exposed by our EEG-informed fMRI approach. Activity in this network was further predictive of stimulus value updating indicating a comparable contribution of both signals to reward learning.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091710', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'University of Huddersfield;', u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'Critical transitions and the fragmenting of global forests', ['Leonardo A. Saravia', 'Santiago Doyle', 'Benjamin Bond-Lamberty'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Global forests provide critical habitat for many species, essential ecosystem services, and are coupled to atmospheric dynamics through exchanges of energy, water and gases. One of the most important changes produced in the biosphere is the replacement of forest areas with human dominated landscapes. These areas contain many fewer species than the natural ecosystem they replaced, and this change is one of the main drivers of extinctions in the Anthropocene. Another effect is that habitat replacement leads to fragmentation, altering the sizes of patches, the structure and function of the forest. In different kinds of vegetation, including forests, the patch size distributions follow power laws. These have been used as a signal of critical phase transitions, where the system state changes suddenly at a critical point; in the case of forest patches, this implies an abrupt change in connectivity that causes a increased fragmentation level, posing an additional risk to forest function as an habitat and ecosystem. All these patterns have been observed only at relatively small scales, however. Here we studied the distribution of forest patch sizes at a global level---wide regions of connected forest across continents and big islands---examining their changes over the last fourteen years and different signals of a critical transition. The conditions that indicate that a region is near a critical fragmentation threshold are: a patch size distribution following a power law; temporal fluctuations of the largest patch following a power law; variance of largest patch fluctuations increasing in time; and a negative skewness of the largest patch fluctuations. We found that most regions, except the Eurasian mainland, followed a power-law distribution. Only the tropical forest of Africa and South America met the five criteria and thus seemed to be near a critical fragmentation threshold. This implies that the combined influence of human pressures and climate forcings might trigger undesired effects of fragmentation, such as species loss and degradation of ecosystems services, in these regions. The simple criteria proposed here could be used as early warning to estimate the distance to a fragmentation threshold in forest around the globe, and provide a guide to direct conservation efforts at a continental level.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091751', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento;', u'Pacific Northwest National Laboratory']]
[u'Colonization and transmission of the gut microbiota of the burying beetle, Nicrophorus vespilloides, through development', ['Yin Wang', 'Daniel Rozen'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Carrion beetles in the genus Nicrophorus rear their offspring on decomposing carcasses where larvae are exposed to a diverse microbiome of decomposer bacteria. Parents coat the carcass with antimicrobial secretions prior to egg hatch (defined as Pre-Hatch care) and also feed regurgitated food, and potentially bacteria, to larvae throughout development (defined as Full care). Here we partition the roles of pre- and post-hatch parental care in the transmission and persistence of culturable symbiotic bacteria to larvae. Using three treatment groups (Full-Care, Pre-Hatch care only, and No Care), we found that larvae receiving Full-Care are predominantly colonized by bacteria resident in the maternal gut, while larvae receiving No Care are colonized exclusively with bacteria from the carcass. More importantly, larvae receiving only Pre-Hatch care were also predominantly colonized by maternal bacteria; this result indicates that parental treatment of the carcass, including application of bacteria to the carcass surface, is sufficient to ensure symbiont transfer even in the absence of direct larval feeding. Later in development, we found striking evidence that pupae undergo a aposymbiotic stage, after which they are recolonized at eclosion with bacteria shed in the moulted larval cuticle and on the wall of the pupal chamber. Our results clarify the importance of pre-hatch parental care for symbiont transmission in Nicrophorus vespilloides, and suggest that these bacteria successfully outcompete decomposer bacteria during larval and pupal gut colonization.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091702', [u'Ecology'], [u'Leiden University']]
[u'Cell Cycle Constraints and Environmental Control of Local DNA Hypomethylation in Alpha-Proteobacteria', ['Silvia Ardissone', 'Peter Redder', 'Giancarlo Russo', 'Antonio Frandi', 'Coralie Fumeaux', 'Andrea Patrignani', 'Ralph Schlapbach', 'Laurent Falquet', 'Patrick H Viollier'], u'December 6, 2016.', u"Heritable DNA methylation imprints are ubiquitous and underlie genetic variability from bacteria to humans. In microbial genomes, DNA methylation has been implicated in gene transcription, DNA replication and repair, nucleoid segregation, transposition and virulence of pathogenic strains. Despite the importance of local (hypo)methylation at specific loci, how and when these patterns are established during the cell cycle remains poorly characterized. Taking advantage of the small genomes and the synchronizability of Alpha-proteobacteria, we discovered that conserved determinants of the cell cycle transcriptional circuitry establish specific hypomethylation patterns in the cell cycle model system Caulobacter crescentus. We used genome-wide methyl-N6-adenine (m6A-) analyses by restriction-enzyme-cleavage sequencing (REC-Seq) and single-molecule real-time (SMRT) sequencing to show that MucR, a transcriptional regulator that represses virulence and cell cycle genes in S-phase but no longer in G1-phase, occludes 5'-GANTC-3' sequence motifs that are methylated by the DNA adenine methyltransferase CcrM. Constitutive expression of CcrM or heterologous methylases in at least two different Alpha-proteobacteria homogenizes m6A patterns even when MucR is present and affects promoter activity. Environmental stress (phosphate limitation) can override and reconfigure local hypomethylation patterns imposed by the cell cycle circuitry that dictate when and where local hypomethylation is instated.", u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091785', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Medicine, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland;', u'LMGM, Centre de Biologie Integrative, Universite Paul Sabatier, Toulouse, France;', u'Functional Genomics Center Zurich, ETH/University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland;', u'Biochemistry Unit, Dept. of Biology, University of Fribourg and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, F']]
[u'Evolutionary variations in the biofilm-associated protein BslA from the genus Bacillus', ['Ryan J. Morris', 'Marieke Schor', 'Rachel M.C. Gillespie', 'Ana Sofia Ferreira', 'Keith M. Bromley', 'Lucia Baldauf', 'Sofia Arnaouteli', 'Tetyana Sukhodub', 'Chris Earl', 'Nicola R. Stanley-Wall', 'Cait E. MacPhee'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'BslA is a protein secreted by Bacillus subtilis which forms a hydrophobic film that coats the biofilm surface and renders it water-repellent. We have characterised three orthologues of BslA from Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, Bacillus licheniformis and Bacillus pumilus as well as a paralogue from B. subtilis called YweA. We find that the three orthologous proteins can substitute for BslA in B. subtilis and confer a degree of protection, whereas YweA cannot. The degree to which the proteins functionally substitute for native BslA correlates with their in vitro biophysical properties. Our results demonstrate the use of naturally-evolved variants to provide a framework for teasing out\nthe molecular basis of interfacial self-assembly.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091884', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Dundee']]
[u'Validating Regulatory Predictions from Diverse Bacteria with Mutant Fitness Data', ['Shiori Sagawa', 'Morgan N Price', 'Adam M Deutschbauer', 'Adam P. Arkin'], u'December 6, 2016.', u"Although transcriptional regulation is fundamental to understanding bacterial physiology, the targets of most bacterial transcription factors are not known. Comparative genomics has been used to identify likely targets of some of these transcription factors, but these predictions typically lack experimental support. Here, we used mutant fitness data, which measures the importance of each gene for a bacterium's growth across many conditions, to validate regulatory predictions from RegPrecise, a curated collection of comparative genomics predictions. Because characterized transcription factors often have correlated fitness with one of their targets (either positively or negatively), correlated fitness patterns provide support for the comparative genomics predictions. At a false discovery rate of 3%, we identified significant cofitness for at least one target of 158 TFs in 107 ortholog groups and from 24 bacteria. Thus, high-throughput genetics can be used to identify a high-confidence subset of the sequence-based regulatory predictions.", u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091405', [u'Microbiology'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'Lawrence Berkeley Lab;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory']]
[u'The emergence, evolution, and diversification of the miR390-TAS3-ARF pathway in land plants', ['Rui Xia', 'Jing Xu', 'Blake C. Meyers'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'In plants, miR390 directs the production of tasiRNAs from TRANS-ACTING SIRNA 3 (TAS3) transcripts to regulate AUXIN RESPONSIVE FACTOR (ARF) genes, transcription factors critical for auxin signaling; these tasiRNAs are known as tasiARFs. This pathway is highly conserved, with the TAS3 as the only one noncoding gene present almost ubiquitously in land plants. To understand the evolution of this miR390-TAS3-ARF pathway, we characterized homologs of these three genes from thousands of plant species, from bryophytes to angiosperms. Both miR390 and TAS3 are present and functional in liverworts, confirming their ancestral role to regulate ARFs in land plants. We found the lower-stem region of MIR390 genes, critical for accurate DCL1 (DICER-LIKE 1) processing, is conserved in sequence in seed plants. We propose a model for the transition of functional tasiRNA sequences in TAS3 genes occurred at the emergence of vascular plants, in which the two miR390 target sites of TAS3 genes showed distinct pairing patterns in different plant lineages. Based on the cleavability of miR390 target sites and the distance between target site and tasiARF, we inferred a potential bidirectional processing mechanism exists for some TAS3 genes. We also demonstrated a tight mutual selection between tasiARF and its target genes, and characterized unusual aspects and diversity of regulatory components of this pathway. Taken together, these data illuminate the evolutionary path of the miR390-TAS3-ARF pathway in land plants, and demonstrate the significant variation that occurs in the production of phasiRNAs in plants, even in the functionally important and archetypal miR390-TAS3-ARF regulatory circuit.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/090647', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'South China Agricultural University;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center']]
[u'Experimental evolution reveals favored adaptive routes to cell aggregation in yeast', ['Elyse A. Hope', 'Clara J. Amorosi', 'Aaron W. Miller', 'Kolena Dang', 'Caiti Smukowski Heil', 'Maitreya J. Dunham'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'Yeast flocculation is a community-building cell aggregation trait that is an important mechanism of stress resistance and a useful phenotype for brewers; however, it is also a nuisance in many industrial processes, in clinical settings, and in the laboratory. Chemostat-based evolution experiments are impaired by inadvertent selection for aggregation, which we observe in 35% of populations. These populations provide a testing ground for understanding the breadth of genetic mechanisms Saccharomyces cerevisiae uses to flocculate, and which of those mechanisms provide the biggest adaptive advantages. In this study, we employed experimental evolution as a tool to ask whether one or many routes to flocculation are favored, and to engineer a strain with reduced flocculation potential. Using a combination of whole genome sequencing and bulk segregant analysis, we identified causal mutations in 23 independent clones that had evolved cell aggregation during hundreds of generations of chemostat growth. In 12 of those clones we identified a transposable element insertion in the promoter region of known flocculation gene FLO1, and in an additional five clones we recovered loss-of-function mutations in transcriptional repressor TUP1, which regulates FLO1 and other related genes. Other causal mutations were found in genes that have not been previously connected to flocculation. Evolving a flo1 deletion strain revealed that this single deletion reduces flocculation occurrences to 3%, and demonstrated the efficacy of using experimental evolution as a tool to identify and eliminate the primary adaptive routes for undesirable traits.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091876', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Washington, United States']]
[u'OpenMM 7: Rapid Development of High Performance Algorithms for Molecular Dynamics', ['Peter Eastman', 'Jason Swails', 'John D. Chodera', 'Robert T. McGibbon', 'Yutong Zhao', 'Kyle A. Beauchamp', 'Lee-Ping Wang', 'Andrew C. Simmonett', 'Matthew P. Harrigan', 'Bernard R. Brooks', 'Vijay S. Pande'], u'December 6, 2016.', u'OpenMM is a molecular dynamics simulation toolkit with a unique focus on extensibility. It allows users to easily add new features, including forces with novel functional forms, new integration algorithms, and new simulation protocols. Those features automatically work on all supported hardware types (including both CPUs and GPUs) and perform well on all of them. In many cases they require minimal coding, just a mathematical description of the desired function. They also require no modification to OpenMM itself and can be distributed independently of OpenMM. This makes it an ideal tool for researchers developing new simulation methods, and also allows those new methods to be immediately available to the larger community.', u'/content/early/2016/12/06/091801', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Rutgers University;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health']]
[u'The Aquarius/EMB-4 helicase licenses co-transcriptional gene silencing', ['Alper Akay', 'Tomas Di Domenico', 'Kin Man Suen', 'Amena Nabih', 'Guillermo Eduardo Parada', 'Mark Larance', 'Ragini Medhi', 'Ahmet Can Berkyurek', 'Christopher J. Wedeles', 'Xinlian Zhang', 'Ping Ma', 'Angus I. Lamond', 'Martin Hemberg', 'Julie M. Claycomb', 'Eric Alexander Miska'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Small RNAs (sRNAs) play an ancient role in genome defence against transposable elements. In animals, plants and fungi small RNAs guide Argonaute proteins to nascent RNA transcripts to induce co-transcriptional gene silencing. In animals the link between small RNA pathways and the transcriptional machinery remains unclear. Here we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans germline Argonaute HRDE-1 physically interacts with the conserved RNA helicase Aquarius/EMB-4. We demonstrate that the Aquarius/EMB-4 helicase activity is required to initiate small RNA-induced co-transcriptional gene silencing. HRDE-1 and Aquarius/EMB-4 are required to silence the transcription of overlapping sets of transposable elements. Surprisingly, removal of introns from a small RNA pathway target abolishes the requirement for Aquarius/EMB-4, but not HRDE-1, for gene silencing. We conclude that the Aquarius/EMB-4 helicase activity allows HRDE-1/sRNA complexes to efficiently engage nascent RNA transcripts - in competition with the general RNA processing machinery. We postulate that Aquarius/EMB-4 facilitates the surveillance of the nascent transcriptome to detect and silence transposable elements through small RNA pathways.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/089763', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Georgia;', u'Sanger Institute']]
[u'The innate immune systems of malacostracan crustaceans exhibit both conserved and evolutionarily distinct components', ['Alvina G Lai', 'Aziz Aboobaker'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Growing demands for aquatic sources of animal proteins have attracted significant investments in aquaculture research in recent years. The crustacean aquaculture industry has undergone substantial growth to accommodate a rising global demand, however such large-scale production is susceptible to pathogen-mediated destruction. It is clear that a thorough understanding of the crustacean innate immune system is imperative for future research into combating current and future pathogens of the main food crop species. Through a comparative genomics approach utilising extant data from 55 species, we describe the innate immune system of crustaceans from the Malacostraca class. We identify 7407 malacostracan genes from 39 gene families implicated in different aspects of host defence and demonstrate dynamic evolution of innate immunity components within this group. Malacostracans have achieved flexibility in recognising infectious agents through divergent evolution and expansion of pathogen recognition receptors genes. Antiviral RNAi, Toll and JAK-STAT signal transduction pathways have remained conserved within Malacostraca, although the Imd pathway appears to lack several key components. Immune effectors such as the antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) have unique evolutionary profiles, with many malacostracan AMPs not found in other arthropod groups. Lastly, we describe four putative novel immune gene families, characterised by distinct protein domains, potentially representing important evolutionary novelties of the malacostracan immune system.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091835', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Specific expression and function of the Six3 optix in serially homologous organs', ['Amer Al-Khatib', 'Natalia Siomava', 'Nico Posnien', 'Fernando Casares'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Organ size and pattern results from the integration of two positional information systems. One global, encoded by the Hox genes, links organ type with position along the main body axis. Within specific organs, local information is conveyed by signaling molecules that regulate organ growth and pattern. The mesothoracic (T2) wing and the metathoracic (T3) haltere of Drosophila represent a paradigmatic example of this coordination. The Hox gene Ultrabithorax (Ubx), expressed in the developing T3, selects haltere identity by, among other processes, modulating the production and signaling efficiency of Dpp, a BMP2-like molecule that acts as a major regulator of size and pattern. Still, the mechanisms of the Hox-signal integration even in this well-studied system, are incomplete. Here we have investigated this issue by studying the expression and function of the Six3 transcription factor optix during the development of the Drosophila wing and haltere development. We find that in both organs Dpp defines the expression domain of optix through repression, and that the specific position of this domain in wing and haltere seems to reflect the differential signaling profile among these organs. We show that optix expression in wing and haltere primordia is conserved beyond Drosophila in other higher diptera. Despite the similar expression pattern, optix plays different roles in wing and haltere. In the wing, optix is required for the growth of the most anterior/proximal region (the marginal cell) and for the correct formation of sensory structures along the proximal anterior wing margin. In contrast, in the haltere optix is necessary for the suppression of sensory bristles without any noticeable effect on organ growth. Therefore, optix shows an organ-specific function. Beyond dipterans, optix expression in the anterior wing has been shown also in butterflies. We propose that the ancestral role of optix might have been structural in the anterior wing. Once expressed in the wing, optix expression had been re-deployed for wing spot formation in other parts of the wing of Heliconius butterflies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091793', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'CABD (Andalusian Centre for Developmental Biology), CSIC-UPO-JA. Campus UPO,  41013 Seville, SPAIN;', u'Georg-August-University Goettingen, 37077 Goettingen, GERMANY']]
[u"Cushing's Syndrome mutant PKAL205R exhibits altered substrate specificity", ['Joshua M Lubner', 'Kimberly L Dodge-Kafka', 'Cathrine R Carlson', 'George M Church', 'Michael F Chou', 'Daniel Schwartz'], u'December 5, 2016.', u"The PKAL205R hotspot mutation has been implicated in Cushing's Syndrome through hyperactive gain-of-function PKA signaling, however its influence on substrate specificity has not been investigated. Here, we employ the Proteomic Peptide Library (ProPeL) approach to create high-resolution models for PKAWT and PKAL205R substrate specificity. We reveal that the L205R mutation reduces canonical hydrophobic preference at the substrate P+1 position, and increases acidic preference in downstream positions. Using these models, we designed peptide substrates that exhibit altered selectivity for specific PKA variants, and demonstrate the feasibility of selective PKAL205R loss-of-function signaling. Through these results, we suggest that substrate rewiring may contribute to Cushing's Syndrome disease etiology, and introduce a powerful new paradigm for investigating mutation-induced kinase substrate rewiring in human disease.", u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091231', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Connecticut;', u'University of Connecticut Health Center;', u'University of Oslo;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Effect of obesity-linked FTO rs9939609 variant on physical activity and dietary patterns in physically active men and women', ['Nathan R West', 'James Dorling', 'Alice E Thackray', 'Samantha E Decombel', 'David J Stensel', 'Stuart J Grice'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Objective: To examine physical activity and dietary patterns in physically active individuals expressing different risk variants of the fat mass and obesity-associated gene (FTO) rs9939609 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP).\n\nMethods: A total of 528 white men and women (mean(SD): 34.9(9.5) years, 26.6(4.3) kg\xb7m-2) were genotyped for FTO rs9939609 SNP. Sex, age and anthropometric measurements (stature, body mass, waist circumference) were self-reported using an online questionnaire, and body mass index and waist-to-height ratio were calculated. Physical activity level and eating behaviour were assessed using the International Physical Activity Questionnaire and Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire (TFEQ), respectively. \n\nResults: Body mass, body mass index, waist circumference and waist-to-height ratio were not significantly different between individuals expressing different FTO rs9939609 risk variants (all P\u22650.66). The cohort was physically active (4516(3043) total MET min\xb7week-1), although risk allele carriers (AT/AA) reported higher total physical activity (effect size = 0.22, P=0.03), and homozygous risk allele carriers (AA) displayed higher TFEQ cognitive restraint (effect size = 0.33, P=0.03) compared with non-risk allele carriers (TT). \n\nConclusions: Obesity-related parameters were not different in physically active individuals expressing different risk variants of FTO rs9939609, but higher physical activity and cognitive restraint in risk allele carriers may reduce genetic predisposition to weight gain.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091728', [u'Genetics'], [u'FitnessGenes;', u'Loughborough University;', u'Univerity of Oxford']]
[u'Discovery of an autoimmunity-associated IL2RA enhancer by unbiased targeting of transcriptional activation', ['Dimitre R Simeonov', 'Benjamin G Gowen', 'Mandy Boontanrart', 'Theo Roth', 'Youjin Lee', 'Alice Chan', 'Michelle L Nguyen', 'Rachel E Gate', 'Meena Subramaniam', 'Jonathan M Woo', 'Therese Mitros', 'Graham J Ray', 'Nicolas L Bray', 'Gemma L Curie', 'Nicki Naddaf', 'Eric Boyer', 'Frederic Van Gool', 'Kathrin Schumann', 'Mark J Daly', 'Kyle K Fahr', 'Chun Ye', 'Jeffrey A Bluestone', 'Mark S Anderson', 'Jacob E Corn', 'Alexander Marson'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'The majority of genetic variants associated with common human diseases map to enhancers, non-coding elements that shape cell type-specific transcriptional programs and responses to specific extracellular cues1-3. In order to understand the mechanisms by which non-coding genetic variation contributes to disease, systematic mapping of functional enhancers and their biological contexts is required. Here, we develop an unbiased discovery platform that can identify enhancers for a target gene without prior knowledge of their native functional context. We used tiled CRISPR activation (CRISPRa) to synthetically recruit transcription factors to sites across large genomic regions (>100 kilobases) surrounding two key autoimmunity risk loci, CD69 and IL2RA (interleukin-2 receptor alpha; CD25). We identified several CRISPRa responsive elements (CaREs) with stimulation-dependent enhancer activity, including an IL2RA enhancer that harbors an autoimmunity risk variant. Using engineered mouse models and genome editing of human primary T cells, we found that sequence perturbation of the disease-associated IL2RA enhancer does not block IL2RA expression, but rather delays the timing of gene activation in response to specific extracellular signals. This work develops an approach to rapidly identify functional enhancers within non-coding regions, decodes a key human autoimmunity association, and suggests a general mechanism by which genetic variation can cause immune dysfunction.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091843', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Broad Institute of MIT;', u'Illumina Inc.']]
[u'Reprogramming protein kinase substrate specificity through synthetic mutations', ['Joshua M Lubner', 'George M Church', 'Michael F Chou', 'Daniel Schwartz'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Protein kinase specificity is largely imparted through substrate binding pocket motifs.  Missense mutations in these regions are frequently associated with human disease, and in some cases can alter substrate specificity.  However, current efforts at decoding the influence of mutations on substrate specificity have been focused on disease-associated mutations. Here, we adapted the Proteomic Peptide Library (ProPeL) approach for determining kinase specificity to the task of exploring structure function relationships in kinase specificity by interrogating the effects of synthetic mutation.  We established a specificity model for the wild-type DYRK1A kinase with unprecedented resolution.  Using existing crystallographic and sequence homology data, we rationally designed mutations that precisely reprogrammed the DYRK1A kinase at the P+1 position to mimic the substrate preferences of a related kinase, CK II. This study illustrates a new synthetic biological approach to reprogram kinase specificity by design, and a powerful new paradigm to investigate structure-function relationships underpinning kinase substrate specificity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091892', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Connecticut;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'The dynamic three-dimensional organization of the diploid yeast genome', ['Seungsoo Kim', 'Ivan Liachko', 'Donna G. Brickner', 'Kate Cook', 'William S. Noble', 'Jason H Brickner', 'Jay Shendure', 'Maitreya Dunham'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a long-standing model for the three-dimensional organization of eukaryotic genomes. Even in this well-studied model, it is unclear how homolog pairing in diploids and environment-induced gene relocalization influence overall genome organization. Here, we performed high-throughput chromosome conformation capture on diverged Saccharomyces hybrid diploids to obtain the first global view of chromosome conformation in diploid yeasts. After controlling for the Rabl-like orientation, we observe significant homolog proximity that increased in saturated culture conditions. Surprisingly, we observe a localized increase in homologous interactions between the HAS1 alleles specifically under galactose induction and saturated growth, mediated by association with nuclear pore complexes at the nuclear periphery. Together, these results reveal that the diploid yeast genome has a dynamic and complex 3D organization.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091827', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Revealing compartmentalised membrane diffusion in living cells with interferometric scattering microscopy', ['Gabi de Wit', 'David Albrecht', 'Helge Ewers', 'Philipp Kukura'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Single-particle tracking is a powerful tool for studying single molecule behaviour involving plasma membrane-associated events in cells. Here, we show that interferometric scattering microscopy (iSCAT) combined with gold nanoparticle labeling can be used to follow the motion of membrane proteins in the plasma membrane of live cultured mammalian cell lines and hippocampal neurons. The unique combination of microsecond temporal resolution and nanometer spatial precision reveals signatures of a compartmentalised plasma membrane in neurons.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091736', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University College London;', u'Freie University Berlin']]
[u'Splice Expression Variation Analysis (SEVA) for Differential Gene Isoform Usage in Cancer', ['Bahman Afsari', 'Theresa Guo', 'Michael Considine', 'Liliana Florea', 'Dylan Kelly', 'Emily Flam', 'Patrick Ha', 'Donald Geman', 'Michael F Ochs', 'Joseph A Califano', 'Daria A Gaykalova', 'Alexander V Favorov', 'Elana J Fertig'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Current differential splice variant analysis algorithms do not account for heterogeneous gene isoform usage in tumors. We introduce Splice Expression Variability Analysis (SEVA) to detect differential splice variation usage in tumor and normal samples, accounting for tumor heterogeneity. SEVA compares the degree of variability of junction expression within a population of normal samples relative to that in tumor samples. SEVA is robust and computationally efficient relative to EBSeq and DiffSplice in simulated data. SEVA identified differential gene isoform usage robust in cross-study validation in head and neck tumors. Therefore, SEVA can identify alternative gene isoform usage in heterogeneous tumor samples.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091637', [u'Genomics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of California San Francisco;', u'The College of New Jersey;', u'University of California San Diego;', u'Johns Hopkins Uniersity']]
[u'MtrA is an essential regulator that coordinates antibiotic production and development in Streptomyces species', ['Nicolle F Som', 'Daniel Heine', 'John T Munnoch', 'Neil A Holmes', 'Felicity Knowles', 'Govind Chandra', 'Ryan F Seipke', 'Paul A Hoskisson', 'Barrie Wilkinson Wilkinson', 'Matthew I Hutchings'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Streptomyces bacteria make numerous secondary metabolites, including half of all known antibiotics. Production is coordinated with their complex life cycles but the regulators that coordinate development with antibiotic biosynthesis are largely unknown. This is important to understand because most Streptomyces secondary metabolites are not produced under laboratory conditions and unlocking the cryptic biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) is a major focus for antibiotic discovery. Here we characterise the highly conserved actinobacterial response regulator MtrA in Streptomyces species. MtrA is essential and regulates cell cycle progression in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. We show that MtrA is also essential in Streptomyces venezuelae where it controls genes required for DNA replication and cell division. MtrA also directly regulates the expression of genes in >70% of its BGCs and artificially activating MtrA switches on the production of antibiotics in S. coelicolor and S. venezuelae. We propose that MtrA coordinates antibiotic production and development in Streptomyces species.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/090399', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of East Anglia;', u'John Innes Centre;', u'University of Leeds;', u'University of Strathclyde']]
[u'Adaptive evolution by spontaneous domain fusion and protein relocalisation', ['Andrew D Farr', 'Paul B Rainey'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Knowledge of adaptive processes encompasses understanding of the emergence of new genes. Computational analyses of genomes suggest that new genes can arise by domain swapping, however, empirical evidence has been lacking.  Here we describe a set of nine independent deletion mutations that arose during the course of selection experiments with the bacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens in which the membrane-spanning domain of a fatty acid desaturase became translationally fused to a cytosolic di-guanylate cyclase (DGC) generating an adaptive phenotype.  Detailed genetic analysis of one chimeric fusion protein showed that the DGC domain had become membrane-localised resulting in a new biological function.  The relative ease by which this new gene arose along with its profound functional and regulatory effects provides a glimpse of mutational events and their consequences that are likely to play a significant role in the evolution of new genes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091744', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Wageningen UR;', u'ESPCI (ParisTech)']]
[u'Similar evolutionary trajectories for retrotransposon accumulation in mammals', ['Reuben M Buckley', 'R Daniel Kortschak', 'Joy M Raison', 'David L Adelson'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'The factors guiding retrotransposon insertion site preference are not well understood. Differ- ent types of retrotransposons share common replication machinery and yet occupy distinct genomic domains. Autonomous long interspersed elements accumulate in gene-poor domains and their non-autonomous short interspersed elements accumulate in gene-rich domains. To determine genomic factors that contribute to this discrepancy we analysed the distribution of retrotransposons within the framework of chromosomal domains and regulatory elements. Using comparative genomics, we identified large-scale conserved patterns of retrotransposon accumulation across several mammalian genomes. Importantly, retrotransposons that were active after our sample-species diverged accumulated in orthologous regions. This suggested a conserved interaction between retrotransposon activity and conserved genome architecture. In addition, we found that retrotransposons accumulated at regulatory element boundaries in open chromatin, where accumulation of particular retrotransposon types depended on insertion size and local regulatory element density. From our results, we propose a model where density and distribution of genes and regulatory elements canalise the accumulation of retrotransposons. Through conservation of synteny, gene regulation and nuclear organisation, we have found that mammalian genomes follow similar evolutionary trajectories.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091652', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The University of Adelaide']]
[u"Geographical restructuring of Arabidopsis thaliana's genetic makeup in the Iberian Peninsula due to climate change based on genetic cluster membership", ['Arnald Marcer', 'Marie-Josee Fortin', 'F. Xavier Pico'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'ABSTRACT\nAim:\nTo assess the effects of climate change on genetic lineages of Arabidopsis thaliana at the admixed population level by directly modelling genetic cluster membership values to predict potential genetic cluster memberships across the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nLocation:\nIberian Peninsula\n\nMethods:\nWe used a dataset of 274 accessions structured in four genetic clusters as inferred from 250 nuclear single-nucleotide polymorphisms with Bayesian clustering methods. We predicted the change in percentages of genetic cluster membership at a population level and the changes in potential suitability across the study area by combining parametric (Beta regression) and non-parametric (Recursive trees) methods.\n\nResults:\nClimate change will affect genetic lineages of Arabidopsis thaliana differently. Genetic clusters GC1 and GC2 will suffer a substantive reduction of their respective suitable areas while GC3 and GC4 will expand northward. At the population level, except for GC4, the rest of the lineages will undergo a genetic turnover for many of their populations.\n\nMain conclusions:\nA. thaliana in the Iberian Peninsula will undergo a major internal genetic restructuring and range change due to climate change. Genetic lineages of Arabidopsis thaliana in the Iberian Peninsula will be affected differently which reinforce the need for taking into account intraspecific genetic variation when modelling species distribution. Despite limited predictive power of individual statistical models, the combination of distinct models can compensate this shortcoming.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091686', [u'Ecology'], [u'CREAF, Universitat Aut\xf2noma de Barcelona;', u'Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto;', u'Dpto. de Ecolog\xeda Integrativa, Estacion Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana (EBD-CSIC)']]
[u'Impact of regulatory variation across human iPSCs and differentiated cells', ['Nicholas E Banovich', 'Yang I Li', 'Anil Raj', 'Michelle C Ward', 'Peyton Greenside', 'Diego Calderon', 'Po Yuan Tung', 'Jonathan E Burnett', 'Marsha Myrthil', 'Samantha M Thomas', 'Courtney K Burrows', 'Irene Gallego Romero', 'Bryan J Pavlovic', 'Anshul Kundaje', 'Jonathan K Pritchard', 'Yoav Gilad'], u'December 5, 2016.', u'Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) are an essential tool for studying cellular differentiation and cell types that are otherwise difficult to access. We investigated the use of iPSCs and iPSC-derived cells to study the impact of genetic variation across different cell types and as models for studies of complex disease. We established a panel of iPSCs from 58 well- studied Yoruba lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs); 14 of these lines were further differentiated into cardiomyocytes. We characterized regulatory variation across individuals and cell types by measuring gene expression, chromatin accessibility and DNA methylation. Regulatory variation between individuals is lower in iPSCs than in the differentiated cell types, consistent with the intuition that developmental processes are generally canalized. While most cell type-specific regulatory quantitative trait loci (QTLs) lie in chromatin that is open only in the affected cell types, we found that 20% of cell type-specific QTLs are in shared open chromatin. Finally, we developed a deep neural network to predict open chromatin regions from DNA sequence alone and were able to use the sequences of segregating haplotypes to predict the effects of common SNPs on cell type-specific chromatin accessibility.', u'/content/early/2016/12/05/091660', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'Stanford University']]
