[u'Aggregation tendencies of a female Vaejovis carolinianus population of France Mountain, Tennessee', ['Bob Baggett', 'Hannah E Ritter', 'Margaret E Melendez'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'France Mountain is located within Overton County which is part of the Upper Cumberland region of Middle Tennessee contains only one species of scorpion, also the only species native to the state, Vaejovis carolinianus.  This species is poorly researched, and little is known about its life history and ecology.  The objectives of this study were to determine if female V. carolinianus prefer to form aggregations under large cover objects or seek out retreat sites where they would be the sole occupant. Based on past research, we hypothesized that females would form aggregations under large cover objects instead of being the sole occupant. A total of 32 scorpions were captured during August and September 2014. During laboratory trials, three scorpions were placed in a plywood tray containing sand substrate and three equally-sized large ceramic tiles. The scorpions were left undisturbed for a 24-hour period, after which the tiles were lifted to check for aggregations.  Each group of three scorpions was in the research tray for three consecutive days. Four rounds of aggregation trials were conducted, and t-tests as well as linear regression were used to analyze the data collected. The results of the t-test showed that female V. carolinianus, when given a choice of similarly-sized large cover objects, would select a retreat site where they were the sole occupant; therefore, our initial hypothesis was rejected. Linear regression found relative humidity affected aggregation occurrence, for the largest number of aggregations occurred when the relative humidity was between 67 and 73%.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058362', [], [u'Biological Sciences;', u'Tennessee Technological University;', u'Middle Tennessee State University']]
[u'Retreat Site Selection in Vaejovis carolinianus Populations of Tennessees Upper Cumberland Region', ['Bob A Baggett'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'My study examined Tennessees only native scorpion species, Vaejovis carolinianus.  Little is known about its ecology, so the objectives of my study were to determine if: (1) V. carolinianus selected cover objects based on surface area; (2) V. carolinianus preferred moister soils under the cover object; and (3) length of time in captivity altered the preferences.  Scorpions were captured from two different locations: (1) a roadcut parallel to State Highway 96 near Edgar Evins State Park; (2) France Mountain in Overton County.  In laboratory trials, scorpions were allowed to choose among three retreat sites and three soil moisture levels.  Transects were established at both field locations to count and measure rocks that may serve as retreat sites.  Surface area trials indicated that V. carolinianus selected large objects as retreat sites most often, but overall retreat site selection did not differ from that expected based on random choice weighted by cover object size.  Soil moisture trial results varied, with no statistical significance in the results from the Highway 96 and 2013 France Mountain populations.  The 2014 France Mountain population did show statistically significant differences.  The surface area trials did not exhibit a time in captivity effect, but the soil moisture trials indicated a time in captivity effect between the 2013 and 2014 France Mountain populations.  Based on test results, it appears V. carolinianus selected larger rocks as cover sites, perhaps due to chance or perhaps to escape sunlight and heat, for predator avoidance, or for higher soil moisture levels.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058354', [], [u'Tennessee Technological University']]
[u'Genome resources for climate-resilient cowpea, an essential crop for food security', ['Maria Munoz-Amatriain', 'Hamid Mirebrahim', 'Pei Xu', 'Steve I Wanamaker', 'MingCheng Luo', 'Hind Alhakami', 'Matthew Alpert', 'Ibrahim Atokple', 'Benoit Joseph Batieno', 'Ousmane Boukar', 'Serdar Bozdag', 'Ndiaga Cisse', 'Issa Drabo', 'Jeffrey D Ehlers', 'Andrew Farmer', 'Christian Fatokun', 'Yong Q Gu', 'Yi-Ning Guo', 'Bao-Lam Huynh', 'Scott A Jackson', 'Francis Kusi', 'Cynthia T Lawley', 'Mitchell R Lucas', 'Yaqin Ma', 'Michael P Timko', 'Jiajie Wu', 'Frank You', 'Philip A Roberts', 'Stefano Lonardi', 'Timothy J Close'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Cowpea (Vigna unguiculata L. Walp.) is a legume crop that is resilient to hot and drought-prone climates, and a primary source of protein in sub-Saharan Africa and other parts of the developing world. However, genome resources for cowpea have lagged behind most other major crop plants. Here we describe foundational genome resources and their application to analysis of germplasm currently in use in West African breeding programs. Resources developed from the African cultivar IT97K-499-35 include bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) libraries and a BAC-based physical map, assembled sequences from 4,355 BACs, as well as a whole-genome shotgun (WGS) assembly. These resources and WGS sequences of an additional 36 diverse cowpea accessions supported the development of a genotyping assay for over 50,000 SNPs, which was then applied to five biparental RIL populations to produce a consensus genetic map containing 37,372 SNPs. This genetic map enabled the anchoring of 100 Mb of WGS and 420 Mb of BAC sequences, an exploration of genetic diversity along each linkage group, and clarification of macrosynteny between cowpea and common bean. The genomes of West African breeding lines and landraces have regions of marked depletion of diversity, some of which coincide with QTL that may be the result of artificial selection or environmental adaptation. The new publicly available resources and knowledge help to define goals and accelerate the breeding of improved varieties to address food security issues related to limited-input small-holder farming and climate stress.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059261', [], [u'University of California Riverside;', u'Zhejiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences;', u'University of California Davis;', u'Savanna Agricultural Research Institute;', u"Institut de l'Environnement et de Recherches Agricoles;", u'International Institute of Tropical Agriculture;', u'Marquette University;', u'Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles;', u'The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation;', u'National Center for Genome Resources;', u'USDA-ARS Western Regional Research Center;', u'University of Georgia;', u'Illumina, Inc.;', u'University of Virginia;', u'Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada']]
[u'Probing cytoplasmic viscosity in the confined geometry of tip-growing plant cells via FRAP', ['James L Kingsley', 'Jeffrey P Bibeau', 'Zhilu Chen', 'Xinming Huang', 'Luis Vidali', 'Erkan Tuzel'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Understanding plant growth and development is essential to develop the future technologies necessary to meet the anticipated needs of a growing world population. Because plant growth is a manifestation of cellular growth, it is of prime importance to develop a mechanistic understanding of plant cell growth. Transport of cellular cargo, such as proteins, in growing plant cells is essential as it facilitates growth. Developing a quantitative model of growth requires knowledge of the surrounding medium, i.e. the cytoplasm and its inherent properties. Here, we performed Fluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching (FRAP) in tip-growing Physcomitrella patens cells, to determine the diffusion coefficient of 3xmEGFP, and calculate an effective cytoplasmic viscosity. In order to interpret the experimental measurements correctly and accurately estimate the diffusion coefficient, we developed a three-dimensional comprehen- sive computational model of the FRAP process, including particle diffusion, the cell boundary effects, and the optical properties of the scanning confocal microscope. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time such an estimate of the viscosity for particles at this length scale is reported for a plant cell. Our model allows us to determine the degree at which cell boundary and optical effects confound the interpretation of FRAP recovery curves, the bound fraction of fluorescent proteins, and the number of dynamic states of a given fluorescent protein. The presented FRAP model has a wide range of appli- cability across many cell types including plant, animal, and fungal cells, particularly in the presence of otherwise prohibitive geometries.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059220', [], [u'Worcester Polytechnic Institute']]
[u'The Evolutionary Trade-off between Stem Cell Niche Size, Aging, and Tumorigenesis', ['Vincent L. Cannataro', 'Scott A. McKinley', 'Colette M. St. Mary'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Many epithelial tissues within large multicellular organisms are continually replenished by small independent populations of stem cells. These stem cells divide within their niches and differentiate into the constituent cell types of the tissue, and are largely responsible for maintaining tissue homeostasis. Mutations can accumulate in stem cell niches and change the rate of stem cell division and differentiation, contributing to both aging and tumorigenesis. Here, we create a mathematical model of the intestinal stem cell niche, crypt system, and epithelium. We calculate the expected effect of fixed mutations in stem cell niches and their expected effect on tissue homeostasis throughout the intestinal epithelium over the lifetime of an organism. We find that, due to the small population size of stem cell niches, fixed mutations are expected to accumulate via genetic drift and decrease stem cell fitness, leading to niche and tissue attrition, and contributing to organismal aging. We also explore mutation accumulation at various stem cell niche sizes, and demonstrate that an evolutionary trade-off exists between niche size, tissue aging, and the risk of tumorigenesis; where niches exist at a size that minimizes the probability of tumorigenesis, at the expense of accumulating deleterious mutations due to genetic drift. Finally, we show that the probability of tumorigenesis and the extent of aging trade-off differently depending on whether mutational effects confer a selective advantage, or not, in the stem cell niche.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059279', [], [u'Yale University;', u'Tulane University;', u'University of Florida']]
[u'Navigating the phenotype frontier: The Monarch Initiative', ['Julie McMurry', 'Sebastian Kohler', 'James Balhoff', 'Charles Borromeo', 'Matthew Brush', 'Seth Carbon', 'Tom Conlin', 'Nathan Dunn', 'Mark Engelstad', 'Erin Foster', 'Jean-Philippe Gourdine', 'Julius Jacobsen', 'Daniel Keith', 'Bryan Laraway', 'Suzanna Lewis', 'Jeremy Nguyen Xuan', 'Kent Shefchek', 'Nicole Vasilevsky', 'Zhou Yuan', 'Nicole Washington', 'Harry Hochheiser', 'Christopher Mungall', 'Tudor Groza', 'Damian Smedley', 'Peter Robinson', 'Melissa Haendel'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'The principles of genetics apply across the entire tree of life. At the cellular level we share biological mechanisms with species from which we diverged millions, even billions of years ago. We can exploit this common ancestry to learn about health and disease, by analyzing DNA and protein sequences, but also through the observable outcomes of genetic differences, i.e. phenotypes.\n\nTo solve challenging disease problems we need to unify the heterogeneous data that relates genomics to disease traits. Without a big-picture view of phenotypic data, many questions in genetics are difficult or impossible to answer. The Monarch Initiative (https://monarchinitiative.org) provides tools for genotype-phenotype analysis, genomic diagnostics, and precision medicine across broad areas of disease. These tools depend on the data integrated through computable phenotypes for cross species comparisons.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059204', [], [u'Dept of Medical Informatics, Epidemiology, Library, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland USA;', u'Institute for Medical Genetics and Human Genetics, Charite-Universitatsmedizin, Berlin, Germany;', u'RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA;', u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA;', u'Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SA, UK;', u'Kinghorn Centre for Clinical Genomics, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Darlinghurst, Australia;', u'William Harvey Research Institute, Barts & London School of Medicine, Queen Mary University, UK']]
[u'A natural encoding of genetic variation in a Burrows-Wheeler Transform to enable mapping and genome inference', ['Sorina Maciuca', 'Carlos del Ojo Elias', 'Gil McVean', 'Zamin Iqbal'], u'June 15, 2016.', u"We show how positional markers can be used to encode genetic variation within a Burrows-Wheeler Transform (BWT), and use this to construct a generalisation of the traditional 'reference genome', incorporating known variation within a species. Our goal is to support the inference of the closest mosaic of previously known sequences to the genome(s) under analysis.\nOur scheme results in an increased alphabet size, and by using a wavelet tree encoding of the BWT we reduce the performance impact on rank operations. We give a specialised form of the backward search that allows variation-aware exact matching. We implement this, and demonstrate the cost of constructing an index of the whole human genome with 8 million genetic variants is 25GB of RAM. We also show that inferring a closer reference can close large kilobase-scale coverage gaps in P. falciparum.", u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059170', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Adapterama I: Universal stubs and primers for thousands of dual-indexed Illumina libraries (iTru & iNext)', ['Travis C. Glenn', 'Roger Nilsen', 'Troy J. Kieran', 'John W. Finger', 'Todd W. Pierson', 'Kerin E. Bentley', 'Sandra Hoffberg', 'Swarnali Louha', 'Francisco J. Garcia-De-Leon', 'Miguel Angel del Rio Portilla', 'Kurt Reed', 'Jennifer L. Anderson', 'Jennifer K. Meece', 'Sammy Aggery', 'Romdhane Rekaya', 'Magdy Alabady', 'Myriam Belanger', 'Kevin Winker', 'Brant C. Faircloth'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Next-generation DNA sequencing (NGS) offers many benefits, but major factors limiting NGS include reducing the time and costs associated with: 1) start-up (i.e., doing NGS for the first time), 2) buy-in (i.e., getting any data from a run), and 3) sample preparation.  Although many researchers have focused on reducing sample preparation costs, few have addressed the first two problems.  Here, we present iTru and iNext, dual-indexing systems for Illumina libraries that help address all three of these issues.  By breaking the library construction process into re-usable, combinatorial components, we achieve low start-up, buy-in, and per-sample costs, while simultaneously increasing the number of samples that can be combined within a single run.  We accomplish this by extending the Illumina TruSeq dual-indexing approach from 20 (8+12) indexed adapters that produce 96 (8x12) unique combinations to 579 (192+387) indexed primers that produce 74,304 (192x387) unique combinations.  We synthesized 208 of these indexed primers for validation, and 206 of them passed our validation criteria (99% success).  We also used the indexed primers to create hundreds of libraries in a variety of scenarios.  Our approach reduces start-up and per-sample costs by requiring only one universal adapter which works with indexed PCR primers to uniquely identify samples.  Our approach reduces buy-in costs because: 1) relatively few oligonucleotides are needed to produce a large number of indexed libraries; and 2) the large number of possible primers allows researchers to use unique primer sets for different projects, which facilitates pooling of samples during sequencing.  Although the methods we present are highly customizable, resulting libraries can be used with the standard Illumina sequencing primers and demultiplexed with the standard Illumina software packages, thereby minimizing instrument and software customization headaches.  In subsequent Adapterama papers, we use these same iTru primers with different adapter stubs to construct double- to quadruple-indexed amplicon libraries and double-digest restriction-site associated DNA (RAD) libraries.  For additional details and updates, please see http://baddna.org.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/049114', [], [u'Dept. of Environmental Health Science, University of Georgia;', u'Georgia Genomics Facility, University of Georgia;', u'Dept. Environmental Health Science, University of Georgia;', u'Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee;', u'Dept. of Genetics, University of Georgia;', u'Institute of Bioinformatics, University of Georgia;', u'Centro de Investigaciones Biologicas del Noroeste, Instituto Politecnico Nacional;', u'Departamento de Acuicultura, Carretera Ensenada-Tijuana;', u'Dept. of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Wisconsin;', u'Integrated Research and Development Laboratory, Marshfield Clinic Research Foundation;', u'Dept. of Poultry Science, University of Georgia;', u'Dept. of Animal Science, University of Georgia;', u'University of Alaska Museum;', u'Department of Biological Sciences and Museum of Natural Science, Louisiana State University']]
[u'3D-Printed Autonomous Capillaric Circuits', ['Ayokunle O Olanrewaju', 'Alessandra Robillard', 'Milad Dagher', 'David Juncker'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Capillaric circuits (CCs) are advanced capillary microfluidic devices that move liquids in complex pre-programmed sequences without external pumps and valves - relying instead on microfluidic control elements powered by capillary forces. CCs were thought to require high-precision micro-scale features manufactured by photolithography in a cleanroom, which is slow and expensive. Here we present rapidly and inexpensively 3D-printed autonomous CCs. Molds for CCs were fabricated with a benchtop 3D-printer, Poly(dimethylsiloxane) replicas were made, and fluidic functionality was verified with aqueous solutions. We established design rules for 3D-printed CCs by a combination of modelling and experimentation. The functionality and reliability of 3D-printed trigger valves - an essential fluidic element that stops one liquid until flow is triggered by a second liquid - was tested for different geometries and different solutions. Trigger valves with geometries up to 80-fold larger than cleanroom-fabricated ones were found to function reliably. We designed 3D-printed retention burst valves that encode sequential liquid drainage and delivery using capillary pressure differences encoded by varying valve height and width. Using an electrical circuit analogue of the CC, we established circuit design rules for ensuring strictly sequential liquid delivery. We realized a 3D- printed CC with reservoir volumes 60 times larger than cleanroom-fabricated circuits and autonomously delivered eight liquids in a pre-determined sequence in < 7 min, exceeding the number of sequentially-encoded, self-regulated fluidic delivery events previously reported. Taken together, our results demonstrate that 3D-printing enables rapid prototyping of reliable CCs with improved functionality and potential applications in diagnostics, research and education.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059238', [], [u'McGill University']]
[u"A formula to estimate a researcher's impact by prioritizing highly cited publications", ['Aleksey V Belikov', 'Vitaly V Belikov'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Here we suggest a new index to estimate the scientific impact of an individual researcher, namely the S-index. This index has been designed to emphasize highly cited, truly important works and to be minimally affected by poorly cited ones, without setting any arbitrary threshold. The first property makes it advantageous over the h-index, which does not discriminate between highly and moderately cited articles, while the second property - over the total number of citations, preventing the possibility of overclocking an index by publishing many trivial articles. Contrary to the h-index, which has an upper limit of the total number of publications regardless of their citation numbers, the S-index is not limited by the publication count. This allows scientists having few but very influential works to receive appropriate and respectable index values, which is impossible with the h-index. Moreover, only 10 most cited publications of an individual are typically required to calculate an S-index to 99% accuracy. Collectively, the S-index is principally different from the existing scientometric indicators and should facilitate better recognition of prominent researchers.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058990.1', [], [u'Independent researcher;', u'Russian Academy of Sciences, Water Problems Institute, Gubkin st. 3, 119333 Moscow, Russia']]
[u'Ecological Representations', ['Sabrina Golonka', 'Andrew D Wilson'], u'June 15, 2016.', u"Cognitive science has three main motivations for assuming that cognition requires representation. These are the need for intentional (meaningful) access to the world, poverty of perceptual access to that world, and the need to support 'higher-order' cognition (e.g. thinking about things in their absence). All representational systems must also address two major problems (symbol grounding and the need for system-detectable error). Mental representations attempt to address the three motivations but stumble over the two problems. Here we argue that James J Gibson's ecological information fits the basic definition of a representation, solves both problems and immediately addresses the first two motivations. We then develop an argument (begun in Golonka, 2015) that informational representations and the resulting neural representations can also support 'higher-order' cognition.", u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058925', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Leeds Beckett University']]
[u'Programmed cell death can increase the efficacy of microbial bet-hedging', ['Eric Libby', 'William W. Driscoll', 'William C. Ratcliff'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Programmed cell death (PCD) occurs in both unicellular and multicellular organisms. While PCD plays a key role in the development and maintenance of multicellular organisms, explaining why single-celled organisms would evolve to actively commit suicide has been far more challenging. Here, we explore the potential for PCD to act as an accessory to microbial bet-hedging strategies that utilize stochastic phenotype switching. We consider organisms that face unpredictable and recurring disasters, in which fitness depends on effective phenotypic diversification. We show that when reproductive opportunities are limited by carrying capacity, PCD drives population turnover, providing increased opportunities for phenotypic diversification through stochastic phenotype switching. The main cost of PCD, providing resources for growth to a PCD(-) competitor, is ameliorated by genetic assortment driven by population spatial structure. Using three dimensional agent based simulations, we explore how basic demographic factors, namely cell death and clonal reproduction, can create populations with sufficient spatial structure to favor the evolution of high PCD rates.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059071', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Santa Fe Institute;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'RNase reverses segment sequence in the anterior of a beetle egg (Callosobruchus maculatus, Coleoptera)', ['Jitse Michiel van der Meer'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'In the pea beetle egg (Callosobruchus maculatus), segment sequence can be reversed in the posterior half of the egg by temporary constriction in the anterior half (van der Meer 1984). This replaces anterior segments with posterior segments oriented in mirror image symmetry to the original posterior segments (double abdomens). It was suggested that RNase leaking from the decaying anterior egg fragment into the posterior one induced the reversal because in the dipteran Smittia introduction of RNase in the anterior pole caused segment sequence reversal. Here, this hypothesis is confirmed by introducing RNase in eggs of Callosobruchus at various locations and stages. The reversal is specific for RNase activity, for treatment of the anterior egg pole and for cytoplasmic mRNA. Yield depends on developmental stage, enzyme concentration and temperature. A maximum yield of 30% of treated eggs developed double abdomens after puncture in 10.0 \u03bcg/ml RNase S reconstituted from S-protein and S-peptide at 30 degrees Celsius. This result sets the stage for an analysis of the genetic regulation of segment pattern formation in the long germ embryo of Callosobruchus and for comparison with the short germ embryo of the Coleopteran Tribolium.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059162', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Redeemer University College']]
[u'Population Structure Analysis of Globally Diverse Bull Genomes', ['Neo Christopher Chung', 'Joanna Szyda', 'Magdalena Fraszczak'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Since domestication, population bottlenecks, breed formation, and selective breeding have radically shaped the genealogy and genetics of Bos taurus. In turn, characterization of population structure among globally diverse bull genomes enables detailed assessment of genetic resources and origins. By analyzing 432 unrelated bull genomes from 13 breeds and 16 countries, we demonstrate genetic diversity and structural complexity among the global bull population. Importantly, we relaxed a strong assumption of discrete or admixed population, by adapting latent variable models for individual-specific allele frequencies that directly capture a wide range of complex structure from genome-wide genotypes. We identified a highly complex population structure that defies the conventional hypothesis based on discrete membership and contributes to pervasive genetic differentiation in bull genomes. As measured by magnitude of differentiation, selection pressure on SNPs within genes is substantially greater than that on intergenic regions. Additionally, broad regions of chromosome 6 harboring largest genetic differentiation suggest positive selection underlying population structure. We carried out gene set analysis using SNP annotations to identify enriched functional categories such as energy-related processes and multiple development stages. Our comprehensive analysis of bull population structure can support genetic management strategies that capture structural complexity and promote sustainable genetic breadth.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059139', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wroclaw University of Environmental and Life Sciences']]
[u'mmgenome: a toolbox for reproducible genome extraction from metagenomes', ['Soeren M Karst', 'Rasmus H Kirkegaard', 'Mads Albertsen'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Recovery of population genomes is becoming a standard analysis in metagenomics and a multitude of different approaches exists. However, the workflows are complex, requiring data generation, binning, validation and finishing to generate high quality population genome bins. In addition, several different approaches are often used on the same dataset as the optimal strategy to extract a specific population genome varies. Here we introduce mmgenome: a toolbox for reproducible genome extraction from metagenomes. At the core of mmgenome is an R package that facilitates effortless integration of different binning strategies by collecting information on scaffolds. Genome binning is facilitated through integrated tools that support effortless visualizations, validation and calculation of key statistics. Full reproducibility and transparency is ob-tained through Rmarkdown, whereby every step can be recreated.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059121', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Aalborg University']]
[u'Bayesian inference of ancestral recombination graphs for bacterial populations', ['Timothy G Vaughan', 'David Welch', 'Alexei J Drummond', 'Patrick J Biggs', 'Tessy George', 'Nigel P French'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Homologous recombination is a central feature of bacterial evolution, yet confounds traditional phylogenetic methods.  While a number of methods specific to bacterial evolution have been developed, none of these permit joint inference of a bacterial recombination graph and associated  parameters. In this paper, we present a new method which addresses this shortcoming.  Our method uses a novel Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm to perform phylogenetic inference under the ClonalOrigin model of Didelot et al. (Genetics, 2010).  We demonstrate the utility of our method by applying it to rMLST data sequenced from pathogenic and non-pathogenic Escherichia coli serotype O157 and O26 isolates collected in rural New Zealand.  The method is implemented as an open source BEAST 2 package, Bacter, which is    available via the project web page at http://tgvaughan.github.io/bacter.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059105', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Auckland;', u'Massey University']]
[u'Uniparental inheritance promotes adaptive evolution in cytoplasmic genomes', ['Joshua R Christie', 'Madeleine Beekman'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Eukaryotes carry numerous asexual cytoplasmic genomes (mitochondria and chloroplasts). Lacking recombination, asexual genomes suffer from impaired adaptive evolution. Yet, empirical evidence suggests that cytoplasmic genomes do not suffer this limitation of asexual reproduction. Here we use computational models to show that the unique biology of cytoplasmic genomes---specifically their organization into host cells and their uniparental inheritance---enable them to undergo adaptive evolution more effectively than comparable free-living asexual genomes. Uniparental inheritance decreases competition between different beneficial substitutions (clonal interference), reduces genetic hitchhiking of deleterious substitutions during selective sweeps, and promotes adaptive evolution by increasing the level of beneficial substitutions relative to deleterious substitutions. When cytoplasmic genome inheritance is biparental, a tight transmission bottleneck aids adaptive evolution. Nevertheless, adaptive evolution is always more efficient when inheritance is uniparental. Our findings help explain empirical observations that cytoplasmic genomes---despite their asexual mode of reproduction---can readily undergo adaptive evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059089', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The University of Sydney']]
[u'Zika Virus in the Human Placenta and Developing Brain: Cell Tropism and Drug Inhibition', ['Hanna Retallack', 'Elizabeth Di Lullo', 'Carolina Arias', 'Kristeene A. Knopp', 'Carmen Sandoval-Espinosa', 'Matthew T. Laurie', 'Yan Zhou', 'Matthew Gormley', 'Walter R. Mancia Leon', 'Robert Krencik', 'Erik M. Ullian', 'Julien Spatazza', 'Alex A. Pollen', 'Katherine Ona', 'Tomasz J. Nowakowski', 'Joseph L. DeRisi', 'Susan J. Fisher', 'Arnold R. Kriegstein'], u'June 15, 2016.', u"The rapid spread of Zika virus (ZIKV) and its association with abnormal brain development constitute a global health emergency. Congenital ZIKV infection produces a range of mild to severe pathologies, including placental damage and microcephaly. However, the placenta's role in viral transmission and the mechanisms of microcephaly have not been addressed in primary human tissues. Moreover, there is an urgent need for drugs that can prevent developmental defects following infection. Here, we identify the placental and brain cell populations most susceptible to ZIKV infection, provide evidence for a mechanism of viral entry, and show that a commonly used antibiotic protects cultured brain cells by inhibiting viral proliferation. In the early gestation placenta, the virus readily infected trophoblast subpopulations that are in direct contact with maternal blood and uterine cells, suggesting routes of ZIKV transmission to the embryo and fetus. In the brain, ZIKV preferentially infected neural stem cells, astrocytes, and microglia, whereas neurons were less susceptible to infection. These findings suggest mechanisms for microcephaly and other pathologic features of infants with congenital ZIKV infection that are not explained by neural stem cell infection alone, such as calcifications in the cortical plate and brain abnormalities caused by third trimester infection. Blocking a putative viral entry receptor, AXL, which is highly enriched in the infected placenta and brain cell types, reduced ZIKV infection of astrocytes in vitro. In a glial cell line, the macrolide antibiotic, azithromycin, inhibited viral proliferation and viral-induced cytopathic effects at clinically relevant concentrations. Our characterization of infection in primary human tissues clarifies the pathogenesis of congenital ZIKV infection and provides critical context for interpreting results from model systems. Further work on azithromycin and related compounds may yield additional therapeutic strategies to safely alleviate or prevent the most severe consequences of the epidemic.", u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058883.1', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Dynamic Nucleosome Movement Provides Structural Information of Topological Chromatin Domains in Living Human Cells', ['Soya Shinkai', 'Tadasu Nozaki', 'Kazuhiro Maeshima', 'Yuichi Togashi'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'The mammalian genome is organized into submegabase-sized chromatin domains (CDs) including topologically associating domains, which have been identified using chromosome conformation capture-based methods. Single-nucleosome imaging in living mammalian cells has revealed subdiffusively dynamic nucleosome movement. It is unclear how single nucleosomes within CDs fluctuate and how the CD structure reflects the nucleosome movement. Here, we present a polymer model wherein CDs are characterized by fractal dimensions and the nucleosome fibers fluctuate in a viscoelastic medium with memory. We analytically show that the mean-squared displacement (MSD) of nucleosome fluctuations within CDs is subdiffusive. The diffusion coefficient and the subdiffusive exponent depend on the structural information of CDs. This analytical result enabled us to extract information from the single-nucleosome imaging data for HeLa cells. Our observation that the MSD is lower at the nuclear periphery region than the interior region indicates that CDs in the heterochromatin-rich nuclear periphery region are more compact than those in the euchromatin-rich interior region with respect to the fractal dimensions as well as the size. Finally, we evaluated that the average size of CDs is in the range of 100-500 nm and that the relaxation time of nucleosome movement within CDs is a few seconds. Our results provide physical and dynamic insights into the genome architecture in living cells.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059147', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Hiroshima University;', u'National Institute of Genetics, Japan']]
[u'Modelling the effects of bacterial cell state and spatial location on tuberculosis treatment: Insights from a hybrid multiscale cellular automaton model', ['Ruth Bowness', 'Mark A. J. Chaplain', 'Gibin G. Powathill', 'Stephen H. Gillespie'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'If improvements are to be made in tuberculosis (TB) treatment, an increased understanding of disease in the lung is needed. Studies have shown that bacteria in a less metabolically active state, which is associated with the presence of lipid bodies, are less susceptible to antibiotics, and recent results have highlighted the disparity in concentration of different compounds into lesions. Treatment success therefore depends critically on the responses of the individual bacteria that constitute the infection.\nWe propose a hybrid, individual-based approach that analyses spatio-temporal dynamics at the level of cells, linking individual cell behaviour with the macroscopic behaviour of cell organisation and the microenvironment. The individual cells (bacteria, macrophages and T cells) are modelled using a cellular automaton (CA) approach and we have incorporated the evolution of oxygen and chemokine dynamics within this hybrid model in order to study the effects of the microenvironment in TB therapies. We allow bacteria to switch states depending on oxygen concentration, which affects how they respond to treatment. Using this multiscale model, we investigate the role of bacterial cell state and of initial bacterial location on treatment outcome. We demonstrate that when bacteria are located further away from blood vessel sources, and when the immune response is unable to contain the less metabolically active bacteria near the start of the simulations, a less favourable outcome is likely.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059113', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of St Andrews;', u'Swansea University']]
[u'ANFIS-based Fuzzy Systems for Searching DNA-Protein Binding Sites', ['Dianhui Wang', 'Monther Alhamdoosh', 'Witold Pedrycz'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Transcriptional regulation mainly controls how genes are expressed and how cells behave based on the transcription factor (TF) proteins that bind upstream of the transcription start sites (TSSs) of genes. These TF DNA binding sites (TFBSs) are usually short (5-15 base pairs) and degenerate (some positions can have multiple possible alternatives). Traditionally, computational methods scan DNA sequences using the position weight matrix (PWM) of a given TF, calculate binding scores for each K-mer against the PWM, and finally classify a K-mer as to whether it is a putative TFBS or a background sequence based on a cut-off threshold. The FSCAN system, which is proposed in this paper, employs machine learning techniques to build a learner model that is able to identify TFBSs in a set of bound sequences without the need for a cut-off threshold. Our proposed method utilizes fuzzy inference techniques along with a distribution-based filtering algorithm to predict the binding sites of a TF given its PWM model and phastCons scores for the input DNA sequences. Data imbalance reduction techniques are also used to ease the learning of the adaptive-neuro fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) algorithm. The proposed system is tested on 22 ChIP-chip sequence-sets from the Saccharomyces Cerevisiae genome. Our results show that FSCAN outperforms other approaches like MatInspector and MATCH and is quite robust. As more transcriptional data becomes available, our proposed framework encourages the use of fuzzy logic techniques in the prediction of TFBSs.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058800', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'La Trobe University;', u'The University of Melbourne;', u'University of Alberta']]
[u'A genomic view of the peopling of the Americas', ['Pontus Skoglund', 'David Reich'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Whole-genome studies have documented that most Native American ancestry stems from a single population that diversified within the continent more than twelve thousand years ago. However, this shared ancestry hides a more complex history whereby at least four distinct streams of Eurasian migration have contributed to present-day and prehistoric Native American populations. Whole genome studies enhanced by technological breakthroughs in ancient DNA now provide evidence of a sequence of events involving initial migration from a structured Northeast Asian source population, followed by a divergence into northern and southern Native American lineages. During the Holocene, new migrations from Asia introduced the Saqqaq/Dorset Paleoeskimo population to the North American Arctic ~4,500 years ago, ancestry that is potentially connected with ancestry found in Athabaskan-speakers today.  This was then followed by a major new population turnover in the high Arctic involving Thule-related peoples who are the ancestors of present-day Inuit. We highlight several open questions that could be addressed through future genomic research.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058966', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Visualizing tumor evolution with the fishplot package for R', ['Christopher A Miller', 'Joshua McMichael', 'Ha X Dang', 'Christopher A Maher', 'Li Ding', 'Timothy J Ley', 'Elaine R Mardis', 'Richard K Wilson'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Background: Massively-parallel sequencing at depth has enabled tumor heterogeneity and evolution to be characterized in unprecedented detail. Tracking these changes in clonal architecture can inform therapeutic response and resistance. Robust and intuitive data visualizations can greatly aid these interpretations, especially in cases with multiple timepoints . Current data visualization methods are typically manual and laborious, and often only approximate subclonal fractions.\nResults: We have developed an R package that accurately and intuitively displays changes in clonal structure over time. It requires simple input data and produces illustrative and easy-to-interpret graphs suitable for diagnosis, presentation, and publication.\nConclusions: The simplicity, power, and flexibility of this tool make it valuable for visualizing tumor evolution, and it has potential utility in both research and clinical settings. Fishplot is available at https://github.com/chrisamiller/fishplot', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/059055', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Washington University in St Louis']]
[u'Quantitative, model-based estimates of variability in the serial interval of Plasmodium falciparum malaria', ['John H. Huber', 'Geoffrey L. Johnston', 'Bryan Greenhouse', 'David L. Smith', 'T. Alex Perkins'], u'June 15, 2016.', u'Background: The serial interval is a fundamentally important quantity in infectious disease epidemiology that has numerous applications to inferring patterns of transmission from case data. Many of these applications are apropos to efforts to eliminate Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) malaria from locations throughout the world, yet the serial interval for this disease is poorly understood quantitatively.\nResults: To obtain a quantitative estimate of the serial interval for Pf malaria, we took the sum of components of the Pf malaria transmission cycle based on a combination of mathematical models and empirical data. During this process, we identified a number of factors that account for substantial variability in the serial interval across different contexts. Treatment with antimalarial drugs roughly halves the serial interval, seasonality results in different serial intervals at different points in the transmission season, and variability in within-host dynamics results in many individuals whose serial intervals do not follow average behavior. \nConclusions: These results have important implications for epidemiological applications that rely on quantitative estimates of the serial interval of Pf malaria and other diseases characterized by prolonged infections and complex ecological drivers.', u'/content/early/2016/06/15/058859', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Notre Dame;', u'Apple Inc.;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of Washington']]
