[u'Orientation tuning depends on spatial frequency in mouse visual cortex', ['Inbal Ayzenshtat', 'Jesse Jackson', 'Rafael Yuste'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'The response properties of neurons to sensory stimuli have been used to identify their receptive fields and functionally map sensory systems. In primary visual cortex, most neurons are selective to a particular orientation and spatial frequency of the visual stimulus. Using two-photon calcium imaging of neuronal populations from the primary visual cortex of mice, we have characterized the response properties of neurons to various orientations and spatial frequencies. Surprisingly, we found that the orientation selectivity of neurons actually depends on the spatial frequency of the stimulus. This dependence can be easily explained if one assumed spatially asymmetric Gabor-type receptive fields. We propose that receptive fields of neurons in layer 2/3 of visual cortex are indeed spatially asymmetric, and that this asymmetry could be used effectively by the visual system to encode natural scenes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/069997', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Oxidative DNA damage is epigenetic by regulating gene transcription via base excision repair', ['Aaron M. Fleming', 'Yun Ding', 'Cynthia J Burrows'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'Reactive oxygen species (ROS) have emerged as important cellular signaling agents for survival.  Herein, we demonstrate that ROS-mediated oxidation of DNA to yield 8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanine (OG) in gene promoters is a signaling agent for gene activation.  Enhanced gene expression occurs when OG is formed in guanine-rich, potential G-quadruplex sequences (PQS) in promoter coding strands to initiate base excision repair (BER) by 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) yielding an abasic site (AP).  The AP enables melting of the duplex to unmask the PQS to adopt a G-quadruplex fold in which apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1) binds, but inefficiently cleaves, the AP for activation of VEGF or NTHL1 genes.  This concept allowed identification of 61 human DNA repair genes that might be activated by this mechanism.  Identification of the oxidatively-modified DNA base OG as guiding protein activity on the genome and altering cellular phenotype ascribes an epigenetic role to OG.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/069955', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Utah']]
[u'Predicting functional neuroanatomical maps from fusing brain networks with genetic information', ['Florian Ganglberger', 'Joanna Kaczanowska', 'Josef M. Penninger', 'Andreas Hess', 'Katja Buehler', 'Wulf Haubensak'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'A central aim, from basic neuroscience to psychiatry, is to resolve how genes control brain circuitry and behavior. This is experimentally hard, since most brain functions and behaviors are controlled by multiple genes. In low throughput, one gene at a time, experiments, it is therefore difficult to delineate the neural circuitry through which these sets of genes express their behavioral effects. The increasing amount of publicly available brain and genetic data offers a rich source that could be mined to address this problem computationally. However, most computational approaches are not tailored to reflect functional synergies in brain circuitry accumulating within sets of genes. Here, we developed an algorithm that fuses gene expression and connectivity data with functional genetic meta data and exploits such cumulative effects to predict  neuroanatomical maps for multigenic functions. These maps recapture known functional anatomical annotations from literature and functional MRI data. When applied to meta data from mouse QTLs and human neuropsychiatric databases, our method predicts functional maps underlying behavioral or psychiatric traits. We show that it is possible to predict functional neuroanatomy from mouse and human genetic meta data and provide a discovery tool for high throughput functional exploration of brain anatomy in silico.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/070037', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'VRVis Research Center;', u'Research Institute of Molecular Pathology;', u'Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of Sciences;', u'Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg']]
[u'Large scale genomic analysis shows no evidence for repeated pathogen adaptation during the invasive phase of bacterial meningitis in humans', ['John Lees', 'Philip H. C. Kremer', 'Ana S Manso', 'Nicholas J Croucher', 'Bart Ferwerda', 'Mercedes Valls Seron', 'Marco R Oggioni', 'Julian Parkhill', 'Matthjis C Brouwer', 'Arie van der Ende', 'Diederik van de Beek', 'Stephen D Bentley'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'Recent studies have provided evidence for rapid pathogen genome variation, some of which could potentially affect the course of disease. We have previously detected such variation by comparing isolates infecting the blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of a single patient during a case of bacterial meningitis.\nTo determine whether the observed variation repeatedly occurs in cases of disease, we performed whole genome sequencing of paired isolates from blood and CSF of 938 meningitis patients. We also applied the same techniques to 54 paired isolates from the nasopharynx and CSF.\nUsing a combination of reference-free variant calling approaches we show that no genetic adaptation occurs in the invasive phase of bacterial meningitis for four major pathogen species: Streptococcus pneumoniae, Neisseria meningitidis, Listeria monocytogenes and Haemophilus influenzae. From nasopharynx to CSF , no adaptation was seen in S. pneumoniae, but in N. meningitidis mutations potentially mediating adaptation to the invasive niche were occasionally observed in the dca gene.\nThis study therefore shows that the bacteria capable of causing meningitis are already able to do this upon entering the blood, and no further sequence change is necessary to cross the blood-brain barrier. The variation discovered from nasopharyngeal isolates suggest that larger studies comparing carriage and invasion may help determine the likely mechanisms of invasiveness.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/070045', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'AMC Amsterdam;', u'University of Leicester;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Easi-CRISPR: Efficient germline modification with long ssDNA donors', ['Rolen M Quadros', 'Masato Ohtsuka', 'Donald W Harms', 'Tomomi Aida', 'Ronald Redder', 'Hiromi Miura', 'Guy P Richardson', 'Mark A Behlke', 'Sarah A Zeiner', 'Ashley M Jacobi', 'Lisa D Urness', 'Suzanne L Mansour', 'Channabasavaiah B Gurumurthy'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'CRISPR/Cas9 technology efficiently produces short insertions or deletions (indels) and can insert short exogenous sequences at Cas9 cut sites. However, targeting long inserts is still a major technical challenge. To overcome this challenge, we developed Easi-CRISPR (Efficient additions with ssDNA inserts-CRISPR), a method that uses long, in vitro-synthesized, single-stranded DNAs with 50-100 base homology arms as repair templates. We demonstrate that Easi-CRISPR can generate knock-in and floxed alleles in mice with an efficiency at many loci as high as 100%. The simple design requirements for donor DNAs and the reproducibly high-efficiency of Easi-CRISPR enables rapid development of many types of commonly used animal and cell models.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/069963', [u'Genomics'], [u'UNMC;', u'Tokai University;', u'Tokyo Medical and Dental University;', u'University of Sussex;', u'IDT;', u'University of Utah']]
[u'Pherotype polymorphism in Streptococcus pneumoniae and its effects on population structure and recombination', ['Eric L Miller', 'Benjamin A Evans', 'Omar E Cornejo', 'Ian S Roberts', 'Daniel Rozen'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'Natural transformation in the Gram-positive pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae occurs when cells become "competent", a state that is induced in response to high extracellular concentrations of a secreted peptide signal called CSP (Competence Stimulating Peptide) encoded by the comC locus. Two main CSP signal types (pherotypes) are known to dominate the pherotype diversity across strains. Using thousands of fully sequenced pneumococcal genomes, we confirm that pneumococcal populations are highly genetically structured and that there is significant variation among diverged populations in pherotype frequencies; most carry only a single pherotype. Moreover, we find that the relative frequencies of the two dominant pherotypes significantly vary within a small range across geographical sites. It has been variously proposed that pherotypes either promote genetic exchange among cells expressing the same pherotype, or conversely that they promote recombination between strains bearing different pherotypes. We distinguish these hypotheses using a bioinformatics approach by estimating recombination frequencies within and between pherotypes across 4,089 full genomes. Despite underlying population structure, we observe extensive recombination between populations; additionally, we found significantly higher rates of genetic exchange between strains expressing different pherotypes than among isolates carrying the same pherotype. Our results indicate that pherotypes do not restrict, and marginally facilitate, recombination between strains. Furthermore, our results suggest that the CSP balanced polymorphism does not causally underlie population differentiation. Therefore, when strains carrying different pherotypes encounter one another during co- colonization, genetic exchange can freely occur.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/070011', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Manchester;', u'University of East Anglia;', u'Washington State University;', u'Leiden University']]
[u'Pervasive concerted evolution in gene expression shapes cell type transcriptomes', ['Cong Liang', 'Jacob M. Musser', 'Alison Cloutier', 'Richard Prum', 'Gunter Wagner'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'Transcriptomic data yields valuable insights into cell type, tissue, and organ evolution. However, interpreting this data requires understanding how transcriptomes evolve. A particularly difficult problem is that cell type transcriptomes may not evolve independently. Here we present a statistical model to estimate the level of concerted transcriptome evolution and apply it to published and new data. The results indicate that tissues undergo pervasive concerted evolution in gene expression. Tissues related by morphology or developmental lineage exhibit higher levels of concerted evolution. Concerted evolution also causes tissues from the same species to be more similar in gene expression to each other than to homologous tissues in another species. This result may explain why some tissue transcriptomes cluster by species rather than homology. Our study illustrates the importance of accounting for concerted evolution when interpreting comparative transcriptome data, and should serve as a foundation for future investigations of cell type evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/070060', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Yale university;', u'Yale University;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Internal states drive nutrient homeostasis by modulating exploration-exploitation trade-off', ['Veronica Maria Corrales-Carvajal', 'Aldo A Faisal', 'Carlos Ribeiro'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'Internal states can deeply alter the behavior of animals. Which aspects of behavior change upon metabolic challenges and how these allow the animal to achieve nutrient homeostasis is poorly understood. We used an automated video tracking setup to characterize how amino acid and reproductive states interact to shape exploitation and exploration decisions taken by adult Drosophila melanogaster, to achieve nutritional homeostasis. We find that these two states have specific effects on the decisions to engage and leave proteinaceous food patches. Furthermore, the internal nutrient state defines the exploration-exploitation trade-off: nutrient deprived flies focus on specific patches while satiated flies explore more globally. Finally, we show that olfaction mediates the efficient recognition of yeast as an appropriate protein source and that octopamine is specifically required to mediate homeostatic postmating responses without affecting internal nutrient sensing. Internal states therefore modulate specific aspects of exploitation and exploration to change nutrient selection.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/070086', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown;', u'Department of Bioengineering and Department, Imperial College London, SW7 2AZ London, United Kingdom']]
[u'A novel quantile regression approach for eQTL discovery', ['Xiaoyu Song', 'Gen Li', 'Iuliana Ionita-Laza', 'Ying Wei'], u'August 17, 2016.', u'Over the past decade, there has been a remarkable improvement in our understanding of the role of genetic variation in complex human diseases, especially via genome-wide association studies. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are still poorly characterized, impending the development of therapeutic interventions. Identifying genetic variants that influence the expression level of a gene, i.e. expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), can help us understand how genetic variants influence traits at the molecular level. While most eQTL studies focus on identifying mean effects on gene expression using linear regression, evidence suggests that genetic variation can impact the entire distribution of the expression level. Indeed, several studies have already investigated higher order associations with a special focus on detecting heteroskedasticity. In this paper, we develop a Quantile Rank-score Based Test (QRBT) to identify eQTLs that are associated with the conditional quantile functions of gene expression. We have applied the proposed QRBT to the Genotype-Tissue Expression project, an international tissue bank for studying the relationship between genetic variation and gene expression in human tissues, and found that the proposed QRBT complements the existing methods, and identifies new eQTLs with heterogeneous effects across different quantile levels. Notably, we show that the eQTLs identified by QRBT but missed by linear regression are more likely to be tissue specific, and also associated with greater enrichment in genome-wide significant SNPs from the GWAS catalog. An R package implementing QRBT is available on our website.', u'/content/early/2016/08/17/070052', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u"A non-zero variance of Tajima's estimator for two sequences even for infinitely many unlinked loci", ['Leandra King', 'John Wakeley', 'Shai Carmi'], u'August 17, 2016.', u"The population-scaled mutation rate, \u0398, is informative on the effective population size and is thus widely used in population genetics. We show that for two sequences and n unlinked loci, Tajima's estimator (\u0398^), which is the average number of pairwise differences, is not consistent and therefore its variance does not vanish even as n \u2192 \u221e. The non-zero variance of \u0398^ results from a (weak) correlation between coalescence times even at unlinked loci, which, in turn, is due to the underlying fixed pedigree shared by all genealogies. We derive the correlation coefficient under a diploid, discrete-time, Wright-Fisher model, and we also derive a simple, closed-form lower bound. We also obtain empirical estimates of the correlation of coalescence times under demographic models inspired by large-scale human genealogies. While the effect we describe is small (Var[\u0398^]/\u03982 \u2248 O(N-1)), it is important to recognize this feature of statistical population genetics, which runs counter to commonly held notions about unlinked loci.", u'/content/early/2016/08/17/069989', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
