[u'Shared characteristics underpinning C4 leaf maturation derived from analysis of multiple C3 and C4 species of Flaveria', ['Britta MC Kumpers', 'Steven J Burgess', 'Ivan Reyna-Llorens', 'Richard Smith-Unna', 'Chris Boursnell', 'Julian M Hibberd'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Most terrestrial plants use C3 photosynthesis to fix carbon. In multiple plant lineages a modified system known as C4 photosynthesis has evolved. To better understand the molecular patterns associated with induction of C4 photosynthesis the genus Flaveria that contains C3 and C4 species was used. A base to tip maturation gradient of leaf anatomy was defined, and RNA sequencing was undertaken along this gradient for two C3 and two C4 Flaveria species. Key C4 traits including vein density, mesophyll and bundle sheath cross-sectional area, chloroplast ultrastructure, and abundance of transcripts encoding proteins of C4 photosynthesis were quantified. Candidate genes underlying each of these C4 characteristics were identified. Principal Components Analysis indicated that leaf maturation and then photosynthetic pathway were responsible for the greatest amount of variation in transcript abundance. Photosynthesis genes were over-represented for a prolonged period in the C4 species. Through comparison with publically available datasets we identify a small number of transcriptional regulators that have been up-regulated in diverse C4 species. The analysis identifies similar patterns of expression in independent C4 lineages and so indicates that the complex C4 pathway is associated with parallel as well as convergent evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088153', [], [u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Adaptive anonymity: Crypsis as an evolutionary trait of floral yeasts?', ['Moritz Mittelbach', 'Andrey M Yurkov', 'Dominik Begerow'], u'November 16, 2016.', u"Nectar-dwelling yeast and bacteria are common inhabitants of flowers and evidently involved in pollination. The limited number of floral plant-pollinator models studied to date reveal inconsistent conclusions on microbial effects, but coincide with respect to high microbial specificity: while bacteria reduce visitation frequencies of pollinators, nectar-borne specialist yeasts (in contrast to allochthonous or transient species) impose none or even a beneficial effect on flower visitation. However, these findings are in conflict with the strong impact of these predominantly fermenting organisms on the nectar environment. In order to cope with the ultimate dependency of nectar-dwellers on repeated transportation by foragers as a result of early floral senescence, the modifications of nectar associated with specialist growth have been interpreted as adaptations that suit forager's preferences. But, the development of foraging preferences to either axenic flowers or flowers colonized by specialist microorganisms would lead to a dead-end for nectar-dwellers, as the probability of inoculation into new suitable habitats would be reduced.\nBased on a critical survey of the available literature and an additional pollinator experiment where we find that the allochthonous species Cryptococcus victoriae negatively affects attraction and rewarding of floral visitors, while the specialist yeast Metschnikowia reukaufii does not, we propose the hypothesis that nectar-borne yeasts may have evolved to blend into their environment avoiding detection by pollinators, following the ecological concept of crypsis. Although, neither chemical nor olfactory crypsis has been reported for nectar-borne microorganisms, the attention to this mechanism in yeast dispersal needs to be directed in future studies.", u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088179', [], [u'Department of Geobotany, Ruhr University Bochum;', u'Leibniz Institute DSMZ  German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures']]
[u'Phylogenomics-guided discovery of a novel conserved cassette of short linear motifs in BubR1 essential for the spindle checkpoint', ['Eelco Tromer', 'Debora Bade', 'Berend Snel', 'Geert JPL Kops'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'The spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) maintains genomic integrity by preventing progression of mitotic cell division until all chromosomes are stably attached to spindle microtubules. The SAC critically relies on the paralogs Bub1 and BubR1/Mad3, which integrate kinetochore-spindle attachment status with generation of the anaphase inhibitory complex MCC. We previously reported on the widespread occurrences of independent gene duplications of an ancestral MadBub gene in eukaryotic evolution and the striking parallel subfunctionalization that lead to loss of kinase function in BubR1/Mad3-like paralogs. We now present an elaborate subfunctionalization analysis that includes all known motifs in Bub1 and BubR1, and show that ancestral features are consistently retained in the same functional paralog: GLEBS/CDI/CDII/kinase in the Bub1-like and KEN1/KEN2/D-Box in the BubR1/Mad3-like. The recently described ABBA motif can be found in either or both paralogs. We however discovered two additional ABBA motifs that flank KEN2. This cassette of ABBA1-KEN2-ABBA2 forms a strictly conserved module in all ancestral and BubR1/Mad3-like proteins, suggestive of a specific and crucial SAC function. Indeed, deletion of the ABBA motifs in human BUBR1 abrogates the SAC and affects APC/C-Cdc20 interactions. Our detailed comparative genomics analyses thus enabled discovery of a conserved cassette of motifs essential for the SAC and shows how this approach can be used to uncover hitherto unrecognized functional protein features.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088161', [], [u'Hubrecht Institute;', u'Utrecht University']]
[u'Exploiting Next Generation Sequencing to solve the Haplotyping puzzle in Polyploids: a Simulation study', ['Ehsan Motazedi', 'Richard Finkers', 'Chris Maliepaard', 'Dick de Ridder'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Haplotypes are the units of inheritance in an organism, and many genetic analyses depend on their precise determination. Methods for haplotyping single individuals use the phasing information available in Next Generation Sequencing reads, by matching overlapping SNPs while penalizing post hoc nucleotide corrections made. Haplotyping diploids is relatively easy, but the complexity of the problem increases drastically for polyploid genomes, which are found in both model organisms and in economically relevant plant and animal species. While a number of tools are available for haplotyping polyploids, the effects of the genomic makeup and the sequencing strategy followed on the accuracy of these methods have hitherto not been thoroughly evaluated. We developed the simulation pipeline haplosim to evaluate the performance of haplotype estimation algorithms for polyploids: HapCompass, HapTree and SDhaP, in settings varying in sequencing approach, ploidy levels and genomic diversity, using tetraploid potato as the model. Our results show that sequencing depth is the major determinant of haplotype estimation quality, that 1kb PacBio CCS reads and Illumina reads with large insert-sizes are competitive, and that all methods fail to produce good haplotypes when ploidy levels increase. Comparing the three methods, HapTree produces the most accurate estimates, but also consumes the most resources. There is clearly room for improvement in polyploid haplotyping algorithms.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088112', [], [u'Wageningen University and Research']]
[u'Visualizing adenosine to inosine RNA editing in single mammalian cells', ['Ian A Mellis', 'Rohit K Gupte', 'Arjun Raj', 'Sara H Rouhanifard'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Conversion of adenosine bases to inosine in RNA is a frequent type of RNA editing, but important details about its biology, including subcellular localization, remain unknown due to a lack of imaging tools. We developed an RNA FISH strategy we called inoFISH that enables us to directly visualize and quantify adenosine-to-inosine edited transcripts in situ. Applying this tool to three edited transcripts (GRIA2, EIF2AK2 and NUP43), we found that editing of these transcripts is not correlated with nuclear localization nor paraspeckle association, and that NUP43 exhibits constant editing rates between single cells while the rates for GRIA2 vary.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088146', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Computational evidence of a compound with nicotinic \u03b14\u03b22-Ach receptor partial agonist properties as possible coadjuvant for the treatment of obesity', ['Helena den Haan', 'Juan Jose Hernandez Morante', 'Horacio Perez-Sanchez'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Background. Nowadays, the search for new anti-obesity drugs is oriented to the use of anti-addiction medications like bupropion and naltrexone. Other compounds like varenicline may be also useful to treat obesity. However, the low effectiveness of the former or the high number of adverse effects of the latter makes it necessary to search for new therapeutic agents.  Methods.  Screening database selected for the computational experiments was DrugBank. 3D global shape comparison with varenicline was performed by means of the Ligand Based Virtual Screening tool WEGA v2015. A pharmacophore model based in the structure of varenicline was created by means of LigandScout v4.08. The in-silico screening was performed using Relative Pharmacophore Fit (RPF) scoring function implemented in LigandScout. Up to 3 mismatches with varenicline pharmacophore model were allowed for hits retrieving.  Results. Drugbank database was screened in silico to find alternative molecules to varenicline, and the compound cevimeline was found to have strong similarity to varenicline in terms of 3D shape and pharmacophoric features. Thus, we propose this hit may interact with nicotinic \u03b14\u03b22-Ach receptor in the same mode as varenicline does.  Discussion. The functional activities of this compound and its validity as a drug therapy for obesity treatment must be confirmed in further in vitro, in vivo and preclinical studies; however, attending to our screening procedure, this compound should be a promising therapy for such a complex disorder such as obesity.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088138', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Bioinformatics and High Performance Computing Research Group;', u'Catholic University of Murcia']]
[u'Optimization of lag phase shapes the evolution of a bacterial enzyme', ['Bharat V. Adkar', 'Michael Manhart', 'Sanchari Bhattacharyya', 'Jian Tian', 'Michael Musharbash', 'Eugene I. Shakhnovich'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Mutations provide the variation that drives evolution, yet their effects on fitness remain poorly understood. Here we explore how mutations in the essential enzyme Adenylate Kinase (Adk) of E. coli affect multiple phases of population growth. We introduce a biophysical fitness landscape for multiple phases of bacterial growth, which shows how they depend on molecular and cellular properties of Adk. We find that Adk catalytic capacity in the cell (product of activity and abundance) is the major determinant of mutational fitness effects. We show that bacterial lag times are at an optimum for the endogenous enzyme, while exponential growth rates are only weakly affected by variation in Adk. Direct pairwise competitions between strains show how environmental conditions modulate the outcome of a competition where growth rates and lag times show a tradeoff, altogether shedding light on the multidimensional nature of fitness and its importance in the evolutionary optimization of enzymes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088013', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'A computational method for the investigation of multistable systems and its application to genetic switches', ['Miriam Leon', 'Mae Louise Woods', 'Alex J H Fedorec', 'Chris P Barnes'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Genetic switches exhibit multistability, form the basis of epigenetic memory, and are found in natural decision making systems, such as cell fate determination in developmental pathways. Synthetic genetic switches can be used for recording the presence of different environmental signals, for changing phenotype using synthetic inputs and as building blocks for higher-level sequential logic circuits. Understanding how multistable switches can be constructed and how they function within larger biological systems is therefore key to synthetic biology.\nHere we present a new computational tool, called StabilityFinder, that takes advantage of sequential Monte Carlo methods to identify regions of parameter space capable of producing multistable behaviour, while handling uncertainty in biochemical rate constants and initial conditions. The algorithm works by clustering trajectories in phase space, and iteratively minimizing a distance metric. Here we examine a collection of models of genetic switches, ranging from the deterministic Gardner toggle switch to stochastic models containing different positive feedback connections. We uncover the design principles behind making bistable, tristable and quadristable switches, and find that rate of gene expression is a key parameter. We demonstrate the ability of the framework to examine more complex systems and examine the design principles of a three gene switch. Our framework allows us to relax the assumptions that are often used in genetic switch models and we show that more complex abstractions are still capable of multistable behaviour.\nOur results suggest many ways in which genetic switches can be enhanced and offer designs for the construction of novel switches. Our analysis also highlights subtle changes in correlation of experimentally tunable parameters that can lead to bifurcations in deterministic and stochastic systems. Overall we demonstrate that StabilityFinder will be a valuable tool in the future design and construction of novel gene networks.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088005', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'UCL']]
[u'Eco-evolutionary theory and insect outbreaks', ['David Paez', 'Vanja Dukic', 'Jonathan Dushoff', 'Arietta Fleming-Davies', 'Greg Dwyer'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Eco-evolutionary theory argues that population cycles in consumer-resource interactions are partly driven by natural selection, such that changes in densities and changes in trait values are mutually reinforcing.   Evidence that this theory explains cycles in nature, however, is almost nonexistent.   Experimental tests of model predictions are almost always impossible because of the long time scales over which cycles occur, but for most organisms, even tests of model assumptions are logistically impractical.    For insect baculoviruses in contrast, tests of model assumptions are straightforward, and baculoviruses often drive outbreaks of forest-defoliating insects, as in the gypsy moth that we study here.   We therefore used field experiments with the gypsy moth baculovirus to test two key assumptions of eco-evolutionary models of host-pathogen population cycles, that reduced host infection risk is heritable and costly.   Our experiments confirm the two assumptions, and inserting parameters estimated from our data into the models gives cycles closely resembling  gypsy moth outbreak cycles in North America, whereas standard models predict unrealistic stable equilibria.  Our work shows that eco-evolutionary models are useful for explaining outbreaks of forest insect defoliators, while widespread observations of intense selection imposed by natural enemies on defoliators, and frequent laboratory observations of heritable and costly resistance in defoliators, suggest that eco-evolutionary dynamics may play a general role in defoliator outbreaks.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088047', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'U Colorado;', u'McMaster University;', u'U Chicago']]
[u'What can genomics tell us about the success of enhancement programs in anadromous Chinook salmon? A comparative analysis across four generations', ['Charles D. Waters', 'Jeffrey J. Hard', 'Marine S.O. Brieuc', 'David E. Fast', 'Kenneth I. Warheit', 'Robin S. Waples', 'Curtis M. Knudsen', 'Willliam J. Bosch', 'Kerry A. Naish'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Population enhancement through the release of cultured organisms can be an important tool for marine restoration. However, there has been considerable debate about whether releases effectively contribute to conservation and harvest objectives, and whether cultured organisms impact the fitness of wild populations. Pacific salmonid hatcheries on the West Coast of North America represent one of the largest enhancement programs in the world. Molecular-based pedigree studies on one or two generations have contributed to our understanding of the fitness of hatchery-reared individuals relative to wild individuals, and tend to show that hatchery fish have lower reproductive success. However, interpreting the significance of these results can be challenging because the long-term genetic and ecological effects of releases on supplemented populations are unknown. Further, pedigree studies have been opportunistic, rather than hypothesis driven, and have not provided information on best case management scenarios. Here, we present a comparative, experimental approach based on genome-wide surveys of changes in diversity in two hatchery lines founded from the same population. We demonstrate that gene flow with wild individuals can reduce divergence from the wild source population over four generations. We also report evidence for consistent genetic changes in a closed hatchery population that can be explained by both genetic drift and domestication selection. The results of this study suggest that genetic risks can be minimized over at least four generations with appropriate actions, and provide empirical support for a decision-making framework that is relevant to the management of hatchery populations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/087973', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Northwest Fisheries Science Center;', u'Yakama Nation Fisheries;', u'Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife;', u'Oncorh Consulting']]
[u'Chimeras Link to Tandem Repeats and Transposable Elements in Tetraploid Hybrid Fish', ['Lihai Ye', 'Xiaojun Tang', 'Yiyi Chen', 'Xiaolan Ye', 'Li Ren', 'Fangzhou Hu', 'Shi Wang', 'Ming Wen', 'Chun Zhang', 'Ming Tao', 'Rurong Zhao', 'Zhanzhou Yao', 'Shaojun Liu'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Abstract\nThe formation of the allotetraploid hybrid lineage (4nAT) encompasses both distant hybridization and polyploidization processes. The allotetraploid offspring have two sets of sub-genomes inherited from both parental species and therefore it is important to explore its genetic structure. Herein, we construct a bacterial artificial chromosome library of allotetraploids, and then sequence and analyze the full-length sequences of 19 bacterial artificial chromosomes. Sixty-eight DNA chimeras are identified, which are divided into four models according to the distribution of the genomic DNA derived from the parents. Among the 68 genetic chimeras, 44 (64.71%) are linked to tandem repeats (TRs) and 23 (33.82%) are linked to transposable elements (TEs). The chimeras linked to TRs are related to slipped-strand mispairing and double-strand break repair while the chimeras linked to TEs are benefit from the intervention of recombinases. In addition, TRs and TEs are linked not only with the recombinations, but also with the insertions/deletions of DNA segments. We conclude that DNA chimeras accompanied by TRs and TEs coordinate a balance between the sub-genomes derived from the parents which reduces the genomic shock effects and favors the evolutionary and adaptive capacity of the allotetraploidization. It is the first report on the relationship between formation of the DNA chimeras and TRs and TEs in the polyploid animals.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088070', [u'Genetics'], [u'College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal University, China;', u'Key Laboratory of Protein Chemistry and Fish Developmental Biology of Education Ministry of China, C, China']]
[u'Electroceutical disinfection strategies impair the motility of pathogenic Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia coli', ['Kristina Doxsee', 'Ryan Berthelot', 'Suresh Neethirajan'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Electrotaxis or galvanotaxis refers to the migration pattern of cells induced in response to electrical potential. Although it has been extensively studied in mammalian cells, electrotaxis has not been explored in detail in bacterial cells; information regarding the impact of current on pathogenic bacteria is severely lacking. Therefore, we designed a series of single and multi-cue experiments to assess the impact of varying currents on bacterial motility dynamics in pathogenic multi-drug resistant (MDR) strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia coli using a microfluidic platform. Motility plays key roles in bacterial migration and the colonization of surfaces during the formation of biofilms, which are inherently recalcitrant to removal and resistant to traditional disinfection strategies (e.g. antibiotics). Use of the microfluidic platform allows for exposure to current, which can be supplied at a range that is biocidal to bacteria, yet physiologically safe in humans (single cue). This system also allows for multi-cue experiments where acetic acid, a relatively safe compound with anti-fouling/antimicrobial properties, can be combined with current to enhance disinfection. These strategies may offer substantial therapeutic benefits, specifically for the treatment of biofilm infections, such as those found in the wound environment. Furthermore, microfluidic systems have been successfully used to model the unique microfluidic dynamics present in the wound environment, suggesting that these investigations could be extended to more complex biological systems. Our results showed that the application of current in combination with acetic acid has profound inhibitory effects on MDR strains of P. aeruginosa and E. coli, even with brief applications. Specifically, E. coli motility dynamics and cell survival were significantly impaired starting at a concentration of 125 micro-A DC and 0.31% acetic acid, while P. aeruginosa was impaired at 70 micro-A and 0.31% acetic acid. As these strains are relevant wound pathogens, it is likely that this strategy would be effective against similar strains in vivo and could represent a new approach to hasten wound healing.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088120', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Guelph']]
[u'Quantitative analysis of 3D alignment quality: its impact on soft-validation, particle pruning and homogeneity analysis', ['Javier Vargas', 'Roberto Melero', 'Josue Gomez-Blanco', 'Jose-Maria Carazo', 'Carlos Oscar Sanchez Sorzano'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Single Particle Analysis using cryo-electron microscopy is a structural biology\ntechnique to capture the three-dimensional conformation of biological\nmacromolecules. The projection images used to construct the 3D density map are\ncharacterized by a very low signal-to-noise ratio to minimize radiation damage in\nthe samples. As a consequence, the 3D alignment process is a challenging and\nerror prone task and this job usually determines the success or failure of the\nmacromolecule reconstruction. In this work, we present a soft-alignment\nvalidation approach, which can quantify the alignment precision and accuracy as\nwell as the data homogeneity of the single particles when they are confronted with\nthe resultant reconstructed 3DEM map. We have also applied this method to data\nhomogeneity analysis and particle pruning, improving the data quality and as a\nconsequence the final map resolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088062', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Centro Nacional de Biotecnologia-CSIC']]
[u'Upstream trophic structure modulates downstream community dynamics via resource subsidies.', ['Eric Harvey', 'Isabelle Gounand', 'Chelsea Little', 'Emanuel A. Fronhofer', 'Florian Altermatt'], u'November 16, 2016.', u"In many natural systems, the physical structure of the landscape dictates the flow of resources. Despite mounting evidence that communities' dynamics can be indirectly coupled by reciprocal among-ecosystem resource flows, our understanding of how directional resource flows might indirectly link biological communities is limited. We here propose that differences in community structure upstream should lead to different downstream dynamics, even in the absence of dispersal. We report an experimental test of the effect of upstream community structure on downstream community dynamics in a simplified but highly controlled setting, using protist microcosms. We implemented directional flows of resources, without dispersal, from a standard resource pool into upstream communities of contrasting interaction structure and then to further downstream communities of either one or two trophic levels. Our results demonstrate that different types of species interactions in upstream habitats may lead to different population sizes and levels of biomass in these upstream habitats. This, in turn, leads to varying levels of detritus transfer (dead biomass) to the downstream communities, thus influencing their population densities and trophic interactions in predictable ways. Our results suggest that the structure of species interactions in directionally structured ecosystems can be a key mediator of alterations to downstream habitats. Alterations to upstream habitats can thus cascade down to downstream communities, even without dispersal.", u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088096', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Zurich']]
[u'Unstable inheritance of 45S rRNA genes in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Fernando A Rabanal', 'Viktoria Nizhynska', 'Terezie Mandakova', 'Polina Yu Novikova', 'Martin Lysak', 'Richard Mott', 'Magnus Nordborg'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'The considerable genome size variation in Arabidopsis thaliana has been shown largely to be due to copy number variation (CNV) in 45S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes. Surprisingly, attempts to map this variation by means of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) failed to identify either of the two likely sources, namely the nucleolar organizer regions (NORs). Instead, GWAS implicated a trans-acting locus, as if rRNA CNV was a phenotype rather than a genotype. To explain these results, we investigated the inheritance and stability of rRNA gene copy number using the variety of genetic resources available in A. thaliana \u2014 F2 crosses, recombinant inbred lines, the multiparent advanced generation inter-cross population, and mutation accumulation lines. Our results clearly show that rRNA gene CNV can be mapped to the NORs themselves, with both loci contributing equally to the variation. However, NOR size is unstably inherited, and dramatic copy number changes are visible already within tens of generations, which explains why it is not possible to map the NORs using GWAS. We did not find any evidence of trans-acting loci in crosses, which is also expected since changes due to such loci would take very many generations to manifest themselves. rRNA gene copy number is thus an interesting example of \u201cmissing heritability\u201d \u2014 a trait that is heritable in pedigrees, but not in the general population.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088088', [u'Genetics'], [u'Gregor Mendel Institute, Austria;', u'Central European Institute of Technology, Austria;', u'University College London, Czech Republic']]
[u'Disentangling the Effects of Weather and Density on the Dynamics of a Fungal Pathogen', ['Colin Kyle', 'Eli Goldwyn', 'Greg Dwyer'], u'November 16, 2016.', u"Nonlinear fitting algorithms have illuminated the role of weather in human diseases, by allowing for robust tests of mechanistic transmission models, but a lack of data has prevented applications to animal diseases.   This is important because classical models that neglect weather predict that there will be a host density threshold, below which epidemic intensity will be slight, but models that include weather predict that this threshold will often be obliterated by weather variability.   To test the applicability of thresholds to animal diseases, we estimated infection rates of the fungal pathogen Entomophaga maimaiga in the gypsy moth, by collecting larvae during epidemics at a range of host densities and weather conditions, and we estimated the pathogen's force of infection, by exposing experimental larvae to the pathogen for 24 h periods in the field.   By fitting a range of models to our data, we show that epidemics of this pathogen are best explained by a model that allows for positive effects of both host density and cool, moist weather on  transmission, such that weather-only and density-dependence-only models provide vastly poorer explanations for the data.   Despite the effects of weather, the combined model shows that the effects of density in E. maimaiga are strong enough to ensure that the density threshold will have important effects on the probability of epidemics.   Our work shows that weather and density-dependent transmission can interact in non-intuitive ways, and provides an illustration of the usefulness of nonlinear fitting for understanding animal diseases.", u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088054', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'U Chicago']]
[u'Detecting Selection Signals In Plasmodium falciparum Using Identity-By-Descent Analysis', ['Lyndal Henden', 'Stuart Lee', 'Ivo Mueller', 'Alyssa Barry', 'Melanie Bahlo'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Detection of selection signals using genomic data is vital for tracking drug resistance loci in microorganisms that cause disease, such as malaria, and monitoring of such loci is crucial for disease control efforts. Here we present a novel method of detecting relatively recent selection using identity-by-descent approaches suitable for multiclonal, recombining microorganisms. Application of this new method to a large whole genome sequencing study of Plasmodium falciparum identifies many well-known signatures such as crt and k13, associated with chloroquine resistance and artemisinin resistance respectively, and through relatedness networks shows how these signatures are distributed in Southeast Asia, Africa and Oceania. Using these networks, we confirmed an independent origin of chloroquine resistance in Papua New Guinea and the spread of multiple artemisinin resistance mutations in Southeast Asia. We also found two novel signals of selection not yet investigated in detail.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088039', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research']]
[u'Persistent neural activity encoding real-time presence of visual stimuli decays along the ventral stream', ['Edden M. Gerber', 'Tal Golan', 'Robert T Knight', 'Leon Y Deouell'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Neural populations that encode sensory experience should be persistently active for as long as the experience persists. However, research into visual neural activity has focused almost exclusively on onset-driven responses that cannot account for sustained perception. We used intracranial recordings in humans to determine the degree to which the presence of a visual stimulus is persistently encoded by neural activity. The correspondence between stimulus duration and response duration was strongest in early visual cortex and gradually diminished along the visual hierarchy, such that is was weakest in inferior-temporal category-selective regions. A similar posterior-anterior gradient was found within inferior temporal face-selective regions, with posterior but not anterior sites showing persistent face-selective activity. The results suggest that regions that appear uniform in terms of their category selectivity are dissociated by how they temporally represent a stimulus in support of real-time experience, and delineate a large-scale organizing principle of the ventral visual stream.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/088021', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Hebrew University of Jerusalem;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Efficient Heuristic for Decomposing a Flow with Minimum Number of Paths', ['Mingfu Shao', 'Carl Kingsford'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'Motivated by transcript assembly and multiple genome assembly problems, in this paper, we study the following minimum path flow decomposition problem: given a directed acyclic graph G=(V, E) with source s and sink t and a flow f, compute a set of s-t paths P and assign weight w(p) for p \u2208 P such that f(e) = \u03a3p\u2208P:e\u2208pw(p), \u2200e \u2208 E, and |P| is minimized. We propose an efficient pseudo-polynomial-time heuristic for this problem based on novel insights.  Our heuristic gives a framework that consists of several components, providing a roadmap for continuing development of better heuristics.  Through experimental studies on both simulated and transcript assembly instances, we show that our algorithm significantly improves the previous state-of-the-art algorithm.  Implementation of our algorithm is available at https://github.com/Kingsford-Group/catfish.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/087759', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'Livestock and microcephaly, traces of an association?', ['Ion G de Andrade'], u'November 16, 2016.', u'While there is no doubt about the participation of Zika virus in microcephaly, its epidemiology is not entirely clear and doubts remain about the intervention of other factors. In studies on the epidemiology of dengue, the infestation by Aedes aegypti peridomiciliary and the population density are the main determinants for viral spread. However, in Rio Grande do Norte state (RN), the counties that have confirmed cases of microcephaly overlapped the river basins regions surrounded by agriculture and livestock. In addition, the prevalence of microcephaly at the end of the first year of the epidemic was higher in small towns than in larger ones, elements that seem to contradict what is known about the epidemic by other arboviruses. Methods: 234 cases of microcephaly were analyzed from three states and 144 counties. Results: An exponential trend of higher prevalence of microcephaly in the smaller cities (r2=0,7121) was found.The correlation coefficients (R) between the Prevalence of microcephaly and the variables that measured the density of animals in the territory ranged from moderate to strong. Discussion: Concerning microcephaly, studies in progress point to the possibility of association between the Zika Virus and the BVDV, a virus known to produce birth defects in farm animals but perceived as innocuous in humans. Conclusions: The overlap of cases of microcephaly in river basins, their higher prevalence in smaller cities, the strength of the correlation coefficient, render necessary new etiological and pathophysiological studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/16/087825', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Universiade Potiguar, Medical School and Secretaria de Estado da Saude do RN/CEFOPE-ETSUS']]
