[u'Rad51 catalytic mutants differentially affect the Rad51 nucleoprotein filament', ['Maureen M Mundia', 'Alissa C Magwood', 'Mark D Baker'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'In this study, we utilized mouse hybridoma cell lines stably expressing ectopic wild-type Rad51, or the Rad51-K133A and Rad51-K133R catalytic mutants deficient in ATP binding and ATP hydrolysis, respectively, to investigate effects on the Rad51 nucleoprotein filament in vivo. Immunoprecipitation studies reveal interactions between ectopic wild-type Rad51, Rad51-K133A and Rad51-K133R and endogenous Rad51, Brca2 and p53 proteins. Importantly, the expression of Rad51-K133A and Rad51-K133R catalytic mutants (but not wild-type Rad51) targets endogenous Rad51, Brca2 and p53 proteins for proteasome-mediated degradation. Expression of Rad51-K133R significantly reduces nascent DNA synthesis (3 prime polymerization) during homologous recombination (HR), but the effects of Rad51-K133A on 3 prime polymerization are considerably more severe. Provision of additional wild-type Rad51 in cell lines expressing Rad51-K133A or Rad51-K133R does not restore diminished levels of endogenous Brca2, Rad51 or p53, nor restore the deficiency in 3 prime polymerization. Cells expressing Rad51-K133A are also significantly reduced in their capacity to drive strand exchange through regions of heterology. Our results reveal an interesting mechanistic dichotomy in the way mutant Rad51-K133A and Rad51-K133R proteins influence 3 prime polymerization and provide novel insight into the mechanism of their dominant-negative phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070276', [], [u'University of Guelph']]
[u'Personalized epilepsy seizure detection using random forest classification over one-dimension transformed EEG data', ['Marco Pinto Orellana', 'Fabio Cerqueira'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'This work presents a computational method for improving seizure detection for epilepsy diagnosis. Epilepsy is the second most common neurological disease impacting between 40 and 50 million of patients in the world and its proper diagnosis using electroencephalographic signals implies a long and expensive process which involves medical specialists. The proposed system is a patient-dependent offline system which performs an automatic detection of seizures in brainwaves applying a random forest classifier. Features are extracted using one-dimension reduced information from a spectro-temporal transformation of the biosignals which pass through an envelope detector. The performance of this method reached 97.12% of specificity, 99.29% of sensitivity, and a 0.77,h^-1 false positive rate. Thus, the method hereby proposed has great potential for diagnosis support in clinical environments.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070300', [], [u'Universidade Federal de Vicosa']]
[u'An Automated Microwell Platform for Large-Scale Single Cell RNA-Seq', ['Jinzhou Yuan', 'Peter A. Sims'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Recent developments have enabled rapid, inexpensive RNA sequencing of thousands of individual cells from a single specimen, raising the possibility of unbiased and comprehensive expression profiling from complex tissues. Microwell arrays are a particularly attractive microfluidic platform for single cell analysis due to their scalability, cell capture efficiency, and compatibility with imaging. We report an automated microwell array platform for single cell RNA-Seq with significantly improved performance over previous implementations. We demonstrate cell capture efficiencies of >50%, compatibility with commercially available barcoded mRNA capture beads, and parallel expression profiling from thousands of individual cells. We evaluate the level of cross-contamination in our platform by both tracking fluorescent cell lysate in sealed microwells and with a human-mouse mixed species RNA-Seq experiment.  Finally, we apply our system to comprehensively assess heterogeneity in gene expression of patient-derived glioma neurospheres and uncover subpopulations similar to those observed in human glioma tissue.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070193', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Multidimensionality of plant defenses and herbivore niches: implications for eco-evolutionary dynamics', ['nicolas loeuille', 'Celine Hauzy'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Plant defenses are very diverse and often involve contrasted costs and benefits. Quantitative defenses, whose protective effect is dependent on the dose, are effective against a wide range of herbivores, but often divert energy from growth and reproduction. Qualitative defenses do not have such allocation costs. However, while deterrent to some herbivores, they often incur costs through other interactions within the community (eg, decrease in pollination or attraction of other enemies). In the present work, we model the evolutionary dynamics of these two types of defenses, as well and the evolutionary dynamics of the herbivore niche. We also assess the effects of such evolutionary dynamics for the maintenance of diversity within the plant-herbivore system, and for the functioning of such systems (effects of nutrient enrichment). We show that the two types of defenses have different implications. Evolution of quantitative defenses may help to maintain or even increase diversity, while evolution of qualitative defenses most often has a detrimental effect on species coexistence. From a functional point of view, nutrient enrichment selects for higher levels of quantitative defenses, which reduces top-down controls exerted by herbivores. Enrichment does not affect qualitative defenses, nor the evolution of the herbivore niche. We finally discuss the implications of these results for the management of ecosystems.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070250', [], [u'University Pierre & Marie Curie']]
[u'Pulsatile lipid vesicles under osmotic stress', ['Morgan Chabanon', 'James C.S. Ho', 'Bo Liedberg', 'Atul N. Parikh', 'Padmini Rangamani'], u'August 18, 2016.', u"The response of lipid bilayers to osmotic stress is an important part of cellular function. Previously, in [Oglecka et al. 2014], we reported that cell-sized giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs) exposed to hypotonic media, respond to the osmotic assault by undergoing a cyclical sequence of swelling and bursting events, coupled to the membrane's compositional degrees of freedom. Here,  we seek to deepen our quantitative understanding of the essential pulsatile behavior of GUVs under hypotonic conditions, by advancing a comprehensive theoretical model for vesicle dynamics. The model quantitatively captures our experimentally measured swell-burst parameters for single-component GUVs, and reveals that thermal fluctuations enable rate dependent pore nucleation, driving the dynamics of the swell-burst cycles. We further identify new scaling relationships between the pulsatile dynamics and GUV properties. Our findings provide a fundamental framework that has the potential to guide future investigations on the non-equilibrium dynamics of vesicles under osmotic stress.", u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070342', [], [u'University of California San Diego;', u'Nanyang Technological University;', u'University of California Davis']]
[u'Mathematical Methods for Modeling Chemical Reaction Networks', ['Justin Carden', 'Casian Pantea', 'Gheorge Craciun', 'Raghu Machiraju', 'Parag Mallick'], u'August 18, 2016.', u"Cancer's cellular behavior is driven by alterations in the processes that cells use to sense and respond to diverse stimuli. Underlying these processes are a series of chemical processes (enzyme-substrate, protein-protein, etc.).  Here we introduce a set of mathematical techniques for describing and characterizing these processes.", u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070326', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'West Virginia University;', u'University of Wisconsin;', u'Ohio State University']]
[u'Reconstructing the backbone of the Saccharomycotina yeast phylogeny using genome-scale data', ['Xing-Xing Shen', 'Xiaofan Zhou', 'Jacek Kominek', 'Cletus P Kurtzman', 'Chris Todd Hittinger', 'Antonis Rokas'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Understanding the phylogenetic relationships among the yeasts of the subphylum Saccharomycotina is a prerequisite for understanding the evolution of their metabolisms and ecological lifestyles. In the last two decades, the use of rDNA and multi-locus data sets has greatly advanced our understanding of the yeast phylogeny, but many deep relationships remain unsupported. In contrast, phylogenomic analyses have involved relatively few taxa and lineages that were often selected with limited considerations for covering the breadth of yeast biodiversity. Here we used genome sequence data from 86 publicly available yeast genomes representing 9 of the 11 major lineages and 10 non-yeast fungal outgroups to generate a 1,233-gene, 96-taxon data matrix. Species phylogenies reconstructed using two different methods (concatenation and coalescence) and two data matrices (amino acids or the first two codon positions) yielded identical and highly supported relationships between the 9 major lineages. Aside from the lineage comprised by the family Pichiaceae, all other lineages were monophyletic. Most interrelationships among yeast species were robust across the two methods and data matrices. However, 8 of the 93 internodes conflicted between analyses or data sets, including the placements of: the clade defined by species that have reassigned the CUG codon to encode serine, instead of leucine; the clade defined by a whole genome duplication; and of Ascoidea rubescens. These phylogenomic analyses provide a robust roadmap for future comparative work across the yeast subphylum in the disciplines of taxonomy, molecular genetics, evolutionary biology, ecology, and biotechnology. To further this end, we have also provided a BLAST server to query the 86 Saccharomycotina genomes, which can be found at http://y1000plus.org/blast.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070235', [], [u'Vanderbilt University, United States;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States;', u'USDA, United States']]
[u'How cognitive genetic factors influence fertility outcomes: A mediational SEM analysis.', ['Michael A Woodley', 'Joseph A Schwartz', 'Kevin M Beaver'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Utilizing a newly released cognitive Polygenic Score (PGS) from Wave IV of Add Health (n = 1,886), structural equation models (SEMs) examining the relationship between PGS and fertility (which is approximately 50% complete in the present sample), utilizing measures of verbal IQ and educational attainment as potential mediators, were estimated. The results of indirect pathway models revealed that verbal IQ mediates the positive relationship between PGS and educational attainment, and educational attainment in turn mediates the negative relationship between IQ and a latent fertility measure. The direct path from PGS to fertility was non-significant. The model was robust to controlling for age, sex and race, furthermore the results of a multi-group SEM revealed no significant differences in the estimated path coefficients across sex. These results indicate that those predisposed towards higher IQ by virtue of higher PGS values are also predisposed towards trading fertility against time spent in education, which contributes to those with higher PGS values producing fewer offspring.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070128', [], [u'Vrije Universiteit Brussel;', u'University of Nebraska Omaha;', u'Florida State University']]
[u'Eph/ephrin signaling controls progenitor identities in the ventral spinal cord', ['Julien Laussu', 'Christophe Audouard', 'Anthony Kischel', 'Poincyane Assis-Nascimento', 'Nathalie Escalas', 'Daniel Liebl', 'Cathy Soula', 'Alice Davy'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Early specification of progenitors of the ventral spinal cord involves the morphogen Sonic Hedgehog which induces distinct progenitor identities in a dose-dependent manner. Following these initial patterning events, progenitor identities have to be maintained and propagated faithfully in order to generate appropriate numbers of progeny. Here we provide evidence that local communication via Eph:ephrin signaling is required to maintain progenitor identities at progenitor domain boundaries. We show that ephrinB2 and ephrinB3 are expressed in restricted progenitor domains in the ventral spinal cord while Eph receptors are more broadly expressed. Genetic loss-of-function analyses indicate that expression of ephrinB2 and ephrinB3 is required to control progenitor identities and in vitro experiments reveal that activation of EphA4 in spinal progenitors up-regulates the expression of the identity transcription factor Nkx2.2. Altogether our results indicates that local cell-to-cell communication is necessary to control progenitor identity at domain boundaries.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070227', [], [u'CNRS;', u'The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis;', u'Miami Project to Cure Paralysis']]
[u'Natural and laboratory mutations in kuzbanian are associated with heavy metal stress phenotypes in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Hung Le', 'Lain Guio', 'Miriam Merenciano', 'Quirze Rovira', 'Maite G Barron', 'Josefa Gonzalez'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Organisms must cope with altered environmental conditions such as high concentrations of heavy metals. Stress response to heavy metals is mediated by the metal-responsive transcription factor 1 (MTF-1), which is conserved from Drosophila to humans. MTF-1 binds to metal response elements (MREs) and changes the expression of target genes. kuzbanian (kuz), a metalloendopeptidase that activates the evolutionary conserved Notch signaling pathway, has been identified as an MTF-1 target gene. We have previously identified a putatively adaptive transposable element in the Drosophila melanogaster genome, named FBti0019170, inserted in a kuz intron. In this work, we investigated whether laboratory-induced mutations in kuz are associated with zinc stress phenotypes. We found that both embryos and adult flies overexpressing kuz are more tolerant to zinc compared with wild-type flies. On the other hand, we found that the effect of FBti0019170 on zinc stress tolerance depends on developmental stage and genetic background. Moreover, in the majority of the genetic backgrounds analyzed, FBti0019170 has a deleterious effect in unpolluted environments in pre-adult stages. These results highlight the complexity of natural mutations and suggest that besides laboratory-induced mutations natural mutations need to be studied in order to accurately characterize gene function and evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070243', [], [u'Institute of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-Universitat Pompeu Fabra)']]
[u'Phenome-wide Heritability Analysis of the UK Biobank', ['Tian Ge', 'Chia-Yen Chen', 'Benjamin M. Neale', 'Mert R. Sabuncu', 'Jordan W. Smoller'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Heritability estimation provides important information about the relative contribution of genetic and environmental factors to phenotypic variation, and provides an upper bound for the utility of genetic risk prediction models. Recent technological and statistical advances have enabled the estimation of additive heritability attributable to common genetic variants (SNP heritability) across a broad phenotypic spectrum. However, assessing the comparative heritability of multiple traits estimated in different cohorts may be misleading due to the population-specific nature of heritability. Here we report the SNP heritability for 551 complex traits derived from the large-scale, population-based UK Biobank, comprising both quantitative phenotypes and disease codes, and examine the moderating effect of three major demographic variables (age, sex and socioeconomic status) on the heritability estimates. Our study represents the first comprehensive phenome-wide heritability analysis in the UK Biobank, and underscores the importance of considering population characteristics in comparing and interpreting heritability.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070177', [], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Single-cell quantitation of histones and histone post-translational modifications across the cell cycle by high-throughput imaging', ['Linda Karine Zane', 'Fleur Chapus', 'Gianluca Pegoraro', 'Tom Misteli'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Post-translational modifications (PTM) of histone proteins are critical determinants of genome function. Analysis of histone PTM levels has traditionally been performed using biochemical bulk methods to measure individual modifications. These approaches are generally unable to detect differences in histone and histone PTM levels during the cell cycle, do not provide information on variability amongst individual cells, and they are not suitable for multiplexing to comprehensively analyze large numbers of histone modifications in single experiments. We have developed HiHiMap (High-throughput Histone Mapping), an automated high-throughput immunofluorescence technique to determine histone and histone PTM levels across the cell cycle at the single-cell level in a highly parallel format. Our approach uses imaging-based quantification of DNA content and cyclin A levels to stage individual cells in the cell cycle combined with determination of the corresponding histone and histone PTM levels in the same cells. We have applied HiHiMap to a set of 22 histone variants and histone modifications. As proof-of-principle for a biological application, we use HiHiMap to the histone and histone PTMs landscape in primary, immortalized and oncogenically transformed cells. We find differences in the behavior of a specific set of histone PTM during the the cell cycle in transformed cells compared to normal and immortalized cells. The method developed here is widely applicable to the systematic study of histone modifications in physiological and pathological settings at the single-cell level.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070219', [], [u'NCI/NIH']]
[u'Escherichia coli populations adapt to complex, unpredictable fluctuations by minimizing trade-offs across environments', ['Shraddha Madhav Karve', 'Devika Bhave', 'Dhanashri Nevgi', 'Sutirth Dey'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'In nature, organisms are simultaneously exposed to multiple stresses (i.e. complex environments) that often fluctuate unpredictably. While both these factors have been studied in isolation, the interaction of the two remains poorly explored. To address this issue, we selected laboratory populations of Escherichia coli under complex (i.e. stressful combinations of pH, H2O2 and NaCl) unpredictably fluctuating environments for ~900 generations. We compared the growth rates and the corresponding trade-off patterns of these populations to those that were selected under constant values of the component stresses (i.e. pH, H2O2 and NaCl) for the same duration. The fluctuation-selected populations had greater mean growth rate and lower variation for growth rate over all the selection environments experienced. However, while the populations selected under constant stresses experienced trade-offs in the environments other than those in which they were selected, the fluctuation-selected populations could by-pass the across-environment trade-offs almost entirely. Interestingly, trade-offs were found between growth rates and carrying capacities. The results suggest that complexity and fluctuations can strongly affect the underlying trade-off structure in evolving populations.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070318', [], [u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune;', u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research Pune']]
[u'Analysis of infection biomarkers within a Bayesian framework reveals their role in pneumococcal pneumonia diagnosis in HIV patients', ['Austin G Meyer'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Background\n\nHIV patients are more likely to contract bacterial pneumonia and more likely to die from the infection. Unfortunately, there are few tests to quickly diagnosis the etiology of these dangerous infections. Several biomarkers may be useful for diagnosing the most common pneumonia-causing organism, S. pneumoniae, but studies utilizing the standard statistical approach provide little concrete guidance for the HIV-infected population.\n\nMethodology and Findings \n\nUsing a Bayesian approach, I analyze data from a cohort of 280 HIV patients with x-ray confirmed community acquired pneumonia. First, I use a variety of techniques to establish predictor significance and to identify their optimal cutoffs. Next, in lieu of cutoffs, I find the continuous and combined likelihood ratios for every value of each biomarker, and I compute the associated posttest probabilities. As expected, I find the three biomarkers with good clinical yield and a statistically significant association with S. pneumoniae are C-reactive protein (CRP), procalcitonin (PCT), and lytA gene PCR (lytA). Based on Bayesian clinical yield, optimal cutoffs are largely equivocal. The optimal dichotomous cutoff for CRP is essentially any value between 10 mg/dL and 30 mg/dL (\u2206pposttest \u2248 0.49). The optimal cutoff for PCT is any value between 2 ng/mL and 40 ng/mL (\u2206pposttest \u2248 0.35). The optimal cutoff for lytA is any value less than 6 log10 copies/mL (\u2206pposttest \u2248 0.45). Further, I find that continuous likelihood ratios provide much more accurate posttest probabilities than dichotomous cutoffs. For example, starting with the empirical pretest probability, a lytA approaching 0 copies/mL lowers the probability of S. pneumoniae infection to less than 15%, while a result of 10 copies/mL raises the probability to greater than 65%. However, a lytA value just above or below the suggested cutoff of 8000 copies/mL or my new optimal cutoff of 30, 000 copies/mL leaves the posttest probability of infection essentially unchanged from the pretest probability.\n\nConclusion\n\nCRP, PCT, and lytA all provide significant value in diagnosing the etiology of pneumonia in HIV patients. The optimal dichotomous cutoffs for lytA, CRP, and PCT need to be adjusted for pneumococcal diagnosis in this population. However, continuous and combined likelihood ratios avoid discarding valuable quantitative information, and a combined likelihood ratio can be easily computed without the need for prior logistic regression. Importantly, there is significant overlap between these biomarkers such that only one of the three biomarkers at a time should be used to update clinical probabilities. Thus, it is ill-advised to combine the likelihood ratios of different biomarkers to produce a posttest probability. Finally, I provide a simple web application to quantitatively calculate the posttest probability of S. pneumoniae infection in HIV patients with x-ray confirmed pneumonia: http://meyerapps.org/pneumococcal_etiology_hiv.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070144', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'A gene for genetic background in Zea mays: fine-mapping enhancer of teosinte branched1.2 (etb1.2) to a YABBY class transcription factor', ['Chin Jian Yang', 'Lisa E Kursel', 'Anthony J Studer', 'Madelaine E Bartlett', 'Clint Whipple', 'John F Doebley'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'The effects of an allelic substitution at a gene often depend critically on genetic background, the genotype at other genes in the genome.  During the domestication of maize from its wild ancestor (teosinte), an allelic substitution at teosinte branched (tb1) caused changes in both plant and ear architecture.  The effects of tb1 on phenotype were shown to depend on multiple background loci including one called enhancer of tb1.2 (etb1.2).  We mapped etb1.2 to a YABBY class transcription factor (ZmYAB2.1) and showed that the maize alleles of ZmYAB2.1 are either expressed at a lower level than teosinte alleles or disrupted by insertions in the sequences.   tb1 and etb1.2 interact epistatically to control the length of internodes within the maize ear which affects how densely the kernels are packed on the ear.  The interaction effect is also observed at the level of gene expression with tb1 acting as a repressor of ZmYAB2.1 expression.  Curiously, ZmYAB2.1 was previously identified as a candidate gene for another domestication trait in maize, non-shattering ears.  Consistent with this proposed role, ZmYAB2.1 is expressed in a narrow band of cells in immature ears that appears to represent a vestigial abscission (shattering) zone.  Expression in this band of cells may also underlie the effect on internode elongation. The identification of ZmYAB2.1 as a background factor interacting with tb1 is a first step toward a gene-level understanding of how tb1 and the background within which it works evolved in concert during maize domestication.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070201', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Wisconsin, United States;', u'University of Massachusetts-Amherst, United States;', u'Brigham Young University, United States']]
[u'Viral outbreaks involve destabilised viruses: evidence from Ebola, Influenza and Zika', ['Stephane Aris-Brosou', 'Neke Ibeh', 'Jessica Noel'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'Although viral outbreaks and pandemics have plagued humans and other organisms for billions of years, such events are not only still impossible to predict, but the ultimate reasons why outbreaks happen are not understood. Based on recent viral outbreaks and pandemics (Ebola, Zika and Influenza), we searched for a common denominator to these events, positing that the genome of outbreak viruses is far from an evolutionary equilibrium, which is ultimately maintained by a dense network of correlated substitutions. We show here that genes of outbreak viruses are characterised by destabilised correlation networks, a result that might improve outbreak surveillance.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070102', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Ottawa']]
[u'StarBEAST2 brings faster species tree inference and accurate estimates of substitution rates', ['Huw A Ogilvie', 'Alexei J Drummond'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'The multispecies coalescent (MSC) reconstructs species trees from a set of genes, and fully Bayesian MSC methods like *BEAST estimate species trees from multiple sequence alignments. Today thousands of genes can be sequenced for a given study, but using that many genes with *BEAST is intractably slow. One alternative is concatenation, which assumes that the evolutionary history of each gene tree is identical to the species tree. This is an inconsistent estimator of species tree topology, and a worse estimator of divergence times. Concatenation also induces spurious substitution rate variation when incomplete lineage sorting is present. Another alternative is to use summary MSC methods like ASTRAL, but such methods are also unsatisfactory because they infer branch lengths in coalescent units, and so cannot estimate divergence times. To enable fuller use of available data and more accurate inference of species tree topologies, divergence times, and substitution rates, we have developed a new version of *BEAST called StarBEAST2. To improve convergence rates we add analytical integration of population sizes and novel MCMC operators which improved computational performance by 3.1x when analyzing a single empirical data set, and an average of 6.2x across 96 simulated data sets. Convergence rates are also more consistent between chains than *BEAST. To enable accurate estimates of per-species substitution rates we introduce species tree relaxed clocks, and show that StarBEAST2 is a more powerful and robust estimator of rate variation than concatenation. StarBEAST2 is available through the BEAUTi package manager in BEAST 2.4 and above.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070169', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Australian National University;', u'University of Auckland']]
[u'Tracing co-regulatory network dynamics in noisy, single-cell transcriptome trajectories', ['Pablo Cordero', 'Joshua M Stuart'], u'August 18, 2016.', u"The availability of gene expression data at the single cell level makes it possible to probe the molecular underpinnings of complex biological processes such as differentiation and oncogenesis.\nPromising new methods have emerged for reconstructing a progression 'trajectory' from static single-cell transcriptome measurements.\nHowever, it remains unclear how to adequately model the appreciable level of noise in these data to elucidate gene regulatory network rewiring.\nHere, we present a framework called Single Cell Inference of MorphIng Trajectoiries and their Associated Regulation (SCIMITAR) that infers progressions from static single-cell transcriptomes by employing a continuous parametrization of Gaussian mixtures in high-dimensional curves. \nSCIMITAR yields rich models from the data that highlight genes with expression and coexpression patterns that are associated with the inferred progression.\nFurther, SCIMITAR extracts regulatory states from the implicated trajectory-evolving co-expression networks.\nWe benchmark the method on simulated data to show that it yields accurate cell ordering and gene network inferences.\nApplied to the interpretation of a single-cell human fetal neuron dataset, SCIMITAR finds progression-associated genes in cornerstone neural differentiation pathways missed by standard differential expression tests.\nFinally, by leveraging the rewiring of gene-gene co-expression relations across the progression, the method reveals the rise and fall of co-regulatory states and trajectory-dependent gene modules.\nThese analyses implicate new transcription factors in neural differentiation including putative co-factors for the multi-functional NFAT pathway.", u'/content/early/2016/08/18/070151', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California Santa Cruz']]
[u'Crowding-induced transcriptional bursts dictate nucleosome and polymerase density profiles along genes', ['Aafke A van den Berg', 'Martin Depken'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'During transcription, RNA polymerase competes for space on the DNA with other DNA binding proteins and higher order DNA structures acting as roadblocks. Though it is known that individual polymerases often slow down when forcing roadblocks, the effect of crowding on transcription as a whole is not clear. Based on quantitative theoretical modeling, we show that interactions with roadblocks induce a strong kinetic attraction between polymerases, causing them to self-organize into pelotons. Peloton formation explains observed nucleosome and polymerase density profiles close to the initiation site on highly transcribed genes, and how these densities depend on induction levels. At termination, pelotons translate into transcriptional bursts that dispaly the same characteristics as those observed in vivo. Our model thus unifies common spatial and temporal transcription patterns as arising from a non-specific interaction between roadblocks and polymerases.  The generality of our model suggests that peloton formation might be ubiquitous in systems where molecular motors interact with dynamic roadblocks.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/065268', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Department of Bionanoscience, Kavli Institute of Nanoscience,  Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Tuberculosis susceptibility and vaccine protection are independently controlled by host genotype', ['Clare M Smith', 'Megan Proulx', 'Andrew J Olive', 'Dominick Laddy', 'Bibhuti Mishra', 'Caitlin Moss', 'Nuria Martinez Gutierrez', 'Michelle M Bellerose', 'Palmira Barreira-Silva', 'Jia Yao Phuah', 'Richard E Baker', 'Samuel M Behar', 'Hardy Kornfeld', 'Thomas G Evans', 'Gillian Beamer', 'Christopher M Sassetti'], u'August 18, 2016.', u'The outcome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection and the immunological response to the Bacille Calmette Guerin (BCG) vaccine are highly variable in humans. Deciphering the relative importance of host genetics, environment, and vaccine preparation on BCG efficacy has proven difficult in natural populations. We developed a model system that captures the breadth of immunological responses observed in outbred individuals, which can be used to understand the contribution of host genetics to vaccine efficacy.  This system employs a panel of highly-diverse inbred mouse strains, consisting of the founders and recombinant progeny of the Collaborative Cross. Unlike natural populations, the structure of this panel allows the serial evaluation of genetically-identical individuals and quantification of genotype-specific effects of interventions such as vaccination.  When analyzed in the aggregate, our panel resembled natural populations in several important respects; the animals displayed a broad range of Mtb susceptibility, varied in their immunological response to infection, and were not durably protected by BCG vaccination.  However, when analyzed at the genotype level, we found that these phenotypic differences were heritable.  Mtb susceptibility varied between lines, from extreme sensitivity to progressive Mtb clearance.  Similarly, only a minority of the genotypes was protected by vaccination.  BCG efficacy was genetically separable from susceptibility, and the lack of efficacy in the aggregate analysis was driven by nonresponsive lines that mounted a qualitatively distinct response to infection. These observations support an important role for host genetic diversity in determining BCG efficacy, and provide a new resource to rationally develop more broadly efficacious vaccines.', u'/content/early/2016/08/18/064253', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Massachussetts Medical School;', u'AERAS']]
