[u'The hidden treasure in your data: Phasing with unexpected weak anomalous scatterers from routine datasets', ['Raghurama P Hegde', 'Steven C Almo', 'Udupi A Ramagopal'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'Single wavelength anomalous dispersion (SAD) utilizing anomalous signal from native sulfurs, or other atoms with Z\u226420, generally requires highly redundant data collected with relatively long wavelength X-rays.  Here we present experiences with two proteins, where anomalous signal from serendipitously acquired surface bound calcium atoms with data redundancy as low as 10 was utilized to drive de novo structure determination. In both the cases, the calcium atoms were acquired from the crystallization solution, and data collection strategy was not optimized for exploiting the anomalous signal from these scatterers.  The X-ray data were collected at 0.98 \xc5 in one case and at 1.74 \xc5 in the other (wavelength optimized for sulfur but anomalous signal from Ca was exploited for structure solution). Similarly, using a test case, we show that the data collected at ~1.0 \xc5 wavelength, where the f\u2033 value for sulfur is 0.28e, is sufficient for structure determination using intrinsic sulfur atoms from a strongly diffracting crystal. Interestingly, it was also observed that SHELXD was capable of generating a substructure solution from high-exposure data with a completeness of 70% for low-resolution reflections extending to 3.5 \xc5, with relatively low redundancy (i.e., 6.0 fold).  Considering the fact that many crystallization conditions contain anomalous scatterers such as Cl, Ca, Mn etc., it appears that the data from well diffracting crystals should be processed, with anomalous pairs kept separate, so as to detect any fortuitous signal that might be present, which could prove useful in either solving the structure de novo or in accurately assigning surface bound atoms.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068403', [], [u'Poornaprajna Institute of Scientific Research;', u'Albert Einstein College of Medicine']]
[u'Multiple binding modes of ibuprofen in human serum albumin identified by absolute binding free energy calculations', ['Stefania Evoli', 'David Mobley', 'Rita Guzzi', 'Bruno Rizzuti'], u'August 8, 2016.', u"Human serum albumin possesses multiple binding sites and transports a wide range of ligands that include the anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen. A complete map of the binding sites of ibuprofen in albumin is difficult to obtain in traditional experiments, because of the structural adaptability of this protein in accommodating small ligands. In this work, we provide a set of predictions covering the geometry, affinity of binding and protonation state for the pharmaceutically most active form (S-isomer) of ibuprofen to albumin, by using absolute binding free energy calculations in combination with classical molecular dynamics (MD) simulations and molecular docking. The most favorable binding modes correctly reproduce several experimentally identified binding locations, which include the two Sudlow's drug sites (DS2 and DS1) and the fatty acid binding sites 6 and 2 (FA6 and FA2). Previously unknown details of the binding conformations were revealed for some of them, and formerly undetected binding modes were found in other protein sites. The calculated binding affinities exhibit trends which seem to agree with the available experimental data, and drastically degrade when the ligand is modeled in a protonated (neutral) state, indicating that ibuprofen associates with albumin preferentially in its charged form. These findings provide a detailed description of the binding of ibuprofen, help to explain a wide range of results reported in the literature in the last decades, and demonstrate the possibility of using simulation methods to predict ligand binding to albumin.", u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068502', [], [u'University of Calabria;', u'Departments of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chemistry']]
[u'Dynamics and fate of beneficial mutations under lineage contamination by linked deleterious mutations', ['Sophie Penisson', 'Tanya Singh', 'Paul D. Sniegowski', 'Philip J Gerrish'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'As mutation rate increases, the corresponding increase in numbers of adaptive variants ought to lead to increasingly fierce competition and faster adaptation. Here we find, however, that the intensity of competition does not increase monotonically with mutation rate but instead can decrease at high mutation rates because of linked deleterious mutations. Owing to stochastic sampling effects, newly-arising adaptive mutations will become burdened with new deleterious mutations at a rate that is, on average, higher than the rest of the population. At high mutation rates, this effect can alleviate competition among adaptive mutations, or even shut down the adaptive process.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068429', [], [u'Universite Paris-Est;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Into the Evening: Complex Interactions in the Arabidopsis circadian clock.', ['He A Huang', 'Dmitri A. Nusinow'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'In Arabidopsis thaliana, an assembly of proteins named the evening complex (EC) has been established as an essential component of the circadian clock with conserved functions in regulating plant growth and development. Recent studies identifying EC-regulated genes and EC-interacting proteins have expanded our understanding of EC function. In this review, we focus on new progress uncovering how the EC contributes to the circadian network through the integration of environmental inputs and the direct regulation of key clock genes. We also summarize new findings of how the EC directly regulates clock outputs, such as day-length dependent and thermoresponsive growth, and provide new perspectives on future experiments to address unsolved questions related to the EC.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068460', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center']]
[u'The fishing and natural mortality of large, piscivorous Bull Trout and Rainbow Trout in Kootenay Lake, British Columbia (2008-2013)', ['Joseph Thorley', 'Greg Andrusak'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'Background. Estimates of fishing and natural mortality are important for understanding, and ultimately managing, commercial and recreational fisheries. High reward tags with fixed station acoustic telemetry provides a promising approach to monitoring mortality rates in large lake recreational fisheries. Kootenay Lake is a large lake which supports an important recreational fishery for large Bull Trout and Rainbow Trout.\n\nMethods. Between 2008 and 2013, 88 large (\u2265 500 mm) Bull Trout and 149 large (\u2265 500 mm) Rainbow Trout were marked with an acoustic transmitter and/or high reward ($100) anchor tags in Kootenay Lake. The subsequent detections and angler recaptures were analysed using a Bayesian individual state-space Cormack-Jolly-Seber (CJS) survival model with indicator variable selection.\n\nResults. The final CJS survival model estimated that the annual interval probability of being recaptured by an angler was 0.17 (95% CRI 0.11 - 0.23) for Bull Trout and 0.14 (95% CRI 0.09 - 0.19) for Rainbow Trout. The annual interval survival probability for Bull Trout was estimated to have declined from 0.91 (95% CRI 0.77 - 0.97) in 2009 to just 0.45 (95% CRI 0.24 - 0.73) in 2013. Rainbow Trout survival was most strongly affected by spawning. The annual interval survival probability was 0.77 (95% CRI 0.68 - 0.85) for a non-spawning Rainbow Trout compared to 0.42 (95% CRI 0.31 - 0.54) for a spawner. The probability of spawning increased with the fork length for both species and decreased over the course of the study for Rainbow Trout.\n\nDiscussion. Fishing mortality was relatively low and constant while natural mortality was relatively high and variable. The results are consistent with Kokanee abundance as opposed to angler effort as the primary driver of short-term population fluctations in Rainbow Trout abundance. Multi-species stock assessment models need to account for the fact that large Bull Trout are more abundant than large Rainbow Trout in Kootenay Lake.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068387', [u'Ecology'], [u'Poisson Consulting Ltd.;', u'BC Fish and Wildlife Branch']]
[u'recount: A large-scale resource of analysis-ready RNA-seq expression data', ['Leonardo Collado-Torres', 'Abhinav Nellore', 'Kai Kammers', 'Shannon E Ellis', 'Margaret A Taub', 'Kasper D Hansen', 'Andrew E Jaffe', 'Ben Langmead', 'Jeffrey Leek'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'recount is a resource of processed and summarized expression data spanning nearly 60,000 human RNA-seq samples from the Sequence Read Archive (SRA). The associated recount Bioconductor package provides a convenient API for querying, downloading, and analyzing the data. Each processed study consists of meta/phenotype data, the expression levels of genes and their underlying exons and splice junctions, and corresponding genomic annotation. We also provide data summarization types for quantifying novel transcribed sequence including base-resolution coverage and potentially unannotated splice junctions. We present workflows illustrating how to use recount to perform differential expression analysis including meta-analysis, annotation-free base-level analysis, and replication of smaller studies using data from larger studies. recount provides a valuable and user-friendly resource of processed RNA-seq datasets to draw additional biological insights from existing public data. The resource is available at https://jhubiostatistics.shinyapps.io/recount/.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068478', [u'Genomics'], [u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health;', u'Lieber Institute for Brain Development;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Population structure reduces the benefits from partner choice in mutualism', ['Erol Akcay'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'Mutualisms are key drivers of evolutionary and ecological processes. Understanding how different species can evolve to interact in mutually beneficial ways is an important goal of evolutionary theory, especially when the benefits require costly investments by the partners. For such costly investments to evolve, some sort of fitness feedback mechanism must exist that more than recoups the direct costs. Several such feedback mechanisms have been explored both theoretically and empirically, yet we know relatively little how they might act together, as they probably do in nature. In this paper, I model the joint action of three of the main mechanisms that can maintain symbiotic cooperation: partner choice by hosts, population structure amongst symbionts, and undirected rewards from hosts to symbionts. My results show that population structure reduces the benefit from partner choice to hosts. It may help or hinder beneficial symbionts and create positive or negative frequency dependence depending on the nature of host rewards to the symbiont. Strong population structure also makes it less likely that host choosiness and symbiont cooperation will be jointly maintained in a population. The intuition behind my results is that all else being equal, population structure reduces local variation available to the host to choose from. Thus, population structure is not always beneficial for the evolution of cooperation between species. My results also underscore the need to do full analyses of multiple mechanisms of social evolution to uncover their interactions to uncover the interactions between them.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068445', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'No evidence for unknown archaic ancestry in South Asia', ['Pontus Skoglund', 'Swapan Mallick', 'Nick Patterson', 'David Reich'], u'August 8, 2016.', u'Genomic studies have documented a contribution of archaic Neanderthals and Denisovans to non-Africans. Recently, Mondal et al. 2016 (Nature Genetics, doi:10.1038/ng.3621) published a major dataset--the largest whole genome sequencing study of diverse South Asians to date--including 60 mainland groups and 10 indigenous Andamanese. They reported analyses claiming that nearly all South Asians harbor ancestry from an unknown archaic human population that is neither Neanderthal nor Denisovan. However, the statistics cited in support of this conclusion do not replicate in other data sets, and in fact contradict the conclusion.', u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068155', [u'Genomics'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'MIT']]
[u'Testing for local adaptation and evolutionary potential along altitudinal gradients in rainforest Drosophila: limitations of laboratory estimates.', ["Eleanor K O'Brien", 'Megan Higgie', 'Alan Reynolds', 'Ary A Hoffmann', 'Jon R Bridle'], u'August 8, 2016.', u"Predicting how species will respond to the rapid climatic changes predicted this century is an urgent task.  Species Distribution Models (SDMs) use the current relationship between environmental variation and species' abundances to predict the effect of future environmental change on their distributions.  However, two common assumptions of SDMs are likely to be violated in many cases: (1) That the relationship of environment with abundance or fitness is constant throughout a species' range and will remain so in future, and (2) That abiotic factors (e.g. temperature, humidity) determine species' distributions.  We test these assumptions by relating field abundance of the rainforest fruit fly Drosophila birchii to ecological change across gradients that include its low and high altitudinal limits. We then test how such ecological variation affects the fitness of 35 D. birchii families transplanted in 591 cages to sites along two altitudinal gradients, to determine whether genetic variation in fitness responses could facilitate future adaptation to environmental change.  Overall, field abundance was highest at cooler, high altitude sites, and declined towards warmer, low altitude sites.  By contrast, cage fitness (productivity) increased towards warmer, lower altitude sites, suggesting that biotic interactions (absent from cages) drive ecological limits at warmer margins.  In addition, the relationship between environmental variation and abundance varied significantly among gradients, indicating divergence in ecological niche across the species' range.  However, there was no evidence for local adaptation within gradients, despite greater productivity of high altitude than low altitude populations when families were reared under laboratory conditions.  Families also responded similarly to transplantation along gradients, providing no evidence for abiotic fitness trade-offs that would favour local adaptation.  These findings highlight the importance of (1) measuring genetic variation of key traits under ecologically relevant conditions, and (2) considering the effect of biotic interactions when predicting species' responses to environmental change.", u'/content/early/2016/08/08/068080', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Bath;', u'James Cook University;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'University of Melbourne;', u'University of Bristol']]
