[u'How to improve parameter estimates in GLM-based fMRI data analysis: cross-validated Bayesian model averaging', ['Joram Soch', 'Achim Pascal Meyer', 'John-Dylan Haynes', 'Carsten Allefeld'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'In functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), model quality of general linear models (GLMs) for first-level analysis is rarely assessed. In recent work (Soch et al., 2016: "How to avoid mismodelling in GLM-based fMRI data analysis: cross-validated Bayesian model selection", NeuroImage, vol. 141, pp. 469-489; DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2016.07.047), we have introduced cross-validated Bayesian model selection (cvBMS) to infer the best model for a group of subjects and use it to guide second-level analysis. While this is the optimal approach given that the same GLM has to be used for all subjects, there is a much more efficient procedure when model selection only addresses nuisance variables and regressors of interest are included in all candidate models. In this work, we propose cross-validated Bayesian model averaging (cvBMA) to improve parameter estimates for these regressors of interest by combining information from all models using their posterior probabilities. This is particularly useful as different models can lead to different conclusions regarding experimental effects and the most complex model is not necessarily the best choice. We find that cvBMS can prevent not detecting established effects and that cvBMA can be more sensitive to experimental effects than just using even the best model in each subject.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095778', [], [u'Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience, Berlin, Germany']]
[u'Functional Analysis of All Salmonid Genomes (FAASG): an international initiative supporting future salmonid research, conservation and aquaculture', ['Daniel J Macqueen', 'Craig R Primmer', 'Ross D Houston', 'Barbara F Nowak', 'Louis Bernatchez', 'Steinar Bergseth', 'William S Davidson', 'Cristian Gallardo-Escarate', 'Tom Goldammer', 'Yann Guiguen', 'Patricia Iturra', 'James W Kijas', 'Ben F Koop', 'Sigbjorn Lien', 'Alejandro Maass', 'Samuel A.M. Martin', 'Philip McGinnity', 'Martin Montecino', 'Kerry A Naish', 'Krista M Nichols', 'Kristinn Olafsson', 'Stig W Omholt', 'Yniv Palti', 'Graham S Plastow', 'Caird E Rexroa', 'Matthew L Rise', 'Rachael J Ritchie', 'Simen R Sandve', 'Patricia M Schulte', 'Alfredo Tello', 'Rodrigo Vidal', 'Jon Olav Vik', 'Anna Wargelius', 'Jose Manuel Yanez'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'We describe an emerging initiative - the "Functional Analysis of All Salmonid Genomes" (FAASG), which will leverage the extensive trait diversity that has evolved since a whole genome duplication event in the salmonid ancestor, to develop an integrative understanding of the functional genomic basis of phenotypic variation. The outcomes of FAASG will have diverse applications, ranging from improved understanding of genome evolution, through to improving the efficiency and sustainability of aquaculture production, supporting the future of fundamental and applied research in an iconic fish lineage of major societal importance.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095737', [], [u'Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB24 2TZ, UK;', u'Department of Biology, University of Turku, 20014, Finland;', u'The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, The University of Edinburgh, Mid;', u'Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, University of Tasmania Launceston, Tasmania, Australia;', u'Universite Laval, Quebec, Canada;', u'The Research Council of Norway;', u'Simon Fraser University, Canada.;', u'Universidad de Concepcion, Concepcion 4030000, Chile;', u'Leibniz Institute for Farm Animal Biology, Germany;', u'INRA, UR1037 Fish Physiology and Genomics, Rennes, France;', u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile, Santiago 8380453, Chile;', u'CSIRO Agriculture, St Lucia, QLD, 4067, Australia;', u'Department of Biology, University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Aas NO-1432, Norway;', u'Center for Genome Regulation, University of Chile, Santiago 8370456, Chile;', u'School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland;', u'Center for Biomedical Research, Universidad Andres Bello, Santiago 8370146, Chile;', u'University of Washington, Box 355020, Seattle, WA 98195, USA;', u'Northwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, USA;', u'Matis Ltd, Vinlandsleio 12, 113 Reykjavik, Iceland;', u'NTNU - Norwegian University of Science and Technology, NO-7491 Trondheim, Norway;', u'National Center for Cool and Cold Water Aquaculture, USDA ARS, USA;', u'Department of Agricultural, Food, and Nutritional Science, University of Alberta, Canada;', u'Office of National Programs, USDA ARS, 5601 Sunnyside Avenue, Beltsville, Maryland, USA;', u'Department of Ocean Sciences, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. Johns, NL, Canada;', u'Genome British Columbia, Vancouver BC V5Z 0C4, Canada;', u'Department of Animal and Aquacultural Sciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Aas, Norway;', u'Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia, 6270 University Blvd., Vancouver, BC, Canada;', u'Instituto Tecnologico del Salmon S.A., INTESAL de SalmonChile, Chile;', u'Department of Biology, University of Santiago, Santiago 9170022, Chile;', u'Institute of Marine Research, P.O. Box 1870, Nordnes, 5817 Bergen, Norway;', u'University of Chile, Santiago, Chile']]
[u'Deep Multi-instance Networks with Sparse Label Assignment for Whole Mammogram Classification', ['Wentao Zhu', 'Qi Lou', 'Yeeleng Scott Vang', 'Xiaohui Xie'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Mammogram classification is directly related to computer-aided diagnosis of breast cancer. Traditional methods requires great effort to annotate the training data by costly manual labeling and specialized computational models to detect these annotations during test. Inspired by the success of using deep convolutional features for natural image analysis and multi-instance learning for labeling a set of instances/patches, we propose end-to-end trained deep multi-instance networks for mass classification based on whole mammogram without the aforementioned costly need to annotate the training data. We explore three different schemes to construct deep multi-instance networks for whole mammogram classification. Experimental results on the INbreast dataset demonstrate the robustness of proposed deep networks compared to previous work using segmentation and detection annotations in the training.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095794', [], [u'UC Irvine']]
[u'Adversarial Deep Structural Networks for Mammographic Mass Segmentation', ['Wentao Zhu', 'Xiaohui Xie'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Mass segmentation is an important task in mammogram analysis, providing effective morphological features and regions of interest (ROI) for mass detection and classification. Inspired by the success of using deep convolutional features for natural image analysis and conditional random fields (CRF) for structural learning, we propose an end-to-end network for mammographic mass segmentation. The network employs a fully convolutional network (FCN) to model potential function, followed by a CRF to perform structural learning. Because the mass distribution varies greatly with pixel position, the FCN is combined with position priori for the task. Due to the small size of mammogram datasets, we use adversarial training to control over-fitting. Four models with different convolutional kernels are further fused to improve the segmentation results. Experimental results on two public datasets, INbreast and DDSM-BCRP, show that our end-to-end network combined with adversarial training achieves the-state-of-the-art results.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095786', [], [u'UC Irvine']]
[u'The interplay of stiffness and force anisotropies drive embryo elongation', ['Thanh Thi Kim Vuong-Brender', 'Martine Ben Amar', 'Julien Pontabry', 'Michel Labouesse'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'The morphogenesis of tissues, like the deformation of an object, results from the interplay between their material properties and the mechanical forces exerted on them. Whereas the importance of mechanical forces in influencing cell behaviour is widely recognized, the importance of tissue material properties, in particular stiffness, has received much less attention. Using C. elegans as a model, we examine how both aspects contribute to embryonic elongation. Measuring the opening shape of the epidermal actin cortex after laser nano-ablation, we assess the spatiotemporal changes of actomyosin-dependent force and stiffness along the antero-posterior and dorso-ventral axis. Experimental data and analytical modelling show that myosin II-dependent force anisotropy within the lateral epidermis, and stiffness anisotropy within the fiber-reinforced dorso-ventral epidermis are critical to drive embryonic elongation. Together, our results establish a quantitative link between cortical tension, material properties and morphogenesis of an entire embryo.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095752', [], [u'Sorbonne Universites, UPMC Univ Paris 06, CNRS, UMR7622, Institut de Biologie Paris-Seine;', u'Laboratoire de Physique Statistique, Ecole Normale Superieure, Univ Paris 6 & 7, CNRS;', u'Development and Stem Cells Program, IGBMC, CNRS (UMR7104), INSERM (U964), Universite de Strasbourg;', u'Sorbonne Universites, UPMC Univ Paris 06, CNRS, UMR7622 - Institut de Biology Paris-Seine']]
[u'Cleanliness in context: reconciling hygiene with a modern microbial perspective', ['Roo Vandegrift', 'Ashley C Bateman', 'Kyla N Siemens', 'May Nguyen', 'Jessica L Green', 'Kevin G Van Den Wymelenberg', 'Roxana J Hickey'], u'December 20, 2016.', u"The concept of hygiene is rooted in the relationship between cleanliness and the maintenance of good health. Since the widespread acceptance of the germ theory of disease, hygiene has become increasingly conflated with that of sterilization. Recent research on microbial ecology is demonstrating that humans have intimate and evolutionarily significant relationships with a diverse assemblage of microorganisms (our microbiota). Human skin is home to a diverse, skin-habitat specific community of microorganisms; this includes members that exist across the ecological spectrum from pathogen through commensal to mutualist. Most evidence suggests that the skin microbiota is likely of direct benefit to the host, and only rarely exhibits pathogenicity. This complex ecological context suggests that the conception of hygiene as a unilateral reduction or removal of microbes has outlived its usefulness. As such, we suggest the explicit definition of hygiene as 'those actions and practices that reduce the spread or transmission of pathogenic microorganisms, and thus reduce the incidence of disease'. To examine the implications of this definition, we review the literature related to hand drying as an aspect of hand hygienic practice. Research on hand drying generally focuses on 'hygienic efficacy', a concept not typically defined explicitly, but nearly always including alterations to bulk microbial load. The corresponding literature is differentiable into two divisions: research supporting the use of forced air dryers, which typically includes effectiveness of drying as an aspect of hygienic efficacy; and research supporting the use of paper towels, which typically includes risk of aerosolized spread of microbes from hands as an aspect of hygienic efficacy. Utilizing a definition of hygiene that explicitly relies on reduction in disease spread rather than alterations to bulk microbial load would address concerns raised on both sides of the debate. Future research should take advantage of cultivation-independent techniques, working to bridge the gap between the two existing divisions of research by using health outcomes (such as the spread of disease) as dependent variables, taking into account the microbial community context of the skin microbiota, and focusing on understanding the relative contribution of bioaerosols and residual moisture to the risk of disease transmission.", u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095745', [], [u'University of Oregon']]
[u'Mechanism of Nuclear Movements in a Multinucleated Cell', ['Romain Gibeaux', 'Antonio Politi', 'Peter Philippsen', 'Francois Nedelec'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Multinucleated cells are important in many organisms but the mechanisms governing the movements of nuclei sharing a common cytoplasm are not understood. In the hyphae of the plant pathogenic fungus Ashbya gossypii, nuclei move back and forth, occasionally bypassing each other, and, preventing the formation of nuclear clusters, this is essential for genetic stability. These movements depend on cytoplasmic microtubules emanating from the nuclei, that are pulled by dynein motors anchored at the cortex. Using 3D stochastic simulations with parameters constrained by the literature, we predict the cortical anchors density from the characteristics of nuclear movements. Altogether, the model accounts for the complex nuclear movements seen in vivo, using a minimal set of experimentally determined ingredients. Interestingly, these ingredients power the oscillations of the anaphase spindle in budding yeast, but in A. gossypii this system is not restricted to a specific nuclear cycle stage, possibly as a result of evolutionary tinkering.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095695', [], [u'University of California;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'University of Basel']]
[u'Genomes of an entire Plasmodium subgenus reveal paths to virulent human malaria', ['Thomas D Otto', 'Aude Gilabert', 'Thomas Crellen', 'Ulrike Bohme', 'Celine Arnathau', 'Mandy Sanders', 'Samuel Oyola', 'Alain P Okauga', 'Larson Boundenga', 'Eric Wuillaume', 'Barthelemy Ngoubangoye', 'Nancy Moukodoum', 'Christophe Paupy', 'Patrick Durand', 'Virginie Rougeron', 'Benjamin Ollomo', 'Francois Renaud', 'Chris Newbold', 'Matt Berriman', 'Franck Prugnolle'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Plasmodium falciparum, the most virulent agent of human malaria, shares a recent common ancestor with the gorilla parasite P. praefalciparum. Although there are further gorilla and chimpanzee-infecting species in the same (Laverania) subgenus as P. falciparum, none are known to be able to establish repeated infection and transmission in humans. To elucidate underlying mechanisms and the evolutionary history of this subgenus, we have analysed multiple genomes from all known Laverania species. Here we estimate the timings of Laverania speciation events, placing P. falciparum speciation 40,000-60,000 years ago followed by a recent population bottleneck. We show that interspecific gene transfers as well as convergent evolution were important in the evolution of these species. Striking copy number and structural variations were observed within gene families and for the first time, features in P. falciparum are revealed that made it the only member of the Laverania able to infect and spread in humans.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095679', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Laboratoire MIVEGEC, Montpellier;', u'Laboratoire MIVEGEC Montpellier;', u'Centre International de Recherches M\xe9dicales de Franceville;', u'Sodepal, Parc of la L\xe9k\xe9di;', u'Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine']]
[u'When null hypothesis significance testing is unsuitable for research: a reassessment', ['Denes Szucs', 'John PA Ioannidis'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Null hypothesis significance testing (NHST) has several shortcomings that are likely contributing factors behind the widely debated replication crisis of psychology, cognitive neuroscience and biomedical science in general. We review these shortcomings and suggest that, after about 60 years of negative experience, NHST should no longer be the default, dominant  statistical practice of all biomedical and psychological research. Different inferential methods (NHST, likelihood estimation, Bayesian methods, false-discovery rate control) may be most suitable for different types of research questions. Whenever researchers use NHST they should justify its use, and publish pre-study power calculations and effect sizes, including negative findings. Studies should optimally be pre-registered and raw data published. The current statistics lite educational approach for students that has sustained the widespread, spurious use of NHST should be phased out. Instead, we should encourage either more in-depth statistical training of more researchers and/or more widespread involvement of professional statisticians in all research.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095570', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Decoding bacterioplankton metabolism in the northern Gulf of Mexico Dead Zone', ['J. Cameron Thrash', 'Kiley W. Seitz', 'Brett J. Baker', 'Ben Temperton', 'Lauren E. Gillies', 'Nancy N. Rabalais', 'Bernard Henrissat', 'Olivia U. Mason'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Marine regions that experience low dissolved oxygen (DO) from seasonal to long-term time scales, a.k.a. dead zones, are increasing in number and severity around the globe with deleterious effects on ecology and economics. One of the largest of these occurs on the continental shelf of the northern Gulf of Mexico (nGOM) as a result of eutrophication-enhanced bacterioplankton respiration and strong stratification. The effects of this perturbation on microbial assemblages, and therefore the underlying potential for biogeochemical cycling, have only begun to be explored. Here we present predicted roles for multiple organisms in various phases of nitrogen, carbon, and sulfur cycling and evidence for electron donor-based niche partitioning based on more than 70 high-quality genomes (33 of which are > 70% complete) reconstructed from whole community metagenomic data in the 2013 nGOM dead zone and metatranscriptomic expression data. All but two genomes could be classified into 17 named bacterial and archaeal phyla, and many represented the most abundant organisms in the dead zone (e.g. Thaumarchaeota, Synechococcus), some of which include members of the uncultivated microbial dark matter (e.g. Marine group II Euryarchaeota, SAR406). Surprisingly, we also recovered near complete genomes belonging to Candidate Phyla that are usually associated with anoxic environments: Parcubacteria (OD1), Peregrinibacteria, Latescibacteria (WS3), and ACD39. This work provides an important biogeochemical map for multiple phyla that will help to resolve the impacts of hypoxia on nutrient flow in the dead zone.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095471', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Louisiana State University;', u'Marine Science Institute, University of Texas at Austin;', u'University of Exeter;', u'Florida State University;', u'Louisiana State University and LUMCON;', u'Aix-Marseille Universite and King Abdulaziz University']]
[u'Two-zone tumor tolerance can arise from a simple immunological feedforward motif that estimates tumor growth rates', ['Eduardo Sontag'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Since the early 1990s, many authors have independently suggested that self/nonself recognition by the immune system might be modulated by the rates of change of antigen challenges.  This paper introduces an extremely simple and purely conceptual mathematical model that allows dynamic discrimination of immune challenges.  The main component of the model is a motif which is ubiquitous in systems biology, the incoherent feedforward loop, which endows the system with the capability to estimate exponential growth exponents, a prediction which is consistent with experimental work showing that exponentially increasing antigen stimulation is a determinant of immune reactivity.  Combined with a bistable system and a simple feedback repression mechanism, an interesting phenomenon emerges as a tumor growth rate increases: elimination, tolerance (tumor growth), again elimination, and finally a second zone of tolerance (tumor escape).  This prediction from our model is analogous to the "two-zone tumor tolerance" phenomenon experimentally validated since the mid 1970s.  Moreover, we provide a plausible biological instantiation of our circuit using combinations of regulatory and effector T cells.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095455', [u'Immunology'], [u'Rutgers University']]
[u'Multivariate pattern analysis of MEG and EEG: a comparison of representational structure in time and space', ['Radoslaw Martin Cichy', 'Dimitrios Pantazis'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Multivariate pattern analysis of magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG) data can reveal the rapid neural dynamics underlying cognition. However, MEG and EEG have systematic differences in sampling neural activity. This poses the question to which degree such measurement differences consistently bias the results of multivariate analysis applied to MEG and EEG activation patterns. To investigate, we conducted a concurrent MEG/EEG study while participants viewed images of everyday objects. We applied multivariate classification analyses to MEG and EEG data, and compared the resulting time courses to each other, and to fMRI data for an independent evaluation in space. We found that both MEG and EEG revealed the millisecond spatio-temporal dynamics of visual processing with largely equivalent results. Beyond yielding convergent results, we found that MEG and EEG also captured partly unique aspects of visual representations. Those unique components emerged earlier in time for MEG than for EEG. Identifying the sources of those unique components with fMRI, we found the locus for both MEG and EEG in high-level visual cortex, and in addition for MEG in early visual cortex. Together, our results show that multivariate analyses of MEG and EEG data offer a convergent and complimentary view on neural processing, and motivate the wider adoption of these methods in both MEG and EEG research.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095620', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Free University Berlin;', u'MIT']]
[u'Umap and Bismap: quantifying genome and methylome mappability', ['Mehran Karimzadeh', 'Carl Ernst', 'Anshul Kundaje', 'Michael M. Hoffman'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'MOTIVATION: Short-read sequencing enables assessment of genetic and biochemical traits of individual genomic regions, such as the location of genetic variation, protein binding, and chemical modifications. Every region in a genome assembly has a property called mappability which measures the extent to which it can be uniquely mapped by sequence reads. In regions of lower mappability, estimates of genomic and epigenomic characteristics from sequencing assays are less reliable. At best, sequencing assays will produce misleadingly low numbers of reads in these regions. At worst, these regions have increased susceptibility to spurious mapping from reads from other regions of the genome with sequencing errors or unexpected genetic variation. Bisulfite sequencing approaches used to identify DNA methylation exacerbate these problems by introducing large numbers of reads that map to multiple regions. While many tools consider mappability during the read mapping process, subsequent analysis often loses this information. Both to correct assumptions of uniformity in downstream analysis, and to identify regions where the analysis is less reliable, it is necessary to know the mappability of both ordinary and bisulfite-converted genomes. \n\nRESULTS: We introduce the Umap software for efficiently identifying uniquely mappable regions of any genome. Its Bismap extension identifies mappability of the bisulfite-converted genome. With a read length of 24 bp, 15.5% of the unmodified genome and 30% of the bisulfite-converted genome is not uniquely mappable. This complicates interpretation of functional genomics experiments using short-read sequencing, especially in regulatory regions. For example, 42% of human CpG islands overlap with regions that are not uniquely mappable. Similarly, in some ENCODE ChIP-seq datasets, up to 30% of peaks overlap with regions that are not uniquely mappable. We also explored differentially methylated regions from a case-control study and identified regions that were not uniquely mappable. In the widely used 450K methylation array, 962 probes are not uniquely mappable. Genome mappability is higher with longer sequencing reads, but most publicly available ChIP-seq and reduced representation bisulfite sequencing datasets have shorter reads. Therefore, uneven and low mappability remains a concern in a majority of existing data. \n\nAVAILABILITY: A Umap and Bismap track hub for human genome assemblies GRCh37/hg19 and GRCh38/hg38, and mouse assemblies GRCm37/mm9 and GRCm38/mm10 is available at http://bismap.hoffmanlab.org for use with the UCSC and Ensembl genome browsers. We have deposited in Zenodo the current version of our software (http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.60940) and the mappability data used in this project (http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.60943). In addition, the software (https://bitbucket.org/hoffmanlab/umap) is freely available under the GNU General Public License, version 3 (GPLv3).', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095463', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'McGill University;', u'Stanford University;', u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre']]
[u'Whole genome sequence accuracy is improved by replication in a population of mutagenized sorghum.', ['Charles Addo-Quaye', 'Mitch Tuinstra', 'Nicola Carraro', 'Clifford Weil', 'Brian P Dilkes'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'The accurate detection of induced mutations is critical for both forward and reverse genetics studies. Experimental chemical mutagenesis induces relatively few single base changes per individual. In a complex eukaryotic genome, false positive detection of mutations can occur at or above this mutagenesis rate. We demonstrate here, using a population of ethyl methanesulfonate (EMS) treated Sorghum bicolor BTx623 individuals, that using replication to detect false positive induced variants in next-generation sequencing data permits higher throughput variant detection with greater accuracy. We used a lower sequence coverage depth (average of 7X) from 586 independently mutagenized individuals and detected 5,399,493 homozygous SNPs. Of these, 76% originated from only 57,872 genomic positions prone to false positive variant calling. These positions are characterized by high copy number paralogs where the error-prone SNP positions are at copies containing a variant at the SNP position. The ability of short stretches of homology to generate these error prone positions suggests that incompletely assembled or poorly mapped repeated sequences are one driver of these error prone positions.. Removal of these false positives left 1,275,872 homozygous and 477,531 heterozygous EMS-induced SNPs which, congruent with the mutagenic mechanism of EMS, were greater than 98% G:C to A:T transitions. Through this analysis we generated a database of sequence indexed mutants of Sorghum. This collection contains 4,035 high impact homozygous mutations in 3,637 genes and 56,514 homozygous missense mutations in 23,227 genes. Each line contains, on average, 2,177 annotated homozygous SNPs per genome, including seven likely gene knockouts and 96 missense mutations. The number of mutations in a transcript was linearly correlated with the transcript length and also the G+C count, but not with the GC/AT ratio. Analysis of the detected mutagenized positions identified CG-rich patches, and flanking sequences strongly influenced EMS-induced mutation rates. Our method for detecting false-positive induced mutations is generally applicable to any organism, is independent of the choice of in silico variant-calling algorithm, and is most valuable when the true mutation rate is likely to be low, such as in laboratory induced mutations or somatic mutation detection in medicine.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095513', [u'Genetics'], [u'Purdue University, United States']]
[u'Biased phylodynamic inferences from analysing clusters of viral sequences', ['Bethany Dearlove', 'Fei Xiang', 'Simon Frost'], u'December 20, 2016.', u"Phylogenetic methods are being increasingly used to help understand the transmission dynamics of measurably evolving viruses, including HIV. Clusters of highly similar sequences are often observed, which appear to follow a 'power law' behaviour, with a small number of very large clusters. These clusters may help to identify subpopulations in an epidemic, and inform where intervention strategies should be implemented. However, clustering of samples does not necessarily imply the presence of a subpopulation with high transmission rates, as groups of closely related viruses can also occur due to non-epidemiological effects such as over-sampling. It is important to ensure that observed phylogenetic clustering reflects true heterogeneity in the transmitting population, and is not being driven by non-epidemiological effects. \n\nWe quantify the effect of using a falsely identified 'transmission cluster' of sequences to estimate phylodynamic parameters including the effective population size and exponential growth rate. Our simulation studies show that taking the maximum size cluster to re-estimate parameters from trees simulated under a randomly mixing, constant population size coalescent process systematically underestimates the overall effective population size. In addition, the transmission cluster wrongly resembles an exponential or logistic growth model 95% of the time. We also illustrate the consequences of false clusters in exponentially growing coalescent and birth-death trees, where again, the growth rate is skewed upwards. This has clear implications for identifying clusters in large viral databases, where a false cluster could result in wasted intervention resources.", u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095661', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Population dynamics of synthetic Terraformation motifs', ['Ricard Sole', 'Raul Montanez', 'Salva Duran-Nebreda', 'Daniel R Amor', 'Blai Vidiella', 'Josep Sardanyes'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Ecosystems are complex systems, currently experiencing several threats associated with global warming, intensive exploitation, and human-driven habitat degradation. Such threats are pushing ecosystems to the brink of collapse. Because of a general presence of multiple stable \nstates, including states involving population extinction, and due to intrinsic nonlinearities associated with feedback loops, collapse can occur in \na catastrophic manner. Such catastrophic shifts have been suggested to pervade many of the future transitions affecting ecosystems at many \ndifferent scales. Many studies have tried to delineate potential warning signals predicting such ongoing shifts but little is known about how such \ntransitions might be effectively prevented. It has been recently suggested that a potential path to prevent or modify the outcome of these \ntransitions would involve designing synthetic organisms and synthetic ecological interactions that could push these endangered systems out of \nthe critical boundaries. Four classes of such ecological engineering designs or {\\em Terraformation motifs} have been defined in a qualitative \nway. Here we develop the simplest mathematical models associated with these motifs, defining the expected stability conditions and domains \nwhere the motifs shall properly work.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095687', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'MIT']]
[u'Mitochondrial-nuclear interactions maintain a deep mitochondrial split in the face of nuclear gene flow', ['Hernan E Morales', 'Alexandra Pavlova', 'Nevil Amos', 'Richard Major', 'Jason Bragg', 'Andrzej Kilian', 'Chris Greening', 'Paul Sunnucks'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Proteins encoded by interacting mitochondrial and nuclear genes catalyze essential metabolic processes in eukaryote cells. The correct functioning of such processes requires combinations of mitochondrial and nuclear alleles that work together (mitonuclear interactions) and the avoidance of mismatched combinations (mitonuclear incompatibilities). This interplay could have a major role during the early stages of population divergence. Here, we show that mitonuclear interactions maintain a deep mitochondrial divergence in the face of nuclear gene flow between two lineages of the songbird Eastern Yellow Robin (Eopsaltria australis) occupying contrasting climatic habitats. Using >60,000 SNPs we explored patterns of nuclear gene differentiation and introgression along two sampling transects intersecting the deep mitochondrial divergence between lineages. We found a replicated pattern of low genome-wide differentiation contrasting with two prominent regions of high differentiation (genomic islands of divergence) in different nuclear backgrounds. The largest island of divergence (~15.4 Mb) showed a significant excess of nuclear-encoded genes with mitochondrial functions (N-mt genes), low genetic diversity and high levels of linkage disequilibrium. Thus, genetic differentiation between the two adjacent but climatically divergent lineages is mostly limited to the mitochondrial genome and a nuclear genomic region containing tightly linked N-mt genes that presumably experience reduced recombination. The second island of divergence mapped to the Z-chromosome, suggesting that nuclear gene flow occurs primarily via male hybrids, in accordance with Haldanes Rule. Our results are consistent with accumulating evidence that mitonuclear co-evolution could represent a key vehicle for climatic adaptation during population divergence.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095596', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Gothenburg;', u'Monash University;', u'Arthur Rylah Institute for Environmental Research;', u'Australian Museum Research Institute;', u'National Herbarium of NSW;', u'Diversity Arrays Technology Pty Ltd']]
[u'Loss of the homologous recombination gene rad51 leads to Fanconi anemia-like symptoms in zebrafish', ['Jan Gregor Botthof', 'Ewa Bielczyk-Maczynska', 'Lauren Ferreira', 'Ana Cvejic'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'RAD51 is an indispensable homologous recombination protein, necessary for strand invasion and crossing over. It has recently been designated as a Fanconi anemia (FA) gene, following the discovery of two patients carrying dominant negative mutations. FA is a hereditary DNA repair disorder characterized by various congenital abnormalities, progressive bone marrow failure and cancer predisposition. In this paper, we describe the first viable vertebrate model of RAD51 loss. Zebrafish rad51 loss-of-function mutants developed key features of FA, including hypocellular kidney marrow, sensitivity to crosslinking agents and decreased size. We show that some of these symptoms stem from both decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis of embryonic hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Co-mutation of p53 was able to rescue the hematopoietic defects seen in the single mutants, but led to tumor development. We further demonstrate that prolonged  inflammatory stress can exacerbate the hematological impairment, leading to an additional decrease in kidney marrow cell numbers. These findings strengthen the assignment of RAD51 as a Fanconi gene and provide more evidence for the notion that aberrant p53 signaling during embryogenesis leads to the hematological defects seen later in life in FA. Further research on this novel zebrafish FA model will lead to a deeper understanding of the molecular basis of bone marrow failure in FA and the cellular role of RAD51.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095646', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Partitioned learning of deep Boltzmann machines for SNP data', ['Moritz Hess', 'Stefan Lenz', 'Tamara Blaette', 'Lars Bullinger', 'Harald Binder'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Learning the joint distributions of measurements, and in particular identification of an appropriate low-dimensional manifold, has been found to be a powerful ingredient of deep leaning approaches. Yet, such approaches have hardly been applied to single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data, probably due to the high number of features typically exceeding the number of studied individuals. After a brief overview of how deep Boltzmann machines (DBMs), a deep learning approach, can be adapted to SNP data in principle, we specifically present a way to alleviate the dimensionality problem by partitioned learning. We propose a sparse regression approach to coarsely screen the joint distribution of SNPs, followed by training several DBMs on SNP partitions that were identified by the screening. Aggregate features representing SNP patterns and the corresponding SNPs are extracted from the DBMs by a combination of statistical tests and sparse regression. In simulated case-control data, we show how this can uncover complex SNP patterns and augment results from univariate approaches, while maintaining type 1 error control. Time-to-event endpoints are considered in an application with acute myeloid lymphoma patients, where SNP patterns are modeled after a pre-screening based on gene expression data. The proposed approach identified three SNPs that seem to jointly influence survival in a validation data set. This indicates the added value of jointly investigating SNPs compared to standard univariate analyses and makes partitioned learning of DBMs an interesting complementary approach when analyzing SNP data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095638', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University Medical Center Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz;', u'University Hospital of Ulm']]
[u'Single-enzyme approach predicts natural emergence of inhibitor-activator duality', ['Tal Rotbart', 'Shlomi Reuveni', 'Michael Urbakh'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'The classical theory of enzymatic inhibition aims to quantitatively describe the effect of certain molecules---called inhibitors---on the progression of enzymatic reactions, but "non-classical effects" and "anomalies" which seem to fall beyond its scope have forced practitioners and others to repeatedly patch and mend it ad-hoc. For example, depending on concentrations, some molecules can either inhibit, or facilitate, the progression of an enzymatic reaction. This duality gives rise to non-monotonic dose response curves which seriously complicate high throughput inhibitor screens and drug development, but it is widely believed that the three canonical modes of inhibition---competitive, uncompetitive, and mixed---cannot account for it. To critically test this view, we take the single enzyme perspective and rebuild the theory of enzymatic inhibition from the bottom up. We find that accounting for multi-conformational enzyme structure and intrinsic randomness cannot undermine the validity of classical results in the case of competitive inhibition; but that it should strongly change our view on the uncompetitive and mixed modes of inhibition. In particular, we show that inhibitor-activator duality is inherent to these modes of "inhibition", and state---in terms of experimentally measurable quantities---a condition assuring its emergence. Fundamental and practical implications of our findings are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095562', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Tel-Aviv University;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Integrated deep learned transcriptomic and structure-based predictor of clinical trials outcomes', ['Artem V Artemov', 'Evgeny Putin', 'Quentin Vanhaelen', 'Alexander Aliper', 'Ivan V Ozerov', 'Alex Zhavoronkov'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Despite many recent advances in system biology and a marked increase in the availability of high-throughput biological data, the productivity of research and development in the pharmaceutical industry is on the decline. This is primarily due to clinical trial failure rates reaching up to 95% in oncology and other disease areas. We have developed a comprehensive analytical and computational pipeline utilizing deep learning techniques and novel systems biology analytical tools to predict the outcomes of phase I/II clinical trials. The pipeline predicts the side effects of a drug using deep neural networks and estimates drug-induced pathway activation. It then uses the predicted side effect probabilities and pathway activation scores as an input to train a classifier which predicts clinical trial outcomes. This classifier was trained on 577 transcriptomic datasets and has achieved a cross-validated accuracy of 0.83. When compared to a direct gene-based classifier, our multi-stage approach dramatically improves the accuracy of the predictions. The classifier was applied to a set of compounds currently present in the pipelines of several major pharmaceutical companies to highlight potential risks in their portfolios and estimate the fraction of clinical trials that were likely to fail in phase I and II.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095653', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Insilico Medicine, Inc.']]
[u'Gene fractionation and function in the ancient subgenomes of maize', ['Simon Renny-Byfield', 'Eli Rodgers-Melnick', 'Jeff Ross-Ibarra'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'The maize genome experienced an ancient whole genome duplication approximately 10 million years ago and the duplicate subgenomes have since experienced reciprocal gene loss (fractionation) such that many genes have returned to single-copy status. This process has not affected the subgenomes equally; reduced gene expression in one of the subgenomes mit- igates the consequences of mutations and gene deletions and is thought to drive higher rates of fractionation. Here we take advantage of published genome-wide SNP and phenotype asso- ciation data to show that, in accordance with predictions of this model, paralogs with greater expression contribute more to phenotypic variation compared to their lowly expressed counter- parts. Furthermore, paralogous genes in the least-fractionated subgenome account for a greater degree of phenotypic diversity than those resident on the more-fractionated subgenome. We also show that the two subgenomes of maize are distinct in epigenetic characteristics. Intrigu- ingly, analysis of singleton genes reveals that these differences persist even after fractionation is complete.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095547', [u'Genomics'], [u'DuPont Pioneer, Johnston, IA;  Dept. Plant Sciences, UC Davis;', u'DuPont Pioneer, Johnston, IA;  Institute of Genomic Diversity, Cornell University;', u'UCDavis']]
[u'Myotome adaptability confers developmental robustness to somitic myogenesis in response to fibre number alteration.', ['Shukolpa Dutta duttaroy', 'Victoria C Williams-Ward', 'Tapan G Pipalia', 'Chrissy L Hammond', 'Stefanie Knappe', 'Robert D Knight', 'Simon M Hughes', 'Kuoyu Li'], u'December 20, 2016.', u'Balancing the number of stem cells and their progeny is crucial for tissue development and repair. Here we examine how muscle stem/precursor cell (MPC) numbers are tightly regulated during zebrafish somitic muscle development. MPCs expressing Pax7 are initially located in the dermomyotome (DM) external cell layer, adopt a highly stereotypical distribution and thereafter a proportion of MPCs migrate into the myotome. Regional variations in the proliferation and terminal differentiation of MPCs contribute to growth of the myotome. To probe the robustness of spatiotemporal regulation of MPCs, we compared the behaviour of wild type (wt) MPCs with those in mutant zebrafish that lack the muscle regulatory factor Myod. Myodfh261 mutants form one third fewer multinucleate fast muscle fibres than wt and show a significant expansion of the Pax7+ MPC population in the DM.  Subsequently, myodfh261 mutant fibres generate more cytoplasm per nucleus, leading to recovery of muscle bulk. In addition, relative to wt siblings, there is an increased number of MPCs in myodfh261 mutants and these migrate prematurely into the myotome, differentiate and contribute to the hypertrophy of existing fibres. Thus, homeostatic reduction of the excess MPCs returns their number to normal levels, but fibre numbers remain low. The GSK3 antagonist BIO prevents MPC migration into the deep myotome, suggesting that canonical Wnt pathway activation maintains the DM in zebrafish, as in amniotes. BIO does not, however, block recovery of the myodfh261 mutant myotome, indicating that homeostasis acts on fibre intrinsic growth to maintain muscle bulk.  The findings suggest the existence of a critical window for early fast fibre formation followed by a period in which homeostatic mechanisms regulate myotome growth by controlling fibre size.', u'/content/early/2016/12/20/095554', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u"King's College London"]]
