[u'KIF21A influences breast cancer metastasis and survival', ['Anton Joseph Lucanus', 'George W Yip', 'Victoria King'], u'December 10, 2016.', u'Breast cancer pathogenesis is known to be propagated by the differential expression of a group of proteins called the Kinesin Superfamily (KIFs), which are instrumental in the intracellular transport of chromosomes along microtubules during mitosis. During mitosis, KIFs are strictly regulated through temporal synthesis so that they are only present when needed. However, their misregulation may contribute to uncontrolled cell growth due to premature sister chromatid separation, highlighting their involvement in tumorigenesis. One particular KIF, KIF21A, was recently found to promote the survival of human breast cancer cells in vitro. However, how KIF21A influences other cancerous phenotypes is currently unknown. This study therefore aimed to consolidate the in vitro role of KIF21A in breast cancer metastasis, while also analysing KIF21A expression in human breast cancer tissue to determine its prognostic value. This was achieved by silencing KIF21A in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell lines via siRNA transfection. Migration, invasion, proliferation, and adhesion assays were then performed to measure the effects of KIF21A silencing on oncogenic behaviour. Immunohistochemistry was also conducted in 263 breast cancer tissue samples to compare KIF21A expression levels against various prognostic outcomes and clinicopathological parameters. KIF21A knockdown reduced cell migration (by 42.8% [MCF-7] and 69.7% [MDA-MB-231]) and invasion (by 72.5% [MCF-7] and 42.5% [MDA-MB-231]) in both cell lines, but had no effect on adhesion or proliferation, suggesting that KIF21A plays an important role in the early stages of breast cancer metastasis. Unexpectedly however, KIF21A was shown to negatively correlate with various pro-malignant clinicopathological parameters, including tumour size and histological grade, and high KIF21A expression predicted better breast cancer survival (hazard ratio = 0.45), suggesting that KIF21A is a tumour suppressor. The conflicting outcomes of in vitro and in vivo data may be due to the possible multi-functionality of KIF21A or study limitations, and means no definitive conclusions can be drawn about the role of KIF21A in breast cancer. This warrants further investigation, which may prove pivotal to the development of novel chemotherapeutic strategies to mediate KIF21As function and enhance prognostic outcomes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/10/093047', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Western Australia;', u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Random versus maximum entropy models of neural population activity', ['Ulisse Ferrari', 'Tomoyuki Obuchi', 'Thierry Mora'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'The principle of maximum entropy provides a useful method for inferring statistical mechanics models from observations in correlated systems, and is widely used in a variety of fields where accurate data are available. While the assumptions underlying maximum entropy are intuitive and appealing, its adequacy for describing complex empirical data has been little studied in comparison to alternative approaches. Here data from the collective spiking activity of retinal neurons is reanalysed. The accuracy of the maximum entropy distribution constrained by mean firing rates and pairwise correlations is compared to a random ensemble of distributions constrained by the same observables. In general, maximum entropy approximates the true distribution better than the typical or mean distribution from that ensemble. This advantage improves with population size, with groups as small as 8 being almost always better described by maximum entropy. Failure of maximum entropy to outperform random models is found to be associated with strong correlations in the population.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092973', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie;', u'Tokyo Institute of Technology;', u'Ecole normale superieure']]
[u'Variability and stability of large-scale cortical oscillation patterns', ['Roy Cox', 'Anna Schapiro', 'Robert Stickgold'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'Individual differences in brain organization exist at many spatial and temporal scales, contributing to the substantial heterogeneity underlying human thought and behavior. Oscillatory neural activity is crucial for these behaviors, but how such rhythms are expressed across the cortex within and across individuals has not been thoroughly characterized. Combining electroencephalography (EEG) with representational similarity and multivariate classification techniques, we provide a systematic characterization of brain-wide activity across frequency bands and oscillatory features during rest and task performance. Results indicate that oscillatory profiles exhibit sizable group-level correspondences, indicating the presence of common templates of oscillatory organization. At the same time, we observed well-defined subject-specific network profiles that were discernible above and beyond the structure shared across individuals. These individualized patterns were sufficiently stable over time to allow successful classification of individuals several months later. Finally, our findings indicate that the network structure of rhythmic activity varies considerably across distinct oscillatory frequencies and features, suggesting the existence of multiple, parallel information processing streams embedded in distributed electrophysiological activity. Together, these findings affirm the richness of spatiotemporal EEG signals and emphasize the utility of multivariate network analyses for understanding the role of brain oscillations in physiology and behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/093005', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center / Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Early survival and delayed death of developmentally-born dentate gyrus neurons', ['Shaina P Cahill', 'Ru Qi Yu', 'Dylan C Green', 'Evgenia V Todorova', 'Jason Scott Snyder'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'The storage and persistence of memories depends on plasticity in the hippocampus. Adult neurogenesis produces new neurons that mature through critical periods for plasticity and cellular survival, which determine their contributions to learning and memory. However, most neurons are generated in early postnatal development; the maturational timecourse of these neurons is poorly understood compared to adult-born neurons, but is essential to identify how the dentate gyrus, as a whole, contributes to behavior. To characterize the survival and maturational timecourse of dentate gyrus neurons born in the early postnatal period, we labeled neurons born on postnatal day 6 (P6) with BrdU and quantified maturation and survival across early (1 hour to 8 weeks old) and late (2-6 months old) cell ages. We find that the dynamics of developmentally-born neuron survival is essentially the opposite what has been published for neurons born in adulthood: P6-born neurons did not go through a period of cell death during their immature stages (from 1-8w). In contrast, 17% of P6-born neurons died after reaching maturity, between 2-6 months of age. Delayed death was evident from the loss of BrdU+ cells as well as pyknotic caspase3+ neurons within the superficial granule cell layer. Patterns of DCX, NeuN and activity-dependent Fos expression indicate that developmentally-born neurons mature over several weeks and a sharp peak in zif268 expression at 2 weeks suggests that developmentally-born neurons mature faster than adult-born neurons (previously been shown to peak at 3 weeks). Collectively, our findings are relevant for understanding how developmentally-born dentate gyrus neurons contribute to memory and disorders throughout the lifespan. High levels of early survival and zif268 expression may promote learning, while also rendering neurons sensitive to insults at defined stages. Late neuronal death in young adulthood may result in the loss of hundreds of thousands of dentate gyrus neurons, which could impact memory persistence and contribute to hippocampal/dentate gyrus atrophy in disorders such as depression.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092957', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Neurons in the mouse deep superior colliculus encode orientation/direction through suppression and extract selective visual features', ['Shinya Ito', 'David A Feldheim', 'Alan M Litke'], u'December 9, 2016.', u'The superior colliculus (SC) is an integrative sensorimotor structure that contributes to multiple vision- dependent behaviors. It is a laminated structure; the superficial SC layers (sSC) contain cells that respond to visual stimuli, while the deep SC layers (dSC) contain cells that also respond to auditory and somatosensory stimuli. Despite the increasing interest in mice for visual system study, the differences in the visual response properties between the sSC and the dSC are largely unknown. Here we used a large-scale silicon probe recording system to examine the visual response properties of neurons within the SC of head-fixed, awake and behaving mice. We find that both the sSC and dSC cells respond to visual stimuli, but dSC cells have three key differences. (1) The majority of the dSC orientation/direction selective (OS/DS) cells have their firing rate suppressed by drifting sinusoidal gratings (negative OS/DS cells) rather than being stimulated like the sSC cells (positive OS/DS cells). (2) Almost all the dSC cells have complex-cell-like spatial summation nonlinearity, and a significantly smaller fraction of the positive OS/DS cells in the dSC respond to flashing spots than those in the sSC. (3) The dSC cells lack Y-like spatial summation nonlinearity unlike the sSC cells. These results provide the first description of cells that are suppressed by a visual stimulus with a specific orientation or direction, show that neurons in the dSC have properties analogous to cortical complex cells, and show the presence of Y-like nonlinearity in the sSC but their absence in the dSC.', u'/content/early/2016/12/09/092981', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, Santa Cruz']]
