[u'pyMAP: a Python package for small and large scale analysis of Illumina 450k methylation platform', ['Amin Mahpour'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'PyMAP is a native python module for analysis of 450k methylation platform and is freely available for public use. The package can be easily deployed to cloud platforms that support python scripting language for large-scale methylation studies. By implementing fast parsing functionality, this module can be used to analyze large-scale methylation datasets. Additionally, command-line executables shipped with the module can be used to perform common analysis tasks on personal computers.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078048', [], [u'Roswell Park Cancer Institute']]
[u'A Rapid Subcortical Amygdala Route for Faces Irrespective of Spatial Frequency and Emotion', ['Jessica McFadyen', 'Martial Mermillod', 'Jason Mattingley', 'Veronika Halasz', 'Marta Garrido'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'There is significant controversy over the anatomical existence and potential function of a direct subcortical visual pathway to the amygdala. It is thought that this pathway rapidly transmits low spatial frequency information to the amygdala independently of the cortex and yet this function has never been causally determined. In this study, neural activity was measured using magnetoencephalography (MEG) while participants discriminated the gender of neutral and fearful faces filtered for low or high spatial frequencies. Dynamic causal modelling (DCM) revealed that the most likely underlying neural network consisted of a subcortical pulvino-amygdala connection that was not modulated by spatial frequency or emotion and a cortico-amygdala connection that conveyed predominantly high spatial frequencies. Crucially, data-driven neural simulations demonstrated a clear temporal advantage of the subcortical route (70ms) over the cortical route (155ms) in influencing amygdala activity. Thus, our findings support the existence of a rapid functional subcortical pathway that is unselective of the spatial frequency or emotional content of faces.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078097', [], [u'University of Queensland;', u'Universite Grenoble Alpes']]
[u'AN INTERNATIONAL INTER-LABORATORY DIGITAL PCR STUDY DEMONSTRATES HIGH REPRODUCIBILITY FOR THE MEASUREMENT OF A RARE SEQUENCE VARIANT', ['Alexandra S Whale', 'Alison S Devonshire', 'George Karlin-Neumann', 'Jack Regan', 'Leanne Javier', 'Simon Cowen', 'Ana Fernandez-Gonzalez', 'Gerwyn M Jones', 'Nicholas Redshaw', 'Julia Beck', 'Andreas W Berger', 'Valerie Combaret', 'Nina Dahl Kjersgaard', 'Lisa Davis', 'Frederic Fina', 'Tim Forshew', 'Rikke Fredslund Andersen', 'Silvia Galbiati', 'Alvaro Gonzalez Hernandez', 'Charles Haynes', 'Filip Janku', 'Roger Lacave', 'Justin Lee', 'Vilas Mistry', 'Alexandra Pender', 'Anne Pradines', 'Charlotte Proudhon', 'Lao Saal', 'Elliot Stieglitz', 'Bryan Ulrich', 'Carole A Foy', 'Helen Parkes', 'Svilen Tzonev', 'Jim Huggett'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'This study tested the claim that digital PCR (dPCR) can offer highly reproducible quantitative measurements in disparate labs. Twenty-one laboratories measured four blinded samples containing different quantities of a KRAS fragment encoding G12D, an important genetic marker for guiding therapy of certain cancers. This marker is challenging to quantify reproducibly using qPCR or NGS due to the presence of competing wild type sequences and the need for calibration. Using dPCR, eighteen laboratories were able to quantify the G12D marker within 12% of each other in all samples. Three laboratories appeared to measure consistently outlying results; however, proper application of a follow-up analysis recommendation rectified their data. Our findings show that dPCR has demonstrable reproducibility across a large number of laboratories without calibration and could enable the reproducible application of molecular stratification to guide therapy, and potentially for molecular diagnostics.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/077917', [], [u'LGC;', u'Bio-Rad;', u'Chronix Biomedical;', u'Universitatsklinikum Ulm;', u'Centre Leon Berard;', u'Roskilde Sygehus;', u'Genoptix;', u'Faculte de medecine Nord;', u'UCL;', u'Vejle Hospital;', u'San Raffaele Scientific Institute;', u'Clinica Universidad de Navarra;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'Hopital Tenon-APHP;', u'Johns Hopkins;', u'University of Leicester;', u'ICR;', u'Institut Claudius Regaud;', u'Institut Curie;', u'Lund University;', u'UCSF;', u'Dana Farber Cancer Institute']]
[u'Actomyosin Contractility Drives Bile Regurgitation as an Early Homeostatic Response to Increased Biliary Pressure in Obstructive Cholestasis', ['Kapish Gupta', 'Qiushi Li', 'Junjun Fan', 'Eliza Li Shan Fong', 'Ziwei Song', 'Shupei Mo', 'Haoyu Tang', 'Inn Chuan Ng', 'Chan Way Ng', 'Pornteera Pawijit', 'Shuangmu Zhuo', 'Chen-Yuan Dong', 'Boon Chuan Low', 'Aileen Wee', 'Yock Young Dan', 'Pakorn Kanchanawong', 'Peter So', 'Virgile Viasnoff', 'Hanry Yu'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'A wide range of liver diseases manifest as biliary obstruction, or cholestasis. However, the sequence of molecular events triggered as part of the early hepatocellular homeostatic response to abnormal elevations in biliary pressure remains poorly elucidated. Bile canaliculi are dynamic luminal structures that undergo actomyosin-mediated periodic contractions to propel secreted bile. Additionally, pericanalicular actin is accumulated during obstructive cholestasis. Therefore, we hypothesize that the pericanalicular actin cortex undergoes significant remodeling as a regulatory response against increased biliary pressure. Here, we report that, actomyosin contractility induces transient deformations along the canalicular membrane, a process we have termed inward blebbing. We show that these membrane intrusions are initiated by local ruptures in the pericanalicular actin cortex, and they typically retract following repair by actin polymerization and actomyosin contraction. However, above a certain osmotic pressure threshold, these inward blebs pinch away from the canalicular membrane into the hepatocyte cytoplasm as large vesicles (2-8 \u03bcm). Importantly, we show that these vesicles aid in the regurgitation of bile from the canalicular system. Conclusion: Actomyosin contractility induces the formation of bile-regurgitative vesicles, thus serving as an early homeostatic mechanism against increased biliary pressure during cholestasis.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/077792', [], [u'Mechanobiology Institute, National University of Singapore, Singapore;', u'Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR);', u'Department of Physiology, National University of Singapore, Singapore;', u'NUS Graduate School of Integrative Sciences and Engineering, National University of Singapore;', u'Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou, Fujian, China;', u'Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taiwan;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore;', u'Department of Pathology, National University of Singapore, Singapore;', u'Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, National University Hospital, Singapore;', u'BioSyM, Singapore-MIT Alliance for Research and Technology, Singapore;', u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Theta Oscillations in the Human Medial Temporal Lobe during Real World Ambulatory Movement', ['Zahra M. Aghajan', 'Peter Schuette', 'Tony Fields', 'Michelle Tran', 'Sameed Siddiqui', 'Nick Hasulak', 'Thomas K Tcheng', 'Dawn Eliashiv', 'John Stern', 'Itzhak Fried', 'Nanthia Suthana'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Theta oscillations play a critical role in learning and memory by coordinating the spiking activity of neuronal ensembles via mechanisms such as spike timing dependent plasticity [1-7]. This rhythm is present in rodents where it is continuously evident during movement at frequencies within 6-12Hz [8,9]. In humans, however, the presence of continuous theta rhythm has been elusive; indeed, a functionally similar theta is thought to occur at lower frequency ranges (3-7Hz) and in shorter bouts [10-12]. This lower frequency theta rhythm is observed during a variety of behaviors, including virtual navigation, but has never been tested during real world ambulatory movement. Here we examined the oscillatory properties of theta within the human medial temporal lobe (MTL) in freely moving human subjects chronically implanted with the clinical NeuroPace RNS responsive neurostimulator device, capable of wireless recordings of continuous intracranial deep brain electroencephalographic (iEEG) activity. MTL iEEG recordings, together with sub-millimeter position tracking, revealed the presence of high frequency theta oscillations (6-12Hz) during ambulation. The prevalence of these oscillations was increased during fast movement compared to slow movement. These theta bouts, although occurring more frequently, were not significantly different in durations during fast versus slow movements. In a rare opportunity to study one subject with congenital blindness, we found that both the prevalence and duration of theta bouts were much greater than those in sighted subjects. Our results suggest that higher frequency theta indeed exists in humans during movement providing critical support for conserved neurobiological mechanisms for spatial navigation. The precise link between this pattern and its behavioral correlates will be an exciting area for future studies given this novel methodology for simultaneous motion capture and long term chronic recordings from deep brain targets during ambulatory human behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078055', [], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'NeuroPace, Inc., Mountain View, CA']]
[u'Can we test the influence of prosociality on high frequency heart rate variability? A double-blind sham-controlled approach.', ['Brice Beffara', 'Martial Mermillod', 'Nicolas Vermeulen'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'The polyvagal theory (Porges, 2007) proposes that physiological flexibility dependent on heart-brain interactions is associated with prosociality. So far, whether prosociality has a causal effect on physiological flexibility is unknown. Previous studies present mitigated results on this matter. In a randomized double-blind protocol, we used a generation of social closeness procedure against a standardized control condition in order to manipulate social affiliation as a prosocial interaction factor. High frequency heart rate variability (HF-HRV, indexing physiological flexibility), electromyographical activity of the corrugator supercilii  (sensitive to the valence of the interaction) and self-reported measure of social closeness were monitored before, during, and after experimental manipulation.  Cooperation was measured after the experimental manipulation as an index of behavioral prosociality. Data reveal no evidence toward and effect of the experimental manipulation on these measures. We discuss methodological aspects related to the experimental constraints observed in social psychophysiology. Implications for the experimental test of the polyvagal theory are approached within alternative theoretical frameworks.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078006', [], [u'Grenoble Alpes University, CNRS, France, and UCLouvain, Belgium;', u'Grenoble Alpes University, CNRS, France;', u'UCLouvain, FNRS, Belgium']]
[u'Approximate Likelihood Inference of Complex Population Histories and Recombination from Multiple Genomes', ['Champak Beeravolu Reddy', 'Michael J. Hickerson', 'Laurent A.F. Frantz', 'Konrad Lohse'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'The wealth of information contained in genome-scale datasets has substantially encouraged the development of methods inferring population histories with unprecedented resolution. Methods based on the Site Frequency Spectrum (SFS) are computationally efficient but discard information about linkage disequilibrium, while methods making use of linkage and recombination are computationally more intensive and rely on approximations such as the Sequentially Markov Coalescent. Overcoming these limitations, we introduce a novel Composite Likelihood (CL) framework which allows for the joint inference of arbitrarily complex population histories and the average genome-wide recombination rate from multiple genomes. We build upon an existing analytic approach that partitions the genome into blocks of equal (and arbitrary) size and summarizes the polymorphism and linkage information as blockwise counts of SFS types (bSFS). This statistic is a richer summary than the SFS because it retains information on the variation in genealogies contained in short-range linkage blocks across the genome. Our method, ABLE (Approximate Blockwise Likelihood Estimation), approximates the CL of arbitrary population histories via Monte Carlo simulations form the coalescent with recombination and overcomes limitations arising from analytical likelihood calculations. ABLE is first assessed by comparing it to expected analytic results for small samples and no intra-block recombination. The power of this approach is further illustrated by using whole genome data from the two species of orangutan and comparing our inferences under a series of models involving divergence and various forms of continuous or pulsed admixture with previous analyses based on the SFS and the SMC. Finally, we explore the effects of sampling (different block lengths and number of individuals) and find that accurate inference of demography and recombination can be achieved with reasonable computational effort. Our approach is also notably adapted to unphased data and fragmented assemblies making it particularly suitable for model as well as non-model organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/077958', [], [u'The City College of New York;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Educational attainment and personality are genetically intertwined', ['Rene Mottus', 'Anu Realo', 'Uku Vainik', 'Juri Allik', 'Tonu Esko'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'It is possible that heritable variance in personality characteristics does not reflect (only) genetic and biological processes specific to personality per se. We tested the possibility that Five-Factor Model personality domains and facets, as rated by people themselves and their knowledgeable informants, reflect polygenic influences that have been previously associated with educational attainment. In a sample of over 3,000 adult Estonians, polygenic scores for educational attainment, based on small contributions from more than 150,000 genetic variants, were correlated with various personality traits, mostly from the Neuroticism and Openness domains. The correlations of personality characteristics with educational attainment-related polygenic influences reflected almost entirely their correlations with phenotypic educational attainment. Structural equation modeling of the associations between polygenic risk, personality (a weighed aggregate of education-related facets) and educational attainment lent relatively strongest support to the possibility of educational attainment mediating (explaining) some of the heritable variance in personality traits.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078014', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Warwick;', u'McGill University;', u'University of Tartu;', u'Broad Institute']]
[u'A gunshot approach to identify mechanical nociception genes with a high throughput behavioral assay.', ['Melissa G Christianson', 'Stephanie E. Mauthner', 'Dan Tracey'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'The molecular mechanisms of sensing noxious mechanical force by nociceptive sensory neurons remain poorly understood. Traditional methods for probing mechanical nociception behavioral responses are labor intensive and involve the testing of one animal at a time. This time consuming process of behavioral testing has largely precluded large scale analyses.   Indeed, large scale genetic screens that have been performed thus far have been largely restricted to the investigation of ion channel genes. Here we describe a new behavioral assay for mechanical nociception in which tens of animals can be stimulated simultaneously.  In this assay, third instar larvae of the genetically tractable Drosophila melanogaster are mechanically stimulated with tungsten particles that are fired from a gun.  In addition, we have used the new assay to carry out a genetic screen in which we investigated the function of 231 nociceptor enriched genes with tissue-specific RNA interference. Targeting of 24 genes resulted in mechanically insensitive phenotypes and targeting of a single gene resulted in hypersensitive mechanical nociception phenotypes.  Six of the identified genes were previously uncharacterized and these were named after famed Roman gladiators (Spartacus (CG14186), Commodus (CG1311), Flamma (CG10914), Crixus(CG6685), Spiculus (CG10932), and Verus (CG31324)).', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/077644', [], [u'Duke University Medical Center;', u'University of Indiana, Bloomington;', u'Indiana University Bloomington']]
[u'A phylogenetic codon substitution model for antibody lineages', ['Kenneth Hoehn', 'Gerton Lunter', 'Oliver Pybus'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Phylogenetic methods have shown promise in understanding the development of broadly neutralizing antibody lineages (bNAbs). However, the mutational process that generates these lineages\u2014somatic hypermutation (SHM)\u2014is biased by hotspot motifs, which violates important assumptions in most phylogenetic substitution models. Here, we develop a modified GY94-type substitution model that partially accounts for this context-dependency while preserving independence of sites during calculation. This model shows a substantially better fit to three well-characterized bNAb lineages than the standard GY94 model. We show through simulations that accounting for hotspot motifs can lead to reduced bias of other substitution parameters, and more accurate ancestral state reconstructions. We also demonstrate how our model can be used to test hypotheses concerning the roles of different hotspot and coldspot motifs in the evolution of B-cell lineages. Further, we explore the consequences of the idea that the number of hotspot motifs\u2014and perhaps the mutation rate in general\u2014is expected to decay over time in individual bNAb lineages.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078279', [], [u'University of Oxford, United Kingdom;', u'Oxford University, United Kingdom']]
[u'Predicting Protein Thermostability Upon Mutation Using Molecular Dynamics Timeseries Data', ['Noah Fleming', 'Benjamin Kinsella', 'Christopher Ing'], u'September 28, 2016.', u"A large number of human diseases result from disruptions to protein structure and function caused by missense mutations. Computational methods are frequently employed to assist in the prediction of protein stability upon mutation. These methods utilize a combination of protein sequence data, protein structure data, empirical energy functions, and physicochemical properties of amino acids. In this work, we present the first use of dynamic protein structural features in order to improve stability predictions upon mutation. This is achieved through the use of a set of timeseries extracted from microsecond timescale atomistic molecular dynamics simulations of proteins. Standard machine learning algorithms using mean, variance, and histograms of these timeseries were found to be 60-70% accurate in stability classification based on experimental \u0394\u0394G or protein-chaperone interaction measurements. A recurrent neural network with full treatment of timeseries data was found to be 80% accurate according the F1 score. The performance of our models was found to be equal or better than two recently developed machine learning methods for binary classification as well as two industry-standard stability prediction algorithms. In addition to classification, understanding the molecular basis of protein stability disruption due to disease-causing mutations is a significant challenge that impedes the development of drugs and therapies that may be used treat genetic diseases. The use of dynamic structural features allows for novel insight into the molecular basis of protein disruption by mutation in a diverse set of soluble proteins. To assist in the interpretation of machine learning results, we present a technique for determining the importance of features to a recurrent neural network using Garson's method. We propose a novel extension of neural interpretation diagrams by implementing Garson's method to scale each node in the neural interpretation diagram according to its relative importance to the network.", u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078246', [], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Case study: Paralog diverged features may help reduce off-target effects of drugs', ['Zhining Sa', 'Jingqi Zou', 'Yangyun Zou', 'Xun Gu'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Side effects from targeted drugs is a serious concern. One reason is the nonselective binding of a drug to unintended proteins such as its paralogs, which are highly homologous in sequences and exhibit similar structures and drug-binding pockets. In this study, we analyzed amino acid residues with type-II functional divergence, i.e., sites that are conserved in sequence constraints but differ in physicochemical properties between paralogs, to identify targetable differences between two paralogs. We analyzed paralogous protein receptors in the glucagon-like subfamily, glucagon receptor (GCGR) and glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R), which are clinically validated drug targets in patients with type 2 diabetes and exhibit divergence in ligands, showing opposing roles in regulating glucose homeostasis. We identified 8 residues related to type-II functional divergence, which are conserved in functional constraints but differ in physicochemical properties between GCGR and GLP-1R. We detected significant enrichment of predicted residues in binding sites of the antagonist MK-0893 to GCGR. We also identified a type-II functional divergence-related residue involved in ligand-specific effects that was critical for agonist-mediated activation of GLP-1R. We describe the important role of type-II functional divergence-related sites in paralog discrimination, enabling the identification of binding sites to reduce undesirable side effects and increase the target specificity of drugs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078063', [], [u'Fudan University;', u'Iowa State University']]
[u'Protein Kinase C and the stress response pathways are required for kinetochore homeostasis.', ['Elena Ledesma-Fernandez', 'Eva Herrero', 'Gujon Olafsson', 'Peter Thorpe'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Kinetochores serve both a structural role linking chromosomes to the mitotic spindle and a regulatory role, controlling the timing of mitosis via the spindle assembly checkpoint. To identify proteins that regulate the kinetochore we used a genome-wide fluorescence microscopy approach. We combined an array of mutants of either non-essential gene deletions or essential temperature-sensitive alleles with fluorescently tagged spindle pole bodies (centrosome) and outer kinetochores. Quantitative and qualitative analysis revealed mutants that affect the levels and distribution of kinetochores respectively. These mutants are enriched for those involved in mRNA processing, chromatin organization, DNA replication/repair and mitosis. Our data show that the Pkc1 kinase maintains the kinetochore focus via its ability to prevent cell stress and this phenotype is rescued by an osmotic stabilizer. These data support the notion that kinetochore and microtubule homeostasis are perturbed by the stress response pathways. Hence this observation provides a candidate mechanism for extracellular stress leading to chromosome segregation defects.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078196', [], [u'MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology, University College London;', u'The Francis Crick Institute']]
[u'A Pif1-dependent threshold separates DNA double-strand breaks and telomeres', ['Daniel Durocher', 'Jonathan Strecker'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'The natural ends of chromosomes resemble DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) and telomeres are therefore necessary to prevent recognition by the DNA damage response. The enzyme telomerase can also generate new telomeres at DSBs, resulting in the loss of genetic information distal to the break. How cells deal with different DNA ends is therefore an important decision. One critical point of regulation is to limit telomerase activity at DSBs and this is primarily accomplished in budding yeast by the telomerase inhibitor Pif1. Here we use Pif1 as a sensor to gain insight into the cellular decision at DSB ends with increasing telomeric character. We uncover a striking transition point in which 34 bp of telomeric (TG1-3)n repeat sequence is sufficient to render a DNA end insensitive to Pif1, thereby facilitating extension by telomerase. This phenomenon is unlikely to be due to Pif1 modification and we propose that Cdc13 confers a unique property to the TG34 end that prevents Pif1 action. We identify novel Cdc13 mutations that resensitize DNA ends to Pif1 and discover that many Cdc13 telomerase-null mutations are dependent on Pif1 status. Finally, the observed threshold of Pif1 activity recapitulates several properties of both DSBs and telomeres and we propose that this is the dividing line between these entities.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078162', [], [u'The Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute']]
[u'Purifying selection provides buffering of the natural variation co-expression network in a forest tree species', ['Niklas Mahler', 'Barbara K Terebieniec', 'Jing Wang', 'Par K Ingvarsson', 'Nathaniel R Street', 'Torgeir R Hvidsten'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Several studies have investigated general properties of the genetic architecture of gene expression variation. Most of these used controlled crosses and it is unclear whether their findings extend to natural populations. Furthermore, systems biology has established that biological networks are buffered against large effect mutations, but there remains little data resolving this with natural variation of gene expression. Here we utilise RNA-Sequencing to assay gene expression in winter buds undergoing bud flush in a natural population of Populus tremula. We performed expression Quantitative Trait Locus (eQTL) mapping and identified 164,290 significant eQTLs associating 6,241 unique genes (eGenes) with 147,419 unique SNPs (eSNPs). We found approximately four times as many local as distant eQTLs, which had significantly higher effect size. eQTLs were primarily located in regulatory regions of genes (UTRs or flanking regions), regardless of whether they were local or distant. We used the gene expression data to infer a co-expression network and investigated to what degree eQTLs could explain the structure of the network: eGenes were present in the core of 28 of 38 network modules, however, eGenes were overall underrepresented in cores and overrepresented in the periphery of the network, with a negative correlation between eQTL effect size and network connectivity. We also observed a negative correlation between eQTL effect size and allele frequency and found that core genes have experienced stronger selective constraint. Our integrated genetics and genomics results suggest that prevalent purifying selection is the primary mechanism underlying the genetic architecture of natural variation in gene expression in P. tremula and that highly connected network hubs are buffered against deleterious effects as a result of regulation by numerous eSNPs, each of minor effect.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078188', [], [u'Ume\xe5 University;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences']]
[u'Unique properties of Zika NS2B-NS3pro complexes as decoded by experiments and MD simulations', ['Amrita Roy', 'Liangzhong Lim', 'Shagun Srivastava', 'Jianxing Song'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Zika virus can be passed from a pregnant woman to her fetus, thus leading to birth defects including more than microcephaly. It has been recently estimated that one-third of the world population will be infected by Zika, but unfortunately no vaccine or medicine is available so far. Zika NS2B-NS3pro is essential for its replication and thus represents an attractive target for drug discovery/design. Here we characterized conformation, catalysis, inhibition and dynamics of linked and unlinked Zika NS2B-NS3pro complexes by both experiments and MD simulations. The results unveil the unique properties of Zika NS2B-NS3pro which are very different from Dengue one. Particularly, CD and NMR studies indicate that unlike Dengue, the C-terminal region of Zika NS2B with a significant sequence variation is highly disordered in the open conformation. Indeed, MD simulations reveal that up to 100 ns, the Dengue NS2B C-terminus constantly has close contacts with its NS3pro domain. By a sharp contrast, the Zika NS2B C-terminus loses the contacts with its NS3pro domain after 10 ns, further forming a short \u03b2-sheet characteristic of the closed conformation at 30 ns. Furthermore, we found that a small molecule, previously identified as an active site inhibitor for other flaviviral NS2B-NS3pro, inhibited Zika NS2B-NS3pro potently in an allosteric manner. Our study provides the first insight into the dynamics of Zika NS2B-NS3pro and further deciphers that it is susceptible to allosteric inhibition, which thus bears critical implications for the future development of therapeutic allosteric inhibitors.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078113', [], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Evolutionary and Functional Implications of Hypervariable Loci Within the Skin Virome', ['Geoffrey D Hannigan', 'Qi Zheng', 'Jacquelyn S Meisel', 'Samuel Minot', 'Frederick D Bushman', 'Elizabeth A Grice'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Localized genomic variability is crucial for the ongoing conflicts between infectious microbes and their hosts. An understanding of evolutionary and adaptive patterns associated with genomic variability will help guide development of vaccines and anti-microbial agents. While most analyses of the human microbiome have focused on taxonomic classification and gene annotation, we investigated genomic variation of skin-associated viral communities. We evaluated patterns of viral genomic variation across 16 healthy human volunteers. HPV and Staphylococcus phages contained 106 and 465 regions of diversification, or hypervariable loci, respectively. Propionibacterium phage genomes were minimally divergent and contained no hypervariable loci. Genes containing hypervariable loci were involved in functions including host tropism and immune evasion. HPV and Staphylococcus phage hypervariable loci were associated with purifying selection. Amino acid substitution patterns were virus dependent, as were predictions of their phenotypic effects. We identified diversity generating retroelements as one likely mechanism driving hypervariability. We validated these findings in an independently collected skin metagenomic sequence dataset, suggesting that these features of skin virome genomic variability are widespread. Our results highlight the genomic variation landscape of the skin virome and provide a foundation for better understanding community viral evolution and the functional implications of genomic diversification of skin viruses.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078170', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'One Codex']]
[u'Assessing the Relationship Between Vegetation Structure and Harvestmen Assemblage in an Amazonian Upland Forest', ['Pio Colmenares', 'Fabricio B. Baccaro', 'Ana Lucia Tourinho'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'1. Arthropod diversity and non-flying arthropod food web are strongly influenced by habitat components related to plant architecture and habitat structural complexity. However, we still poorly understand the relationship between arthropod diversity and the vegetation structure at different spatial scales. Here, we examined how harvestmen assemblages are distributed across six local scale habitats (trees, dead trunks, palms, bushes, herbs and litter), and along three proxies of vegetation structure (number of palms, number of trees and litter depth) at mesoscale. \n2. We collected harvestmen using cryptic manual search in 30 permanent plots of 250 m at Reserva Ducke, Amazonas, Brazil. The 30 plots cover approximately 25 km2 of upland forests. At a local scale, harvestmen were most diverse and abundant on trees. The likely preference of trees by harvestmen may be related to the variety of local microhabitats offered by large trees. However, despite the strong link between number of harvestman species and individuals with large trees, only harvestmen assemblages composition were related with number of trees and with number of palms, at mesoscale. \n3. Harvestman richness and abundance were not related with any vegetation structure predictor at mesoscale. Therefore, areas of upland forest in the central Amazon with large trees and palms do not harbor more harvestman species nor individuals, but are suitable to maintain different harvestmen assemblages.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078220', [u'Ecology'], [u'Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia;', u'Universidade Federal do Amazonas;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Automated Incorporation of Pairwise Dependency in Transcription Factor Binding Site Prediction Using Dinucleotide Weight Tensors', ['Saeed Omidi', 'Erik van Nimwegen'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Gene regulatory networks are ultimately encoded by the sequence-specific binding of (TFs) to short DNA segments. Although it is customary to represent the binding specificity of a TF by a position-specific weight matrix (PSWM), which assumes each position within a site contributes independently to the overall binding affinity, evidence has been accumulating that there can be significant dependencies between positions. Unfortunately, due to various\nmethodological challenges, there is currently still no model that incorporates such dependencies in a way that is both general and practical. On the one hand, simple models that only consider nearest-neighbor interactions are easy to use in practice, but fail to account for the distal dependencies that are observed in the data. On the other hand, models that allow for arbitrary dependencies are prone to overfitting, requiring regularization schemes that are difficult to use in practice for non-experts.\n\nHere we present a general model for TF binding specificity, called dinucleotide weight tensor (DWT), that implements arbitrary pairwise dependencies between positions in binding sites, rigorously from first principles, and free from any tunable parameters. We implemented a tool-box, available at dwt.unibas.ch, that allows users to automatically perform \u2018motif finding\u2019, i.e. the inference of DWT motifs from a set of sequences, binding site prediction with DWTs, and visualization of DWT \u2018dilogo\u2019 motifs. We demonstrate the power of the method on a large set of ChIP-seq data-sets, showing that DWTs never overfit, and significantly outperform PSWMs for a substantial fraction of TFs. In addition, we show that the dependencies inferred by the DWTs from ChIP-seq data are corroborated by HT-SELEX data for the same TF, suggesting that DWTs capture inherent biophysical properties of the interactions between the DNA binding domains of TFs and their binding sites.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078212', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Unversity of Basel;', u'Biozentrum, University of Basel']]
[u'Proper modelling of ligand binding requires an ensemble of bound and unbound states', ['Nicholas M Pearce', 'Frank von Delft'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Small molecules bind to only a fraction of the proteins in the crystal lattice, but occupancy refinement of ligands is often avoided by convention; occupancies are set to unity, assuming that the error will be adequately modelled by the B-factors, and weak ligand density is generally ignored or attributed to disorder. Where occupancy refinement is performed, the superposed atomic state is rarely modelled. We show here that these modelling approaches lead to a degradation of the quality of the ligand model, and potentially affect the interpretation of the interactions between the bound ligand and the protein. Instead, superior accuracy is achieved by modelling the ligand as partially occupied and superposed on a ligand-free "ground-state" solvent model. Explicit modelling of the superposed unbound fraction of the crystal using a reference dataset allows constrained refinement of the occupancy of the ligand with minimal fear of over-fitting. Better representation of the crystal also leads to more meaningful refined atomic parameters such as the B-factor, allowing more insight into dynamics in the crystal. We present a simple approach and simple guidelines for generating the ensemble of bound and unbound states, assuming that datasets representing the unbound states (the ground state) are available. Judged by various electron density metrics, ensemble models are consistently better than corresponding single-state models. Furthermore, local modelling of the superposed ground state is found to be generally more important for the quality of the ligand model than convergence of the overall phases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/078147', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Variant Set Enrichment: An R package to Identify Dis-ease-Associated Functional Genomic Regions', ['Musaddeque Ahmed', 'Richard C Sallari', 'Haiyang Guo', 'Jason H Moore', 'Housheng Hansen He', 'Mathieu Lupien'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Summary: Genetic predispositions to diseases populate the noncoding regions of the human genome. Delineating their functional basis can inform on the mechanisms contributing to disease development. However, this remains a challenge due to the poor characterization of the noncoding genome. Variant Set Enrichment (VSE) is a fast method to calculate the enrichment of a set of disease-associated variants across functionally annotated genomic regions, consequently highlighting the mechanisms important in the etiology of the disease studied. VSE is implemented as an R package and can easily be implemented in any system with R.', u'/content/early/2016/09/28/077990', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA;', u'Ontario Cancer Institute']]
[u'Composition fluctuations in lipid bilayers', ['Svetlana Baoukina', 'Dmitri Rozmanov', 'D. Peter Tieleman'], u'September 28, 2016.', u'Lipid bilayers constitute the basis of biological membranes. Understanding lipid mixing and phase behavior can provide important insights into membrane lateral organization (the "raft" hypothesis). Here we investigate model lipid bilayers below and above their miscibility transition temperatures. Molecular dynamics simulations with the MARTINI coarse-grained force field are employed to model bilayers on a length scale approaching 100 nm and a time scale of tens of microseconds. Using a binary mixture of saturated and unsaturated lipids, and a ternary mixture of a saturated lipid, an unsaturated lipid and cholesterol we reproduce the coexistence of liquid-crystalline and gel, as well as liquid-ordered and liquid-disordered phases. By raising the temperature or adding hybrid lipids (with a saturated and an unsaturated chain), we induce a gradual transition from a two-phase to a one-phase state. We characterize the evolution of bilayer properties along this transition. Domains of coexisting phases change to dynamic heterogeneity with local ordering and compositional de-mixing. We analyze the structural and dynamic properties of domains, sizes and lifetimes of composition fluctuations, and calculate the in-plane structure factors.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/078030', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Calgary']]
