[u"Reward learning deficits in Parkinson's disease depend on depression", ['Monique HM Timmer', 'Guillaume Sescousse', 'Marieke E van der Schaaf', 'Rianne AJ Esselink', 'Roshan Cools'], u'August 12, 2016.', u"Background: Depression is one of the most common and debilitating non-motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD). The neurocognitive mechanisms underlying depression in PD are unclear and treatment is often suboptimal. \n\nMethods: We investigated the role of striatal dopamine in reversal learning from reward and punishment by combining a controlled medication withdrawal procedure with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in 22 non-depressed PD patients and 19 PD patients with past or present PD-related depression. \n\nResults: PD patients with a PD-related depression (history) exhibited impaired reward versus punishment reversal learning as well as reduced reward versus punishment-related BOLD signal in the striatum (putamen) compared with non-depressed PD patients. No effects of dopaminergic medication were observed. \n\nConclusions: The present findings demonstrate that impairments in reversal learning from reward versus punishment and associated reward-related striatal signalling depend on the presence of (a history of) depression in PD.", u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069062', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University;', u'Radboud University Medical Center, Department of Neurology and Parkinson Centre Nijmegen (ParC)']]
[u'Gene-culture co-inheritance of a behavioral trait.', ['Elliot G Aguilar', 'Erol Akcay'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'Human behavioral traits are complex phenotypes that result from both genetic and cultural transmission. But different inheritance systems need not favor the same phenotypic outcome. What happens when there are conflicting selection forces in the two domains? To address this question, we derive a Price equation that incorporates both cultural and genetic inheritance of a phenotype where the effects of genes and culture are additive. We then use this equation to investigate whether a genetically maladaptive phenotype can evolve under dual transmission. We examine the special case of altruism using an illustrative model, and show that cultural selection can overcome genetic selection when the variance in culture is sufficiently high with respect to genes. Finally, we show how our basic result can be extended to nonadditive effects models. We discuss the implications of our results for understanding the evolution of maladaptive behaviors.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069286', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Highly parallel direct RNA sequencing on an array of nanopores', ['Daniel R Garalde', 'Elizabeth A Snell', 'Daniel Jachimowicz', 'Andrew J Heron', 'Mark Bruce', 'Joseph Lloyd', 'Anthony Warland', 'Nadia Pantic', 'Tigist Admassu', 'Jonah Ciccone', 'Sabrina Serra', 'Jemma Keenan', 'Samuel Martin', 'Luke McNeill', 'Jayne Wallace', 'Lakmal Jayasinghe', 'Chris Wright', 'Javier Blasco', 'Botond Sipos', 'Stephen Young', 'Sissel Juul', 'James Clarke', 'Daniel J Turner'], u'August 12, 2016.', u"Ribonucleic acid sequencing can allow us to monitor the RNAs present in a sample. This enables us to detect the presence and nucleotide sequence of viruses, or to build a picture of how active transcriptional processes are changing -- information that is useful for understanding the status and function of a sample. Nanopore-based sequencing technology is capable of electronically analysing a sample's DNA directly, and in real-time. In this manuscript we demonstrate the ability of an array of nanopores to sequence RNA directly, and we apply it to a range of biological situations. Nanopore technology is the only available sequencing technology which can sequence RNA directly, rather than depending on reverse transcription and PCR. There are several potential advantages of this approach over other RNA-seq strategies, including the absence of amplification and reverse transcription biases, the ability to detect nucleotide analogues and the ability to generate full-length, strand-specific RNA sequences. This will improve the ease and speed of RNA analysis, while yielding richer biological information.", u'/content/early/2016/08/12/068809', [u'Genomics'], [u'Oxford Nanopore Technologies']]
[u'Stochastic competitive exclusion leads to a cascade of species extinctions', ['Jose A Capitan', 'Sara Cuenda', 'David Alonso'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'Community ecology has traditionally relied on the competitive exclusion principle, a piece of common wisdom in conceptual frameworks developed to describe species assemblages. Key concepts in community ecology, such as limiting similarity and niche partitioning, are based on competitive exclusion. However, this classical paradigm in ecology relies on implications derived from simple, deterministic models. Here we show how the predictions of a symmetric, deterministic model about the way extinctions proceed can be utterly different from the results derived from the same model when ecological drift (demographic stochasticity) is explicitly considered. Using analytical approximations to the steady-state conditional probabilities for assemblages with two and three species, we demonstrate that stochastic competitive exclusion leads to a cascade of extinctions, whereas the symmetric, deterministic model predicts a multiple collapse of species. To test the robustness of our results, we have studied the effect of environmental stochasticity and relaxed the species symmetry assumption. Our conclusions highlight the crucial role of stochasticity when deriving reliable theoretical predictions for species community assembly.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069203', [u'Ecology'], [u'Technical University of Madrid;', u'Universidad Autonoma de Madrid;', u'Spanish Council for Scientific Research']]
[u'phyC: Clustering cancer evolutionary trees', ['Yusuke Matsui', 'Atsushi Niida', 'Ryutaro Uchi', 'Koshi Mimori', 'Satoru Miyano', 'Teppei Shimamura'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'Motivation: Multi-regional sequencing provides new opportunities to investigate genetic heterogeneity within or between common tumors from an evolutionary perspective. Several state-of-the-art methods have been proposed for reconstructing cancer sub-clonal evolutionary trees based on multi-regional sequencing data to develop models of cancer evolution. However, the methods developed thus far are not sufficient to characterize and interpret the diversity of cancer sub-clonal evolutionary trees.\nResults: We propose a clustering method (phyC) for cancer sub-clonal evolutionary trees, in which sub-groups of the trees are identified based on topology and edge length attributes. For interpretation, we also propose a method for evaluating the diversity of trees in the clusters, which provides insight into the acceleration of sub-clonal expansion. Simulation showed that the proposed method can detect true clusters with sufficient accuracy. Application of the method to actual multi-regional sequencing data of clear cell renal carcinoma and non-small cell lung cancer allowed for the detection of clusters related to cancer type or phenotype.\nAvailability: phyC is implemented with R(>=3.2.2) and is available from https://github.com/ymatts/phyC', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069302', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Division of Systems Biology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan;', u'Health Intelligence Center, The Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan;', u'Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University;', u'Department of Surgery, Kyushu University Beppu Hospital, Beppu, Japan;', u'Human Genome Center, Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo, Japan']]
[u'Recurrent promoter mutations in melanoma are defined by an extended context-specific mutational signature', ['Johan Fredriksson', 'Erik Larsson'], u'August 12, 2016.', u"Sequencing of whole tumor genomes holds the promise of revealing functional somatic regulatory mutations, such as those described in the TERT promoter. Recurrent promoter mutations have been identified in many additional genes and appear to be particularly common in melanoma, but convincing functional data such influence on gene expression has been elusive. Here, we show that frequently recurring promoter mutations in melanoma occur almost exclusively at cytosines flanked by an extended non-degenerate sequence signature, TTCCG, with TERT as a notable exception. In active, but not inactive, promoters, mutation frequencies for cytosines at the 5' end of this ETS-like motif were considerably higher than expected based on a UV trinucleotide mutation signature. Additional analyses solidify this pattern as an extended context-specific mutational signature that mediates an exceptional position-specific elevation in local mutation rate, arguing against positive selection. This finding has implications for the interpretation of somatic mutations in regulatory regions, and underscores the importance of genomic context and extended sequence patterns to accurately describe mutational signatures in cancer.", u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069351', [u'Genomics'], [u'Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Efficient randomization of biological networks while preserving functional characterization of individual nodes', ['Francesco Iorio', 'Andrea Gobbi', 'Thomas Cokelaer', 'Marti Bernardo Faura', 'Giuseppe Jurman', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez'], u'August 12, 2016.', u"Networks are popular and powerful tools to describe and model biological processes. Many computational methods have been developed to infer biological networks from literature, high-throughput experiments, and combinations of both. Additionally, a wide range of tools has been developed to calibrate experimental data onto reference biological  networks, in order to extract meaningful modules. Many of these methods assess results' significance against null distributions of randomized networks. However, these standard unconstrained randomizations do not preserve the functional characterization of the nodes in the reference networks (i.e. their degrees and connection signs), hence including potential biases in the assessment.\nBuilding on our previous work about rewiring bipartite and undirected-unweighted networks, we propose  a  method for rewiring any type of unweighted networks. In particular we formally demonstrate that the problem of rewiring a signed and directed network preserving its functional connectivity (F-rewiring) reduces to the problem of rewiring two induced bipartite networks. Additionally, we reformulate the lower bound to the iterations' number of the switching-algorithm to make it suitable for the F-rewiring of networks of any size. Finally, we present BiRewire3, an open-source Bioconductor software enabling the F-rewiring of any type of unweighted network. We illustrate its application to a case study about the identification of modules from gene expression data mapped on  protein interaction networks, and a second one focused on building logic models from more complex signed-directed reference signaling networks and phosphoproteomic data.\nBiRewire3 it is freely available at https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/BiRewire/, and it should have a broad application as it allows an efficient and analytically derived statistical assessment of results from any network biology tool.", u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069245', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'Fondazione Bruno Kessler;', u'Institut Pasteur -Bioinformatics and Biostatistics Hub;', u'Joint Research Centre for Computational Biomedicine (JRC-COMBINE), RWTH Aachen University']]
[u'ARGLU1 is a Glucocorticoid Receptor Coactivator and Splicing Modulator Important in Stress Hormone Signaling and Brain Development', ['Lilia Magomedova', 'Jens Tiefenbach', 'Emma Zilberman', 'Veronique Voisin', 'Melanie Robitaille', 'Serge Gueroussov', 'Manuel Irimia', 'Debashish Ray', 'Rucha Patel', 'ChangJiang Xu', 'Pancharatnam Jeyasuria', 'Gary D. Bader', 'Timothy R. Hughes', 'Henry Krause', 'Benjamin J. Blencowe', 'Stephane Angers', 'Carolyn L. Cummins'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'Prolonged exposure to glucocorticoid stress hormones precipitates mood and cognitive disorders. We identified arginine and glutamate rich 1 (ARGLU1) in a screen for new modulators of glucocorticoid signaling in the CNS. Biochemical studies found that the glutamate rich C-terminus coactivates the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and the arginine rich N-terminus interacts with splicing factors and RNA. RNA-seq of neuronal cells +/- siARGLU1 found significant changes in the expression and alternative splicing of distinct genes involved in neurogenesis. Loss of ARGLU1 was embryonic lethal in mice, and knockdown in zebrafish caused neurodevelopmental and heart defects. Treatment with dexamethasone, a GR activator, also induced changes in the pattern of alternatively spliced genes, highlighting an underappreciated global mechanism of glucocorticoid action in neuronal cells. Thus, in addition to its basal role, ARGLU1 links glucocorticoid-mediated transcription and alternative splicing in neural cells, providing new avenues from which to investigate the molecular underpinnings of cognitive stress disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069161', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'Wayne State University']]
[u'The field of view available to the cortical reading circuitry', ['Rosemary Le', 'Nathan Witthoft', 'Michal Ben-Shachar', 'Brian Wandell'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'Skilled reading requires rapidly recognizing letters and word forms; people learn this skill best for words presented in the central visual field. Measurements over the last decade have shown that when children learn to read, responses within ventral occipito-temporal cortex (VOT) become increasingly selective to word forms. We call these regions the VOT reading circuitry (VOTRC). The portion of the visual field that evokes a response in the VOTRC is called the field of view (FOV). We measured the FOV of the VOTRC and found that it is a small subset of the entire field of view available to the human visual system. For the typical subject, the FOV of the VOTRC in each hemisphere is contralaterally and foveally biased. The FOV of the left VOTRC extends ~9 degrees into the right visual field and ~4 degrees into the left visual field along the horizontal meridian. The FOV of the right VOTRC is roughly mirror symmetric to that of the left VOTRC. The size and shape of the FOV covers the region of the visual field that contains relevant information for reading English. It may be that the size and shape of the FOV, which varies between subjects, will prove useful in predicting behavioral aspects of reading.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069369', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Bar Ilan University']]
[u'Planning horizon affects prophylactic decision-making and epidemic dynamics', ['Luis G. Nardin', 'Craig R. Miller', 'Benjamin J. Ridenhour', 'Stephen M. Krone', 'Paul Joyce', 'Bert O. Baumgaertner'], u'August 12, 2016.', u"Human behavior can change the spread of infectious disease. There is limited understanding of how the time in the future over which individuals make a behavioral decision, their planning horizon, affects epidemic dynamics. We developed an agent-based model (along with an ODE analog) to explore the decision-making of self-interested individuals on adopting prophylactic behavior. The decision-making process incorporates prophylaxis efficacy and disease prevalence with individuals' payoffs and planning horizon. Our results show that for short and long planning horizons individuals do not consider engaging in prophylactic behavior. In contrast, individuals adopt prophylactic behavior when considering intermediate planning horizons. Such adoption, however, is not always monotonically associated with the prevalence of the disease, depending on the perceived protection efficacy and the disease parameters. Adoption of prophylactic behavior reduces the peak size while prolonging the epidemic and potentially generates secondary waves of infection. These effects can be made stronger by increasing the behavioral decision frequency or distorting an individual's perceived risk of infection.", u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069013', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Idaho']]
[u'New method to reconstruct phylogenetic and transmission trees with sequence data from infectious disease outbreaks', ['Don Klinkenberg', 'Jantien Backer', 'Xavier Didelot', 'Caroline Colijn', 'Jacco Wallinga'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) of pathogens from host samples becomes more and more routine during infectious disease outbreaks. These data provide information on possible transmission events which can be used for further epidemiologic analyses, such as identification of risk factors for infectivity and transmission. However, the relationship between transmission events and WGS data is obscured by uncertainty arising from four largely unobserved processes: transmission, case observation, within-host pathogen dynamics and mutation. To properly resolve transmission events, these processes need to be taken into account. Recent years have seen much progress in theory and method development, but applications are tailored to specific datasets with matching model assumptions and code, or otherwise make simplifying assumptions that break up the dependency between the four processes. To obtain a method with wider applicability, we have developed a novel approach to reconstruct transmission trees with WGS data. Our approach combines elementary models for transmission, case observation, within-host pathogen dynamics, and mutation. We use Bayesian inference with MCMC for which we have designed novel proposal steps to efficiently traverse the posterior distribution, taking account of all unobserved processes at once. This allows for efficient sampling of transmission trees from the posterior distribution, and robust estimation of consensus transmission trees. We implemented the proposed method in a new R package phybreak. The method performs well in tests of both new and published simulated data. We apply the model to to five datasets on densely sampled infectious disease outbreaks, covering a wide range of epidemiological settings. Using only sampling times and sequences as data, our analyses confirmed the original results or improved on them: the more realistic infection times place more confidence in the inferred transmission trees.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069195', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'RIVM (National Institute for Public Health and the Environment);', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Physical model of the sequence-to-function map of proteins', ['Tsvi Tlusty', 'Albert Libchaber', 'Jean-Pierre Eckmann'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'We treat proteins as amorphous learning matter: A \u2018gene\u2019 encodes bonds in an \u2018amino acid\u2019 network making a \u2018protein\u2019. The gene is evolved until the network forms a shear band across the protein, which allows for long-range soft modes required for protein function. The evolution projects the high-dimensional sequence space onto a low-dimensional space of mechanical modes, in accord with the observed dimensional reduction between genotype and phenotype of proteins. Spectral analysis shows correspondence between localization around the shear band of both mechanical modes and sequence ripples.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069039', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Institute for Advanced Study;', u'Rockefeller University;', u'University of Geneva']]
[u'Loss of a doublecortin (DCX) domain containing protein causes structural defects in a tubulin-based organelle of Toxoplasma gondii and impairs host cell invasion.', ['Eiji Nagayasu', 'Yu-chen Hwang', 'Jun Liu', 'John Murray', 'Ke Hu'], u'August 12, 2016.', u"The ~6000 species in phylum Apicomplexa are single-celled obligate intracellular parasites.  Their defining characteristic is the 'apical complex', membranous and cytoskeletal elements at the apical end of the cell that participate in host-cell invasion.  The apical complex of Toxoplasma gondii and some other apicomplexans includes a cone-shaped assembly, the 'conoid', which (in T. gondii) comprises 14 spirally arranged fibers that are non-tubular polymers of tubulin.  The tubulin dimers used for the conoid fibers make canonical microtubules elsewhere in the same cell, suggesting that their special arrangement in the conoid fibers is dictated by non-tubulin proteins.  One candidate for this role is TgDCX, which has a doublecortin (DCX) domain and a TPPP/P25-alpha domain, known modulators of tubulin polymer structure.  Loss of TgDCX radically disrupts the structure of the conoid, severely impairs host cell invasion, and slows growth.  The defects of TgDCX-null parasites are corrected by re-introduction of a TgDCX coding sequence.", u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069377', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Miyazaki;', u'Nikon Instruments Inc.;', u'Indiana University']]
[u'A Single Nucleotide Resolution Model for Large-Scale Simulations of Double Stranded DNA', ['Yair Augusto Gutierrez Fosado', 'Davide Michieletto', 'Jim Allan', 'Chris Brackley', 'Oliver Henrich', 'Davide Marenduzzo'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'The computational modelling of DNA is becoming crucial in light of new advances in DNA nanotechnology, single-molecule experiments and in vivo DNA tampering. Here we present a mesoscopic model for double stranded DNA (dsDNA) at the single nucleotide level which retains the characteristic helical structure, while being able to simulate large molecules--up to a million base pairs--for time-scales which are relevant to physiological processes. This is made possible by an efficient and highly-parallelised implementation of the model which we discuss here. We compare the behaviour of our model with single molecule experiments where dsDNA is manipulated by external forces or torques. We also present some results on the kinetics of denaturation of linear DNA.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/069310', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, MRC Human Ge- netics Unit, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Evo-engineering and the Cellular and Molecular Origins of the Vertebrate Spinal Cord', ['Benjamin Steventon', 'Alfonso Martinez Arias'], u'August 12, 2016.', u'The formation of the spinal cord during early embryonic development in vertebrate embryos is a continuous process that begins at gastrulation and continues through to the completion of somitogenesis. Despite the conserved usage of patterning mechanisms and gene regulatory networks that act to generate specify spinal cord progenitors, there now exists two seemingly disparate models to account for their action. In the first, a posterior localized signalling source transforms previously anterior-specified neural plate into the spinal cord. In the second, a population of bipotent stem cells undergo continuous self-renewal and differentiation to progressively lay down the spinal cord and axial mesoderm by posterior growth. Whether this represents fundamental differences between the experimental model organisms utilised in the generation of these models remains to be addressed. Here we review lineage studies across four key vertebrate models: mouse, chicken, Xenopus and zebrafish and relate this to the underlying gene regulatory networks that are known to be required for spinal cord formation. We propose that by applying a dynamical systems approach to understanding how distinct neural and mesodermal fates arise from a bipotent progenitor pool, it is possible to begin to understand how differences in the dynamical cell behaviours such as proliferation rates and cell\nmovements can map onto conserved regulatory networks to generate diversity in the timing of tissue generation and\npatterning during development.', u'/content/early/2016/08/12/068882', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'3-5 Hz membrane potential oscillations decrease the gain of neurons in visual cortex', ['Michael C Einstein', 'Pierre-Olivier Polack', 'Peyman Golshani'], u'August 11, 2016.', u"Gain modulation is a computational mechanism critical for sensory processing. Yet, the cellular mechanisms that decrease the gain of cortical neurons are unclear. To test if low frequency subthreshold oscillations could reduce neuronal gain during wakefulness, we measured the membrane potential of primary visual cortex (V1) layer 2/3 excitatory, parvalbumin-positive (PV+), and somatostatin-positive (SOM+) neurons in awake mice during passive visual stimulation and sensory discrimination tasks. We found prominent 3-5 Hz membrane potential oscillations that reduced the gain of excitatory neurons but not the gain of PV+ and SOM+ interneurons, which oscillated synchronously with excitatory neurons and fired strongly at the peak of depolarizations. 3-5 Hz oscillation prevalence and timing were strongly modulated by visual input and the animal's behavioral response, suggesting that these oscillations are triggered to adjust sensory responses for specific behavioral contexts. Therefore, these findings reveal a novel gain reduction mechanism that adapts sensory processing to behavior.", u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069252', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University California, Los Angeles;', u'Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey']]
[u'Dynamic representation of time in brain states', ['Fernanda Dantas Bueno', 'Vanessa Carneiro Morita', 'Raphael Y Camargo', 'Marcelo B Reyes', 'Marcelo Salvador Caetano', 'Andre M Cravo'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'The ability to process time on the scale of milliseconds and seconds is essential for behaviour. A growing number of studies have started to focus on brain dynamics as a mechanism for temporal encoding. Although there is growing evidence in favour of this view from computational and in vitro studies, there is still a lack of results from experiments in humans. We show that high-dimensional brain states revealed by multivariate pattern analysis of human EEG are correlated to temporal judgements. First, we show that, as participants estimate temporal intervals, the spatiotemporal dynamics of their brain activity are consistent across trials. Second, we present evidence that these dynamics exhibit properties of temporal perception, such as the scalar property. Lastly, we show that it is possible to predict temporal judgements based on brain states. These results show how scalp recordings can reveal the spatiotemporal dynamics of human brain activity related to temporal processing.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069278', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universidade Federal do ABC']]
[u'Low-pH induced reversible reorganizations of chloroplast thylakoid membranes - as revealed by small-angle neutron scattering', ['Renata Unnep', 'Otto Zsiros', 'Zsolt T Horcsik', 'Marton Marko', 'Anjana Jajoo', 'Joachim Kohlbrecher', 'Gyozo Garab', 'Gergely Nagy'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Energization of thylakoid membranes brings about the acidification of the lumenal aqueous phase, which activates important regulatory mechanisms. Earlier Jajoo and coworkers (2014 FEBS Lett. 588:970)  have shown that low pH in isolated plant thylakoid membranes induces changes in the excitation energy distribution between the two photosystems. In order to elucidate the structural background of these changes, we used small-angle neutron scattering on thylakoid membranes exposed to low p2H and show that gradually lowering the p2H from 8.0 to 5.0 causes small but well discernible reversible diminishment of the periodic order and the lamellar repeat distance and an increased mosaicity - similar to the effects elicited by light-induced acidification of the lumen. Our data strongly suggest that thylakoids dynamically respond to the membrane energization and actively participate in different regulatory mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069211', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Wigner Research Centre for Physics, Institute for Solid State Physics and Optics, Hungarian Academy;', u'Institute of Plant Biology, Biological Research Center, Hungarian Academy of Sciences;', u'College of Nyiregyhaza, Institute of Environmental Science, H4400, Nyiregyhaza, Hungary;', u'School of Life Science, Devi Ahilya University, Khandwa Road, Indore 452 001, India;', u'Paul Scherrer Institute, Laboratory for Neutron Scattering and Imaging, Switzerland']]
[u'Differential state-dependence of low and high firing neurons in the hippocampus', ['Hiroyuki Miyawaki', 'Kamran Diba'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Recent evidence suggests that low and high firing neurons display different plasticity and dynamics. We therefore investigated the effects of sleep and waking states and state transitions on hippocampal CA1 neurons with a log-normal distribution of firing rates. We analyzed single unit spiking from 1017 putative pyramidal cells and 116 putative interneurons along with local field potentials of hippocampal CA1 region recorded in 19 sessions from male rats during natural wake/sleep across the 24-hr cycle. We separated cells into five quantiles based on firing rates, and implemented a shuffle-corrected deflection index to account for changes relative to regression to the mean. Firing-rate changes within non-REM sleep, REM sleep, and state transitions from non-REM to REM favored higher-firing neurons, with either smaller increases or stronger decreases among lower-firing neurons. In contrast, transitions from REM to non-REM sleep reduced variability across population, resulting in higher firing among lower-firing neurons and vice versa. These changes account for previously reported net decrease of firing rate across sleep, with the largest decrease occurring in lower-firing cells, while moderately-firing cells show the greatest firing increases during waking. These results demonstrate that sleep/wake states and state transitions affect lower and higher-firing neurons differently, with non-REM sleep playing a normalizing role, and are consistent with competitive interactions that favor higher-firing neurons, and greater plasticity in lower-firing cells.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069237', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee;', u'University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee']]
