[u'Tissue-specific functional effect prediction of genetic variation and applications to complex trait genetics', ['Daniel Backenroth', 'Krzysztof Kiryluk', 'Bin Xu', 'Lynn Pethukova', 'Badri Vardarajan', 'Ekta Khurana', 'Angela Christiano', 'Joseph Buxbaum', 'Iuliana Ionita-Laza'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Over the past few years, large scale genomics projects such as the ENCODE and Roadmap Epigenomics have produced genome-wide data on a large number of biochemical assays for a diverse set of human cell types and tissues. Such data play an important role in predicting the functional effects of noncoding genetic variation. We discuss here unsupervised approaches to integrate these diverse annotations for specific tissues and cell types into a single predictor of tissue-specific functional importance. We provide a global view of the sharing of functional variants across large number of tissues and cell types, and demonstrate that functional variants in promoters are more likely to be shared across many tissues compared with enhancers. A multidimensional scaling analysis based on functional scores in multiple tissues reveals clear patterns of similarity between certain tissue types, including similarity between primary tissues derived from the same embryonic tissue of origin. Using eQTL data from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project we show that eQTLs in specific GTEx tissues tend to be most enriched among the functional variants in relevant tissues in Roadmap. Furthermore, we show how these integrated functional scores can be used to derive the most likely tissue-/cell-type for a complex trait using summary statistics from genome-wide association studies (GWAS), and derive a tissue-based correlation map of various complex traits. Finally, we show how the tissue-specific functional scores in conjunction with GWAS summary statistics can shed light on genes and biological processes implicated in a complex trait. Functional scores are available for every possible position in the hg19 human reference genome for 127 tissues and cell types assayed in Roadmap Epigenomics.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069229', [], [u'Columbia University;', u'Weill Medical College, Cornell University;', u'Mount Sinai School of Medicine']]
[u'Inferring Fitness Landscapes and Selection on Phenotypic States from Single-Cell Genealogical Data', ['Takashi Nozoe', 'Edo Kussell', 'Yuichi Wakamoto'], u'August 11, 2016.', u"Recent advances in single-cell time-lapse microscopy have revealed non-genetic heterogeneity and temporal fluctuations of cellular phenotypes. While different phenotypic traits such as abundance of growth-related proteins in single cells may have differential effects on the reproductive success of cells, rigorous experimental quantification of this process has remained elusive due to the complexity of single cell physiology within the context of a proliferating population. We introduce and apply a practical empirical method to quantify the fitness landscapes of arbitrary phenotypic traits, using genealogical data in the form of population lineage trees which can include phenotypic data of various kinds. Our inference methodology for fitness landscapes determines how reproductivity is correlated to cellular phenotypes, and provides a natural generalization of bulk growth rate measures for single-cell histories. Using this technique, we quantify the strength of selection acting on different cellular phenotypic traits within populations, which allows us to determine whether a population responds to environmental perturbations by physiological changes in single cells, through population-level selection, or by a mixture of single-cell and population-level processes. By applying these methods to single-cell time-lapse data of growing bacterial populations that express a resistance-conferring protein under antibiotic stress, we show that selection acts on the resistance protein's production rate rather than on its concentration. Our work provides a unified and practical framework for quantitative measurements of fitness landscapes and selection strength for any statistical quantities definable on lineages, and thus elucidates the adaptive significance of phenotypic states in time series data. The method is applicable in diverse fields, from single cell biology to stem cell differentiation and viral evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069260', [], [u'University of Tokyo;', u'New York University']]
[u'Biotinylation by antibody recognition - A novel method for proximity labeling', ['Daniel Zvi Bar', 'Kathleen Atkatsh', 'Urraca Tavarez', 'Michael R Erdos', 'Yosef Gruenbaum', 'Francis S. Collins'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Identification of protein-protein interactions is a major goal of biological research. Despite technical advances over the last two decades, important but still largely unsolved challenges include the high-throughput detection of interactions directly from primary tissue and the identification of interactors of insoluble proteins that form higher-order structures. We have developed a novel, proximity-based labeling approach that uses antibodies to guide biotin deposition onto adjacent proteins in fixed cells and primary tissues. We used this method to profile the dynamic interactome of lamin A/C in multiple cell and tissue types under various treatment conditions. Our results suggest a considerable variation in the composition of the nuclear envelope of different tissues. Of note, DNA damage response proteins Ku70 and Ku80 are more abundant in the vicinity of lamin A/C after thermal stress. This increased affinity also applies to the progerin isoform, potentially contributing to the premature aging phenotype of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. The ability to detect protein-protein interactions in intact tissues, and to compare affinities quantitatively under different conditions or in the presence of disease mutations, can provide a new window into cell biology and disease pathogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069187', [], [u'National Human Genome Research Institute;', u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Conserved traits of spiralian development in the bryozoan Membranipora membranacea', ['Bruno Cossermelli Vellutini', 'Jose M Martin-Duran', 'Andreas Hejnol'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Background: Spiral cleavage is a remarkably conserved pattern of embryogenesis present in animals of the clade Spiralia, such as annelids, molluscs, flatworms and nemerteans. However, not all spiralians display spiral cleavage. Recent phylogenies suggest that the spiral arrangement of embryonic blastomeres is an ancestral trait for the Spiralia and that it was secondarily modified in several spiralian lineages, such as gastrotrichs, brachiopods and bryozoans. To better understand the evolution of cleavage patterns in relation to blastomere fate maps and embryonic gene expression, we describe the cell lineage and molecular patterning in the embryogenesis of the bryozoan Membranipora membranacea.\n\nResults: M. membranacea develops through a unique stereotypic cleavage pattern with biradial symmetry and an embryo organized in identical quadrants with synchronous cell divisions. The quadrant identities are established as early as the 28-cell stage, when one vegetal blastomere (3D) activates the MAPK pathway, marking the future posterior region of the larva. Cells from this posterior quadrant divide asynchronously in subsequent stages leading to the morphological differentiation between quadrants. The first quartet of M. membranacea gives rise to the apical organ and ciliated band, the second and third quartet forms the oral/anal ectoderm, the fourth quartet the mesoderm and the vegetal blastomeres form the endoderm. We found that the early embryonic organization and the fate map of these early blastomeres in the bryozoan embryo are similar to a typical spiral-cleaving embryo. Furthermore we observe that correspondent blastomeres between the bryozoan and spiral-cleaving embryos share similar molecular identities, as revealed by the activity of MAPK and the expression of otx and foxa. The development of M. membranacea mainly differs from spiral-cleaving embryos in the downstream portions of the cell lineage, and in the origin of the mesoderm, which is formed by multiple fourth quartet blastomeres.\n\nConclusions: The similarity between the fate map of M. membranacea and spiral-cleaving embryos indicates that the cleavage geometry of the bryozoan evolved decoupled from other spiralian developmental traits. In this case, the blastomere fates remained evolutionarily conserved despite the drastic modification in the cleavage pattern from spiral to biradial. These findings suggest that blastomere fates of spiral-cleaving embryos might not be linked to the stereotypic spiral cleavage pattern, but depend on other factors, such as the underlying molecular patterning. Our comparative analysis on the bryozoan reveals yet another facet of how early development evolves and helps to shed some light into the developmental diversity of spiralians.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068783', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Sars Centre, University of Bergen']]
[u'Bootstrat: Population Informed Bootstrapping for Rare Variant Tests', ['Hailiang Huang', 'Gina M Peloso', 'Daniel Howrigan', 'Barbara Rakitsch', 'Carl Johann Simon-Gabriel', 'Jacqueline I Goldstein', 'Mark J Daly', 'Karsten Borgwardt', 'Benjamin M Neale'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Recent advances in genotyping and sequencing technologies have made detecting rare variants in large cohorts possible.  Various analytic methods for associating disease to rare variants have been proposed, including burden tests, C-alpha and SKAT.  Most of these methods, however, assume that samples come from a homogeneous population, which is not realistic for analyses of large samples.  Not correcting for population stratification causes inflated p-values and false-positive associations.  Here we propose a population-informed bootstrap resampling method that controls for population stratification (Bootstrat) in rare variant tests. In essence, the Bootstrat procedure uses genetic distance to create a phenotype probability for each sample. We show that this empirical approach can effectively correct for population stratification while maintaining statistical power comparable to established methods of controlling for population stratification.  The Bootstrat scheme can be easily applied to existing rare variant testing methods with reasonable computational complexity.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068999', [u'Genomics'], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology and Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems;', u'Eberhard Karls Universitat Tubingen;', u'Machine Learning and Computational Biology Lab, Department Biosystems Science and Engineering']]
[u'Tunable synthetic transcription factors assembled from TALE-like repeat elements', ['Orlando de Lange', 'Niklas Schandry', 'Markus Wunderlich', 'Kenneth Berendzen', 'Thomas Lahaye'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'A protein-DNA interface can be engineered in ways that an RNA-DNA interface cannot. Programmable TAL effector derived proteins bind DNA with a series of repeats. Each repeat binds a single DNA base. Repeats can be treated as modules, with a pair of residues in the center defining the target base. A set of 31-33 residues flanking the base specifying residues affect other DNA binding parameters. Efforts at engineering TAL effector DNA binding repeats have till now focused on the base specifying residues only. Here we show that natural repeat sequence diversity can be used to alter DNA binding strength. We generated sets of chimeric repeat arrays through a random assembly approach. These sequence diverse repeat proteins activate or repress promoters with a range of activities. Our design leaves the choice of base binding residues for each repeat open. This allows users to tune binding strength without altering sequence preference.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068908', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Washington;', u'University of Tuebingen']]
[u'IMAN: Interlog protein network reconstruction, Matching and ANalysis', ['Mohieddin Jafari', 'Payman Nickchi', 'Abdollah Safari', 'Soheil Jahangiri Tazehkand', 'Mehdi Mirzaie'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'IMAN is an open-source R package that offers users to reconstruct Interlog Protein Network (IPN) integrated from several Protein-protein Interaction Networks (PPIN). Users can overlay different PPINs to mine conserved common network between diverse species. Currently STRING database is applied to extract PPINs with all experimental and computational interaction prediction meth-ods. IMAN helps to retrieve IPN with different degrees of conservation to employ for better pro-tein function prediction and PPIN analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069104', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Pasteur Institute of Iran;', u'Simon Fraser University;', u'IPM;', u'Tarbiat Modares University']]
[u'iELVis: An open source MATLAB toolbox for localizing and visualizing human intracranial electrode data', ['David M. Groppe', 'Stephan Bickel', 'Andrew R. Dykstra', 'Xiuyuan Wang', 'Pierre Megevand', 'Manuel R. Mercier', 'Fred A. Lado', 'Ashesh D. Mehta', 'Christopher J. Honey'], u'August 11, 2016.', u"Background\nIntracranial electrical recordings (iEEG) and brain stimulation (iEBS) are invaluable human neuroscience methodologies. However, much of the value of such data is unrealized as many labs lack tools for precisely localizing electrodes relative to anatomy and to other functional measures. To remedy this, we have developed a MATLAB toolbox for intracranial electrode localization and visualization, iELVis.\n\nNew Method\nThe iELVis pipeline extends existing tools (BioImage Suite, FSL, and FreeSurfer) for localizing electrode locations in CT or MR scans. Once electrode locations are identified in postimplant neuroimaging, iELVis implements methods for correcting electrode locations for postimplant brain shift with millimeter-scale accuracy. iELVis then supports interactive visualization on 3D surfaces or in 2D slices alongside functional neuroimaging data. iELVis also localizes electrodes relative to FreeSurfer-based atlases and can combine data across subjects via the FreeSurfer average brain.\n\nResults\nIt takes 30-60 minutes of user time and 12-24 hours of computer time to localize and visualize electrodes from one brain. We demonstrate iELVis's co-registered visualization functionality by overlaying concordant results from three methods for mapping primary hand somatosensory cortex (iEEG, iEBS, and fMRI).\n\nComparison with Existing Methods\niELVis standardizes existing approaches within a common pipeline, while advancing and combining the state of the art techniques in (i) brain-shift correction, (ii) atlas functionality, and (iii) multimodal visualization for human intracranial data.\n\nConclusions\niELVis promises to speed and enhance the robustness of intracranial electrode research. The software and extensive tutorial materials are freely available as part of the EpiSurg software project: https://github.com/episurg/episurg", u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069179', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Feinstein Institute for Medical Research; University of Toronto;', u'Montefiore Medical Center; Stanford University;', u'Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xe4t Heidelberg;', u'New York University School of Medicine;', u'Feinstein Institute for Medical Research; H\xf4pitaux Universitaires de Gen\xe8ve;', u'Montefiore Medical Center; Centrede Recherche Cerveauet Cognition; Albert Einstein College of Med.;', u'Montefiore Medical Center; Albert Einstein College of Medicine;', u'Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine; Feinstein Institute for Medical Research;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'ChIP-exo interrogation of Crp, DNA, and RNAP holoenzyme interactions', ['Haythem Latif', 'Stephen Federowicz', 'Ali Ebrahim', 'Janna Tarasova', 'Richard Szubin', 'Jose Utrilla', 'Karsten Zengler', 'Bernhard Palsson'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Numerous in vitro studies have yielded a refined picture of the structural and molecular associations between Cyclic-AMP receptor protein (Crp), the DNA motif, and RNA polymerase (RNAP) holoenzyme. In this study, high-resolution ChIP-exonuclease (ChIP-exo) was applied to study Crp binding in vivo and at genome-scale. Surprisingly, Crp was found to provide little to no protection of the DNA motif under activating conditions. Instead, Crp demonstrated binding patterns that closely resembled those generated by \u03c370. The binding patterns of both Crp and \u03c370 are indicative of RNAP holoenzyme DNA footprinting profiles associated with stages during transcription initiation that occur post-recruitment. This is marked by a pronounced advancement of the template strand footprint profile to the +20 position relative to the transcription start site and a multimodal distribution on the nontemplate strand. This trend was also observed in the familial transcription factor, Fnr, but full protection of the motif was seen in the repressor ArcA. Given the time-scale of ChIP studies and that the rate-limiting step in transcription initiation is typically post recruitment, we propose a hypothesis where Crp is absent from the DNA motif but remains associated with RNAP holoenzyme post-recruitment during transcription initiation. The release of Crp from the DNA motif may be a result of energetic changes that occur as RNAP holoenzyme traverses the various stable intermediates towards elongation complex formation.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069021', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'CAMSA: a Tool for Comparative Analysis and Merging of Scaffold Assemblies', ['Sergey S. Aganezov', 'Max A. Alekseyev'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Motivation: Despite the recent progress in genome sequencing and assembly, many of the currently available assembled genomes come in a draft form. Such draft genomes consist of a large number of genomic fragments (scaffolds), whose positions and orientations along the genome are unknown. While there exists a number of methods for reconstruction of the genome from its scaffolds, utilizing various computational and wet-lab techniques, they often can produce only partial error-prone scaffold\nassemblies. It therefore becomes important to compare and merge scaffold assemblies produced by different methods, thus combining their advantages and highlighting present conflicts for further investigation. These tasks may be labor intensive if performed manually.\n\nResults: We present CAMSA - a tool for comparative analysis and merging of two or more given scaffold assemblies. The tool (i) creates an extensive report with several comparative quality metrics; (ii) constructs a most consistent combined scaffold assembly; and (iii) provides an interactive framework for a visual comparative analysis of the given assemblies. \n\nAvailability: CAMSA is available at http://cblab.org/camsa/.\n\nKeywords: genome scaffolding, genome assembly, comparative genomics, software', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069153', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The George Washington University']]
[u'Exploring evolutionary relationships across the genome using topology weighting', ['Simon H. Martin', 'Steven M. Van Belleghem'], u'August 11, 2016.', u"We introduce the concept of topology weighting, a method for quantifying relationships between taxa that are not necessarily monophyletic, and visualising how these relationships change across the genome. A given set of taxa can be related in a limited number of ways, but if each taxon is represented by multiple sequences, the number of possible topologies becomes very large. Topology weighting reduces this complexity by quantifying the contribution of each 'taxon topology' to the full tree. We describe our method for topology weighting by iterative sampling of sub-trees (Twisst), and test it on both simulated and real genomic data. Overall, we show that this is an informative and versatile approach, suitable for exploring relationships in almost any genomic dataset.\n\nScripts to implement the method described are available at github.com/simonhmartin/twisst.", u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069112', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Puerto Rico']]
[u'Lingering representations of stimulus history at encoding influence recall organization', ['Stephanie C.Y. Chan', 'Marissa C. Applegate', 'Neal W Morton', 'Sean M. Polyn', 'Kenneth A. Norman'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Several prominent theories posit that information about recent experiences lingers in the brain and organizes memories for current experiences, by forming a temporal context that is linked to those memories at encoding. According to these theories, if the thoughts preceding an experience X resemble the thoughts preceding an experience Y, then X and Y should show an elevated probability of being recalled together. We tested this prediction by using multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) of fMRI data to measure neural evidence for lingering processing of preceding stimuli. As predicted, memories encoded with similar lingering thoughts (about the category of preceding stimuli) were more likely to be recalled together, thereby showing that the "fading embers" of previous stimuli help to organize recall.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068353', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University;', u'The University of Texas at Austin;', u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u"Dopaminergic drugs decrease loss aversion in Parkinson's disease with but not without depression", ['Monique HM Timmer', 'Guillaume Sescousse', 'Rianne AJ Esselink', 'Payam Piray', 'Roshan Cools'], u'August 11, 2016.', u"Depression, a common non-motor symptom of Parkinson's disease (PD), is accompanied by impaired decision making and an enhanced response to aversive outcomes. Current strategies to treat depression in PD include dopaminergic medication. However, their use can be accompanied by detrimental side effects, such as enhanced risky choice. The mechanisms underlying dopamine-induced increases in risky choice are unclear. In the current study we adopt a clinical-neuroeconomic approach to investigate the effects of dopaminergic medication on loss aversion during risky choice in depressed and non-depressed PD. Twenty-three healthy controls, 21 depressed and 22 non-depressed PD patients were assessed using a well-established gambling task measuring loss aversion during risky choice. Patients were tested on two occasions, after taking their normal dopaminergic medication (ON) and after withdrawal of their medication (OFF). Dopaminergic medication decreased loss aversion to a greater extent in depressed than non-depressed PD patients. Moreover, we show that the degree to which dopaminergic medication decreases loss aversion correlated with current depression severity and with drug effects on depression scores. These findings demonstrate that dopamine-induced changes in loss aversion depend on the presence of depressive symptoms in PD.", u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069047', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University']]
[u'Optogenetically controlled cargo shows full length human myosin VI integrates activation signals in vivo and in vitro', ['Alexander R French', 'Tobin R Sosnick', 'Ronald Rock'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Myosins are force-producing motor proteins that play countless critical roles in the cell, each requiring it to be activated at a specific location and time. To control myosin VI with this specificity, we created a novel optogenetic tool for activating myosin VI by fusing the light-sensitive Avena sativa phototropin1 LOV2 domain to a peptide from Dab2 (LOVDab), a myosin VI cargo protein. Our approach harnesses the native activation mechanism of myosin VI, allowing direct inferences on myosin VI function. LOVDab robustly recruits human full length myosin VI to various organelles in vivo and hinders peroxisome motion in a light-controllable manner. LOVDab activates myosin VI in an in vitro gliding filament assay, where lipid cargo sensitizes myosin VI to activation by LOVDab. Our results support a new model of myosin VI regulation whereby myosin VI integrates Ca2+, lipid, and protein cargo signals in the cell to deploy in a site-specific manner.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068965', [u'Biophysics'], [u'The University of Chicago;', u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Gene expression markers of Tumor Infiltrating Leukocytes', ['Patrick Danaher', 'Sarah Warren', 'Lucas Dennis', "Leonard D'Amico", 'Andrew White', 'Mary L Disis', 'Melissa A Geller', 'Kunle Odunsi', 'Joseph Beechem', 'Stephen P Fling'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Background: Assays of the abundance of immune cell populations in the tumor microenvironment promise to inform immune oncology research and the choice of immunotherapy for individual patients. We propose to measure the intratumoral abundance of various immune cells populations with gene expression. In contrast to IHC and flow cytometry, gene expression assays yield high information content from a clinically practical workflow. Previous studies of gene expression in purified immune cells have reported hundreds of genes showing enrichment in a single cell type, but the utility of these genes in tumor samples is unknown. We describe a novel statistical method for using co-expression patterns in large tumor gene expression datasets to validate previously reported candidate cell type marker genes, and we use this method to winnow previously published gene lists down to a subset of high confidence marker genes. Methods: We use co-expression patterns in 9986 samples from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to validate previously reported cell type marker genes. We compare immune cell scores derived from these genes to measurements from flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry. We characterize the reproducibility of our cell scores in replicate runs of RNA extracted from FFPE tumor tissue. Results: We identify a list of 60 marker genes whose expression levels quantify 14 immune cell populations. Cell type scores calculated from these genes are concordant with flow cytometry and IHC readings, show high reproducibility in replicate RNA samples from FFPE tissue, and reveal an intricate picture of the immune infiltrate in TCGA. Most genes previously reported to be enriched in a single cell type have co-expression patterns inconsistent with cell type specificity. Conclusions: Due to their concise gene set, computational simplicity and utility in tumor samples, these cell type gene signatures may be useful in future discovery research and clinical trials to understand how tumors and therapeutic intervention shape the immune response.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068940', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'NanoString Technologies;', u'Tumor Vaccine Group, University of Washington;', u'Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, University of Washington;', u"Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Women's Health, University of Minnesota;", u'Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Center for Immunotherapy, Roswell Park Cancer Institute']]
[u'Rapid evolution of distinct Helicobacter pylori subpopulations in the Americas', ['Kaisa Thorell', 'Koji Yahara', 'Elvire Berthenet', 'Daniel J Lawson', 'Ikuko Kato', 'Alfonso Tenorio Mendez', 'Federico Canzian', 'Maria Mercedes Bravo', 'Rumiko Suzuki', 'Yoshio Yamaoka', 'Javier Torres', 'Samuel K Sheppard', 'Daniel Falush'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'For the last 500 years, the Americas have been a melting pot both for genetically diverse humans and for the pathogenic and commensal organisms associated with them. One such organism is the stomach dwelling bacterium Helicobacter pylori, which is highly prevalent in Latin America where it is a major current public health challenge because of its strong association with gastric cancer. By analyzing the genome sequence of H. pylori isolated in North, Central and South America, we found evidence for admixture between H. pylori of European and African origin throughout the Americas, without substantial input from pre-Columbian (hspAmerind) bacteria. In the US, strains of African and European origin have remained genetically distinct, while in Colombia and Nicaragua, bottlenecks and rampant genetic exchange amongst isolates have led to the formation of national gene pools. We found four outer membrane proteins with atypical levels of Asian ancestry in American strains, including the adhesion factor alpB, suggesting a role for the ethnic makeup of hosts in the colonization of incoming strains. Our results show that new H. pylori subpopulations can rapidly arise, spread and adapt during times of demographic flux, and suggest that differences in transmission ecology between high and low prevalence areas may substantially affect the composition of bacterial populations.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069070', [u'Genetics'], [u'Dept. of Microbiology, Tumour and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institutet, Sweden;', u'Dept. of Bacteriology II, National Institute of Infectious Diseases, Japan;', u'Medical Microbiology and Infectious Disease group, Swansea University, Wales;', u'Integrative Epidemiology Unit, School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, UK;', u'Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, United States;', u'Escuela Nacional de Ciencias Biologicas, IPN, Mexico;', u'German Cancer Center, Heidelberg;', u'Grupo de Investigacion en Biologia del Cancer, Instituto Nacional de Cancerologia, Colombia;', u'Dept. of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Oita University Faculty of Medicine, Japan;', u'Unidad de Investigacion en Enfermedades Infecciosas, UMAE Pediatria, IMSS, Mexico;', u'Milner Center for Evolution, Dept. of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, UK']]
[u'Exaggerated CpH Methylation in the Autism-Affected Brain', ['Shannon E Ellis', 'Simone Gupta', 'Anna Moes', 'Andrew B West', 'Shannon E Ellis'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'The etiology of autism, a complex neurodevelopmental disorder, remains largely unexplained. Here, we explore the role of CpG and CpH (H=A, C, or T) methylation within autism-affected cortical brain tissue. While no individual site of methylation was significantly associated with autism after multi-test correction, methylated CpH di-nucleotides were markedly enriched in autism-affected brains (~2-fold enrichment at p <0.05 cut-off, p=0.002). These results further implicate epigenetic alterations in pathobiological mechanisms that underlie autism.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069120', [u'Genetics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'University of Alabama-Birmingham']]
[u'DeepWAS: Directly integrating regulatory information into GWAS using deep learning supports master regulator MEF2C as risk factor for major depressive disorder', ['Gokcen Eraslan', 'Janine Arloth', 'Jade Martins', 'Stella Iurato', 'Darina Czamara', 'Elisabeth B. Binder', 'Fabian J. Theis', 'Nikola S. Mueller'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Background: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) identify genetic variants predictive of common diseases but this does not directly inform on molecular mechanisms. The recently developed deep learning-based method DeepSEA uses DNA sequences to predict regulatory effects for up to 1000 functional units, namely regulatory elements and chromatin features in specific cell-types from the ENCODE project. \n\nResults: We here describe "DeepWAS", a conceptually new GWAS approach that integrates these predictions to identify SNP sets per functional units prior to association analysis based on multiple regression. To test the power of this approach, we use genotype data from a major depressive disorder (MDD) case/control sample (total N=1,537). DeepWAS identified 177 regulatory SNPs moderating 122 functional units. MDD regulatory SNPs were located mostly in promoters, intronic and distal intergenic regions and validated with public data.  Blood regulatory SNPs were experimentally annotated with methylation quantitative trait loci (QTLs), expression quantitative trait methylation loci and expression QTLs and replicated in an independent cohort. Joint integrative analysis of regulatory SNPs and the independently identified annotations were connected through transcription factors MEF2A, MEF2C and ATF2, regulating a network of transcripts previously linked to other psychiatric disorders. In the latest GWAS for MDD, the MEF2C gene itself is within the top genome-wide significant locus. \n\nConclusions: DeepWAS is a novel concept with the power to directly identify individual regulatory SNPs from genotypes. In a proof of concept study, MEF2C was identified as a master-regulator in major depression, a finding complementary to recent depression GWAS data, underlining the power of DeepWAS.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/069096', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Helmholtz Zentrum Muenchen;', u'Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Munich']]
[u'Dissection of molecular assembly dynamics by tracking orientation and position of single molecules in live cells', ['Shalin B Mehta', 'Molly McQuilken', 'Patrick La Riviere', 'Patricia Occhipinti', 'Amitabh Verma', 'Rudolf Oldenbourg', 'Amy S Gladfelter', 'Tomomi Tani'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Regulation of order, such as orientation and conformation, drives the function of most molecular assemblies in living cells yet remains difficult to measure accurately through space and time. We built an instantaneous fluorescence polarization microscope, which simultaneously images position and orientation of fluorophores in living cells with single-molecule sensitivity and a time resolution of 100ms. We developed image acquisition and analysis methods to track single particles that interact with higher-order assemblies of molecules. We tracked the fluctuations in position and orientation of molecules from the level of an ensemble of fluorophores down to single fluorophores. We tested our system in vitro using fluorescently labeled DNA and F-actin in which the ensemble orientation of polarized fluorescence is known. We then tracked the orientation of sparsely labeled F-actin networks at the leading edge of migrating human keratinocytes, revealing the anisotropic distribution of actin filaments relative to the local retrograde flow of the F-actin network. Additionally, we analyzed the position and orientation of septin-GFP molecules incorporated in septin bundles in growing hyphae of a filamentous fungus. Our data indicate that septin-GFP molecules undergo positional fluctuations within ~350nm of the binding site and angular fluctuations within ~30\xb0 of the central orientation of the bundle. By reporting position and orientation of molecules while they form dynamic higher-order structures, our approach can provide new insights into how micron-scale ordered assemblies emerge from nanoscale molecules in living cells.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/068767', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Marine Biological Laboratory;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Dartmouth College;', u'Department of Radiology, University of Chicago;', u'Eugene Bell Center for Regenerative Biology and Tissue Engineering, Marine Biological Laboratory;', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Whole genome sequencing of Plasmodium falciparum from dried blood spots using selective whole genome amplification', ['Samuel O. Oyola', 'Cristina Valente Ariani', 'William Hamilton', 'Mihir Kekre', 'Lucas Amenga-Etego', 'Anita Ghansah', 'Gavin R. Rutledge', 'Seth Redmond', 'Magnus Manske', 'Dushyanth Jyothi', 'Chris G. Jacob', 'Thomas Otto', 'Kirk Rockett', 'Chris I. Newbold', 'Matthew Berriman', 'Dominic P. Kwiatkowski'], u'August 11, 2016.', u'Translating genomic technologies into healthcare applications for the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum has been limited by the technical and logistical difficulties of obtaining high quality clinical samples from the field. Sampling by dried blood spot (DBS) finger-pricks can be performed safely and efficiently with minimal resource and storage requirements compared with venous blood (VB). Here, we evaluate the use of selective whole genome amplification (sWGA) to sequence the P. falciparum genome from clinical DBS samples, and compare the results to current methods using leucodepleted VB. Parasite DNA with high (> 95%) human DNA contamination was selectively amplified by Phi29 polymerase using short oligonucleotide probes of 8-12 mers as primers. These primers were selected on the basis of their differential frequency of binding the desired (P. falciparum DNA) and contaminating (human) genomes. Using sWGA method, we sequenced clinical samples from 156 malaria patients, including 120 paired samples for head-to-head comparison of DBS and leucodepleted VB. Greater than 18-fold enrichment of P. falciparum DNA was achieved from DBS extracts.  The parasitaemia threshold to achieve >5x coverage for 50% of the genome was 0.03% (40 parasites per 200 white blood cells). Over 99% SNP concordance between VB and DBS samples was achieved after excluding missing calls. The sWGA methods described here provide a reliable and scalable way of generating P. falciparum genome sequence data from DBS samples.  Our data indicate that it will be possible to get good quality sequence data on most if not all drug resistance loci from the majority of symptomatic malaria patients.  This technique overcomes a major limiting factor in P. falciparum genome sequencing from field samples, and paves the way for large-scale epidemiological applications.', u'/content/early/2016/08/11/067546', [u'Genomics'], [u'International Livestock Research Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, UK;', u'Navrongo Health Research Centre, Post office box 114, Navrongo, U. E. R. Ghana;', u'Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research, University of Ghana, P. O. Box LG 581, Legon, Accra;', u'Broad Institute, 415 Main St, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK;', u'Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 9DS, UK']]
[u'Phylogenomic Analysis of Ants, Bees and Stinging Wasps: Improved Taxon Sampling Enhances Understanding of Hymenopteran Evolution', ['Michael G. Branstetter', 'Bryan N. Danforth', 'James P. Pitts', 'Brant C. Faircloth', 'Philip S. Ward', 'Matthew L. Buffington', 'Michael W. Gates', 'Robert R. Kula', 'Sean G. Brady'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'The importance of taxon sampling in phylogenetic accuracy is a topic of active debate. We investigated the role of taxon sampling in causing incongruent results between two recent phylogenomic studies of stinging wasps (Hymenoptera: Aculeata), a diverse lineage that includes ants, bees and the majority of eusocial insects. Using target enrichment of ultraconserved element (UCE) loci, we assembled the largest aculeate phylogenomic data set to date, sampling 854 loci from 187 taxa, including 30 out of 31 aculeate families, and a diversity of parasitoid outgroups. We analyzed the complete matrix using multiple analytical approaches, and also performed a series of taxon inclusion/exclusion experiments, in which we analyzed taxon sets identical to and slightly modified from the previous phylogenomic studies. Our results provide a highly supported phylogeny for virtually all aculeate lineages sampled, supporting ants as sister to Apoidea (bees+apoid wasps), bees as sister to Philanthinae+Pemphredoninae (lineages within a paraphyletic Crabronidae), Melittidae as sister to remaining bees, and paraphyly of cuckoo wasps (Chrysidoidea). Our divergence dating analyses estimate ages for aculeate lineages in close concordance with the fossil record. Our analyses also demonstrate that outgroup choice and taxon evenness can fundamentally impact topology and clade support in phylogenomic inference.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068957', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Utah;', u'Cornell University;', u'Utah State University;', u'Louisiana State University;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'US Department of Agriculture;', u'Smithsonian Institution']]
