[u'Local chromosome context is a major determinant of crossover pathway biochemistry during budding yeast meiosis', ['Darpan Medhi', 'Alastair S.H. Goldman', 'Michael Lichten'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Meiotic chromosomes are divided into regions of enrichment and depletion for meiotic chromosome axis proteins, in budding yeast Hop1 and Red1. These proteins are important for formation of Spo11-catalyzed DSB, but their contribution to crossover recombination is undefined. By studying meiotic recombination initiated by the sequence-specific VMA1-derived endonuclease (VDE), we show that meiotic chromosome structure helps to determine the biochemical mechanism by which recombination intermediates are resolved to form crossovers. At a Hop1-enriched locus, most VDE-initiated crossovers required the MutL\u03b3 resolvase, which forms most Spo11-initiated crossovers. In contrast, at a locus with lower Hop1 occupancy, most VDE-initiated crossovers were MutL\u03b3-independent. In pch2 mutants, the two loci displayed similar Hop1 occupancy levels, and also displayed similar MutL\u03b3-dependence of VDE-induced crossovers.  We suggest that meiotic and mitotic recombination pathways coexist within meiotic cells, with features of meiotic chromosome structure partitioning the genome into regions where one pathway or the other predominates.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064519', [], [u'National Cancer Institute;', u'The University of Sheffield']]
[u'Resource ratios determine nutrient limitation of primary productivity in the ocean', ['George Isaac Hagstrom', 'Simon A Levin', 'Adam Martiny'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'What is the ultimate limiting nutrient in the ocean? The dominant theory, which was first proposed by Redfield and later formalized by Tyrrell, \nstates that despite the scarcity of fixed nitrogen in the surface ocean, phosphorus availability ultimately determines primary productivity. \nTwo recent findings directly challenge the assumptions of the Redfield-Tyrrell paradigm: the discovery of systematic variations of phytoplankton N:P:Fe and \nwidespread iron-limitation of phytoplankton. Here we use a simple model\nof nitrogen, phosphorus, and iron cycling to show how the resource demand ratios and biogeography of phytoplankton interact with resource supply ratios\nto govern nutrient cycling and primary productivity. We find that all three nutrients can limit global primary productivity, and that the ratio of geochemical supply to biological demand of each nutrient in\neach ocean region determines the limiting nutrients, with nitrogen fixation providing a mechanism for the cycles to interact. These results have important consequences for our understanding\nof biogeochemical cycles, ocean atmosphere interactions, marine ecology, and the response of ocean ecosystems to climate change. Our work demonstrates the importance of resource ratios and \nsuggests that future studies of the physiological and geochemical regulation of these ratios are indispensable to building accurate theories and future predictions of nutrient cycling and primary productivity.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064543', [], [u'Princeton University;', u'University of California at Irvine']]
[u'The Origin of Coupled Chloride and Proton Transport in a Cl-/H+ Antiporter', ['Sangyun Lee', 'Heather B. Mayes', 'Jessica M. J. Swanson', 'Gregory A Voth'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'The ClC family of transmembrane proteins functions throughout nature to control the transport of Cl- ions across biological membranes. ClC-ec1 from Escherichia coli is an antiporter, coupling the transport of Cl- and H+ ions in opposite directions and driven by the concentration gradients of the ions. Despite keen interest in this protein, the molecular mechanism of the Cl-/H+ coupling has not been fully elucidated. Here, we have used multiscale simulation to help identify the essential mechanism of the Cl-/H+ coupling. We find that the highest barrier for proton transport (PT) from the intra- to extracellular solution is attributable to a chemical reaction\u2014the deprotonation of glutamic acid 148 (E148). This barrier is significantly reduced by the binding of Cl- in the "central" site (Cl-cen), which displaces E148 and thereby facilitates its deprotonation. Conversely, in the absence of Cl-cen E148 favors the "down" conformation, which results in a much higher cumulative rotation and deprotonation barrier that effectively blocks PT to the extracellular solution. Thus, the rotation of E148 plays a critical role in defining the Cl-/H+ coupling. As a control, we have also simulated PT in the ClC-ec1 E148A mutant to further understand the role of this residue. Replacement with a nonprotonatable residue greatly increases the free energy barrier for PT from E203 to the extracellular solution, explaining the experimental result that PT in E148A is blocked whether or not Cl-cen is present. The results presented here suggest both how a chemical reaction can control the rate of PT and also how it can provide a mechanism for a coupling of the two ion transport processes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064527', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Theoretical and Empirical Support for Bilateral Decrementation', ['Idan Solon'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'The theory is introduced that individuals in many species practice dual strategies, which are, herein, called amplification and reservation.  In amplification, individuals respond to various feedback about their relative fitness (hereafter, "fitness" is used to mean general ability against biotic and abiotic stressors) by adjusting their ability to reproduce in the direction of their relative fitness, such that fitter individuals garner an even greater reproductive share than otherwise.  In reservation, fitter individuals, in particular, refrain from functioning maximally against the natural enemies most likely to rapidly evolve a set of mutations that eliminates the practicing allele.  This reservation primarily 1) allows the identification of holders of the practicing allele that are fittest against these "lethal enemies," which helps restrict reproduction to these holders and 2) attenuates selection upon holders of mutant alleles and, especially, these lethal enemies by allowing the less fit individuals in these mutant and enemy populations to garner a greater reproductive share than otherwise.  That is, the dual strategies of amplification and reservation increase the selection intensity upon the practicing individuals and decrease the selection intensity upon their mutant conspecifics and lethal enemies, which promotes the frequency and persistence of these strategies.  At least ten empirical phenomena are characterized by, heretofore, paradoxical decrementations in inclusive fitness and are explained by this theory of bilateral decrementation.  Bilateral decrementation offers a nascent example of volitional selection practiced in nature and the prevalence with which it is practiced confers empirical support for robust selection at higher levels than kin (e.g., spatial, group).', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064493', [], [u'University of Central Florida']]
[u'Neuronal control of the fingertips is socially configured in touchscreen smartphone users', ['Arko Ghosh', 'Myriam Balerna'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'As a common neuroscientific observation, the more a body part is used, the less variable the corresponding computations become. We here report a more complicated scenario concerning the fingertips of smartphone users. We sorted 21-days histories of touchscreen use of 57 volunteers into social and non-social categories. Sensorimotor variability was measured in a laboratory setting by simple button depressions and scalp electrodes (electroencephalogram, EEG). The ms range trial-to-trial variability in button depression was directly proportional to the number of social touches and inversely proportional to non-social touches. Variability of the early tactile somatosensory potentials was also proportional to the number of social touches, but not to non-social touches. The number of Apps and the speed of touchscreen use also reflected this variability. We conclude that smartphone use affects elementary computations even in tasks not involving a phone and suggest that social activities uniquely reconfigure the thumb to touchscreen use.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064485', [], [u'Institute of Neuroinformatics, University of Zurich and ETH']]
[u'The haplotype-resolved genome sequence of hexaploid Ipomoea batatas reveals its evolutionary history', ['Jun Yang', 'M-Hossein Moeinzadeh', 'Heiner Kuhl', 'Johannes Helmuth', 'Peng Xiao', 'Guiling Liu', 'Jianli Zheng', 'Zhe Sun', 'Weijuan Fan', 'Gaifang Deng', 'Hongxia Wang', 'Fenhong Hu', 'Alisdair R Fernie', 'Bernd Timmermann', 'Peng Zhang', 'Martin Vingron'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Although the sweet potato, Ipomoea batatas, is the seventh most important crop in the world and the fourth most significant in China, its genome has not yet been sequenced.  The reason, at least in part, is that   the genome has proven very difficult to assemble, being hexaploid and highly polymorphic; it has a presumptive composition of two B1 and four B2 component genomes (B1B1B2B2B2B2). By using a novel haplotyping method based on de novo genome assembly, however, we have produced a half haplotype-resolved genome from ~267Gb of paired-end sequence reads amounting to roughly 60-fold coverage. By phylogenetic tree analysis of homologous chromosomes, it was possible to estimate the time of two whole genome duplication events as occurring about 525,000 and 341,000 years ago. Our analysis also identified many clusters of genes for specialized compounds biosynthesis in this genome. This half haplotype-resolved hexaploid genome represents the first successful attempt to investigate the complexity of chromosome sequence composition directly in a polyploid genome, using direct sequencing of the polyploid organism itself rather than of any of its simplified proxy relatives. Adaptation and application of our approach should provide higher resolution in future genomic structure investigations, especially for similarly complex genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064428', [], [u'Shanghai Chenshan Plant Science Research Center;', u'Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Department of Computational Molecular Biology;', u'Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Sequencing Core Facility;', u'Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Otto-Warburg-Laboratory:Computational Epigenomics Group;', u"Tai'an Academy of Agricultural Sciences;", u'Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Department of Molecular Physiology, Max Planck Institute of Molecular Plant Physiology;', u'Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences']]
[u'Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA haplogroups across behavioural traits in children from the general population', ['Laurence J Howe', 'Mesut Erzurumluoglu', 'George Davey-Smith', 'Santiago Rodriguez', 'Evie Stergiakouli'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Objective: To evaluate the association between Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA haplogroups and a number of sexually-dimorphic behavioural and psychiatric traits.\nMethods: The study sample included 4,211 males and 4,009 females with mitochondrial DNA haplogroups and 4,788 males with Y chromosome haplogroups who are part of the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children (ALSPAC). Different subsets of these populations were assessed using the Developmental and Well-being Assessment (DAWBA), Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), SCDC (Social and Communication Disorder Checklist) and Psychotic Like Symptom Interview (PLIKSi) as measures of behavioural and psychiatric traits. Logistic regression was used to measure the association between haplogroups and the traits above.\nResults: We found that the majority of behavioural traits in our cohort differed between males and females. However, Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA major haplogroups were not associated with any of the variables. In addition, secondary analyses of Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA subgroups also showed no association.\nConclusion: Y chromosome and mitochondrial DNA haplogroups are not associated with behavioural and psychiatric traits in a sample representative of the UK population.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064444', [], [u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Leicester']]
[u'Calculating biological module enrichment or depletion and visualizing data on large-scale molecular maps with ACSNMineR and RNaviCell R packages', ['Paul Devau', 'Emmanuel Barillot', 'Valentina Boeva', 'Andrei Zinovyev', 'Eric Bonnet'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Biological pathways or modules represent sets of interactions or functional relationships occurring at the molecular level in living cells. A large body of knowledge on pathways is organized in public databases such as the KEGG, Reactome, or in more specialized repositories, such as the Atlas of Cancer Signaling Network (ACSN). All these open biological databases facilitate analyses, improving our understanding of cellular systems. We hereby describe the R package ACSNMineR for calculation of enrichment or depletion of lists of genes of interest in biological pathways. ACSNMineR integrates ACSN molecular pathways, but can use any molecular pathway encoded as a GMT  file, for instance sets of genes available in the Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB). We also present the R package RNaviCell,  that can be used in conjunction with ACSNMineR to visualize different data types on web-based, interactive ACSN maps. We illustrate the functionalities of the two packages with biological data taken from large-scale cancer datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064469', [], [u'Institut Curie;', u'Centre National de Genotypage']]
[u'The Strehler-Mildvan correlation is nothing but a fitting artifact', ['Andrei E. Tarkhov', 'Leonid I. Menshikov', 'Peter O. Fedichev'], u'July 18, 2016.', u"Gompertz empirical law of mortality is often used to parametrize survival fraction as a function of age with the help of mere two parameters: the Initial Mortality Rate (IMR) and the Gompertz exponent slope, inversely related to the Mortality Rate Doubling Time (MRDT). Furthermore, the two parameters are believed to be related through the Strehler-Mildvan (SM) correlation, which suggests that the more animals die during adolescence, the longer is the lifespan of the survived individuals. Even though there have been quite a few doubts expressed against the very existence of the correlation, it is still widely believed that the theory of ageing and mortality behind the SM correlation provides a mechanism-based explanation of Gompertz's law. In this Letter, we concentrate on uncertainties of identification of the Gompertz parameters by fitting from experimental survival records. We show, that whenever the number of animals in the experimental cohorts is insufficiently large, the use of least-squares fitting is rather a convenience for data visualization, than a robust procedure to amalgamate and smooth discrete data. We present an analytical explanation behind specific difficulties accompanying the fit once the average lifespan of the species exceeds MRDT. We demonstrate, that under such conditions a fit to the Gompertz law becomes unstable, and fails to produce a unique combination of the demographic parameters. In fact, one gets the whole degenerate manifold of the Gompertz parameters, which is nothing else but the line, corresponding to the proper approximate value of the average lifespan, and, at the same time, coincides with the SM correlation. We show that the employment of the age-independent Makeham mortality term does not resolve the degeneracy problem. Therefore, we have to conclude, that the average lifespan persists as the only stable feature, which can be reliably inferred from survival statistics in an experiment with a finite number of animals. The SM correlation, in this case, is nothing but an iso-average-lifespan degenerate manifold on the IMR versus \\alpha plane, is thus a fitting artifact, and its observation in a data set is an indication of insufficient statistical power, rather than a biological reality.", u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064477', [], [u'Gero LLC']]
[u'MICROWAVE MUTAGENESIS OF BREVIBACILLUS PARABREVIS FOR ENHANCED CELLULASE PRODUCTION, AND INVESTIGATION ON THERMOSTABILITY OF THIS CELLULASE', ['Pinakin Khambhala', 'Purva Paliwal', 'Vijay Kothari'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Microwave mutagenesis of Brevibacillus parabrevis for enhanced cellulase production was attempted. Though microwave treatment could alter the cellulase activity of the test bacterium, none of the mutants obtained were found to be genetically stable, indicating the reversible nature of microwave-induced mutation(s). Thermal stability of the B. parabrevis cellulase was also investigated. This enzyme was found to be capable of retaining its activity even after heat treatment (50-121\xb0C, for 30-60 min). Fluorescence spectrum revealed a red shift in the emission maxima of the heat-treated enzyme preparations, indicating some structural change upon heating, but no major loss of activity was observed. This enzyme was found to be active over a broad temp range, with 90\xb0C as the optimum temp, which is interesting as the producing organism is a mesophile.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064410', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Nirma University;', u'NIrma University']]
[u'FEELnc: A tool for Long non-coding RNAs annotation and its application to the dog transcriptome', ['Valentin Wucher', 'Fabrice Legeai', 'Benoit Hedan', 'Guillaume Rizk', 'Laetitia Lagoutte', 'Tosso Leeb', 'Vidhya Jagannathan', 'Edouard Cadieu', 'Audrey David', 'Hannes Lohi', 'Susanna Cirera', 'Merete Fredholm', 'Nadine Botherel', 'Peter Leegwater', 'Celine Le Beguec', 'Hille Fieten', 'Cecilia Johansson', 'Jeremy Johnsson', 'Jessica Alifoldi', 'Catherine Andre', 'Kerstin Lindblad-Toh', 'Christophe Hitte', 'Thomas Derrien'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) has become a standard for cataloguing and monitoring RNA populations. Among the plethora of reconstructed transcripts, one of the main bottlenecks consists in correctly identifying the different classes of RNAs, particularly those that will be translated (mRNAs) from the class of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). Here, we present FEELnc (FlExible Extraction of LncRNAs), an alignment-free program which accurately annotates lncRNAs based on a Random Forest model trained with general features such as multi k-mer frequencies and relaxed open reading frames. Benchmarking versus five state-of-art tools shows that FEELnc achieves similar or better classification performance on GENCODE and NONCODE datasets. The program also provides several specific modules that enable to fine-tune classification accuracy, to formalize the annotation of lncRNA classes and to annotate lncRNAs even in the absence of training set of noncoding RNAs. We used FEELnc on a real dataset comprising 20 new canine RNA-seq samples produced in the frame of the European LUPA consortium to expand the canine genome annotation and classified 10,374 novel lncRNAs and 58,640 new mRNA transcripts. FEELnc represents a standardized protocol for identifying and annotating lncRNAs and is freely accessible at https://github.com/tderrien/FEELnc.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064436', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CNRS - University of Rennes1;', u'INRA;', u'INRIA;', u'Vetsuisse Faculty - University of Bern;', u'Department of Veterinary Biosciences and Research Programs Unit, University of Helskinki;', u'Department of Veterinary Clinical and Animal Sciences, University of Copenhagen;', u'Department of Clinical Sciences of Companion Animals, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht Univ;', u'Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Uppsala University']]
[u'Effects of tDCS on motor learning and memory formation: a consensus and critical position paper', ['Ethan R Buch', 'Emiliano Santarnecchi', 'Andrea Antal', 'Jan Born', 'Pablo A Celnik', 'Joseph Classen', 'Christian Gerloff', 'Mark Hallett', 'Friedhelm C Hummel', 'Michael A Nitsche', 'Alvaro Pascual-Leone', 'Walter J Paulus', 'Janine Reis', 'Edwin M Robertson', 'John C Rothwell', 'Marco Sandrini', 'Heidi M Schambra', 'Eric M Wassermann', 'Ulf Ziemann', 'Leonardo G Cohen'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Motor skills are required for activities of daily living. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied in association with motor skill learning has been investigated as a tool for enhancing training effects in health and disease. Here, we review the published literature investigating whether tDCS can facilitate the acquisition and retention of motor skills and adaptation. A majority of reports focused on the application of anodal tDCS over the primary motor cortex (M1) during motor skill acquisition, while some evaluated tDCS applied over the cerebellum during adaptation of existing motor skills. Work in multiple laboratories is under way to develop a mechanistic understanding of tDCS effects on different forms of learning and to optimize stimulation protocols. Efforts are required to improve reproducibility and standardization. Overall, reproducibility remains to be fully tested, effect sizes with present techniques are moderate (up to d= 0.5) (Hashemirad, Zoghi, Fitzgerald, & Jaberzadeh, 2016) and the basis of inter-individual variability in tDCS effects is incompletely understood. It is recommended that future studies explicitly state in the Methods the exploratory (hypothesis- generating) or hypothesis-driven (confirmatory) nature of the experimental designs. General research practices could be improved with prospective pre-registration of hypothesis-based investigations, more emphasis on the detailed description of methods and use of post-publication open data repositories. A checklist is proposed for reporting tDCS investigations in a way that can improve efforts to assess reproducibility.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064204', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD;', u'Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA;', u'Georg-August University, Gottingen, Germany;', u'University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Johns Hopkins Medical Institution, Baltimore, MD;', u'University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany;', u'University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf Martinistr, Hamburg, Germany;', u'Leibniz Research Center for Working Environment and Human Factors (IfADo), Dortmund, Germany;', u'Albert Ludwigs University, Freiburg, Germany;', u'University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK;', u'14.\tUCL Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, UK;', u'University of Roehampton, London, UK;', u'Columbia University, New York, NY;', u'Eberhard Karls University, Tuebingen, Germany']]
[u'Impact of Sample Type and DNA Isolation Procedure on Genomic Inference of Microbiome Composition', ['Berith E Knudsen', 'Lasse Bergmark', 'Patrick Munk', 'Oksana Lukjancenko', 'Anders Prieme', 'Frank M Aarestrup', 'Sunje Johanna Pamp'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Explorations of complex microbiomes using genomics greatly enhance our understanding about their diversity, biogeography, and function. The isolation of DNA from microbiome specimens is a key prerequisite for such examinations, but challenges remain in obtaining sufficient DNA quantities required for certain sequencing approaches, achieving accurate genomic inference of microbiome composition, and facilitating comparability of findings across specimen types and sequencing projects. These aspects are particularly relevant for the genomics-based global surveillance of infectious agents and antimicrobial resistance from different reservoirs. Here, we compare a total of eight DNA extraction procedures for three specimen types (human feces, pig feces, hospital sewage), assess DNA extraction using spike-in controls and different types of beads for bead-beating facilitating cell lysis. We evaluate DNA concentration, purity, and stability, and microbial community composition using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and for selected samples using shotgun metagenomic sequencing. Our results suggest that inferred community composition was dependent on inherent specimen properties as well as DNA extraction method. We further show that bead-beating or enzymatic treatment can increase the extraction of DNA from Gram-positive bacteria. Final DNA quantities could be increased by isolating DNA from a larger volume of cell lysate compared to standard protocols. Based on this insight, we have designed an improved DNA isolation procedure optimized for microbiome genomics that can be used for the three examined specimen types and potentially also for other biological specimens.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064394', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Technical University of Denmark;', u'University of Copenhagen']]
[u'A Multi-Scale Computational Model of the effects of TMS on Motor Cortex', ['Hyeon Seo', 'Natalie Schaworonkow', 'Sung Chan Jun', 'Jochen Triesch'], u'July 18, 2016.', u"The detailed biophysical mechanisms through which transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) activates cortical circuits are still not fully understood. Here we present a multi-scale computational model to describe and explain the activation of different cell types in motor cortex due to transcranial magnetic stimulation. Our model determines precise electric fields based on an individual head model derived from magnetic resonance imaging and calculates how these electric fields activate morphologically detailed models of different neuron types. We predict detailed neural activation patterns for different coil orientations consistent with experimental findings. Beyond this, our model allows us to predict activation thresholds for individual neurons and precise initiation sites of individual action potentials on the neurons' complex morphologies. Specifically, our model predicts that cortical layer 3 pyramidal neurons are generally easier to stimulate than layer 5 pyramidal neurons, thereby explaining the lower stimulation thresholds observed for I-waves compared to D-waves. It also predicts differences in the regions of activated cortical layer 5 and layer 3 pyramidal cells depending on coil orientation. Finally, it predicts that under standard stimulation conditions, action potentials are mostly generated at the axon initial segment of corctial pyramidal cells, with a much less important activation site being the part of a layer 5 pyramidal cell axon where it crosses the boundary between grey matter and white matter. In conclusion, our computational model offers a detailed account of the mechanisms through which TMS activates different cortical cell types, paving the way for more targeted application of TMS based on individual brain morphology in clinical and basic research settings.", u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064337', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology;', u'Frankfurt Institute for Advanced Studies']]
[u'Functional Cliques in Developmentally Correlated Neural Networks', ['Stefano Luccioli', 'Ari Barzilai', 'Eshel Ben-Jacob', 'Paolo Bonifazi', 'Alessandro Torcini'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'We consider a sparse random network of excitatory leaky integrate-and-fire neurons with short-term synaptic depression. Furthermore to mimic the dynamics of a brain circuit in its first stages of development we introduce for each neuron correlations among in-degree and out-degree as well as among excitability and the corresponding total degree, We analyze the influence of single neuron stimulation and deletion on the collective dynamics of the network. We show the existence of a small group of neurons capable of controlling and even silencing the bursting activity of the network. These neurons form a functional clique since only their activation in a precise order and within specific time windows is capable to ignite population bursts.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064147', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CNR, Italy;', u'Tel Aviv University;', u'BioCruces  Health  Research Institute, Barakaldo, Spain;', u'Aix Marseille Universit\xe9']]
[u'Single-molecule sequencing and conformational capture enable de novo mammalian reference genomes', ['Derek M Bickhart', 'Benjamin D Rosen', 'Sergey Koren', 'Brian L Sayre', 'Alex R Hastie', 'Saki Chan', 'Joyce Lee', 'Ernest T Lam', 'Ivan Liachko', 'Shawn T Sullivan', 'Joshua N Burton', 'Heather J Huson', 'Christy M Kelley', 'Jana L Hutchison', 'Yang Zhou', 'Jiajie Sun', 'Alessandra Crisa', 'F. Abel Ponce de Leon', 'John C Schwartz', 'John A Hammond', 'Geoffrey C Waldbieser', 'Steven G Schroeder', 'George E Liu', 'Maitreya J Dunham', 'Jay Shendure', 'Tad S Sonstegard', 'Adam M Phillippy', 'Curtis P Van Tassell', 'Timothy P.L. Smith'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'The decrease in sequencing cost and increased sophistication of assembly algorithms for short-read platforms has resulted in a sharp increase in the number of species with genome assemblies. However, these assemblies are highly fragmented, with many gaps, ambiguities, and errors, impeding downstream applications. We demonstrate current state of the art for de novo assembly using the domestic goat (Capra hircus), based on long reads for contig formation, short reads for consensus validation, and scaffolding by optical and chromatin interaction mapping. These combined technologies produced the most contiguous de novo mammalian assembly to date, with chromosome-length scaffolds and only 663 gaps. Our assembly represents a >250-fold improvement in contiguity compared to the previously published C. hircus assembly, and better resolves repetitive structures longer than 1 kb, supporting the most complete repeat family and immune gene complex representation ever produced for a ruminant species.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064352', [u'Genomics'], [u'USDA ARS AGIL;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute;', u'Department of Biology, Virginia State University;', u'BioNano Genomics;', u'Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington School of Medicine;', u'Phase Genomics;', u'Department of Animal Science, Cornell University;', u'USDA ARS MARC;', u'Department of Animal Science, Northwest A&F University;', u'South China Agricultural University;', u'CRA Agricultural Research Council, Research Centre for Meat Production and Genetic Improvement;', u'Department of Animal Science, University of Minnesota;', u'Livestock Viral Disease Programme, The Pirbright Institute;', u'USDA ARS WARU;', u'Recombinetics']]
[u'Transition from environmental to partial genetic sex determination in Daphnia through the evolution of a female-determining incipient W-chromosome', ['Celine M. O. Reisser', 'Dominique Fasel', 'Evelyn Hurlimann', 'Marinela Dukic', 'Cathy Haag-Liautard', 'Virginie Thuillier', 'Yann Galimov', 'Christoph R Haag'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Sex chromosomes can appear through the evolution of genetic sex determination (GSD) from hermaphroditism or environmental sex determination (ESD). However, despite their extensive theoretical description, the early mechanisms involved in the transition from ESD to GSD have yet to be observed in nature, as no mixed ESD-GSD species has been reported in the literature and studied on the molecular level. Here, we focused on Daphnia magna, a small freshwater crustacean in which sex is determined solely by the environment, but for which a dominant female sex-determining locus segregates in multiple populations. We found that the sex determining genomic region shares a common location in all populations studied, in the peri-centromeric region of linkage group 3, in a region with reduced but non-zero recombination. The region also harbours numerous genes known to be involved in female and male sex determination/differentiation in other taxa, including transformer 2 and sox9, as well as genes involved in chromatin remodelling. Overall, our results suggest that D. magna has evolved an incipient W chromosome. In addition, the occurrence of the sex-determining mutation in an area of pre-existing low recombination contributes to the debate on the degree of involvement of sexually antagonistic selection in early stages of recombination suppression in sex chromosomes. As such, D. magna represents the first animal species for which transition from ESD to GSD is evidenced at the genetic level in multiple populations, and could serve as a model to empirically study the role of selective forces in the early stages of sex chromosome evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064311', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'IFREMER, Centre du Pacifique;', u'Universite de Fribourg;', u'Universitat Basel;', u'Koltsov Institute of Developmental Biology;', u'CEFE CNRS UMR 5175']]
[u'Architecture of a lipid transport system for the bacterial outer membrane', ['Damian C Ekiert', 'Gira Bhabha', 'Garrett Greenan', 'Sergey Ovchinnikov', 'Jeffery S Cox', 'Ronald D Vale'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'How phospholipids are trafficked between the bacterial inner and outer membranes through the intervening hydrophilic space of the periplasm is not known. Here we report that members of the mammalian cell entry (MCE) protein family, which were previously implicated in outer membrane function, form hexameric rings with a central hydrophobic channel that can mediate phospholipid transport. The E. coli MCE protein MlaD forms part of a large multi-protein complex in the inner membrane that includes an unconventional ABC transporter. MlaC, a soluble lipid-binding protein, interacts with MlaD and an outer membrane protein complex, suggesting that it ferries lipids between the two membranes. In contrast, the syringe-like architecture of a second E. coli MCE protein, PqiB, creates a continuous channel of sufficient length to potentially span the entire periplasmic space. This work reveals a system of highly conserved protein-based channels that translocate lipids between the inner and outer membranes of bacteria and some eukaryotic organelles.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/064360', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'The University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of Washington;', u'The University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Editing of the urease gene by CRISPR-Cas in the diatom Thalassiosira pseudonana', ['Amanda Hopes', 'Vladimir Nekrasov', 'Sophien Kamoun', 'Thomas Mock'], u'July 18, 2016.', u'Background: CRISPR-Cas is a recent and powerful edition to the molecular toolbox which allows programmable genome editing. It has been used to modify genes in a wide variety of organisms, but only two alga to date. Here we present a methodology to edit the genome of T. pseudonana, a model centric diatom with both ecological significance and high biotechnological potential, using CRISPR-Cas.\nResults: A single construct wa assembled using Golden Gate cloning. Two sgRNAs were used to introduce a precise 37nt deletion early in the coding region of the urease gene. A high percentage of bi-allelic mutations (\u2264 61.5%) were observed in clones with the CRISPR-Cas construct. Growth of bi-allelic mutants in urea led to a significant reduction in growth rate and cell size compared to growth in nitrate. \nConclusions: CRISPR-Cas can precisely and efficiently edit the genome of T. pseudonana. The use of Golden Gate cloning to assemble CRISPR-Cas constructs gives additional flexibility to the CRISPR-Cas method and facilitates modifications to target alternative genes or species.', u'/content/early/2016/07/18/062026', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of East Anglia;', u'The Sainsbury Laboratory']]
