[u'Feedback Dynamics Determine the Structure of Spike-Count Correlation in Visual Cortex', ['Adrian Gopnik Bondy', 'Bruce G Cumming'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"The variable spiking discharge of sensory neurons in response to a fixed stimulus tends to be weakly correlated (spike-count correlation, rsc), an observation with profound implications for neural coding of sensory information. However, the source of rsc is unclear. It is widely thought to reflect 'bottom up' stochastic noise in shared sensory afferents. However, it may also be generated by changes over time in feedback from higher-order brain regions. Here we test this alternative directly by measuring spiking activity in populations of primary visual cortical (V1) neurons in rhesus monkeys while the animals performed different visual discrimination tasks on the same set of visual inputs. We found that the structure of rsc (the way rsc varied with neuronal stimulus preference) changed dramatically with task instruction despite identical retinal input, directly implying that rsc structure primarily reflects feedback dynamics engaged by the task, not noise in sensory afferents. These results fundamentally alter our view of the origin and function of rsc in sensory neurons, suggesting that correlated variability may be best described as a signature of neural computation rather than stochastic sensory encoding.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086256', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National Institutes of Health']]
[u'Incomplete dominance of deleterious alleles contribute substantially to trait variation and heterosis in maize', ['Jinliang Yang', 'Sofiane Mezmouk', 'Andy Baumgarten', 'Edward S Buckler', 'Katherine E Guill', 'Michael D McMullen', 'Rita H Mumm', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Complementation of deleterious alleles has long been proposed as a major contributor to the hybrid vigor observed in the offspring of inbred parents. We test this hypothesis using evolutionary measures of sequence conservation to ask whether incorporating information about putatively deleterious alleles can inform genomic selection (GS) models and improve phenotypic prediction. We measured a number of agronomic traits in both the inbred parents and hybrids of an elite maize partial diallel population and re-sequenced the parents of the population. Inbred elite maize lines vary for more than 500,000 putatively deleterious sites, but show less genetic load than a comparable set of inbred landraces. Our modeling reveals widespread evidence for incomplete dominance at these loci, and supports theoretical models that more damaging variants are usually more recessive. We identify haplotype blocks using an identity-by-decent (IBD) analysis and perform genomic prediction analyses in which we weight blocks on the basis of segregating putatively deleterious variants. Cross-validation results show that incorporating sequence conservation in genomic selection improves prediction accuracy for yield and several other traits as well as heterosis for those traits. Our results provide strong empirical support for an important role for incomplete dominance of deleterious alleles in explaining heterosis and demonstrate the utility of incorporating functional annotation in phenotypic prediction and plant breeding.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086132', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA;', u'KWS SAAT SE, Grimsehlstr. 31, 37555 Einbeck, Germany;', u'DuPont Pioneer, Johnston, IA 50131, USA;', u'US Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA;', u'US Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service, Columbia, MO 65211, USA;', u'Division of Plant Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA;', u'Dept of Crop Sciences, the Illinois Plant Breeding Ctr, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Center for Population Biology and Genome Center, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA']]
[u'A large scale joint analysis of flowering time reveals independent temperate adaptations in maize', ['Kelly Swarts', 'Eva Bauer', 'Jeffrey C Glaubitz', 'Tiffany Ho', 'Lynn Johnson', 'Yongxiang Li', 'Yu Li', 'Zachary Miller', 'Cinta Romay', 'Chris-Carolin Schoen', 'Tianyu Wang', 'Zhiwu Zhang', 'Edward S Buckler', 'Peter J Bradbury'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Modulating days to flowering is a key mechanism in plants for adapting to new environments, and variation in days to flowering drives population structure by limiting mating. To elucidate the genetic architecture of flowering across maize, a quantitative trait, we mapped flowering in five global populations, a diversity panel (Ames) and four half-sib mapping designs, Chinese (CNNAM), US (USNAM), and European Dent (EUNAM-Dent) and Flint (EUNAM-Flint). Using whole-genome projected SNPs, we tested for joint association using GWAS, resampling GWAS and two regional approaches; Regional Heritability Mapping (RHM) (1, 2) and a novel method, Boosted Regional Heritability Mapping (BRHM).  Direct overlap in significant regions detected between populations and flowering candidate genes was limited, but whole-genome cross-population predictive abilities were \u22640.78. Poor predictive ability correlated with increased population differentiation (r = 0.41), unless the parents were broadly sampled from across the North American temperate-tropical germplasm gradient; uncorrected GWAS results from populations with broadly sampled parents were well predicted by temperate-tropical FSTs in machine learning.  Machine learning between GWAS results also suggested shared architecture between the American panels and, more distantly, the European panels, but not the Chinese panel. Machine learning approaches can reconcile non-linear relationships, but the combined predictive ability of all of the populations did not significantly enhance prediction of physiological candidates. While the North American-European temperate adaption is well studied, this study suggest independent temperate adaptation evolved in the Chinese panel, most likely in China after 1500, a finding supported by differential gene ontology term enrichment between populations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086082', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, United States;', u'Plant Breeding, TUM School of Life Sciences Weihenstephan, Technical University of Munich, Germany;', u'Genomic Diversity Facility, Cornell University, United States;', u'Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Cornell University, United States;', u'Genomic Diversity Facility, Institute of Biotechnology, Institute of Biotechnology, United States;', u'Institute of Crop Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, China;', u'Department of Crop and Soil Sciences, Washington State University, China;', u'USDA-ARS/Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, United States;', u'USDA-ARS, United States']]
[u'Rapid and recent evolution of LTR retrotransposons drives rice genome evolution during the speciation of AA- genome Oryza species', ['Qun-Jie Zhang', 'Li-zhi Gao'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'The dynamics of LTR retrotransposons and their contribution to genome evolution during plant speciation have remained largely unanswered. Here, we perform a genome-wide comparison of all eight Oryza AA- genome species, and identify 3,911 intact LTR retrotransposons classified into 790 families. The top 44 most abundant LTR retrotransposon families show patterns of rapid and distinct diversification since the species split over the last ~4.8 Myr. Phylogenetic and read depth analyses of 11 representative retrotransposon families further provide a comprehensive evolutionary landscape of these changes. Compared with Ty1-copia, independent bursts of Ty3-gypsy retrotransposon expansions have occurred with the three largest showing signatures of lineage-specific evolution. The estimated insertion times of 2,213 complete retrotransposons from the top 23 most abundant families reveal divergent life-histories marked by speedy accumulation, decline and extinction that differed radically between species. We hypothesize that this rapid evolution of LTR retrotransposons not only divergently shaped the architecture of rice genomes but also contributed to the process of speciation and diversification of rice.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086041', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Guangdong Academy of Agricultural  Sciences, China;', u'Kunming Institute of Botany, China']]
[u'Predicting brain-age from multimodal imaging data captures cognitive impairment', ['Franziskus Liem', 'Gael Varoquaux', 'Jana Kynast', 'Frauke Beyer', 'Shahrzad Kharabian Masouleh', 'Julia M Huntenburg', 'Leonie Lampe', 'Mehdi Rahim', 'Alexandre Abraham', 'R. Cameron Craddock', 'Steffi Riedel-Heller', 'Tobias Luck', 'Markus Loeffler', 'Matthias L Schroeter', 'Anja Veronica Witte', 'Arno Villringer', 'Daniel S Margulies'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'The disparity between the chronological age of an individual and their brain-age measured based on biological information has the potential to offer clinically-relevant biomarkers of neurological syndromes that emerge late in the lifespan. While prior brain-age prediction studies have relied exclusively on either structural or functional brain data, here we investigate how multimodal brain-imaging data improves age prediction. Using cortical anatomy and whole-brain functional connectivity on a large adult lifespan sample (N = 2354, age 19-82), we found that multimodal data improves brain-based age prediction, resulting in a mean absolute prediction error of 4.29 years. Furthermore, we found that the discrepancy between predicted age and chronological age captures cognitive impairment. Importantly, the brain-age measure was robust to confounding effects: head motion did not drive brain-based age prediction and our models generalized reasonably to an independent dataset acquired at a different site (N = 475). Generalization performance was increased by training models on a larger and more heterogeneous dataset. The robustness of multimodal brain-age prediction to confounds, generalizability across sites, and sensitivity to clinically-relevant impairments, suggests promising future application to the early prediction of neurocognitive disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085506', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences;', u'Parietal project team - INRIA;', u'Center for the Developing Brain, Child Mind Institute;', u'Leipzig Research Center for Civilization Diseases (LIFE)']]
[u'Evolutionary forces affecting synonymous variations in plant genomes', ['Yves Clement', 'Gautier Sarah', 'Yan Holtz', 'Felix Homa', 'Stephanie Pointet', 'Sandy Contreras', 'Benoit Nabholz', 'Francois Sabot', 'Laure Saune', 'Morgane Ardisson', 'Roberto Bacilieri', 'Guillaume Besnard', 'Angelique Berger', 'Celine Cardi', 'Fabien De Bellis', 'Olivier Fouet', 'Cyril Jourda', 'Bouchaib Khadari', 'Claire Lanaud', 'Thierry Leroy', 'David Pot', 'Christopher Sauvage', 'Nora Sarcelli', 'James Tregear', 'Yves Vigouroux', 'Nabila Yahiaoui', 'Manuel Ruiz', 'Sylvain Santoni', 'Jean-Pierre Labouisse', 'Jean-Louis Pham', 'Jacques David', 'Sylvain Glemin'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Base composition is highly variable among and within plant genomes, especially at third codon positions, ranging from GC-poor and homogeneous species to GC-rich and highly heterogeneous ones (particularly Monocots). Consequently, synonymous codon usage is biased in most species, even when base composition is relatively homogeneous. The causes of these variations are still under debate, with three main forces being possibly involved: mutational bias, selection and GC-biased gene conversion (gBGC). So far, both selection and gBGC have been detected in some species but how their relative strength varies among and within species remains unclear. Population genetics approaches allow to jointly estimating the intensity of selection, gBGC and mutational bias. We extended a recently developed method and applied it to a large population genomic datasets based on transcriptome sequencing of 11 angiosperm species spread across the phylogeny. We found that base composition is far from mutation-drift equilibrium in most genomes and that gBGC is a widespread and stronger process than selection. gBGC could strongly contribute to base composition variation among plant species, implying that it should be taken into account in plant genome analyses, especially for GC-rich ones.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086231', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u"Institut de Biologie de l'ENS, UMR 8197, Paris, France;", u'CIRAD, UMR AGAP, Montpellier, France;', u'Montpellier SupAgro, UMR AGAP, F-34060 Montpellier;', u'Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsal;', u'CIRAD, UMR AGAP, F-34398 Montpellier, France;', u'GenoScreen, 59000 Lille, France;', u'UMR 5554 ISEM (Universit\xe9 de Montpellier-CNRS-IRD-EPHE), Montpellier, France;', u'IRD, UMR DIADE, Montpellier, France;', u'INRA, UMR1062 CBGP, Montferrier-sur-lez cedex, France;', u'INRA, UMR AGAP, F-34060 Montpellier;', u'UMR 5174 EDB (CNRS/ENSFEA/IRD/Universit\xe9 Toulouse III), Toulouse, France;', u'UMR 1334 AGAP (INRA-CIRAD-SupAgro), Montpellier, France;', u'UR1052 GAFL (INRA), Montfavet, France']]
[u'EthSEQ: ethnicity annotation from whole exome sequencing data', ['Alessandro Romanel', 'Tuo Zhang', 'Olivier Elemento', 'Francesca Demichelis'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"Whole exome sequencing (WES) is widely utilized both in translational cancer genomics studies and in the setting of precision medicine. Stratification of individual's ethnicity is fundamental for the correct interpretation of personal genomic variation impact. We implemented EthSEQ to provide reliable and rapid ethnicity annotation from whole exome sequencing individual's data and validated it on 1,000 Genome Project and TCGA data demonstrating high precision (>99%). EthSEQ can be integrated into any WES based processing pipeline and exploits multi-core capabilities. Source code, manual and other data is available at http://demichelislab.unitn.it/EthSEQ.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085837', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Trento;', u'Genomics Core Facility, Weill Cornell Medicine;', u'Institute for Computational Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medicine;', u'CIBIO, University of Trento']]
[u'Buchnera has changed flatmate but the repeated replacement of co-obligate symbionts is not associated with the ecological expansions of their aphid hosts', ['Andrea S Meseguer', 'Alejandro Manzano-Marin', "Armelle Coeur d'Acier", 'Anne-Laure Clamens', 'Martin Godefroid', 'Emmanuelle Jousselin'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Symbiotic associations with bacteria have facilitated important evolutionary transitions in insects and resulted in long-term obligate interactions. Recent evidence suggests that these associations are not always evolutionarily stable and that symbiont replacement and/or supplementation of an obligate symbiosis by an additional bacterium has occurred during the history of many insect groups. Yet, the factors favoring one symbiont over another in this evolutionary dynamic are not well understood; progress has been hindered by our incomplete understanding of the distribution of symbionts across phylogenetic and ecological contexts. While many aphids are engaged into an obligate symbiosis with a single Gammaproteobacterium, Buchnera aphidicola, in species of the Lachninae subfamily, this relationship has evolved into a "menage a trois", in which Buchnera is complemented by a co-symbiont, usually Serratia symbiotica. Using deep sequencing of 16S rRNA bacterial genes from 128 species of Cinara (the most diverse Lachninae genus), we reveal a highly dynamic dual symbiotic system in this aphid lineage. Most species host both Serratia and Buchnera but, in several clades, endosymbionts related to Sodalis, Erwinia or an unnamed member of the Enterobacteriaceae have replaced Serratia. Endosymbiont genome sequences from four aphid species confirm that these co-resident symbionts fulfill essential metabolic functions not ensured by Buchnera. We further demonstrate through comparative phylogenetic analyses that co-symbiont replacement is not associated with the adaptation of aphids to new ecological conditions. We propose that symbiont succession was driven by factors intrinsic to the phenomenon of endosymbiosis, such as rapid genome deterioration or competitive interactions between bacteria with similar metabolic capabilities.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086223', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'INRA, UMR 1062, CBGP (INRA, IRD, CIRAD, Montpellier SupAgro)']]
[u'A Canonical Neural Mechanism for Behavioral Variability', ['Ran Darshan', 'William E. Wood', 'Susan Peters', 'Arthur Leblois', 'David Hansel'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"The ability to generate variable movements is essential for learning and adjusting complex behaviors. This variability has been linked to the temporal irregularity of neuronal activity in the central nervous system. However, how neuronal irregularity actually translates into behavioral variability is unclear. Here we combine modeling, electrophysiological and behavioral studies to address this issue. We demonstrate that a model circuit comprising topographically organized and strongly recurrent neural networks can autonomously generate irregular motor behaviors. Simultaneous recordings of neurons in singing finches reveal that neural correlations increase across the circuit driving song variability, in agreement with the model predictions. Analyzing behavioral data, we find remarkable similarities in the babbling statistics of 5-6 month-old human infants and juveniles from three songbird species, and show that our model naturally accounts for these 'universal' statistics.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086074', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'ELSC, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel;', u'Center for Neurophysics, Physiology and Pathology; Cerebral Dynamics, Learning and Memory Lab; CNRS;', u'Duke Univ., Durham, NC']]
[u'Direct estimation of the spontaneous mutation rate by short-term mutation accumulation lines in Chironomus riparius', ['Ann-Marie Oppold', 'Markus Pfenninger'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Mutations are the ultimate basis of evolution, yet their occurrence rate is known only for few species. We directly estimated the spontaneous mutation rate and the mutational spectrum in the non-biting midge C. riparius with a new approach. Individuals from ten mutation accumulation lines over five generations were deep genome sequenced to count de novo mutations (DNMs) that were not present in a pool of F1 individuals, representing parental genotypes. We identified 51 new single site mutations of which 25 were insertions or deletions and 26 single point mutations. We estimated a mutation rate of 4.2 x 10^-9 (95% confidence interval: 2.8 x 10^-9 - 6.1 x 10^-9) which is in the range of recent estimates for other insects and supports the drift barrier hypothesis. We show that accurate mutation rate estimation from a high number of observed mutations is feasible with moderate effort even for non-model species.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086207', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Faculty of Biological Science, Institute for Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, Goethe University, Ma;', u'Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Goethe University']]
[u'Neurons in the inferior temporal cortex of macaque monkeys are sensitive to multiple surface features from natural objects', ['Hiroshi Tamura', 'Haruki Otsuka', 'Yukako Yamane'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Object surfaces contain a variety of visual features that help us to recognize them. To understand how this information is represented and processed in the brain, we prepared a set of images from natural object surfaces that maintained surface features but lacked contours. We examined spiking responses of neurons in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex of monkeys, which is a crucial structure needed for visual object recognition. About half of IT neurons responded to surface images with sharp selectivity, indicating that a significant fraction of these neurons contribute to object surface representation in a sparse manner. Responses of IT neurons were susceptible to image manipulations, including color removal, removal of luminance contrasts, and spatial structure degradation. This shows that multiple features are required for IT responses to surface images. Comparing neuronal response properties among IT, visual area 4 (V4), and primary visual cortex (V1) revealed properties of IT neurons that differed from those in the other visual processing regions. Additionally, some neuronal response properties were similar between IT and V4, but differed from those in V1, indicating that responses of IT neurons to surface images are constructed by hierarchical processing throughout the ventral visual pathway.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086157', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Osaka University']]
[u"Modeling trophic dependencies and exchanges among insects' bacterial symbionts in a host-simulated environment.", ['Itai Opatovsky', 'Diego Santos-Garcia', 'Tamar Lahav', 'Shani Ofaim', 'Laurence Mouton', 'Valeria Barbe', 'Einat Zchori-Fein', 'Shiri Freilich'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"Individual organisms are linked to their communities and ecosystems via metabolic activities. Metabolic exchanges and co-dependencies have long been suggested to have a pivotal role in determining community structure. Metabolic interactions with bacteria have been key drivers in the evolution of sap-feeding insects, enabling complementation of their deprived nutrition. The sap-feeding whitefly Bemisia tabaci (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae) harbors an obligatory symbiotic bacterium, as well as varying combinations of facultative symbionts. We took advantage of the well-defined bacterial community in B. tabaci as a case study for a comprehensive and systematic survey of metabolic interactions within the bacterial community and their associations with documented frequency of bacterial combinations. We first reconstructed the metabolic networks of  five common B. tabaci symbionts (Portiera, Rickettsia, Hamiltonella, Cardinium and Wolbachia), and then used network analysis approaches to predict: (1) species-specific metabolic capacities in a simulated bacteriocyte-like  environment; (2) metabolic capacities of the corresponding species' combinations, and (3) dependencies of each species on different media components. \nThe automatic-based predictions for metabolic capacities of the symbionts in the host environment were in general agreement with previously reported genome analyses, each focused on the single-species level. The analysis suggested several previously un-reported routes for complementary interactions. Highly abundant symbiont combinations were found to have the potential to produce a diverse set of complementary metabolites, in comparison to un-detected combinations. No clear association was detected between metabolic co-dependencies and co-occurrence patterns. The findings indicate a potential key role for metabolic exchanges as key determinants shaping community structure in this system.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086165', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Agricultural Research Organization; Regional Agricultural Research and Development Center, Israel;', u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem;', u'The Agricultural Research Organization, Ramat Yishay, Israel;', u'Laboratoire de Biometrie et Biologie Evolutive, Universite de Lyon, 69622 Villeurbanne Cedex, France;', u'CEA/DSV/IG/Genoscope, Evry, France']]
[u'Tractography-based connectomes are dominated by false-positive connections', ['Klaus Maier-Hein', 'Peter Neher', 'Jean-Christophe Houde', 'Marc-Alexandre Cote', 'Eleftherios Garyfallidis', 'Jidan Zhong', 'Maxime Chamberland', 'Fang-Cheng Yeh', 'Ying Chia Lin', 'Qing Ji', 'Wilburn E. Reddick', 'John O. Glass', 'David Qixiang Chen', 'Yuanjing Feng', 'Chengfeng Gao', 'Ye Wu', 'Jieyan Ma', 'He Renjie', 'Qiang Li', 'Carl-Fredrik Westin', 'Samuel Deslauriers-Gauthier', 'J. Omar Ocegueda Gonzalez', 'Michael Paquette', 'Samuel St-Jean', 'Gabriel Girard', 'Francois Rheault', 'Jasmeen Sidhu', 'Chantal M. W. Tax', 'Fenghua Guo', 'Hamed Y. Mesri', 'Szabolcs David', 'Martijn Froeling', 'Anneriet M. Heemskerk', 'Alexander Leemans', 'Arnaud Bore', 'Basile Pinsard', 'Christophe Bedetti', 'Matthieu Desrosiers', 'Simona Brambati', 'Julien Doyon', 'Alessia Sarica', 'Roberta Vasta', 'Antonio Cerasa', 'Aldo Quattrone', 'Jason Yeatman', 'Ali R. Khan', 'Wesley Hodges', 'Simon Alexander', 'Darcvi Romascano', 'Muhamed Barakovic', 'Anna Auria', 'Oscar Esteban', 'Alia Lemkaddem', 'Jean-Philippe Thiran', 'H. Ertan Cetingul', 'Benjamin L. Odry', 'Boris Mailhe', 'Mariappan Nadar', 'Fabrizio Pizzagalli', 'Gautam Prasad', 'Julio Villalon-Reina', 'Justin Galvis', 'Paul Thompson', 'Francisco Requejo', 'Pedro Laguna', 'Luis Lacerda', 'Rachel Barrett', "Flavio Dell'Acqua", 'Marco Catani', 'Laurent Petit', 'Emmanuel Caruyer', 'Alessandro Daducci', 'Tim Dyrby', 'Tim Holland-Letz', 'Claus Hilgetag', 'Bram Stieltjes', 'Maxime Descoteaux'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Fiber tractography based on non-invasive diffusion imaging is at the heart of connectivity studies of the human brain. To date, the approach has not been systematically validated in ground truth studies. Based on a simulated human brain dataset with ground truth white matter tracts, we organized an open international tractography challenge, which resulted in 96 distinct submissions from 20 research groups. While most state-of-the-art algorithms reconstructed 90% of ground truth bundles to at least some extent, on average they produced four times more invalid than valid bundles. About half of the invalid bundles occurred systematically in the majority of submissions. Our results demonstrate fundamental ambiguities inherent to tract reconstruction methods based on diffusion orientation information, with critical consequences for the approach of diffusion tractography in particular and human connectivity studies in general.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/084137', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'German Cancer Research Center;', u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u'University Health Network;', u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Institute for Advanced Studies;', u"St. Jude Children's Research Hospital;", u'Zhejiang University of Technology;', u'United Imaging Healthcare Co;', u'Shanghai Advanced Research Institute;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Center for Research in Mathematics;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Universite de Montreal;', u'Sorbonne Universites and Universite de Montreal;', u'Universite de Montreal and Hopital du Sacre-Coeur de Montreal;', u'Policlinico Magna Graecia;', u'University Magna Graecia;', u'University of Washington;', u'Western University;', u'Synaptive Medical Inc;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'U. Politecnica de Madrid and CIBER-BBN;', u'Siemens Healthcare;', u'University of Southern California;', u"King's College London;", u'University of Bordeaux;', u'Inria Rennes Bretagne Atlantique;', u'Copenhagen University Hospital Hvidovre;', u'University Clinic Eppendorf;', u'University Hospital Basel']]
[u'Development and assessment of fully automated and globally transitive geometric morphometric methods, with application to a biological comparative dataset with high interspecific variation', ['Tingran Gao', 'Gabriel S Yapuncich', 'Ingrid Daubechies', 'Sayan Mukherjee', 'Doug M Boyer'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Automated geometric morphometric methods are promising tools for shape analysis in comparative biology: they improve researchers\' abilities to quantify biological variation extensively (by permitting more specimens to be analyzed) and intensively (by characterizing shapes with greater fidelity). Although use of these methods has increased, automated methods have some notable limitations: pairwise correspondences are frequently inaccurate or lack transitivity (i.e., they are not defined with reference to the full sample). In this study, we reassess the accuracy of two previously published automated methods, cPDist [1] and auto3Dgm [2], and evaluate several modifications to these methods. We show that a substantial fraction of alignments and pairwise maps between specimens of highly dissimilar geometries were inaccurate in the study of Boyer et al. [1], despite a taxonomically sensitive variance structure of continuous Procrustes distances. We also show these inaccuracies can be remedied by utilizing a globally informed methodology within a collection of shapes, instead of only comparing shapes in a pairwise manner (c.f. [2]). Unfortunately, while global information generally enhances maps between dissimilar objects, it can degrade the quality of correspondences between similar objects due to the accumulation of numerical error. We explore a number of approaches to mitigate this degradation, quantify the performance of these approaches, and compare the generated pairwise maps (as well as the shape space characterized by these maps) to a "ground truth" obtained from landmarks manually collected by geometric morphometricians. Novel methods both improve the quality of the pairwise correspondences relative to cPDist, and achieve a taxonomic distinctiveness comparable to auto3Dgm.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086280', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Duke University']]
[u'CRACKING THE BARCODES OF FULLERENE-LIKE CORTICAL MICROCOLUMNS', ['Arturo Tozzi', 'James Peters', 'Ottorino Ori'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"Artificial neural systems and nervous graph theoretical analysis rely upon the stance that the neural code is endowed in logic circuits, e.g.,  spatio-temporal sequences of ON/OFF spiking neurons. Nevertheless, this assumption does not fully explain complex brain functions.  Here we show how nervous activity, other than logic circuits, could instead depend on topological  transformations  and symmetry constraints  occurring at the micro-level of the cortical microcolumn, i.e., the embryological,  anatomical and functional basic unit of the brain.  Tubular microcolumns can be flattened in guise of a fullerene-like two-dimensional lattices, equipped with about 80 nodes, standing for pyramidal neurons, where neural computations take place.  We show how the countless possible  combinations of activated  neurons embedded in the lattice resemble a barcode.  Different assemblies of firing neurons might stand for diverse codes, each one responsible for a single mental activity.   A two-dimensional fullerene-like lattice not just simulates the real microcolumn's microcircuitry, but also allows us to build artificial networks equipped with robustness, plasticity and fastness, because they are grounded on simple topological changes corresponding to pyramidal neurons' activation.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086066', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of North Texas, USA;', u'University of Manitoba, Canada;', u'Actinium Chemical Research, Rome, Italy']]
[u'Flowtrace: simple visualization of coherent structures in biological fluid flows', ['William Gilpin', 'Vivek N. Prakash', 'Manu Prakash'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'We present a simple, intuitive algorithm for visualizing time-varying flow fields that can reveal complex flow structures with minimal user intervention. We apply this technique to a variety of biological systems, including the swimming currents of invertebrates and the collective motion of swarms of insects. We compare our results to more experimentally-difficult and mathematically-sophisticated techniques for identifying patterns in fluid flows, and suggest that our tool represents an essential "middle ground" allowing experimentalists to easily determine whether a system exhibits interesting flow patterns and coherent structures without the need to resort to more intensive techniques. In addition to being informative, the visualizations generated by our tool are often striking and elegant, illustrating coherent structures directly from videos without the need for computational overlays. Our tool is available as fully-documented open-source code available for MATLAB, Python, or ImageJ at www.flowtrace.org.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086140', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Stanford']]
[u'Bridging microscopic and macroscopic mechanisms of p53-MDM2 binding using molecular simulations and kinetic network models', ['Guangfeng Zhou', 'George A Pantelopulos', 'Sudipto Mukherjee', 'Vincent A Voelz'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Under normal cellular conditions, the tumor suppressor protein p53 is kept at a low levels in part due to ubiquitination by MDM2, a process initiated by binding of MDM2 to the intrinsically disordered transactivation domain (TAD) of p53.  Although many experimental and simulation studies suggest that disordered domains such as p53 TAD bind their targets nonspecifically before folding to a tightly-associated conformation, the molecular details are unclear.  Toward a detailed prediction of binding mechanism, pathways and rates, we have performed large-scale unbiased all-atom simulations of p53-MDM2 binding.  Markov State Models (MSMs) constructed from the trajectory data predict p53 TAD binding pathways and on-rates in good agreement with experiment.   The MSM reveals that two key bound intermediates, each with a non-native arrangement of hydrophobic residues in the MDM2 binding cleft, control the overall on-rate.  Using microscopic rate information from the MSM, we parameterize a simple four-state kinetic model to (1) determine that induced-fit pathways dominate the binding flux over a large range of concentrations, and (2) predict how modulation of residual p53 helicity affects binding, in good agreement with experiment. These results suggest new ways in which microscopic models of bound-state ensembles can be used to understand biological function on a macroscopic scale.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086272', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Temple University']]
[u'Deep learning with feature embedding for compound-protein interaction prediction', ['Fangping Wan', 'Jianyang Zeng'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Accurately identifying compound-protein interactions in silico can deepen our understanding of the mechanisms of drug action and significantly facilitate the drug discovery and development process. Traditional similarity-based computational models for compound-protein interaction prediction rarely exploit the latent features from current available large-scale unlabelled compound and protein data, and often limit their usage on relatively small-scale datasets. We propose a new scheme that combines feature embedding (a technique of representation learning) with deep learning for predicting compound-protein interactions. Our method automatically learns the low-dimensional implicit but expressive features for compounds and proteins from the massive amount of unlabelled data. Combining effective feature embedding with powerful deep learning techniques, our method provides a general computational pipeline for accurate compound-protein interaction prediction, even when the interaction knowledge of compounds and proteins is entirely unknown. Evaluations on current large-scale databases of the measured compound-protein affinities, such as ChEMBL and BindingDB, as well as known drug-target interactions from DrugBank have demonstrated the superior prediction performance of our method, and suggested that it can offer a useful tool for drug development and drug repositioning.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086033', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tsinghua University']]
[u'L-DOPA reduces model-free control of behavior by attenuating the transfer of value to action', ['Nils B Kroemer', 'Ying Lee', 'Shakoor Pooseh', 'Ben Eppinger', 'Thomas Goschke', 'Michael N Smolka'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Dopamine is a key neurotransmitter in reinforcement learning and action control. Recent findings suggest that these components are inherently entangled. Here, we tested if increases in dopamine tone by administration of L-DOPA upregulate deliberative "model-based" control of behavior or reflexive "model-free" control as predicted by dual-control reinforcement-learning models. Alternatively, L-DOPA may impair learning as suggested by "value" or "thrift" theories of dopamine. To this end, we employed a two-stage Markov decision-task to investigate the effect of L-DOPA (randomized cross-over) on behavioral control while brain activation was measured using fMRI. L-DOPA led to attenuated model-free control of behavior as indicated by the reduced impact of reward on choice and increased stochasticity of model-free choices. Correspondingly, in the brain, L-DOPA decreased the effect of reward while prediction-error signals were unaffected. Taken together, our results suggest that L-DOPA reduces model-free control of behavior by attenuating the transfer of value to action.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086116', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'TU Dresden;', u'Concordia University']]
[u'Histone deacetylase inhibitors reduce the number of herpes simplex virus-1 genomes initiating expression in individual cells.', ['Lev Shapira', 'Maya Ralph', 'Enosh Tomer', 'Shai Cohen', 'Oren Kobiler'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"Although many viral particles can enter a single cell, the number of viral genomes per cell that establish infection is limited. However, mechanisms underlying this restriction were not explored in depth. For herpesviruses, one of the possible mechanisms suggested is chromatinization and silencing of the incoming genomes. To test this hypothesis, we followed infection with three herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) fluorescence-expressing recombinants in the presence or absence of histone deacetylases inhibitors (HDACi's). Unexpectedly, a lower number of viral genomes initiated expression in the presence of these inhibitors. This phenomenon was observed using several HDACi: Trichostatin A (TSA), Suberohydroxamic Acid (SBX), Valporic Acid (VPA) and Suberoylanilide Hydoxamic Acid (SAHA). We found that HDACi presence did not change the progeny outcome from the infected cells but did alter the kinetic of the infection. Different cell types (HFF, Vero and U2OS), which vary in their capability to activate intrinsic and innate immunity, show a cell specific basal average number of viral genomes establishing infection. Importantly, in all cell types, treatment with TSA reduced the number of viral genomes. ND10 nuclear bodies are known to interact with the incoming herpes genomes and repress viral replication. The viral immediate early protein, ICP0, is known to disassemble the ND10 bodies and to induce degradation of some of the host proteins in these domains. HDACi treated cells expressed higher levels of some of the host ND10 proteins (PML and ATRX), which may down regulate the number of viral genomes initiating expression per cell. Corroborating this hypothesis, infection with three HSV-1 recombinants carrying a deletion in the gene coding for ICP0, show a reduction in the number of genomes being expressed in U2OS cells. We suggest that alterations in the levels of host proteins involved in intrinsic antiviral defense may result in differences in the number of genomes that initiate expression.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086249', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Tel Aviv University;', u'Tel Aviv University- Sackler School of Medicine']]
[u'Structure of the Legionella Dot/Icm type IV secretion system in situ by electron cryotomography', ['Debnath Ghosal', 'Yi-Wei Chang', 'Kwangcheol C Jeong', 'Joseph P. Vogel', 'Grant J Jensen'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Type IV secretion systems (T4SSs) are large macromolecular machines that translocate protein and DNA and are involved in the pathogenesis of multiple human diseases. Here, using electron cryotomography (ECT), we report the in situ structure of the Dot/Icm type IVB secretion system (T4BSS) utilized by the human pathogen Legionella pneumophila. This is the first structure of a type IVB secretion system, and also the first structure of any T4SS in situ. While the Dot/Icm system shares almost no sequence homology with type IVA secretion systems (T4ASSs), its overall structure shows remarkable similarities to two previously imaged T4ASSs, suggesting shared aspects of mechanism. However, compared to one of these, the negative-stain reconstruction of the purified T4ASS from the R388 plasmid, it is approximately twice as long and wide and exhibits several additional large densities, reflecting type-specific elaborations and potentially better structural preservation in situ.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085977', [u'Microbiology'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'University of Florida, Gainesville;', u'Washington University, School of Medicine, St. Louis']]
[u'Software tools for visualizing Hi-C data', ['Galip Gurkan Yardimci', 'William Stafford Noble'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Recently developed, high-throughput assays for measuring the three-dimensional configuration of DNA in the nucleus have provided unprecedented insights into the relationship between DNA 3D configuration and function. However, accurate interpretation of data from assays such as ChIA-PET and Hi-C is challenging because the data is large and cannot be easily rendered using a standard genome browser. In particular, an effective Hi-C visualization tool must provide a variety of visualization modes and be capable of viewing the data in conjunction with existing, complementary data. We review a number of such software tools that have been described recently in the literature, focusing on tools that do not require programming expertise on the part of the user. In particular, we describe HiBrowse, Juicebox, my5C, the 3D Genome Browser, and the Epigenome Browser, outlining their complementary functionalities and highlighting which types of visualization tasks each tool is best designed to handle.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086017', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Vaccination has minimal impact on the intrahost diversity of H3N2 influenza viruses', ['Kari Debbink', 'John T. McCrone', 'Joshua G. Petrie', 'Rachel Truscon', 'Emileigh Johnson', 'Emily K. Mantlo', 'Arnold S. Monto', 'Adam S. Lauring'], u'November 7, 2016.', u"While influenza virus diversity and antigenic drift have been well characterized on a global scale, the factors that influence the virus' rapid evolution within and between human hosts are less clear. Given the modest effectiveness of seasonal vaccination, vaccine-induced antibody responses could serve as a potent selective pressure for novel influenza variants at the individual or community level. We used next generation sequencing of patient-derived viruses from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of vaccine efficacy to characterize the diversity of influenza A virus and to define the impact of vaccine-induced immunity on within-host populations. Importantly, this study design allowed us to isolate the impact of vaccination while still studying natural infection. We used pre-season hemagglutination inhibition and neuraminidase inhibition titers to quantify vaccine-induced immunity directly and to assess its impact on intrahost populations. We identified 166 cases of H3N2 influenza over 3 seasons and 5119 person-years. We obtained whole genome sequence data for 119 samples and used a stringent and empirically validated analysis pipeline to identify intrahost single nucleotide variants at \u22651% frequency. Phylogenetic analysis of consensus hemagglutinin and neuraminidase sequences showed no stratification by pre-season HAI and NAI titer, respectively. In our study population, we found that the vast majority of intrahost single nucleotide variants were rare and that very few were found in more than one individual. Most samples had fewer than 15 single nucleotide variants across the entire genome, and the level of diversity did not significantly vary with day of sampling, vaccination status, or pre-season antibody titer. Contrary to what has been suggested in experimental systems, our data indicate that seasonal influenza vaccination has little impact on intrahost diversity in natural infection and that vaccine-induced immunity may be only a minor contributor to antigenic drift at local scales.", u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085985', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Estimation of sub-epidemic dynamics by means of Sequential Monte Carlo Approximate Bayesian Computation: an application to the Swiss HIV Cohort Study', ['Neke Ibeh', 'Stephane Aris-Brosou'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Our ability to accurately infer transmission patterns of infectious diseases is critical to monitor both their spread and the efficacy of public health policies. The use of phylogenetic methods for the reconstruction of viral ancestral relationships has garnered increasing interest, particularly in the characterization of HIV epidemics and sub-epidemics. In the case of this virus, the Swiss HIV Cohort Study (SHCS) contains a wide breadth of genomic data that have been widely used as a means of applying such methods. However, current approaches for quantifying the epidemiological dynamics of diseases are computationally intensive, and fail to scale well with this magnitude of data. To address this issue, we re-implement an Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) approach based on sequential Monte Carlo (SMC). By means of simulations, we demonstrate that our implementation is capable of inferring key epidemiological parameters of the Swiss HIV epidemic accurately, and that sampling intensity has no significant effect on the accuracy of our estimates. Applied to a subset of HIV sequences from the SHCS, we show that we can distinguish sub-epidemics that are circulating in culturally distinct Swiss regions. Given these findings, we propose that ABC-SMC samplers will allow us to evaluate the impact of new public health policies, such as the implementation of a needle exchange program in the case of HIV, based on genetic data sampled before and after the implementation of a new policy.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085993', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Ottawa']]
[u'Identifying genetic variants that affect viability in large cohorts', ['Hakhamanesh Mostafavi', 'Tomaz Berisa', 'Molly Przeworski', 'Joseph K Pickrell'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'A number of open questions in human evolutionary genetics would become tractable if we were able to directly measure evolutionary fitness. As a step towards this goal, we developed a method to test whether individual genetic variants, or sets of genetic variants, currently influence viability. The approach consists in testing whether the frequency of an allele varies across ages, accounting for variation in ancestry. We applied it to the Genetic Epidemiology Research on Aging (GERA) cohort and to the parents of participants in the UK Biobank. In the GERA cohort, the top signal is the APOE 4 allele (P<10-15), whereas in the UK Biobank, the strongest signals are detected in males only, and are for variants near CHRNA3 (P=4\xd710-8) as well as set of genetic variants that influence heart disease and lipid levels. We suggest that gene-by-environment interactions have altered the genetic architecture of viability in these two cohorts.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085969', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Columbia University;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Promiscuity of peripheral molecular biomarkers in major psychiatric disorders: a transdiagnostic systematic review', ['Jairo V. Pinto', 'Thiago C. Moulin', "Marcia Kauer-Sant'Anna", 'Flavio Kapczinski', 'Olavo B. Amaral'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'The search for biomarkers has been one of the leading endeavours in biological psychiatry; nevertheless, in spite of hundreds of publications, hardly any marker has proved useful in clinical practice. To study how biomarker research has progressed over the years, we performed a systematic review of the literature to evaluate (a) the most studied peripheral molecular markers in major psychiatric disorders, (b) the main experimental design features of studies in which they are proposed as biomarkers and (c) whether their patterns of variation are similar across disorders. An automated search revealed that, out of the six molecules most commonly present as keywords in articles studying plasmatic markers of schizophrenia, major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder, five (BDNF, TNF-alpha, IL-6, C-reactive protein and cortisol) were the same across the three diagnoses. An analysis of the literature on these molecules showed that, whilst 66% of original articles compared their levels between patients and controls, only 35% were longitudinal studies, and only 10% presented an evaluation of diagnostic efficacy, a pattern that has not changed significantly over two decades. Interestingly, these molecules varied similarly across the three disorders, suggesting them to be nonspecific systemic consequences of psychiatric illness rather than diagnostic markers. On the basis of this, we discuss how research fragmentation between diagnoses and publication practices rewarding positive findings may be directing the biomarker literature to nonspecific targets, and what steps could be taken to increase clinical translation in the field.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086124', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul;', u'Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'A unified encyclopedia of human functional DNA elements through fully automated annotation of 164 human cell types', ['Maxwell Wing Libbrecht', 'Oscar Rodriguez', 'Zhiping Weng', 'Michael Hoffman', 'Jeffrey A Bilmes', 'William Stafford Noble'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Semi-automated genome annotation methods such as Segway enable understanding of chromatin activity. Here we present chromatin state annotations of 164 human cell types using 1,615 genomics data sets. To produce these annotations, we developed a fully-automated annotation strategy in which we train separate unsupervised annotation models on each cell type and use a machine learning classifier to automate the state interpretation step. Using these annotations, we developed a measure of the functional importance of each genomic position called the "functionality score", which allows us to aggregate information across cell types into a multi-cell type view. This score provides a measure of importance directly attributable to a specific activity in a specific set of cell types. In contrast to evolutionary conservation, this measure is not biased to detect only elements shared with related species. Using the functionality score, we combined all our annotations into a single cell type-agnostic encyclopedia that catalogs all human functional regulatory elements, enabling easy and intuitive interpretation of the effect of genome variants on phenotype, such as in disease-associated, evolutionary conserved or positively selected loci. These resources, including cell type-specific annotations, encyclopedia and a visualization server, are publicly available online at http://noble.gs.washington.edu/proj/encyclopedia/.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086025', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre;', u'U. Washington']]
[u'GARFIELD - GWAS Analysis of Regulatory or Functional Information Enrichment with LD correction', ['Valentina Iotchkova', 'Graham R.S. Ritchie', 'Matthias Geihs', 'Sandro Morganella', 'Josine L. Min', 'Klaudia Walter', 'Nicholas J. Timpson', 'Ian Dunham', 'Ewan Birney', 'Nicole Soranzo'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'Loci discovered by genome-wide association studies (GWAS) predominantly map outside protein-coding genes. The interpretation of functional consequences of non-coding variants can be greatly enhanced by catalogs of regulatory genomic regions in cell lines and primary tissues. However, robust and readily applicable methods are still lacking to systematically evaluate the contribution of these regions to genetic variation implicated in diseases or quantitative traits. Here we propose a novel approach that leverages GWAS findings with regulatory or functional annotations to classify features relevant to a phenotype of interest. Within our framework, we account for major sources of confounding that current methods do not offer. We further assess enrichment statistics for 27 GWAS traits within regulatory regions from the ENCODE and Roadmap projects. We characterise unique enrichment patterns for traits and annotations, driving novel biological insights. The method is implemented in standalone software and R package to facilitate its application by the research community.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/085738', [u'Genomics'], [u'European Bioinformatics Institute / Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol']]
[u'Short CT-rich motifs can trigger context-specific silencing of gene expression in bacteria', ['Lior Levy', 'Leon Anavy', 'Oz Solomon', 'Roni Cohen', 'Shilo Ohayon', 'Orna Atar', 'Sarah Goldberg', 'Zohar Yakhini', 'Roee Amit'], u'November 7, 2016.', u'We use an oligonucleotide library of over 5000 variants together with a synthetic biology approach to study a generic context-dependent silencing phenomenon in E. coli. The observed silencing is strongly associated with the presence of short CT-rich motifs (3-5 bp), positioned within 25 bp upstream of the Shine-Dalgarno (SD) motif of the silenced gene. We provide evidence using modeling, mutations to the CT-rich motif, and synthetic constructs that encode a non-silenced RBS upstream of the silencing motif, that sequestration of the RBS and subsequent rapid messenger degradation is likely to be the mechanism driving the silencing effect. This sequestration is probably due to binding of the RBS to the upstream CU-rich motifs, which we call anti-Shine-Dalgarno (aSD) motifs. To provide further support for the importance of this mechanism in natural systems, we show bioinformatically that the genomes of  mesophilic and psychrophilic bacteria are significantly depleted for the observed aSD motifs within 300 bp of putative Shine-Dalgarno motifs (GA-rich hexamers) as compared with a random control in over 70% of the 591 genomes examined. In contrast, in genomes of thermophilic and hyperthermophilic bacteria there is no such depletion, which is consistent with a weak interaction between the short aSD CU-rich motif and the RBS that is thermodynamically less stable at higher ambient living temperatures. Our findings have important implications for understanding SNP/INDEL mutations in regulatory regions, as well as provide a mechanism for promoter/operon insulation in bacterial genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/07/086108', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Technion']]
