[u'Biophysically motivated regulatory network inference: progress and prospects', ['Richard Bonneau', 'Tarmo Aijo'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'Via a confluence of genomic technology and computational developments the possibility of network inference methods that automatically learn large comprehensive models of cellular regulation is closer than ever. This perspective will focus on enumerating the elements of computational strategies that, when coupled to appropriate experimental designs, can lead to accurate large-scale models of chromatin-state and transcriptional regulatory structure and dynamics. We highlight four research questions that require further investigation in order to make progress in network inference: using overall constraints on network structure like sparsity, use of informative priors and data integration to constrain individual model parameters, estimation of latent regulatory factor activity under varying cell conditions, and new methods for learning and modeling regulatory factor interactions. We conclude that methods combining advances in these four categories of required effort with new genomic technologies will result in biophysically motivated dynamic genome-wide regulatory network models for several of the best studied organisms and cell types.', u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051847', [], [u'Simons Foundation']]
[u'Adaptively introgressed Neandertal haplotype at the OAS locus functionally impacts innate immune responses in humans.', ['Aaron J Sams', 'Anne Dumaine', 'Johann Nedelec', 'Vania Yotova', 'Caroline Alfieri', 'Jerome E Tanner', 'Philipp W Messer', 'Luis B Barreiro'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'The 2\u2032-5\u2032 oligoadenylate synthetase (OAS) locus encodes for three OAS enzymes (OAS1-3) involved in innate immune response. This region harbors high amounts of Neandertal ancestry in non-African populations; yet, strong evidence of positive selection in the OAS region is still lacking. Here we used a combination of neutral coalescent simulations and neutrality tests to firmly demonstrate a signal of adaptive introgression at the OAS locus. Furthermore, we characterized the functional consequences of the Neandertal haplotype in the transcriptional regulation of OAS genes at baseline and infected conditions. We found that cells from people with the Neandertal-like haplotype express lower levels of OAS3 upon infection, as well as distinct isoforms of OAS1 and OAS2. Notably, the Neandertal-introgressed haplotype reintroduced an ancestral splice variant of OAS1 encoding a more active protein, suggesting that adaptive introgression occurred as a means to resurrect adaptive variation that had been lost outside Africa.', u'/content/early/2016/05/04/051466', [], [u'Cornell University;', u'University of Montreal']]
[u'Imaging decision-related neural cascades in the human brain', ['Jordan Muraskin', 'Truman Brown', 'Jennifer Walz', 'Bryan Conroy', 'Robin I Goldman', 'Paul Sajda'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'Perceptual decisions depend on coordinated patterns of neural activity cascading across the brain, running in time from stimulus to response and in space from primary sensory regions to the frontal lobe. Measuring this cascade and how it flows through the brain is key to developing an understanding of how our brains function. However observing, let alone understanding, this cascade, particularly in humans, is challenging. Here, we report a significant methodological advance allowing this observation in humans at unprecedented spatiotemporal resolution. We use a novel encoding model to link simultaneously measured electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals to infer the high-resolution spatiotemporal brain dynamics taking place during rapid visual perceptual decision-making. After demonstrating the methodology replicates past results, we show that it uncovers a previously unobserved sequential reactivation of a substantial fraction of the pre-response network whose magnitude correlates with decision confidence. Our results illustrate that a temporally coordinated and spatially distributed neural cascade underlies perceptual decision-making, with our methodology illuminating complex brain dynamics that would otherwise be unobservable using conventional fMRI or EEG separately. We expect this methodology to be useful in observing brain dynamics in a wide range of other mental processes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/050856', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'Medical University of South Carolina;', u'Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health;', u'Philips Research;', u'Center for Healthy Minds, University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'Clustering RNA-seq expression data using grade of membership models', ['Kushal K Dey', 'Chiaowen Joyce Hsiao', 'Matthew Stephens'], u'May 4, 2016.', u'Grade of membership models, also known as "admixture models", "topic models" or "Latent Dirichlet Allocation", are a generalization of cluster models that allow each sample to have membership in multiple clusters. These models are widely used in population genetics to model admixed individuals who have ancestry from multiple "populations", and in natural language processing to model documents having words from multiple "topics". Here we illustrate the potential for these models to cluster samples of RNA-seq gene expression data, measured on either bulk samples or single cells. We also provide methods to help interpret the clusters, by identifying genes that are distinctively expressed in each cluster. By applying these methods to several example RNA-seq applications we demonstrate their utility in identifying and summarizing structure and heterogeneity. Applied to data from the GTEx project on 51 human tissues, the approach highlights similarities among biologically-related tissues and identifies distinctively-expressed genes that recapitulate known biology. Applied to single-cell expression data from mouse preimplantation embryos, the approach highlights both discrete and continuous variation through early embryonic development stages, and highlights genes involved in a variety of relevant processes - from germ cell development, through compaction and morula formation, to the formation of inner cell mass and trophoblast at the blastocyte stage. The methods are implemented in the Bioconductor package CountClust.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051631', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Capturing Evolutionary Signatures in Transcriptomes with myTAI', ['Hajk-Georg Drost', 'Alexander Gabel', 'Tomislav Domazet-Loso', 'Marcel Quint', 'Ivo Grosse'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Combining transcriptome data of biological processes or response to stimuli with evolutionary information such as the phylogenetic conservation of genes or their sequence divergence rates enables the investigation of evolutionary constraints on these processes or responses. Such phylotranscriptomic analyses recently unraveled that mid-developmental transcriptomes of fly, fish, and cress were dominated by evolutionarily conserved genes and genes under negative selection and thus recapitulated the developmental hourglass on the transcriptomic level. Here, we present a protocol for performing phylotranscriptomic analyses on any biological process of interest. When applying this protocol, users are capable of detecting different evolutionary constraints acting on different stages of the biological process of interest in any species. For each step of the protocol, modular and easy-to-use open-source software tools are provided, which enable a broad range of scientists to apply phylotranscriptomic analyses to a wide spectrum of biological questions.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051565', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Institute of Computer Science, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg;', u'Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics, Division of Molecular Biology, Ruder Bo\u0161kovic Institute;', u'Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Institute of Agricultural and Nutritional Sciences']]
[u'Evolutionary dynamics of abundant stop codon readthrough in Anopheles and Drosophila', ['Irwin Jungreis', 'Clara S Chan', 'Robert M Waterhouse', 'Gabriel Fields', 'Michael F Lin', 'Manolis Kellis'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Translational stop codon readthrough was virtually unknown in eukaryotic genomes until recent developments in comparative genomics and new experimental techniques revealed evidence of readthrough in hundreds of fly genes and several human, worm, and yeast genes. Here, we use the genomes of 21 species of Anopheles mosquitoes and improved comparative techniques to identify evolutionary signatures of conserved, functional readthrough of 353 stop codons in the malaria vector, Anopheles gambiae, and 51 additional Drosophila melanogaster stop codons, with several cases of double and triple readthrough including readthrough of two adjacent stop codons, supporting our earlier prediction of abundant readthrough in pancrustacea genomes. Comparisons between Anopheles and Drosophila allow us to transcend the static picture provided by single-clade analysis to explore the evolutionary dynamics of abundant readthrough. We find that most differences between the readthrough repertoires of the two species are due to readthrough gain or loss in existing genes, rather than to birth of new genes or to gene death; that RNA structures are sometimes gained or lost while readthrough persists; and that readthrough is more likely to be lost at TAA and TAG stop codons. We also determine which characteristic properties of readthrough predate readthrough and which are clade-specific. We estimate that there are more than 600 functional readthrough stop codons in A. gambiae and 900 in D. melanogaster. We find evidence that readthrough is used to regulate peroxisomal targeting in two genes. Finally, we use the sequenced centipede genome to refine the phylogenetic extent of abundant readthrough.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051557', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'MIT;', u'Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva Medical School;', u'DNAnexus']]
[u'Inferring phage-bacteria infection networks from time series data', ['Luis Jover', 'Justin Romberg', 'Joshua S Weitz'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'In communities with bacterial viruses (phage) and bacteria, the phage-bacteria infection network establishes which virus types infects which host types. The structure of the infection network is a key element in understanding community dynamics. Yet, this infection network is often difficult to ascertain. Introduced over 60 years ago, the plaque assay remains the gold-standard for establishing who infects whom in a community. This culture-based approach does not scale to environmental samples with increased levels of phage and bacterial diversity, much of which is currently unculturable. Here, we propose an alternative method of inferring phage-bacteria infection networks. This method uses time series data of fluctuating population densities to estimate the complete interaction network without having to test each phage-bacteria pair individually. We use in silico experiments to analyze the factors affecting the quality of network reconstruction and find robust regimes where accurate reconstructions are possible.  In addition, we present a multi-experiment approach where time series from different experiments are combined to improve estimates of the infection network and mitigate against the possibility of evolutionary changes to infection during the time-course of measurement.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051581', [u'Ecology'], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Performance in a GO/NOGO perceptual task reflects a balance between impulsive and instrumental components of behaviour', ['Aleksandra Berditchevskaia', 'Romain Caze', 'Simon R Schultz'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'In recent years, simple GO/NOGO behavioural tasks have become popular due to the relative ease with which they can be combined with technologies such as in vivo multiphoton imaging. To date, it has been assumed that behavioural performance can be captured by the average performance across a session, however this neglects the effect of motivation on behaviour within individual sessions. We investigated the effect of motivation on mice performing a GO/NOGO visual discrimination task. Performance within a session tended to follow a stereotypical trajectory on a Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) chart, beginning with an over-motivated state with many false positives, and transitioning through a more or less optimal regime to end with a low hit rate after satiation. Our observations are reproduced by a new model, the Motivated Actor-Critic, introduced here. Our results suggest that standard measures of discriminability, obtained by averaging across a session, may significantly underestimate behavioural performance.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051607', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Pan- and core- network analysis of co-expression genes in a model plant', ['Fei He', 'Sergei Maslov'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Genome-wide gene expression experiments have been performed using the model plant Arabidopsis during the last decade. Some studies involved construction of coexpression networks, a popular technique used to identify groups of co-regulated genes, to infer unknown gene functions. One approach is to construct a single coexpression network by combining multiple expression datasets generated in different labs. We advocate a complementary approach in which we construct a large collection of 134 coexpression networks based on expression datasets reported in individual publications. To this end we reanalyzed public expression data. To describe this collection of networks we introduced concepts of pan-network and core-network representing union and intersection between a sizeable fractions of individual networks, respectively. We showed that these two types of networks are different both in terms of their topology and biological function of interacting genes. For example, the modules of the pan-network are enriched in regulatory and signaling functions, while the modules of the core-network tend to include components of large macromolecular complexes such as ribosomes and photosynthetic machinery. Our analysis is aimed to help the plant research community to better explore the information contained within the existing vast collection of gene expression data in Arabidopsis.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051656', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Brookhaven National Lab;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign']]
[u'Acidic pH is a Metabolic Switch for 2\u2010Hydroxyglutarate Generation', ['Sergiy M Nadtochiy', 'James Miller', 'Xenia Schafer', 'Dragony Fu', 'Keith W Nehrke', 'Joshua Munger', 'Paul S Brookes'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'2\u2010hydroxyglutarate (2\u2010HG) is an important epigenetic regulator, with potential roles in cancer and stem cell biology. The D (R) enantiomer (D\u20102\u2010HG) is an oncometabolite generated from \u03b1\u2010ketoglutarate (\u03b1\u2010KG) by mutant isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICDH), while L (S) 2\u2010HG is generated by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) in response to hypoxia. Since acidic pH is a common feature of hypoxia, as well as tumor and stem cell microenvironments, we hypothesized that pH may also impact cellular 2\u2010HG levels. Herein we report that cytosolic acidification under normoxia moderately elevated 2\u2010HG in cells, and boosting endogenous substrate \u03b1\u2010KG levels further stimulated this elevation. Studies with isolated LDH\u20101 and MDH\u20102 revealed that generation of 2\u2010HG by both enzymes was stimulated several\u2010fold at acidic pH, relative to normal physiologic pH. Furthermore, acidic pH was found to inhibit the activity of the mitochondrial L\u20102\u2010HG removal enzyme L\u20102\u2010HG dehydrogenase. We conclude that acidosis is an important and previously overlooked regulator of 2\u2010HG levels, with implications for 2\u2010HG signaling.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051599', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Rochester Medical Center;', u'University of Rochester']]
[u'Dual functions of Intraflagellar Transport Protein IFT20 in spermiogenesis: formation of sperm flagella and removal of cytoplasm by autophagy', ['Zhengang Zhang', 'Wei Li', 'Yong Zhang', 'Ling Zhang', 'Maria Teves', 'Hong Liu', 'Junpin Liu', 'Jerome Strauss', 'Gregory Pazour', 'James Foster', 'Rex Hess', 'Zhibing Zhang'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Intraflagellar transport (IFT) is a conserved mechanism thought to be essential for the assembly and maintenance of cilia and flagella.  However, little is known about mammalian sperm flagella formation. To fill this gap, we disrupted the Ift20 gene in male germ cells. Homozygous mutant mice were infertile with significantly reduced sperm counts and motility. In addition, abnormally shaped elongating spermatid heads and bulbous round spermatids were found in the lumen of the seminiferous tubules. Electron microscopy revealed increased cytoplasmic vesicles, fiber-like structures, abnormal accumulation of mitochondria and decreased mature lysosomes. The few developed sperm had disrupted axoneme and retained cytoplasmic lobe components on the flagella. ODF2 and SPAG16L, two sperm flagella proteins failed to be incorporated into sperm tails of the mutant mice. Expression levels of an autophagy core protein that associates with IFT20, Atg16, were significantly reduced in the testis of the Ift20 mutant mice. Our studies suggest that IFT20 is essential for spermiogenesis in mice, and it plays a role in sperm flagella formation, and removing excess cytoplasmic components by regulating autophagy core proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051219', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Gastroenterology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College;', u'Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'Department of Dermatology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College;', u'School of Public Health, Wuhan University of Science and Technology;', u'Wuhan Hospital for the Prevention and Treatment of Occupational Diseases;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'Randolph-Macon College;', u'University of Illinois']]
[u'Elevated nonlinearity as indicator of transition to overexploitation in fish stocks', ['Vasilis Dakos', 'Sarah Glaser', 'Chih-hao Hsieh', 'George Sugihara'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Ecosystems may experience abrupt changes such as species extinctions, reorganisations of trophic structure, or transitions from stable population dynamics to strongly irregular fluctuations. Although most of these changes have important ecological and at times economic implications, they remain notoriously difficult to detect in advance. Here, we use a Ricker-type model to simulate the transition of a hypothetical stable fisheries population either to irregular boom-bust dynamics or to overexploitation. Our aim is to infer the risk of extinction in these two scenarios by comparing changes in variance, autocorrelation, and nonlinearity between unexploited and exploited populations. We find that changes in these statistical metrics reflect the risk of extinction but depend on the type of dynamical transition. Variance and nonlinearity increase similarly in magnitude along both transitions. In contrast, autocorrelation depends strongly on the presence of underlying oscillating dynamics. We also compare our theoretical expectations to indicators measured in long-term datasets of fish stocks from the California Cooperative Oceanic Fisheries Investigation in the Eastern Pacific and from the Northeast Shelf in the Western Atlantic. Our results suggest that elevated variance and nonlinearity could be potentially used to rank exploited fish populations according to their risk of extinction.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051532', [u'Ecology'], [u'ETH Zurich CH;', u'University of Denver, USA;', u'National Taiwan University TAIWAN;', u'UCSD USA']]
[u'trio-sga: facilitating de novo assembly of highly heterozygous genomes with parent-child trios', ['Milan Malinsky', 'Jared T Simpson', 'Richard Durbin'], u'May 3, 2016.', u"Motivation: Most DNA sequence in diploid organisms is found in two copies, one contributed by the mother and the other by the father. The high density of differences between the maternally and paternally contributed sequences (heterozygous sites) in some organisms makes de novo genome assembly very challenging, even for algorithms specifically designed to deal with these cases. Therefore, various approaches, most commonly inbreeding in the laboratory, are used to reduce heterozygosity in genomic data prior to assembly. However, many species are not amenable to these techniques.\nResults: We introduce trio-sga, a set of three algorithms designed to take advantage of mother-father-offspring trio sequencing to facilitate better quality genome assembly in organisms with moderate to high levels of heterozygosity. Two of the algorithms use haplotype phase information present in the trio data to eliminate the majority of heterozygous sites before the assembly commences. The third algorithm is designed to reduce sequencing costs by enabling the use of parents' reads in the assembly of the genome of the offspring. We test these algorithms on a 'simulated trio' from four haploid datasets, and further demonstrate their performance by assembling three highly heterozygous Heliconius butterfly genomes. While the implementation of trio-sga is tuned towards Illumina-generated data, we note that the trio approach to reducing heterozygosity is likely to have cross-platform utility for de novo assembly.\nAvailability: trio-sga is an extension of the sga genome assembler. It is available at https://github.com/millanek/trio-sga, written in C++, and runs multithreaded on UNIX- based systems.\nContact: millanek@gmail.com, rd@sanger.ac.uk", u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051516', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Gurdon Institute and Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Cambridge, UK.']]
[u'Pathway and network-based strategies to translate genetic discoveries into effective therapies', ['Casey S Greene', 'Benjamin F Voight'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'One way to design a drug is to attempt to phenocopy a genetic variant that is known to have the desired effect. In general, drugs that are supported by genetic associations progress further in the development pipeline. However, the number of associations that are candidates for development into drugs is limited because many associations are in noncoding regions or difficult to target genes. Approaches that overlay information from pathway databases or biological networks can expand the potential target list. In cases where the initial variant is not targetable or there is no variant with the desired effect, this may reveal new means to target a disease. In this review we discuss recent examples in the domain of pathway and network-based drug repositioning from genetic associations. We highlight important caveats and challenges for the field, and we discuss opportunities for further development.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051524', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'LD Hub: a centralized database and web interface to perform LD score regression that maximizes the potential of summary level GWAS data for SNP heritability and genetic correlation analysis', ['JIE ZHENG', 'Mesut Erzurumluoglu', 'Benjamin Elsworth', 'Laurence Howe', 'Philip Haycock', 'Gibran Hemani', 'Katherine Tansey', 'Charles Laurin', 'Beate St. Pourcain', 'Nicole Warrington', 'Hilary Finucane', 'Alkes Price', 'Brendan Bulik-Sullivan', 'Verneri Anttila', 'Lavinia Paternoster', 'Tom Gaunt', 'David Evans', 'Benjamin Neale'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Motivation: LD score regression is a reliable and efficient method of using genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary-level results data to estimate the SNP heritability of complex traits and diseases, partition this heritability into functional categories, and estimate the genetic correlation between different phenotypes. Because the method relies on summary level results data, LD score regression is computationally tractable even for very large sample sizes. However, publicly available GWAS summary-level data are typically stored in different databases and have different formats, making it difficult to apply LD score regression to estimate genetic correlations across many different traits simultaneously. \nResults: In this manuscript, we describe LD Hub - a centralized database of summary-level GWAS results for 177 diseases/traits from different publicly available resources/consortia and a web interface that automates the LD score regression analysis pipeline. To demonstrate functionality and validate our software, we replicated previously reported LD score regression analyses of 49 traits/diseases using LD Hub; and estimated SNP heritability and the genetic correlation across the different phenotypes. We also present new results obtained by uploading a recent atopic dermatitis GWAS meta-analysis to examine the genetic correlation between the condition and other potentially related traits. In response to the growing availability of publicly accessible GWAS summary-level results data, our database and the accompanying web interface will ensure maximal uptake of the LD score regression methodology, provide a useful database for the public dissemination of GWAS results, and provide a method for easily screening hundreds of traits for overlapping genetic aetiologies. \nAvailability and implementation: The web interface and instructions for using LD Hub are available at http://ldsc.broadinstitute.org/', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051094', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Leicester;', u'University of Queensland;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
[u'System-wide quantitative proteomics of the metabolic syndrome in mice: genotypic and dietary effects', ['Camille Terfve', 'Eduard Sabido', 'Yibo Wu', 'Emanuel Goncalves', 'Meena Choi', 'Stefania Vaga', 'Olga Vitek', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez', 'Ruedi Aebersold'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Advances in mass spectrometry have made the quantitative measurement of proteins across multiple samples a reality, allowing for the study of complex biological systems such as the metabolic syndrome. Although deregulation of lipid metabolism and increased hepatic storage of triacylglycerides are known to play a part in the onset of the metabolic syndrome, its molecular basis and dependency on dietary and genotypic factors are poorly characterized. Here, we used a rich experimental design with two different mouse strains, dietary and metabolic perturbations to generate a compendium of quantitative proteome data, using three mass spectrometry strategies. The data recapitulates known properties of the metabolic system and indicate differential molecular adaptation of the two mouse strains to perturbations, contributing to a better understanding of the metabolic syndrome. We show that high-quality, high-throughput proteomic datasets provide an unbiased broad overview of complex systems upon perturbation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051508', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory - European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich;', u'Department of Statistics, University of Purdue;', u'Northeastern University;', u'Joint Research Center for Computational Biomedicine']]
[u'Mutational signatures associated with tobacco smoking in human cancer', ['Ludmil B Alexandrov', 'Young Seok Ju', 'Kerstin Haase', 'Peter Van Loo', 'Inigo Martincorena', 'Serena Nik-Zainal', 'Yasushi Totoki', 'Akihiro Fujimoto', 'Hidewaki Nakagawa', 'Tatsuhiro Shibata', 'Peter J Campbell', 'Paolo Vineis', 'David H Phillips', 'Michael R Stratton'], u'May 3, 2016.', u'Tobacco smoking increases the risk of at least 15 classes of cancer. We analyzed somatic mutations and DNA methylation in 5,243 cancers of types for which tobacco smoking confers an elevated risk. Smoking is associated with increased mutation burdens of multiple distinct mutational signatures, which contribute to different extents in different cancers. One of these signatures, mainly found in cancers derived from tissues directly exposed to tobacco smoke, is attributable to misreplication of DNA damage caused by tobacco carcinogens. Others likely reflect indirect activation of DNA editing by APOBEC cytidine deaminases and of an endogenous clock-like mutational process. The results are consistent with the proposition that smoking increases cancer risk by increasing the somatic mutation load, although direct evidence for this mechanism is lacking in some smoking-related cancer types.', u'/content/early/2016/05/03/051417', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Theoretical Biology and Biophysics (T-6), Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545, USA;', u'GSMSE, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), Daejeon 34141, Republic of Korea;', u"The Francis Crick Institute, Lincoln's Inn Fields Laboratory, 44 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3;", u"The Francis Crick Institute, Lincolns Inn Fields Laboratory, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3;", u'Cancer Genome Project, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton CB10 1SA, Cambridgeshire, UK;', u'Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.;', u'Laboratory for Genome Sequencing Analysis, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, Tokyo;', u'Laboratory for Genome Sequencing, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences, Tokyo, Japan;', u'Division of Cancer Genomics, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan;', u'Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, MRC-PHE Centre for Environment and Health;', u'Kings College London, MRC-PHE, London SE1 9NH, UK']]
