[u'Telomere, epigenetic clock, and biomarker-composite quantifications of biological aging: Do they measure the same thing?', ['Daniel W Belsky', 'Terrie E Moffitt', 'Alan A Cohen', 'David L Corcoran', 'Steve Horvath', 'Morgan E Levine', 'Joseph Prinz', 'Jonathan Schaefer', 'Karen Sugden', 'Benjamin Williams', 'Richie Poulton', 'Avshalom Caspi'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'The geroscience hypothesis posits that therapies to retard biological processes of aging can prevent disease. To test such "geroprotective" therapies in humans, surrogate endpoints are needed for extension of disease-free lifespan. Methods to quantify biological aging could provide such surrogate endpoints, but different methods have not been systematically evaluated in the same humans. We studied seven measures of biological aging in 964 middle-aged humans in the Dunedin Study: telomere-length, three epigenetic-clocks, and three biomarker-composites. Agreement between these different measures of biological aging was low. We also tested agreement between measures and compared associations with outcomes that geroprotective therapies will seek to modify: physical functioning, cognitive decline, and subjective signs of aging. The 71-CpG epigenetic clock and the biomarker composites were consistently related to outcome metrics. Effect-sizes were modest. Quantification of biological aging is a young field. Next steps are to move toward systematic evaluation and refinement of methods.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071373', [], [u'Duke University;', u'University of Sherbrooke;', u'UCLA;', u'University of Otago']]
[u'Using simulation to aid trial design: ring-vaccination trials', ['Matt T. Hitchings', 'Rebecca F. Grais', 'Marc Lipsitch'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Background\nThe 2014-5 West African Ebola epidemic highlights the need for rigorous, rapid clinical trials under difficult circumstances. Challenges include temporally and spatially patchy transmission, and the responsibility to deliver public health interventions during a randomized trial. An innovative design such as ring vaccination with an immediate arm and a delayed arm can address these issues, but complex trials raise complex analysis issues. \nMethods and Findings\nWe present a stochastic, compartmental model for a ring vaccination trial of a vaccine for an Ebola-like disease. After identification of an index case, a ring of primary contacts is recruited and either vaccinated immediately or after a delay of 21 days. The primary outcome of the trial is effectiveness calculated from cumulative incidence in the two arms, counting cases only from a pre-specified window in which the immediate arm is assumed to be fully protected and the delayed arm is not protected. The results of simulating the trial are used to calculate the sample size necessary for 80% power and the estimates of effectiveness are reported under a variety of assumptions regarding the trial design and implementation.\nThe three key components of sample size calculations -- attack rate in controls, estimate of incidence difference between the arms, and intracluster correlation coefficient -- are dependent on trial design and implementation in a way that can be quantitatively predicted by the model. Under baseline parameter assumptions, we found that a total of 8,900 study participants were needed to achieve 80% power to detect a difference in attack rate between the two arms, whereas a standard approach with the same parameters returns a necessary sample size of 7,100 individuals. Such a study would on average return a vaccine effectiveness estimate of 69.81%, with average 95% confidence interval (41.2%, 84.2%).\nWe found that for this design the necessary sample size and estimated effectiveness are sensitive to properties of the vaccine -- in particular, pre-exposure and post-exposure efficacy; to two setting-specific parameters over which investigators have little control -- rate of infections from outside the ring and overall attack rate in the controls; and to three parameters that are determined by the study design -- the time window in which cases are counted, intensity of case-detection and administrative delay in vaccinating individuals.\nThis approach replaces assumptions about parameters in the trial  with assumptions about disease dynamics and vaccine characteristics at the individual level.\nConclusions\nIncorporating simulation into the trial design process can improve robustness of sample size calculations. Simulation can identify optimal values for study design parameters that can be controlled. For this specific trial design, vaccine effectiveness depends on properties of the ring vaccination design and on the measurement window, as well as the epidemiologic setting. Rejecting the null likely indicates one or more types of vaccine efficacy at the individual level, but the magnitude of the effect will vary across settings.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071498', [], [u'Harvard Chan School of Public Health;', u'Epicentre;', u'Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health']]
[u'Empirical assessment of published effect sizes and power in the recent cognitive neuroscience and psychology literature', ['Denes Szucs', 'John PA Ioannidis'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'We have empirically assessed the distribution of published effect sizes and estimated power by extracting more than 100,000 statistical records from about 10,000 cognitive neuroscience and psychology papers published during the past 5 years. The reported median effect size was d=0.93 (inter-quartile range: 0.64-1.46) for nominally statistically significant results and d=0.24 (0.11-0.42) for non-significant results. Median power to detect small, medium and large effects was 0.12, 0.44 and 0.73, reflecting no improvement through the past half-century. Power was lowest for cognitive neuroscience journals. 14% of papers reported some statistically significant results, although the respective F statistic and degrees of freedom proved that these were non-significant; p value errors positively correlated with journal impact factors. False report probability is likely to exceed 50% for the whole literature. In light of our findings the recently reported low replication success in psychology is realistic and worse performance may be expected for cognitive neuroscience.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071530', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Bovine Lactoferrin Activity Against Chikungunya and Zika Viruses', ['Carlos A. M. Carvalho', 'Samir M. M. Casseb', 'Rafael B. Goncalves', 'Eliana V. P. Silva', 'Andre M. O. Gomes', 'Pedro F. C. Vasconcelos'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Chikungunya (CHIKV) and Zika (ZIKV) viruses are two arboviruses which have recently broken their sylvatic isolation and gone into a rampant spreading among humans in some urban areas of the world, specially in Latin America. Given the huge burden that Chikungunya and Zika fevers impose to public health in the affected countries and the lack of effective interventions against them, the aim of this work was to evaluate the antiviral potential of bovine lactoferrin (bLf) - an iron-binding glycoprotein with broad-spectrum antimicrobial properties - in both CHIKV and ZIKV infections. The general antiviral activity of bLf was assessed by plaque assays, and the inhibitory effects of the protein on specific stages of virus infecion was evaluated by immunofluorescence and nucleic acid quantification assays. Our data show that bLf exerts a dose-dependent strong inhibitory effect on the infection of Vero cells by the aforementioned arboviruses, reducing their infection efficiency in up to nearly 80%, with no significant cytotoxicity, and such antiviral activity occurs at the levels of binding and replication of the virus particles. Taken together, these findings reveal that bLf antimicrobial properties are extendable to CHIKV and ZIKV, underlining a generic inhibition mechanism that can be explored to develop a potential strategy against their infections.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071571', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Instituto Evandro Chagas;', u'Universidade Federal do Estado do Rio de Janeiro;', u'Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Laboratory strains of Aedes aegypti are Competent to Brazilian Zika virus', ['Andre Costa-da-Silva', 'Rafaella Sayuri Ioshino', 'Helena Araujo', 'Bianca Kojin', 'Paolo Marinho de Andrade Zanotto', 'Danielle Bruna Leal Oliveira', 'Stella Rezende Melo', 'Edison Luiz Durigon', 'Margareth Capurro'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Since the Zika outbreaks are unprecedented human threat in relation to congenital malformations and neurological/autoimmune complications as well as its high potential to spread in regions presenting the vectors, improvements in mosquito control is a top priority. Thus, Aedes aegypti laboratory strains will be fundamental to support studies in different research fields implicated on Zika-mosquito interactions which are the basis for the development of innovative control methods. In this sense, we determined the main infection aspects of the Brazilian Zika strain in reference Aedes aegypti laboratory mosquitoes.\nWe orally exposed Rockefeller, Higgs and Rexville mosquitoes to a Brazilian ZIKV (ZIKVBR) and qRT-PCR was applied to determine the infection and dissemination rates, and viral levels in mosquito tissues as well as in the saliva. The ZIKVBR kinetics was monitored during the infection in Rockefeller mosquitoes. Rockefeller strain was the most susceptible at 7 days post-infection but all strains presented similar infection levels at 14 days post-infection. Although variations in the saliva detection rates were observed, we confirmed that ZIKVBR was present in saliva from Rockefeller, Higgs and Rexville females at detectable levels at 14 days post-infection. The ZIKVBR kinetics in Rockefeller mosquitoes showed that the virus could be detected in the heads at 4 days post-infection but was more consistently detected late in infection. The viral levels peaked at 11 days post-infection in the mosquito bodies, remaining stable until 14 days post-infection, in contrast to the heads, where the mean viral levels only peaked at 14 days post-infection.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071654', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Universidade de Sao Paulo']]
[u'Deep learning based root-soil segmentation from X-ray tomography', ['Clement DOUARRE', 'Richard SCHIELEIN', 'Carole FRINDEL', 'Stefan GERTH', 'David ROUSSEAU'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'One of the most challenging computer vision problem in plant sciences is the segmentation of root and soil from X-ray tomography. So far, this has been addressed from classical image analysis methods. In this paper, we address this root/soil segmentation problem from X-ray tomography using a new deep learning classification technique. The robustness of this technique, tested for the first time on this plant science problem, is established with root/soil presenting a very low contrast in X-ray tomography. We also demonstrate the possibility to segment efficiently root from soil while learning on purely synthetic soil and root.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071662', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Universite Lyon 1;', u'Fraunhoffer institute;', u'Fraunhoffer Institute']]
[u'Root hair-endophyte stacking (RHESt) in an ancient Afro-Indian crop creates an unusual physico-chemical barrier to trap pathogen(s)', ['Walaa K Mousa', 'Charles Shearer', 'Victor Limay-Rios', 'Cassie L Ettinger', 'Jonathan A Eisen', 'Manish N Raizada'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'The ancient African crop, finger millet, has broad resistance to pathogens including the toxigenic fungus Fusarium graminearum. Here we report the discovery of a novel plant defence mechanism, resulting from an unusual symbiosis between finger millet and a root-inhabiting bacterial endophyte, M6 (Enterobacter sp.). Seed-coated M6 swarms towards Fusarium attempting to penetrate root epidermis, induces growth of root hairs which then bend parallel to the root axis, then forms biofilm-mediated microcolonies, resulting in a remarkable, multi-layer root hair-endophyte stack (RHESt). RHESt results in a physical barrier that prevents entry and/or traps F. graminearum which is then killed. Thus M6 creates its own specialized killing microhabitat. M6 killing requires c-di-GMP-dependent signalling, diverse fungicides and xenobiotic resistance. Further molecular evidence suggests long-term host-endophyte-pathogen co-evolution. The end-result of this remarkable symbiosis is reduced DON mycotoxin, potentially benefiting millions of subsistence farmers and livestock. RHESt demonstrates the value of exploring ancient, orphan crop microbiomes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071548', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Guelph, Department of Plant Agriculture;', u'University of Guelph, Department of Plant Agriculture, Ridgetown Campus;', u'University of California, Davis, Genome Center']]
[u'Interacting networks of resistance, virulence and core machinery genes identified by genome-wide epistasis analysis', ['Marcin J Skwark', 'Nicholas J Croucher', 'Santeri Puranen', 'Claire Chewapreecha', 'Maiju Pesonen', 'Yingying Xu', 'Paul Turner', 'Simon R Harris', 'Julian Parkhill', 'Stephen D Bentley', 'Erik Aurell', 'Jukka Corander'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Recent advances in the scale and diversity of population genomic datasets for bacteria now provide the potential for genome-wide patterns of co-evolution to be studied at the resolution of individual bases. The major human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae represents the first bacterial organism for which densely enough sampled population data became available for such an analysis. Here we describe a new statistical method, genomeDCA, which uses recent advances in computational structural biology to identify the polymorphic loci under the strongest co-evolutionary pressures. Genome data from over three thousand pneumococcal isolates identified 5,199 putative epistatic interactions between 1,936 sites. Over three-quarters of the links were between sites within the pbp2x, pbp1a and pbp2b genes, the sequences of which are critical in determining non-susceptibility to beta-lactam antibiotics. A network-based analysis found these genes were also coupled to that encoding dihydrofolate reductase, changes to which underlie trimethoprim resistance. Distinct from these resistance genes, a large network component of 384 protein coding sequences encompassed many genes critical in basic cellular functions, while another distinct component included genes associated with virulence. These results have the potential both to identify previously unsuspected protein-protein interactions, as well as genes making independent contributions to the same phenotype. This approach greatly enhances the future potential of epistasis analysis for systems biology, and can complement genome-wide association studies as a means of formulating hypotheses for experimental work.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071696', [u'Genetics'], [u'Vanderbilt University;', u'Imperial College;', u'Aalto University;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Mahidol University;', u'Sanger Institute;', u'KTH The Royal Institute of Technology;', u'University of Oslo']]
[u'Evaluating Mendelian nephrotic syndrome genes for evidence of risk alleles or oligogenicity that explain heritability', ['Brendan Crawford', 'Christopher E Gillies', 'Catherine C Robertson', 'Matthias Kretzler', 'Edgar A Otto', 'Virginia Vega-Warner', 'Hyun Min Kang', 'Matthew Sampson'], u'August 25, 2016.', u"Background: More than 30 genes can harbor rare exonic variants sufficient to cause nephrotic syndrome (NS), and the number of genes implicated in monogenic NS continues to grow. However, outside the first year of life, the majority of affected patients, particularly in ancestrally mixed populations, do not have a known monogenic form of NS.  Even in those children classified with a monogenic form of NS, there is phenotypic heterogeneity. Thus, we have only discovered a fraction of the heritability of NS \u2212 the underlying genetic factors contributing to phenotypic variation. Part of the missing heritability for NS has been posited to be explained by patients harboring coding variants across one or more previously implicated NS genes, insufficient to cause NS in a classical Mendelian manner, but that nonetheless impact protein function enough to cause disease.  However, systematic evaluation in patients with NS for rare or low-frequency risk alleles within single genes, or in combination across genes (oligogenicity), has not been reported.  \n\nObjective: To determine whether, as compared to a reference population, patients with NS have either a significantly increased burden of protein-altering variants (risk alleles), or unique combination of them (oligogenicity), in a set of 21 genes implicated in Mendelian forms of NS. \n\nMethods: In 303 patients with NS enrolled in the Nephrotic Syndrome Study Network (NEPTUNE), we performed targeted amplification paired with next-generation sequencing of 21 genes implicated in monogenic NS. We created a high-quality variant call set and compared it to a variant call set of the same genes in a reference population composed of 2535 individuals from Phase 3 of 1000 Genomes Project. We created both a 'stringent' and 'relaxed' pathogenicity filtering pipeline, applied them to both cohorts, and computed the (1) burden of variants in the entire gene set per cohort, (2) burden of variants in the entire gene set per individual, (3) burden of variants within a single gene per cohort, and (4) unique combinations of variants across two or more genes per cohort. \n\nResults: With few exceptions when using the relaxed filter, and which are likely the result of confounding by population stratification, NS patients did not have significantly increased burden of variants in Mendelian NS genes in comparison to a reference cohort, nor was there any evidence of oligogenicity. This was true when using both the relaxed and stringent variant pathogenicity filter.  \n\nConclusion: In our study, the burden or particular combinations of low-frequency or rare protein altering variants in previously implicated Mendelian NS genes cohort does not significantly differ between North American patients with NS and a reference population.  Studies in larger independent cohorts or meta\u2212analyses are needed to assess generalizability of our discoveries and also address whether there is in fact small but significant enrichment of risk alleles or oligogenicity in NS cases undetectable with this current sample size.  It is still possible that rare protein altering variants in these genes, insufficient to cause Mendelian disease, still contribute to NS as risk alleles and/or via oligogenicity.  However, we suggest that more accurate bioinformatic analyses and the incorporation of functional assays would be necessary to identify bona fide instances of this form of genetic architecture as a contributor to the heritability of NS.", u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071639', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Virginia;', u'University of Michigan Medical School;', u'University of Michigan School of Public Health;', u'Univ. of Michigan']]
[u'CRISPR/Cas9 gene drives in genetically variable and non-randomly mating wild populations', ['Douglas W Drury', 'Dylan J Siniard', 'Gabriel E Zentner', 'Michael J Wade'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Synthetic gene drives based on CRISPR/Cas9 have the potential to control, alter or suppress populations of crop pests and disease vectors, but it is unclear how they will function in wild populations.  Using genetic data from four populations of the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, we show that most populations harbor genetic variants in Cas9 target sites, some of which would render them immune to drive (ITD).  We show that even a rare ITD allele can reduce or eliminate the efficacy of CRISPR/Cas9-based synthetic gene. This effect is equivalent to and accentuated by mild inbreeding, which is a characteristic of many disease-vectoring arthropods. We conclude that designing such a drive will require characterization of genetic variability and the mating system within and among targeted populations.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071670', [u'Genetics'], [u'Indiana University']]
[u'Impact of stroke on diurnal heart rate variability in rats', ['Sean Robert Huff', 'Samreen Ahmed', 'He Meng', 'Tiecheng Liu', 'Jimo Borjigin', 'Michael M. Wang'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'In humans, ischemic stroke is associated with reduced heart rate variability (HRV), a predictor of neurogenic cardiac\nevents. This study was conducted to determine whether experimental stroke preferentially affects HRV during specific\ntimes of the day or parts of the sleep-wake cycle. A continuous telemetry system was used to analyze\nelectroencephalograms (EEG), electromyograms (EMG), and electrocardiograms (ECG) after experimental ischemic\nstroke in rats (n = 13). Animals were implanted with telemetry probes and, after a two week stabilization period, 72h of\nbaseline continuous EEG, EMG, ECG data were collected. Animals were then assigned to two procedure groups: 1)\nexperimental stroke via 90 minute intraluminal filament occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery, or 2) sham\nsurgery. Continuous waveform recording and HRV analysis was then continued for 48h following each procedure. HRV\nanalysis was conducted by both time-domain and frequency-domain methods. Heart rate exhibited circadian rhythms\namong all animals prior to and following both procedures. Neither procedure contributed to significant heart rate\nchanges. We did not find sleep state or circadian-dependent alterations in HRV in baseline recording. However, after\nstroke, animals exhibited elevated high frequency (HF) HRV (>10% increase, p<0.05) specifically during daytime waking\nperiods. This contrasts with studies in humans that demonstrate reduced HRV after stroke, suggesting that age, medical\ncomorbidities, or species differences modify the overall response to cortical infarction of autonomic control centers.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071555', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Michigan - Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology;', u'University of Michigan - Department of Neurology']]
[u'Molecular basis of outer kinetochore assembly on CENP-T', ["Pim J Huis in 't Veld", 'Sadasivam Jeganathan', 'Arsen Petrovic', 'Juliane John', 'Priyanka Singh', 'Florian Weissmann', 'Tanja Bange', 'Andrea Musacchio'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Stable kinetochore-microtubule attachment is essential for cell division. It requires recruitment of outer kinetochore microtubule binders by centromere proteins C and T (CENP-C and CENP-T). To study the molecular requirements of kinetochore formation, we reconstituted the binding of the MIS12 and NDC80 outer kinetochore subcomplexes to CENP-C and CENP-T. Whereas CENP-C recruits a single MIS12:NDC80 complex, we show here that CENP-T binds one MIS12:NDC80 and two NDC80 complexes upon phosphorylation by the mitotic CDK1:Cyclin B complex at three distinct CENP-T sites. Visualization of reconstituted complexes by electron microscopy supports this model. Binding of CENP-C and CENP-T to MIS12 is competitive, and therefore CENP-C and CENP-T act in parallel to recruit two MIS12 and up to four NDC80 complexes. Our observations provide a molecular explanation for the stoichiometry of kinetochore components and its cell cycle regulation, and highlight how outer kinetochore modules bridge distances of well over 100 nm.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071613', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Physiology;', u'Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP)']]
[u'TAF10 is required for the integrity of TFIID and SAGA complexes but is initially dispensable for somitogenesis in the mouse embryo', ['Paul Bardot', 'Stephane D Vincent', 'Marjorie Fournier', 'Alexis Hubaud', 'Mathilde Joint', 'Laszlo Tora', 'Olivier Pourquie'], u'August 25, 2016.', u"Cell fate and patterning during development are controlled by gene expression. Pre-initiation complex (PIC) formation at promoters is crucial to recruit the transcriptional machinery. The PIC has mainly been studied in vitro, and little is known about its composition and function during development. TAF10 is a subunit of TFIID and of the transcriptional co-activator SAGA. Here we characterized TFIID and SAGA's composition during mouse development. Our data indicate that TAF10 is required for TFIID and SAGA stability. To analyse TAF10-dependent gene regulation during development, we conditionally deleted Taf10 in the mesoderm. Our results provide evidence for a time window during which Taf10 loss in the presomitic mesoderm (PSM) does not prevent cyclic gene transcription or PSM patterning while lateral plate differentiation is profoundly altered. During this period, global steady state mRNA levels are not significantly affected in the PSM although the expression of a subset of specific genes is dysregulated. Together, our data demonstrate a differential sensibility of mesodermal tissues to the lack of TAF10. This supports a differential requirement for TAF10 by the general transcriptional machinery during different developmental processes.", u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071324', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'IGBMC']]
[u'Dynamics Robustness of Cascading Systems', ['Jonathan Young', 'Testsuhiro S Hatakeyama', 'Kunihiko Kaneko'], u'August 25, 2016.', u"A most important property of biochemical systems is robustness. Static robustness, e.g., homeostasis, is the insensitivity of a state against perturbations, whereas dynamics robustness, e.g., homeorhesis, is the insensitivity of a dynamic process. In contrast to the extensively studied static robustness, dynamics robustness, i.e., how a system creates an invariant temporal profile against perturbations, is little explored despite  transient dynamics being crucial for cellular fates and are reported to be robust experimentally. For example, the duration of a stimulus elicits different phenotypic responses, and signaling networks process and encode temporal information. Hence, robustness in time courses will be necessary for functional biochemical networks. Based on dynamical systems theory, we uncovered a general mechanism to achieve dynamics robustness. Using a three-stage linear signaling cascade as an example, we found that the temporal profiles and response duration post-stimulus is robust to perturbations against certain parameters. Then analyzing the linearized model, we elucidated the criteria of how such dynamics robustness emerges in signaling networks. We found that changes in the upstream modules are masked in the cascade, and that the response duration is mainly controlled by the rate-limiting module and organization of the cascade's kinetics. Specifically, we found two necessary conditions for dynamics robustness in signaling cascades: 1) Constraint on the rate-limiting process: The phosphatase activity in the perturbed module is not the slowest. 2) Constraints on the initial conditions: The kinase activity needs to be fast enough such that each module is saturated even with fast phosphatase activity and upstream information is attenuated. We discussed the relevance of such robustness to several biological examples and the validity of the above conditions therein. Given the applicability of dynamics robustness to a variety of systems, it will provide a general basis for how biological systems function dynamically.", u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071589', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'The University of Tokyo']]
[u'Empowering Multi-Cohort Gene Expression Analysis to Increase Reproducibility', ['Winston A Haynes', 'Francesco Vallania', 'Charles Liu', 'Erika Bongen', 'Aurelie Tomczak', 'Marta Andres-Terre', 'Shane Lofgren', 'Andrew Tam', 'Cole A Deisseroth', 'Matthew D Li', 'Timothy E Sweeney', 'Purvesh Khatri'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'A major contributor to the scientific reproducibility crisis has been that the results from homogeneous, single-center studies do not generalize to heterogeneous, real world populations. Multi-cohort gene expression analysis has helped to increase reproducibility by aggregating data from diverse populations into a single analysis. To make the multi-cohort analysis process more feasible, we have assembled an analysis pipeline which implements rigorously studied meta-analysis best practices. We have compiled and made publicly available the results of our own multi-cohort gene expression analysis of 103 diseases, spanning 615 studies and 36,915 samples, through a novel and interactive web application. As a result, we have made both the process of and the results from multi-cohort gene expression analysis more approachable for non-technical users.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071514', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Sensory neuron fate is developmentally perturbed by Gars mutations causing human neuropathy', ['James N Sleigh', 'John M Dawes', 'Steven J West', 'Emily L Spaulding', 'Adriana Gomez-Martin', 'Robert W Burgess', 'M. Zameel Cader', 'Kevin Talbot', 'David L Bennett', 'Giampietro Schiavo'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2D (CMT2D) is a peripheral nerve disorder caused by dominant, toxic, gain-of-function mutations in the widely expressed, housekeeping gene, GARS. The mechanisms underlying selective nerve pathology in CMT2D remain unresolved, as does the cause of the mild-to-moderate sensory involvement that distinguishes CMT2D from the allelic disorder distal spinal muscular atrophy type V. To elucidate the mechanism responsible for the underlying afferent nerve pathology, we examined the sensory nervous system in CMT2D mice. We show that the equilibrium between functional subtypes of sensory neuron in dorsal root ganglia is distorted by Gars mutations, leading to sensory defects in peripheral tissues and correlating with overall disease severity. CMT2D mice display changes in sensory behaviour concordant with the afferent imbalance, which is present at birth and non-progressive, indicating that sensory neuron identity is prenatally perturbed and that a critical developmental insult is key to the afferent pathology. This suggests that both neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative mechanisms contribute to CMT2D pathogenesis, and thus has profound implications for the timing of future therapeutic treatments.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071159', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Jackson Laboratory']]
[u'Why are frameshift homologs widespread within and across species?', ['Xiaolong Wang', 'Quanjiang Dong', 'Gang Chen', 'Jianye Zhang', 'Yongqiang Liu', 'Jinqiao Zhao', 'Haibo Peng', 'Yalei Wang', 'Yujia Cai', 'Xuxiang Wang', 'Chao Yang'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Frameshifted coding genes presumably yield truncated and dysfunctional proteins. We report that frameshift homologs, including frameshift orthologs and frameshift paralogs, are actually widespread within and across species. We proposed that protein coding genes have a ca-0.5 quasi-constant shiftability: given any protein coding sequence, at least 50% of the amino acids remain conserved in a frameshifted protein sequence. In the natural genetic code, amino acid pairs assigned to frameshift codon substitutions are more conserved than those to random codon substitutions, and the frameshift tolerating ability of the natural genetic code ranks among the best 6% of all compatible genetic codes. Hence, the shiftability of protein coding genes was mainly predefined by the standard genetic code, while additional sequence-level shiftability was achieved through biased usages of codons and codon pairs. We concluded that during early evolution the genetic code was symmetrically optimized for tolerate frameshifts, so that protein coding genes were endowed an inherent ability to tolerate frameshifting in both forward and backward directions.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/067736', [u'Genetics'], [u'Ocean University of China;', u'Qingdao Municipal Hospital']]
[u'Inference of the distribution of selection coefficients for new nonsynonymous mutations using large samples', ['Bernard Y Kim', 'Christian D Huber', 'Kirk E Lohmueller'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'The distribution of fitness effects (DFE) has considerable importance in population genetics. To date, estimates of the DFE come from studies using a small number of individuals. Thus, estimates of the proportion of moderately to strongly deleterious new mutations may be unreliable because such variants are unlikely to be segregating in the data. Additionally, the true functional form of the DFE is unknown, and estimates of the DFE differ significantly between studies. Here we present a flexible and computationally tractable method, called Fit\u2202a\u2202i, to estimate the DFE using the site frequency spectrum from a large number of individuals. We apply our approach to the frequency spectrum of 1300 Europeans from the Exome Sequencing Project ESP6400 dataset, 1298 Danes from the LuCamp dataset, and 432 Europeans from the 1000 Genomes Project to estimate the DFE of deleterious nonsynonymous mutations. We infer significantly fewer (0.38-0.84x) strongly deleterious mutations with selection coefficient |s| > 0.01 and more (1.24-1.43x) weakly deleterious mutations with selection coefficient |s| < 0.001 compared to previous estimates. Furthermore, a DFE that is a mixture distribution of a point mass at neutrality plus a gamma distribution fits best to two of the three datasets. Our results suggest that nearly neutral forces play a larger role in human evolution than previously thought.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071431', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UCLA']]
[u'UNTANGLING THE COMPONENTS OF PHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY IN NONLINEAR REACTION NORMS OF DROSOPHILA MEDIOPUNCTATA PIGMENTATION', ['Felipe Bastos Rocha', 'Louis Bernard Klaczko'], u'August 25, 2016.', u'Phenotypic plasticity may evolve as a generalist strategy to cope with environmental heterogeneity. Empirical studies, however, rarely find results confirming this prediction. This may be related to constraints imposed by the genetic architecture underlying plasticity variation. Three components of plasticity are central to characterize its variation: the intensity of response, the direction of response and the total amount of change. Reaction norm functions are a key analytical tool in plasticity studies. The more complex they are, the more plasticity components will vary independently, requiring more parameters to be described. Experimental studies are continuously collecting results showing that actual reaction norms are often nonlinear. This demands an analytical framework (yet to be developed) capable of straightforwardly untangling plasticity components of. In Drosophila mediopunctata, the number of dark spots on the abdomen decreases as a response to increasing developmental temperatures. We have previously described a strong association between reaction norm curvature and across-environment mean values in homozygous strains. Here, we describe seven new reaction norms of heterozygous genotypes and further the investigation on the genetic architecture of this trait plasticity, testing three competing models from the literature (Overdominance, Epistasis and Pleiotropy). We use the curves of localized slopes of each reaction norm (Local Plasticity functions) to characterize the plastic response intensity and direction, and introduce a Global Plasticity parameter to quantify their total amount of change. Uncoupling plasticity components allowed us to discard the Overdominance model, weaken the Epistasis model and strengthen the support for the Pleiotropy model. Furthermore, this approach allows the elaboration of a coherent developmental model for the pigmentation of D. mediopunctata where genetic variation at one single feature explains the patterns of plasticity and overall expression of the trait. We claim that Global Plasticity and Local Plasticity may prove instrumental to the understanding of adaptive reaction norm evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/08/25/070599', [u'Genetics'], [u'Universidade Estadual de Campinas']]
[u'The impact of chromatin dynamics on Cas9-mediated genome editing in human cells', ['Rene M. Daer', 'Josh P. Cutts', 'David A. Brafman', 'Karmella Haynes'], u'August 25, 2016.', u"In order to efficiently edit eukaryotic genomes, it is critical to test the impact of  chromatin  dynamics  on  CRISPR/Cas9  function  and  develop  strategies  to  adapt  the system  to  eukaryotic  contexts.  So  far,  research  has  extensively  characterized  the relationship between the CRISPR endonuclease Cas9 and the composition of the RNA-DNA duplex  that  mediates  the  system's  precision.  Evidence  suggests  that  chromatin modifications and DNA packaging can block eukaryotic genome editing by custom-built DNA  endonucleases  like  Cas9;  however,  the  underlying  mechanism  of  Cas9  inhibition is unclear. Here, we demonstrate that closed, gene-silencing-associated chromatin is a mechanism  for  the  interference  of  Cas9-mediated  DNA  editing.  Our  assays  use  a transgenic  cell  line  with  a  drug-inducible  switch  to  control  chromatin  states  (open  and closed)  at  a  single  genomic  locus.  We  show  that  closed  chromatin  inhibits  editing  at specific  target  sites,  and  that  artificial  reversal  of  the  silenced  state  restores  editing efficiency.  These  results  provide  new  insights  to  improve  Cas9-mediated  editing  in human and other mammalian cells.", u'/content/early/2016/08/25/071464', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Arizona State University']]
