[u'NGMASTER: in silico Multi-Antigen Sequence Typing for Neisseria gonorrhoeae', ['Jason C Kwong', 'Anders Goncalves da Silva', 'Kristin Dyet', 'Deborah A Williamson', 'Timothy P Stinear', 'Benjamin P Howden', 'Torsten Seemann'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) provides the highest resolution analysis for comparison of bacterial isolates in public health microbiology. However, although increasingly being used routinely for some pathogens such as Listeria monocytogenes and Salmonella enterica, the use of WGS is still limited for other organisms, such as Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Multi-antigen sequence typing (NG-MAST) is the most widely performed typing method for epidemiologic surveillance of gonorrhoea. Here, we present NGMASTER - a command-line software tool for performing in silico NG-MAST on assembled genome data. NGMASTER rapidly and accurately determined the NG-MAST of 630 assembled genomes, facilitating comparisons between WGS and previously published gonorrhoea epidemiological studies. The source code and user documentation are available at https://github.com/MDU-PHL/ngmaster.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057760', [], [u'Peter Doherty Institute for Infection & Immunity;', u'Institute of Environmental Science and Research']]
[u'Synergistic elimination of bacteria by phage and the immune system', ['Chung Yin (Joey) Leung', 'Joshua S. Weitz'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Phage therapy remains a potential treatment for bacterial infections. Yet, the slow progress in realizing clinical therapeutics is matched by a similar dearth in principled understanding of how phage therapy works. Theoretical models and in vitro experiments find that combining phage and bacteria often leads to coexistence or phage elimination altogether. Both outcomes stand in contrast to the stated goals of phage therapy. Here, we propose a phage therapy model that considers the nonlinear dynamics arising from interactions between bacteria, phage, and the immune system. We analytically identify a synergistic regime in which phage and the immune response jointly contribute to the elimination of target bacteria. Crucially, we find that in this synergistic regime, neither phage alone nor the immune system alone can eliminate the bacteria. We utilize numerical simulations to explore the synergistic effect and its significance for guiding the use of phage therapy in clinically relevant applications.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057927', [], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Predicting Targeted Cancer Therapeutics', ['Aaron Wise', 'Murat Can Cobanoglu'], u'June 8, 2016.', u"Motivation: Cancer is a complex and evolving disease, making it difficult to discover effective treatments. Traditional drug discovery relies on high-throughput screening on reductionist models in order to enable the testing of 105 or 106 compounds. These assays lack the complexity of the human disease. Functional assays overcome this limitation by testing drugs on human tumors, however they can only test few drugs, and remain restricted to diagnostic use. An algorithm that identifies hits with fewer experiments could enable the use of functional assays for de novo drug discovery.\nResults: We developed a novel approach that we termed 'algorithmic ideation' (AI) to select experiments, and demonstrated that this approach discovers hits 104 times more effectively than brute-force screening. The algorithm trains on known drug-target-disease associations assembled as a tensor, built from the (public) TCGA and STITCH databases and predicts novel associations. We evaluated our tensor completion approach using a temporal cutoff with data prior to 2012 used as training data, and data from 2012 to 2015 used as testing data. Our approach achieved 104-fold more efficient hit discovery than the traditional brute-force high-throughput screening. We further tested the method in a sparse, low data regime by removing up to 90% of the training data, and demonstrated the robustness of the approach. Finally we test predictive performance on drugs with no previously known interactions, and the algorithm demonstrates 103-fold improvement in this challenging problem. Thus algorithmic ideation can potentially enable targeted antineoplastic discovery on functional assays.\nAvailability: Freely accessible at https://bitbucket.org/aiinc/drugx. \nContact: {quejebo, mcancobanoglu} @ gmail.com", u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057901', [], [u'Illumina Inc.;', u'University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center']]
[u'Topslam: Waddington Landscape Recovery for Single Cell Experiments', ['Max Zwiessele', 'Neil D Lawrence'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'We present an approach to estimating the nature of the Waddington\n  (or epigenetic) landscape that underlies a population of individual\n  cells. Through exploiting high resolution single cell transcription\n  experiments we show that cells can be located on a landscape that\n  reflects their differentiated nature.\n  \n  Our approach makes use of probabilistic non-linear dimensionality\n  reduction that respects the topology of our estimated\n  epigenetic landscape. In simulation studies and analyses of real\n  data we show that the approach, known as \\manifold, outperforms\n  previous attempts to understand the differentiation landscape. \n\n  Hereby, the novelty of our approach lies in the correction of\n  distances \\emph{before} extracting ordering information. This gives\n  the advantage over other attempts, which have to correct for\n  extracted time lines by post processing or additional data.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057778', [], [u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'Initiation of Retina Regeneration By a Conserved Mechanism of Adult Neurogenesis', ['Mahesh B Rao', 'Dominic Didiano', 'James G Patton'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Retina damage or disease in humans often leads to reactive gliosis, preventing the formation of new cells and resulting in visual impairment or blindness.  Current efforts to repair damaged retinas are inefficient and not capable of fully restoring vision.  Conversely, the zebrafish retina is capable of spontaneous regeneration upon damage, using M\xfcller glia (MG) derived progenitors.  Understanding how zebrafish MG initiate regeneration may help develop new treatments that prompt mammalian retinas to regenerate.  Here we show that inhibition of GABA signaling facilitates initiation of MG proliferation.  GABA levels decrease following damage, and MG are positioned to detect the decrease.  Using pharmacological and genetic approaches we demonstrate that GABAA receptor inhibition stimulates regeneration in undamaged retinas while activation inhibits regeneration in damaged retinas.  GABA induced proliferation causes upregulation of regeneration associated genes.  This is the first evidence that neurotransmitters control retina regeneration in zebrafish through an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of neurogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057893', [], [u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Can pornography be addictive? An fMRI study of men seeking treatment for problematic pornography use.', ['Mateusz Gola', 'Malgorzata Wordecha', 'Guillaume Sescousse', 'Michal Lew-Starowicz', 'Bartosz Kossowski', 'Marek Wypych', 'Scott Makeig', 'Marc Potenza', 'Artur Marchewka'], u'June 8, 2016.', u"Importance: Pornography consumption is highly prevalent, particularly among young adult males. For some individuals, problematic pornography use (PPU) is a reason for seeking treatment. Despite the pervasiveness of pornography, PPU appears under-investigated and basic questions remain unanswered.\n\nObjective: To investigate the neural mechanisms underlying PPU in men. \n\nDesign and participants: Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined brain reactivity towards erotic and monetary stimuli, disentangling cue-related 'wanting' from reward-related 'liking' among 28 heterosexual males seeking treatment for PPU and 24 heterosexual males without PPU. Subjects could have won either erotic pictures or monetary gains in an incentive delay task, where rewards were preceded by predictive cues. \n\nMain outcome measures: BOLD signal activity relating to responses to erotic and monetary cue processing and measured during fMRI was analyzed and examined with respect to self-reported data on sexual activity collected over the 2 preceding months. \n\nResults: Men with and without PPU differed in brain reactions to cues predicting erotic pictures, but not in reactions to erotic pictures themselves, consistent with the incentive salience theory of addictions. PPU subjects showed increased activation of a brain reward region (the ventral striatum) specifically for cues predicting erotic pictures but not for cues predicting monetary gains. This brain activation was accompanied by increased behavioral motivation to view erotic images (higher 'wanting'). Ventral striatal reactivity for cues predicting erotic pictures was significantly related to the severity of PPU, amount of pornography use per week and number of weekly masturbations.\n\nConclusions and relevance: Our findings suggest that like in substance-use and gambling disorders the neural and behavioral mechanisms linked to anticipatory processing of cues relate importantly to clinically relevant features of PPU.  These findings suggest that PPU may represent a behavioral addiction and that interventions helpful in targeting behavioral and substance addictions warrant consideration for adaptation and use in helping men with PPU.", u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057083', [], [u'University of California San Diego / Institute of Psychology, INC, SCCN, Polish Academy of Sciences;', u'Nencki Institute of Experimental Biology of Polish Academy of Sciences;', u'Radboud University, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behavior, Nijmegen, Netherlands;', u'III Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology;', u'Swartz Center for Computational Neuroscience, Institute for Neural Computations, UCSD;', u'Yale School of Medicine and Connecticut Mental Health Center']]
[u'Effect of X-ray irradiation on ancient DNA in sub-fossil bones - Guidelines for safe x-ray imaging.', ['Alexander Immel', 'Adeline Le Cabec', 'Marion Bonazzi', 'Alexander Herbig', 'Heiko Temming', 'Verena J. Schuenemann', 'Kirsten I. Bos', 'Frauke Langbein', 'Katerina Harvati', 'Anne Bridault', 'Gilbert Pion', 'Marie-Anne Julien', 'Oleksandra Krotova', 'Nicholas J. Conard', 'Susanne C. Muenzel', 'Dorothee G. Drucker', 'Bence Viola', 'Jean-Jacques Hublin', 'Paul Tafforeau', 'Johannes Krause'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Sub-fossilised remains may still contain highly degraded ancient DNA (aDNA) useful for palaeogenetic investigations. Whether X-ray computed [micro-] tomography ([\u03bc]CT) imaging of these fossils may further damage aDNA remains debated. Although the effect of X-ray on DNA in living organisms is well documented, its impact on aDNA molecules is unexplored. \nHere we investigate the effects of synchrotron X-ray irradiation on aDNA from Pleistocene bones. A clear correlation appears between decreasing aDNA quantities and accumulating X-ray dose-levels above 2000 Gray (Gy). We further find that strong X-ray irradiation reduces the amount of nucleotide misincorporations at the aDNA molecule ends. No representative effect can be detected for doses below 200 Gy. Dosimetry shows that conventional \u03bcCT usually does not reach the risky dose level, while classical synchrotron imaging can degrade aDNA significantly. Optimised synchrotron protocols and simple rules introduced here are sufficient to ensure that fossils can be scanned without impairing future aDNA studies.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057786', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena, Germany;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig, Germany;', u'Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Kiel University, Germany;', u'Institute for Archaeological Sciences, Archaeo- and Palaeogenetics, University of Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Senckenberg Center for Human Evolution and Palaeoecology, Palaeoanthropology, Tuebingen, Germany;', u'CNRS UMR 7041 ArScAn, Equipe Archeologies environnementales, Nanterre, France;', u'Association departementale pour la recherche archeologique en Savoie, Saint-Alban-Leysse, France;', u'Centre for the Archaeology of Human Origins Archaeology Department, University of Southampton, GB;', u'Department of Stone Age, Institute of Archaeology, National Ukrainian Academy of Science, Ukraine;', u'Senckenberg Center for Human Evolution and Palaeoenvironment, University of Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Institute for Archaeological Sciences, Archaeozoology, University of Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Department of Geosciences, Palaeobiology, University of Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto, Canada;', u'European Synchrotron Radiation Facility, Grenoble, France']]
[u'Intraoperative biomechanics of pedicle screw loosening in the lumbar spine', ['Hope B Pearson', 'Christopher J Dobbs', 'Eric Grantham', 'James L Chappuis', 'Joel D Boerckel'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Pedicle screw loosening has been implicated in recurrent back pain after lumbar spinal fusion, but the degree of loosening has not been systematically quantified in patients. Instrumentation removal is an option for patients with successful arthrodesis, but remains controversial. This study measured pedicle screw insertion and/or removal torques in one hundred and eight patients (age 47 \xb1 11 years) who experienced pain recurrence despite successful fusion after posterior lumbar interbody fusion (L2-S1). Between implantation and removal, pedicle screw torque was reduced by 58%, indicating significant loosening over time. Extent of loosening correlated with screw placement as measured by EMG stimulus threshold, and an analytical stress analysis revealed increased local stresses in pedicles with decreased pedicle-screw clearance. Loosening was greatest in vertebrae at the extremities of the fused segment, with reduced biomechanical stability. Instrumentation removal also significantly reduced patient pain. These data indicate that pedicle screws can loosen significantly in patients with recurrent back pain, which may be ameliorated by instrumentation removal following successful arthrodesis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057935', [], [u'University of Notre Dame;', u'Spine Center Atlanta']]
[u'DNA sequence properties that predict susceptibility to epiallelic switching', ['Marco Catoni', 'Jayne Griffiths', 'Claude Becker', 'Nicolae Radu Zabet', 'Carlos Bayon', 'Melanie Dapp', 'Michal Lieberman-Lazarovich', 'Detlef Weigel', 'Jerzy Paszkowski'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Transgenerationally heritable epialleles are defined by the stable propagation of alternative transcriptional states through mitotic and meiotic cell cycles. Given that the propagation of DNA methylation at CpG sites, mediated in Arabidopsis by MET1, plays a central role in epigenetic inheritance, we examined genome-wide DNA methylation in partial and complete loss-of-function met1 mutants. We interpreted the data in relation to transgenerational epiallelic stability and provide evidence that DNA sequence features such as density of CpGs and genomic repetitiveness can be used to predict susceptibility to epiallelic switching. The importance of these rules was confirmed by analyses of common epialleles in natural Arabidopsis accessions and verified in rice.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057794', [], [u'The Sainsbury Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Department of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology, Tubingen, Germany;', u'Department of Plant Biology, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland']]
[u'Diversity of Sericostomatidae (Trichoptera) caddisflies in the Montseny mountain range', ['Jan Niklas Macher', 'Martina Weiss', 'Arne Beermann', 'Florian Leese'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Biodiversity is under threat by the ongoing global change and especially freshwater ecosystems are under threat by intensified land use, water abstraction and other anthropogenic stressors. In order to monitor the impacts that stressors have on freshwater biodiversity, it is important to know the current state of ecosystems and species living in them. This is often hampered by lacking knowledge on species and genetic diversity due to the fact that many taxa are complexes of several morphologically cryptic species. Lacking knowledge on species identity and ecology can lead to wrong biodiversity and stream quality assessments and molecular tools can greatly help resolving this problem. Here, we studied larvae of the caddisfly family Sericostomatidae in the Montseny mountains on the Iberian Peninsula. We expected to find cryptic species and that species would not occur in syntopy due to different ecological niches. We sampled 44 stream sites and sequenced 247 larval specimens for the barcoding region of the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase gene. A modeling approach was used to assess the bioclimatic preferences of the found species. Two molecular groups were identified. One could be assigned to Schizopelex furcifera and one to Sericostoma spp. We did find both taxa in syntopy in >50% of sampling sites and could show that the taxa prefer similar bioclimatic conditions. A reexamination of larval specimens showed that Sericostoma and Schizopelex larvae could not be unambiguously identified to the genus level. Overall, our results show the importance of including molecular tools into biodiversity assessments in order to correctly identify the species diversity of a region and to prevent wrong assessment results.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057844', [], [u'University Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Identification of Novel and Differentially Expressed MicroRNAs in Goat Enzootic Nasal Adenocarcinoma', ['Bin Wang', 'Ni Ye', 'Sanjie Cao', 'Xintian Wen', 'Yong Huang', 'Qigui Yan'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Enzootic nasal adenocarcinoma (ENA), an epithelial tumor induced in goats and sheep by enzootic nasal tumor virus (ENTV), is a chronic, progressive, contact transmitted disease. This study aimed to identify novel and differentially expressed miRNAs in the tumor and para-carcinoma nasal tissues of Nanjiang yellow goats with ENA. Small RNA Illumina high-throughput sequencing was used to construct a goat nasal miRNA library.\n406 known miRNAs and 29 novel miRNAs were identified. A total of 116 miRNAs were significantly differentially expressed in para-carcinoma nasal tissues and ENA; Target gene prediction and functional analysis revealed that 6176 non-redundancy target genes, 1792 significant GO and 97 significant KEGG pathway for 121 miRNAs were predicted.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057885', [], [u'Sichuan Agricultural University']]
[u'Geo-climatic gradient shapes functional trait variations in Salix eriocephala Michx.', ['Arun S.K. Shunmugam', 'Raju Y. Soolanayakanahally', 'Robert D. Guy'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'Intraspecific variations in seasonal phenology and growth physiology reflect adaptation to local climate. To explore the patterns of local adaptation along latitudinal and longitudinal clines, we used thirty-four populations of Salix eriocephala sourced from its natural ranges across Canada. The genotypes were examined for 6 phenology and 19 ecophysiology traits over two growing seasons under common garden condition. Photosynthetic assimilation rate (A) increased with increase in latitude when measured during free growth. In spite, the negative correlation between stomatal density and stomatal conductance (gs), higher A is facilitated via larger pore length among genotypes from short growing seasons. In addition, higher A, was positively associated with total leaf nitrogen and leaf mass per unit area. No population level differences were observed for water use-efficiency (\u039413C), however nitrogen isotope discrimination (\u03b415N) displayed latitudinal clines. Growing season phenological traits considered in this study accounted high heritability (H2 = 0.65-0.94). Melampsora rust infestation also displayed a strong latitudinal cline with high-latitude genotypes being more susceptible. Overall, the results support the hypothesis that functional trait variations are largely explained by climate of origin and facilitate selection of parents with superior adaptive traits in the Canadian willow improvement program for bioenergy and environmental applications.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057745', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada;', u'Saskatoon Research and Development Centre, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan;', u'Department of Forest and Conservation Sciences, Faculty of Forestry, University of British Columbia,']]
[u'Modular non-repeating codes for DNA storage', ['Ian Holmes'], u'June 8, 2016.', u'We describe a strategy for constructing codes for DNA-based information storage by serial composition of weighted finite-state transducers. The resulting state machines can integrate correction of substitution errors; synchronization by interleaving watermark and periodic marker signals; conversion from binary to ternary, quaternary or mixed-radix sequences via an efficient block code; encoding into a DNA sequence that avoids homopolymer, dinucleotide, or trinucleotide runs and other short local repeats; and detection/correction of errors (including local duplications, burst deletions, and substitutions) that are characteristic of DNA sequencing technologies. We present software implementing these codes, available at https://github.com/ihh/dnastore with simulation results demonstrating that the generated DNA is free of short repeats and can be accurately decoded even in the presence of substitutions, short duplications and deletions.', u'/content/early/2016/06/08/057448', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of California at Berkeley']]
[u'Magnetic Resonance Imaging Tracking of Distal Inflammatory Changes following Mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI) in rats.', ['Seth Brian Gillham', 'Johnny D Figueroa', 'Brenda Bartnik'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Sensorimotor disturbances continue to represent one of the most debilitating and widely reported complications in patients suffering mild traumatic brain injuries (mTBI).  Loss of peripheral neuronal function at sites distal and disconnected to the central nervous control central centers is well documented. Distal muscular atrophy, complex regional pain symptoms, and poor wound healing are just a few of the many complications with often more severe secondary complications such decubitus ulcers and osteomyelitis seen at sites in the body distal to the center of injury.  MRI has been widely established as a diagnostic and therapeutic planning tool in patients and animal models with neuronal disease. However, studies investigating the neural correlates of spinal cord changes after TBI are lacking. Here, we used T2 MR imaging to determine the effects of mTBI on the morphology and inflammatory changes of the spinal cord. We hypothesize that rats receiving mTBI utilizing a controlled cortical impact (CCI) contusion will demonstrate T2 signal changes at distal locomotor centers in the spine. Experimental mTBI and sham groups of Sprague-Dawley rats were used (n = 2 sham and 4 experimental). A mild CCI was applied to the right brain cortex.  Rats were sacrificed at 60 days post injury and spinal cords harvested for ex vivo MRI T2 analysis. Focal areas/lesions of increased T2 hyperintensity were noted in mTBI injured rats (n = 4).  Experimental group of rats also demonstrated secondary spinal cord locomotor and sensation adverse effects clinically.  MR imaging showed volumetric reductions and T2 signal changes in the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar segments of the spinal cord at 8 weeks post-injury. T2 intensity values were elevated in all experimental groups in comparison to the sham group within the distal cord, suggesting that remote CCI causes secondary spinal cord inflammation and neurodegeneration at distant sites.  These findings also further support the idea that the most peripheral nerves and spinal cord will be most negatively affected by a TBI. While our research is in its preliminary stages, our results further confirm that mTBI has more far reaching effects than previously understood. T2 MRI is an effective tool to assess the extent of spinal cord injury related to antecedent TBI.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057679', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'LLUMC;', u'LLU']]
[u'Efficient cardinality estimation for k-mers in large DNA sequencing data sets', ['Luiz Carlos Irber Junior', 'C. Titus Brown'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'We present an open implementation of the\nHyperLogLog cardinality estimation sketch for counting fixed-length\nsubstrings of DNA strings (k-mers).\n\nThe HyperLogLog sketch implementation is in C++ with a Python interface, and is distributed\nas part of the khmer software package.\nkhmer is freely available from \\url{https://github.com/dib-lab/khmer} under a BSD License.\nThe features presented here are included in version 1.4 and later.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/056846', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California Davis']]
[u'The Quick and the Dead: Microbial Demography at the Yeast Thermal Limit', ['Colin Scott Maxwell', 'Paul Mitaari Magwene'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'The niche of microorganisms is determined by where their populations can expand. Populations can fail to grow because of high death or low birth rates, but these are challenging to measure in microorganisms. We developed a novel technique that enables single cell measurement of age-structured birth and death rates in the budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and used this method to study responses to heat stress in a genetically diverse panel of  strains. We find that individual cells show significant heterogeneity in their rates of birth and death during heat stress. Genotype-by-environment effects on processes that regulate asymmetric cell division contribute to this heterogeneity. These lead to either premature senescence or early life mortality during heat stress, and we find that a mitochondrial inheritance defect explains the early life mortality phenotype of one of the strains we studied.  This study demonstrates how the interplay of physiology, genetic variation, and environmental variables influences where microbial populations survive and flourish.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/055442', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Duke University;', u'x']]
[u'Biologically plausible learning in recurrent neural networks for flexible decision tasks', ['Thomas Miconi'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Recurrent neural networks operating in the near-chaotic regime exhibit complex dynamics, reminiscent of neural activity in higher cortical areas. As a result, these networks have been proposed as models of cortical computation during cognitive tasks. However, existing methods for training the connectivity of these networks are either biologically implausible, and/or require an instantaneous, real-time continuous error signal to guide the learning process. The lack of plausible learning method may restrict the applicability of recurrent neural networks as models of cortical computation. Here we introduce a biologically plausible learning rule that can train such recurrent networks, guided solely by delayed, phasic rewards at the end of each trial. We use this method to learn various tasks from the experimental literature, showing that this learning rule can successfully implement flexible associations, memory maintenance, nonlinear mixed selectivities, and coordination among multiple outputs. The trained networks exhibit complex dynamics previously observed in animal cortex, such as dynamic encoding and maintenance of task features, switching from stimulus-specific to response-specific representations, and selective integration of relevant input streams. We conclude that recurrent neural networks can offer a plausible model of cortical dynamics during both learning and performance of flexible behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057729', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Neurosciences Institute']]
[u'Two distinct scene processing networks connecting vision and memory', ['Christopher Baldassano', 'Andre Esteva', 'Diane M Beck', 'Li Fei-Fei'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'A number of regions in the human brain are known to be involved in processing natural scenes, but the field has lacked a unifying framework for understanding how these different regions are organized and interact. We provide evidence from functional connectivity and meta-analyses for a new organizational principle, in which scene processing relies on two distinct networks that split the classically defined Parahippocampal Place Area (PPA). The first network consists of the Occipital Place Area (OPA/TOS) and posterior PPA, which contain retinotopic maps and are related primarily to visual features. The second network consists of the caudal Inferior Parietal Lobule (cIPL), Retrosplenial Cortex (RSC), and anterior PPA, which connect to the hippocampus and are involved in a much broader set of tasks involving episodic memory and navigation. This new framework for understanding the neural substrates of scene processing bridges results from many lines of research, and makes specific functional predictions.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057406', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'RADpainter and fineRADstructure: population inference from RADseq data', ['Milan Malinsky', 'Emiliano Trucchi', 'Daniel Lawson', 'Daniel Falush'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"Powerful approaches to inferring recent or current population structure based on nearest neighbor haplotype 'coancestry' have so far been inaccessible to users without high quality genome-wide haplotypes. With a boom in non-model organism genomics, there is a pressing need to bring these approaches to communities without access to such data. Here we present RADpainter, a new program designed to infer the coancestry matrix from restriction-site-associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) data. We combine this program together with a previously published MCMC clustering algorithm into fineRADstructure - a complete, easy to use, and fast population inference package for RADseq data (https://github.com/millanek/fineRADstructure).", u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057711', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge;', u'Division of Systematics and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria;', u'School of Social and Community Medicine,  University of Bristol, Bristol,  BS8 2BN, UK.;', u'Institute of Life Science, Swansea University, Swansea, SA2 8PP, UK']]
[u'Snapshots of a shrinking partner: Genome reduction in Serratia symbiotica', ['Alejandro Manzano-Marin', 'Amparo Latorre'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Genome reduction is pervasive among maternally-inherited endosymbiotic organisms, from bacteriocyte- to gut-associated ones. This genome erosion is a step-wise process in which once free-living organisms evolve to become obligate associates, thereby losing non-essential or redundant genes/functions. Serratia symbiotica (Gammaproteobacteria), a secondary endosymbiont present in many aphids (Hemiptera: Aphididae), displays various characteristics that make it a good model organism for studying genome reduction. While some strains are of facultative nature, others have established co-obligate associations with their respective aphid host and its primary endosymbiont (Buchnera). Furthermore, the different strains hold genomes of contrasting sizes and features, and have strikingly disparate cell shapes, sizes, and tissue tropism. Finally, genomes from closely related free-living Serratia marcescens are also available. In this study, we describe in detail the genome reduction process (from free-living to reduced obligate endosymbiont) undergone by S. symbiotica, and relate it to the stages of integration to the symbiotic system the different strains find themselves in. We establish that the genome reduction patterns observed in S. symbiotica follow those from other dwindling genomes, thus proving to be a good model for the study of the genome reduction process within a single bacterial taxon evolving in a similar biological niche (aphid-Buchnera).', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057653', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat I Biologia Evolutiva. Universitat de Val\xe8ncia']]
[u'Global and local connectivity differences converge with gene expression in a neurodevelopmental disorder of known genetic origin', ['Joe Bathelt', 'Jessica Barnes', 'F Lucy Raymond', 'Kate Baker', 'Duncan E Astle'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Knowledge of genetic cause in neurodevelopmental disorders can highlight molecular and cellular processes critical for typical development. Furthermore, the relative homogeneity of neurodevelopmental disorders of known genetic origin allows the researcher to establish the subsequent neurobiological processes that mediate cognitive and behavioural outcomes. The current study investigated white matter structural connectivity in a group of individuals with intellectual disability due to mutations in ZDHHC9. In addition to shared cause of cognitive impairment, these individuals have a shared cognitive profile, involving oro-motor control difficulties and expressive language impairment. Analysis of structural network properties using graph theory measures showed global reductions in mean clustering coefficient and efficiency in the ZDHHC9 group, with maximal differences in frontal and parietal areas. Regional variation in clustering coefficient and local efficiency across cortical regions in cases and controls were significantly associated with known pattern of expression of ZDHHC9 in the normal adult human brain. The results demonstrate that a mutation in a single gene impacts upon white matter organisation across the whole-brain, but also shows regionally specific effects, according to variation in gene expression. Furthermore, these regionally specific patterns may link to specific developmental mechanisms, and correspond to specific cognitive deficits.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057687', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC Cognition & Brain Sciences Unit;', u'Department of Medical Genetics, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge;', u'Department of Medical Genetics, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research,  University of Cambridge']]
[u'Integrative modeling of tumor DNA methylation identifies a role for metabolism', ['Mahya Mehrmohamadi', 'Lucas Mentch', 'Andrew G Clark', 'Jason W Locasale'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'DNA methylation varies across genomic regions, tissues and individuals in a population. Altered DNA methylation is common in cancer and often considered an early event in tumorigenesis. However, the sources of heterogeneity of DNA methylation among tumors remain poorly defined. Here, we capitalize on the availability of multi-platform data on thousands of molecularly- and clinically-annotated human tumors to build integrative models that identify the determinants of DNA methylation. We quantify the relative contribution of clinical and molecular factors in explaining within-cancer (inter-individual) variability in DNA methylation. We show that the levels of a set of metabolic genes involved in the methionine cycle that are constituents of one-carbon metabolism are predictive of several features of DNA methylation status in tumors including the methylation of genes that are known to drive oncogenesis. Finally, we demonstrate that patients whose DNA methylation status can be predicted from the genes in one-carbon metabolism exhibited improved survival over cases where this regulation is disrupted. To our knowledge, this study is the first comprehensive analysis of the determinants of methylation and demonstrates the surprisingly large contribution of metabolism in explaining epigenetic variation among individual tumors of the same cancer type. Together, our results illustrate links between tumor metabolism and epigenetics and outline future clinical implications.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057638', [u'Genomics'], [u'Cornell University;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Personally tailored cancer management based on knowledge banks of genomic and clinical data', ['Moritz Gerstung', 'Elli Papaemmanuil', 'Inigo Martincorena', 'Lars Bullinger', 'Verena I Gaidzik', 'Peter Paschka', 'Michael Heuser', 'Felicitas Thol', 'Niccolo Bolli', 'Peter Ganly', 'Arnold Ganser', 'Ultan McDermott', 'Konstanze Dohner', 'Richard F Schlenk', 'Hartmut Dohner', 'Peter J Campbell'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Sequencing of cancer genomes, or parts thereof, has become widespread and will soon be implemented as part of routine clinical diagnostics. However the clinical ramifications of this have not been fully assessed. Here we assess the utility of sequencing large and clinically well-annotated cancer cohorts to derive personalized predictions about treatment outcome. To this end we study a cohort of 1,540 patients with AML (acute myeloid leukemia) with genetic profiles from 111 cancer genes, cytogenetic data and diagnostic blood counts. We test existing and develop new models to compute the probability of six different clinical outcomes based on more than 100 genetic and clinical variables. The predictions derived from our knowledge bank are more detailed and outperform strata currently used in clinical practice (concordance C=72% v C=64%), and are validated on three cohorts and data from TCGA (C=70%). Our prognostic algorithm is available as an online tool (http://cancer.sanger.ac.uk/aml-multistage). A simulation of different treatment scenarios indicates that a refined risk stratification could reduce the number of bonemarrow transplants by up to 25%, while achieving the same survival. Power calculation show that the inclusion of further genes most likely has small effects on the prognostic accuracy; increasing the number of cases will further reduce the error of personalized predictions.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057497', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'European Bioinformatics Institute EMBL-EBI;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Ulm University;', u'Hannover Medical School;', u'University of Milano;', u'University of Otago']]
[u'Enhanced pre-frontal functional-structural networks to support behavioural deficits after traumatic brain injury', ['Ibai Diez', 'David Drijkoningen', 'Sebastiano Stragmalia', 'Paolo Bonifazi', 'Daniele Marinazzo', 'Jolien Gooijers', 'Stephan P. Swinnen', 'Jesus M. Cortes'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"Traumatic brain injury (TBI) affects its structural connectivity, triggering the re-organization of structural-functional circuits in a manner that remains poorly understood. We studied the re-organization of brain networks after TBI, taking advantage of a computational method based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) including diffusion-weighted imaging in combination with functional resting state data obtained from the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent T2* signal. We enrolled young participants who had suffered moderate to severe TBI (N=14, age 13.14 \xb1  3.25 years), comparing them to young typically developing control participants (N=27, age 15.04 \xb1 2.26 years). We found increased functional and structural connectivity within a cortico-subcortical network in TBI patient's brains that involved prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate gyrus, orbital gyrus and caudate nucleus. In comparison to control participants, TBI patients increased functional connectivity from prefrontal regions towards two different networks: 1) a subcortical network including part of the motor network, basal ganglia, cerebellum, hippocampus, amygdala, posterior cingulum and precuneus; and 2) a task-positive network, involving regions of the dorsal attention system together with the dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal regions. We also found the increased prefrontal activation in TBI patients was correlated with some behavioural indices, such as the amount of body sway, whereby patients with worse balance activated frontal regions more strongly. The enhanced prefrontal activation found in TBI patients may provide the structural scaffold for stronger cognitive control of certain behavioural functions, consistent with the observation that various motor tasks are performed less automatically following TBI and that more cognitive control is associated with such actions.", u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057588', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'BioCruces Health Research Institute;', u'KU Leuven;', u'Universita degli Studi di Bar;', u'University of Ghent']]
[u'Functional brain segmentation using inter-subject correlation in fMRI', ['Jukka-Pekka Kauppi', 'Juha Pajula', 'Jari A Niemi', 'Riitta Hari', 'Jussi Tohka'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'For a long time, neuroscientists have studied the human brain functions under an assumption that brain mechanisms are similar across a group of subjects under study. In real life, however, individuals process information more or less differently. To facilitate understanding of complex, natural processing of the brain, we present an\nexploratory data analysis approach called functional segmentation inter-subject correlation analysis (FuSeISC). The method provides a new type of functional segmentation of the brain characterizing not only brain areas with similar processing across subjects but also areas in which processing across subjects is different. We tested FuSeISC using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data sets collected during traditional block-design stimuli (37 subjects) as well as naturalistic auditory narrative stimuli (19 subjects). The method identified spatially coherent clusters in various cortical areas with neuroscientifically plausible interpretations. Our results suggest FuSeISC as an interesting approach for exploratory analysis of human brain fMRI.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057620', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Jyv\xe4skyl\xe4;', u'Tampere University of Technology;', u'Aalto University;', u'Universidad Carlos III de Madrid']]
[u'Phylogenetic and structural analyses reveal the determinants of DNA binding specificities of nucleoid-associated proteins HU and IHF', ['Debayan Dey', 'Valakunja Nagaraja', 'Suryanarayanarao Ramakumar'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Nucleoid-associated proteins (NAPs) are chromosome-organizing factors, which affect the transcriptional landscape of a bacterial cell. HU is an NAP, which binds to DNA with a broad specificity while homologous IHF (Integration Host Factor), binds DNA with moderately higher specificity. Specificity and differential binding affinity of HU/IHF proteins towards their target binding sites play a crucial role in their regulatory dynamics. Decades of biochemical and genomic studies have been carried out for HU and IHF like proteins. Yet, questions related to their DNA binding specificity, and differential ability to bend DNA thus affecting the binding site length remained unanswered. In addition, the problem has not been investigated from an evolutionary perspective. Our phylogenetic analysis revealed three major clades belonging to HU, IHF\u03b1 and IHF\u03b2 like proteins with reference to E. coli. We carried out a comparative analysis of three-dimensional structures of HU/IHF proteins to gain insight into the structural basis of clade division. The present study revealed three major features which contribute to differential DNA binding specificity of HU/IHF proteins, I) conformational restriction of DNA binding residues due to salt-bridge formation II) the enrichment  of alanine in the DNA binding site increasing conformational space of flexible side chains in its vicinity and III) nature of DNA binding residue (Arg to Lys bias in different clades) which interacts differentially to DNA bases. Differences in the dimer stabilization strategies between HU and IHF were also observed. Our analysis reveals a comprehensive evolutionary picture, which rationalizes the origin of multi-specificity of HU/IHF proteins using sequence and structure-based determinants, which could also be applied to understand differences in binding specificities of other nucleic acid binding proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057489', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Indian Institute of Science;', u'Indian Institute of science']]
[u'Total RNA Sequencing reveals microbial communities in human blood and disease specific effects', ['Serghei Mangul', 'Loes M Olde Loohuis', 'Anil Ori', 'Guillaume Jospin', 'David Koslicki', 'Harry Taegyun Yang', 'Timothy Wu', 'Marco P Boks', 'Catherine Lomen-Hoerth', 'Martina Wiedau-Pazos', 'Rita Cantor', 'Willem M de Vos', 'Rene S Kahn', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Roel A. Ophoff'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"An increasing body of evidence suggests an important role of the human microbiome in health and disease. We propose a 'lost and found' pipeline, which examines high quality unmapped sequence reads for microbial taxonomic classification. Using this pipeline, we are able to detect bacterial and archaeal phyla in blood using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) data. Careful analyses, including the use of positive and negative control datasets, suggest that these detected phyla represent true microbial communities in whole blood and are not due to contaminants. We applied our pipeline to study the composition of microbial communities present in blood across 192 individuals from four subject groups: schizophrenia (n=48), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (n=47), bipolar disorder (n=48) and healthy controls (n=49). We observe a significantly increased microbial diversity in schizophrenia compared to the three other groups and replicate this finding in an independent schizophrenia case-control study. Our results demonstrate the potential use of total RNA to study microbes that inhabit the human body.", u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057570', [u'Microbiology'], [u'UCLA;', u'Davis Genome Center, University of California, Davis, USA;', u'Mathematics Department, Oregon State University, Corvallis, USA;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, T;', u'Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, USA;', u'Laboratory of Microbiology, Wageningen University, Ede, The Netherlands']]
[u'Estimating the functional impact of INDELs in transcription factor binding sites: a genome-wide landscape', ['Esben Eickhardt', 'Thomas D Als', 'Jakob Grove', 'Anders Boerglum', 'Francesco Lescai'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Background: Variants in transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) may have important regulatory effects, as they have the potential to alter transcription factor (TF) binding affinities and thereby affecting gene expression. With recent advances in sequencing technologies the number of variants identified in TFBSs has increased, hence understanding their role is of significant interest when interpreting next generation sequencing data. Current methods have two major limitations: they are limited to predicting the functional impact of single nucleotide variants (SNVs) and often rely on additional experimental data, laborious and expensive to acquire. We propose a purely bioinformatic method that addresses these two limitations while providing comparable results.\n \nResults: Our method uses position weight matrices and a sliding window approach, in order to account for the sequence context of variants, and scores the consequences of both SNVs and INDELs in TFBSs. We tested the accuracy of our method in two different ways. Firstly, we compared it to a recent method based on DNase I hypersensitive sites sequencing (DHS-seq) data designed to predict the effects of SNVs: we found a significant correlation of our score both with their DHS-seq data and their prediction model. Secondly, we called INDELs on publicly available DHS-seq data from ENCODE, and found our score to represent well the experimental data. We concluded that our method is reliable and we used it to describe the landscape of variation in TFBSs in the human genome, by scoring all variants in the 1000 Genomes Project Phase 3. Surprisingly, we found that most insertions have neutral effects on binding sites, while deletions, as expected, were found to have the most severe TFBS-scores. We identified four categories of variants based on their TFBS-scores and tested them for enrichment of variants classified as pathogenic, benign and protective in ClinVar: we found that the variants with the most negative TFBS-scores have the most significant enrichment for pathogenic variants.\n\nConclusions: Our method addresses key shortcomings of currently available bioinformatic tools in predicting the effects of INDELs in TFBSs, and provides an unprecedented window into the genome-wide landscape of INDELs, their predicted influences on TF binding, and potential relevance for human diseases. We thus offer an additional tool to help prioritising non-coding variants in sequencing studies.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057604', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Biomedicine, Aarhus University, Denmark']]
[u'Late flowering and low synchrony with males enhance female reproductive success in the dioecious palm Chamaedorea pinnatifrons', ['Luis Diego Rios', 'Gilbert Barrantes', 'Alfredo Cascante-Marin'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Background: Dioecious species require a conspecific for sexual reproduction. As such, they demand a high level of flowering synchronization. In this scenario, phenology can deepen the effect of density, sex ratio, and distance over fruit production. Also, pollinator reliability can affect a species reproductive success (RS). Pollinator specialist depend on their few pollinators have a high population size; in contrast, generalist (pollinated by many taxa) can surpass this because of their condition. In this paper, we analyzed the effect of phenology, density, distance and pollinator abundance on the female RS of the dioecious palm Chamaedorea pinnatifrons (Palmae) at a cloud forest in Costa Rica. This palm is pollinated by wind and a single species of thrips (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) in a mixed pollination system. The pollination system seems to be highly specialized, as the thrips species has been recorded only in flowers of Chamaedorea\nMethods: In the 2012 season we monitored the phenology of a population (n = 88 males, 94 females) in a 40x40 plot. All individuals were sexed, mapped, had their height measured and number of leaves counted. RS was measured as the number of fruits/inflorescence and as fruit set. Generalized Linear Mixed Effects Model (GLMM) were used to test the effect of flowering time, distance to nearest male, density of males, number of flowers, height, number of leaves and number of flowers over the two response variables. We also estimated thrips population by sampling insects directly from staminate inflorescences in anthesis, from early March to mid-May (11 weeks, n = 33 inflorescences).\nResults: Flowering of C. pinnatifrons lasted five months: it began by early February, had a peak by early April, and ended by July. Mean fruit production was 99.7 (\xb1 12.1 SE, min = 0, max = 735). The amount of fruits produced was significantly higher in inflorescences from individuals with shorter stems, had more flowers, a lower flowering synchrony with males and flowered late. Mean fruit set was 0.144 \xb1 0.016%. Fruit set was also significantly higher in inflorescences from lower stems, with lower male synchrony and flowered late. The mean amount of thrips sampled in staminate inflorescences increased 13-fold between early March (20.8 \xb1 10.6 thrips/rachillae) and mid-May (282.0 \xb1 74.4).\nDiscussion: The higher RS of late flowering plants can be partially explained by the progressive increase in the population of pollinators. Our results in C. pinnatifrons seem to oppose recent analyses in that early flowering plants should be positively selected. A deeper understanding of a species pollination system is necessary to understand the strength of the agents of selection.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057547', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'Uplift and erosion of genomic islands with standing genetic variation', ['Tyler D Hether'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Details of the processes that generate biological diversity have long been of interest to evolutionary biologists. A common theme in nature is diversification via divergent selection with gene flow. Empirical studies on this topic find variable genetic differentiation throughout the genome, that genetic differentiation is non-randomly distributed, and that loci of adaptive significance are often found clustered together within \u201cgenomic islands of divergence\u201d. Theoretical models based on new mutations show how these genomic islands can arise and grow as a result of a complex interaction of various evolutionary and genic processes. In the current study, I ask if such genomic islands can alternatively arise from divergent selection from standing genetic variation and I tested this using a simple two locus model of selection. There are numerous ways in which standing genetic variation can be partitioned (e.g., between alleles, between loci, and between populations) and I tested which of these scenarios can give rise to an island pattern compared to no genomic differentiation or complete genomic differentiation. I found that divergent selection, even without reciprocal gene exchange between populations, following a bout of admixture can relatively quickly produce an island pattern. Moreover, I found two pathways in which islands can form from divergence from standing variation: 1) through the build up of islands and 2) through the breakdown of larger, genome-wide differentiation. Lastly, similar to new mutation theory, I found that the frequency of recombination is an important determinant of island formation from standing genetic variation such that mating behavior of a species (e.g., facultative or obligate sexual) can impact the likelihood of island formation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057513', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oregon']]
[u'Real-time Zika risk assessment in the United States', ['Lauren A Castro', 'Spencer J Fox', 'Xi Chen', 'Kai Liu', 'Steve E Bellan', 'Nedialko B Dimitrov', 'Alison P Galvani', 'Lauren A Meyers'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"Background: The southern United States (US) may be vulnerable to outbreaks of Zika Virus (ZIKV), given its broad distribution of ZIKV vector species and periodic ZIKV introductions by travelers returning from affected regions. As cases mount within the US, policymakers seek early and accurate indicators of self-sustaining local transmission to inform intervention efforts. However, given ZIKV's low reporting rates and geographic variability in both importations and transmission potential, a small cluster of reported cases may reflect diverse scenarios, ranging from multiple self-limiting but independent introductions to a self-sustaining local outbreak.\n\nMethods and Findings:  We developed a stochastic model that captures variation and uncertainty in ZIKV case reporting, importations, and transmission, and applied it to assess county-level risk throughout the state of Texas. For each of the 254 counties, we identified surveillance triggers (i.e., cumulative reported case thresholds) that robustly indicate further epidemic expansion. Regions of greatest risk for sustained ZIKV transmission include 33 Texas counties along the Texas-Mexico border, in the Houston Metro Area, and throughout the I-35 Corridor from San Antonio to Waco. Across this region, variation in reporting rates, ZIKV introductions, and vector habitat suitability drives variation in the recommended surveillance triggers for public health response. For high risk Texas counties, we found that, for a reporting rate of 20%, a trigger of two cumulative reported cases corresponds to a 60% chance of an ongoing local transmission.\n\nConclusions: With reliable estimates of key epidemiological parameters, including reporting rates and vector abundance, this framework can help optimize the timing and spatial allocation of public health resources to fight ZIKV in the US.", u'/content/early/2016/06/07/056648', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'The University of Texas at Austin;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Decoding of generic mental representations from functional MRI data using word embeddings', ['Francisco Pereira', 'Bin Lou', 'Brianna Pritchett', 'Nancy Kanwisher', 'Matthew Botvinick', 'Evelina Fedorenko'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Several different groups have demonstrated the feasibility of building forward models of functional MRI data in response to concrete stimuli such as pictures or video, and of using these models to decode or reconstruct stimuli shown while acquiring test fMRI data. In this paper, we introduce an approach for building forward models of conceptual stimuli, concrete or abstract, and for using these models to carry out decoding of semantic information from new imaging data. We show that this approach generalizes to topics not seen in training, and provides a straightforward path to decoding from more complex stimuli such as sentences or paragraphs.', u'/content/early/2016/06/07/057216', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Medical Imaging Technologies, Siemens Healthcare;', u'Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, MIT;', u'Google DeepMind;', u'Psychiatry Department, MGH']]
[u'Harnessing Molecular Motors for Nanoscale Pulldown in Live Cells', ['Jonathan E Bird', 'Melanie Barzik', 'Meghan Drummond', 'Daniel C Sutton', 'Spencer M Goodman', 'Eva L Morozko', 'Stacey M Cole', 'Jennifer Skidmore', 'Diana Syam', 'Elizabeth A Wilson', 'Tracy Fitzgerald', 'Atteeq U Rehman', 'Donna M Martin', 'Erich T Boger', 'Inna A Belyantseva', 'Thomas B Friedman'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) regulate signal transduction and cellular behavior, yet studying PPIs within live cells remains fundamentally challenging. We have miniaturized the affinity pulldown, a gold-standard PPI interrogation technique, for use within live cells. Our assay hijacks endogenous myosin motors to forcibly traffic, or pulldown, macromolecular complexes within the native cytosolic environment. Macromolecules captured by nanoscale pulldown (NanoSPD) are optically interrogated in situ by tagging individual protein components. Critically, continuous motor trafficking concentrates query complexes into nanoscopic subcellular compartments, providing fluorescence enhancement and allowing nanoscale pulldowns to be visualized and quantified by standard microscopy. Nanoscale pulldown is compatible with nuclear, membrane-associated and cytoplasmic proteins and can investigate functional effects of protein truncations or amino acid substitutions. Moreover, binding hierarchies in larger complexes can be quickly examined within the natural cytosol, making nanoscale pulldown a powerful new optical platform for quantitative high-content screening of known and novel PPIs that act within macromolecular assemblies.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/053744', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'NIDCD/NIH;', u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Identification of polymorphic and off-target probe binding sites on the Illumina Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip', ['Daniel L McCartney', 'Rosie M Walker', 'Stewart W Morris', 'Andrew M McIntosh', 'David J Porteous', 'Kathryn L Evans'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Genome-wide analysis of DNA methylation has now become a relatively inexpensive technique thanks to array-based methylation profiling technologies. The recently developed Illumina Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip interrogates methylation at over 850,000 sites across the human genome, covering 99% of RefSeq genes. This array supersedes the widely used Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip, which has permitted insights into the relationship between DNA methylation and a wide range of conditions and traits. Previous research has identified issues with certain probes on both the HumanMethylation450 BeadChip and its predecessor, the Infinium HumanMethylation27 BeadChip, which were predicted to affect array performance. These issues concerned probe-binding specificity and the presence of polymorphisms at target sites. Using in silico methods, we have identified probes on the Infinium MethylationEPIC BeadChip that are predicted to (i) measure methylation at polymorphic sites and (ii) hybridise to multiple genomic regions. We intend these resources to be used for quality control procedures when analysing data derived from this platform.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/056937', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Simulated forward and backward self motion, based on realistic parameters, causes strong motion induced blindness', ['Victoria Anne Thomas', 'Matthew Davidson', 'Parisa Zakavi', 'Naotsugu Tsuchiya', 'Jeroen van Boxtel'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Motion Induced Blindness (MIB) is a visual phenomenon whereby highly salient targets disappear when viewed against a moving background mask. While MIB is well established, no research has yet explored whether mask parameters based on patterns of contracting and expanding optic flow can also trigger target disappearance. We aimed to explore MIB using realistic mask speeds that correspond to driving at 35 km/h, 50 km/h, 65 km/h and 80 km/h, as well as simulated forward (expansion) and backward (contraction) motion, 2-D radial movement, random and static mask motion types. Participants (n = 18) viewed MIB targets against masks with different movement types, speed, and target locations. To understand the relationship between small eye movements and perceptual disappearance, we ran two additional experiments with eye tracking (n = 19). Target disappearance increased significantly with faster mask speeds and upper visual field target presentation. Simulated forward and backward motion caused significantly more disappearance than 2-D radial movement, and all moving masks caused significantly more disappearance than a static mask. These effects were not driven by eye-movement differences, suggesting that the realistic optic flow induced by self-motion can cause MIB in an artificial setting. Potential implications for driving safety and Head-Up-Display (HUD) technologies are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057323', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University']]
[u'A dormant microbial component in the development of pre-eclampsia', ['Douglas B Kell', 'Louise Clare Kenny'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Pre-eclampsia (PE) is a complex, multi-system disorder that remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in pregnancy. Four main classes of dysregulation accompany PE, and are widely considered to contribute to its severity. These are abnormal trophoblast invasion of the placenta, anti-angiogenic responses, oxidative stress, and inflammation. What is lacking, however, is an explanation of how these themselves are caused.\n\nWe here develop the unifying idea, and the considerable evidence for it, that the originating cause of PE (and of the four classes of dysregulation) is in fact microbial infection, that most such microbes are dormant and hence resist detection by conventional (replication-dependent) microbiology, and that by occasional resuscitation and growth it is they that are responsible for all the observable sequelae, including the continuing, chronic inflammation. In particular, bacterial products such as lipopolysaccharide (LPS), also known as endotoxin, are well known as highly inflammagenic and stimulate an innate (and possibly trained) immune response that exacerbates the inflammation further. The known need of microbes for free iron can explain the iron dysregulation that accompanies PE. We describe the main routes of infection (gut, oral, urinary tract infection) and the regularly observed presence of microbes in placental and other tissues in PE. Every known proteomic biomarker of \u201cpre-eclampsia\u201d that we assessed has in fact also been shown to be raised in response to infection.  An infectious component to PE fulfils the Bradford Hill criteria for ascribing a disease to an environmental cause, and suggests a number of treatments, some of which have in fact been shown to be successful.\n\nPE was classically referred to as endotoxaemia or toxaemia of pregnancy, and it is ironic that it seems that LPS and other microbial endotoxins really are involved. Overall, the recognition of an infectious component in the aetiology of PE mirrors that for ulcers and other diseases that were previously considered to lack one.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057356', [u'Microbiology'], [u'The University of Manchester;', u'University College Cork']]
[u"A Common Class of Transcripts with 5'-Intron Depletion, Distinct Early Coding Sequence Features, and N1-Methyladenosine Modification", ['Can Cenik', 'Hon Nian Chua', 'Guramrit Singh', 'Abdalla Akef', 'Michael P Snyder', 'Alexander F Palazzo', 'Melissa J Moore', 'Frederick P Roth'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Introns are found in 5\' untranslated regions (5\'UTRs) for 35% of all human transcripts.  These 5\'UTR introns are not randomly distributed: genes that encode secreted, membrane-bound and mitochondrial proteins are less likely to have them.  Curiously, transcripts lacking 5\'UTR introns tend to harbor specific RNA sequence elements in their early coding regions. Here we explored the connection between coding-region sequence and 5\'UTR intron status.  We developed a classifier modeling this relationship that can predict 5\'UTR intron status with >80% accuracy using only sequence features in the early coding region. Thus, the classifier identifies transcripts with 5\'proximal-intron-minus-like-coding regions ("5IM" transcripts). Unexpectedly, we found that the early coding sequence features defining 5IM transcripts are widespread, appearing in 21% of all human RefSeq transcripts.  Members of this transcript class tend to exhibit differential RNA expression across many conditions.  The 5IM class of transcripts is enriched for non-AUG start codons, more extensive secondary structure preceding the start codon, and near the 5\'cap, greater dependence on eIF4E for translation, and association with ER-proximal ribosomes. 5IM transcripts are bound by the Exon Junction Complex (EJC) at non-canonical 5\'-proximal positions. Finally, N1-methyladenosines are specifically enriched in the early coding regions of 5IM transcripts. Taken together, our analyses reveal the existence of a distinct 5IM class comprising ~20% of human transcripts.  This class is defined by depletion of 5\'proximal introns, presence of specific RNA sequence features associated with low translation efficiency, N1-methyladenosines in the early coding region, and enrichment for non-canonical binding by the Exon Junction Complex.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057455', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of Toronto and Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute;', u'Univ. Massachusetts Medical School;', u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Toronto and Mt Sinai Hospital']]
[u'Impact of Image Gently Campaign at a Medium-Sized Teaching Hospital', ['Eric Liu', 'Yen-Ying Wu'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Objective: To determine how the Image Gently Campaign has affected the imaging of pediatric patients at Loma Linda University Medical Center. Specifically, we wanted to determine if the number of ionizing examinations at Loma Linda University Medical Center significantly decreased in pediatric patients since the implementation of the Image Gently Campaign in 2008.  We also wanted to determine if there has been a significant shift from the use of CT as the initial imaging examination in pediatric patients presenting to the emergency department with suspected appendicitis since the Image Gently Campaign in 2008.\nMaterials and methods: A retrospective search was performed on the Loma Linda University Medical Center picture archiving and communication system from 2003 to 2013.  The number of CT, radiograph, ultrasound, MRI and total number of imaging examinations performed in pediatric patients, defined as 18 years of age and under, were determined for each year between 2003 and 2013.  The number of CT abdomen and pelvis examinations for pediatric patients between 2003 and 2013 was also determined.  A retrospective search was also performed to investigate whether a patient received an ultrasound or CT examination first for cases that suggested the clinician was concerned about possible appendicitis. This was done for 2007, which was the year prior to the Image Gently Campaign, 2008, which was the year of the Image Gently Campaign, and 2013, which was the most recent year.\nResults: When comparing the mean prior to the Image Gently Campaign to data from 2013, there has been a 33% decrease in the number of CT examinations, a 19% decrease in the number of radiograph examinations, a 13% increase in the number of ultrasound examinations, and a 19% increase in the number of MRI examinations. The number of CT abdomen and pelvis examinations demonstrated a 64% decrease in 2013 from the mean prior to the Image Gently Campaign. In 2007, 37.5% of patients received an ultrasound as the initial examination for suspected appendicitis, while 62.5% received a CT as the initial imaging evaluation.  In 2008, 50% received an ultrasound and 50% received a CT as the initial imaging evaluation.  In 2013, 85.4% received an ultrasound and 14.6% received a CT as the initial imaging evaluation for suspected appendicitis.\nConclusion: Since the implementation of the Image Gently Campaign in 2008, the number of ionizing imaging examinations has steadily decreased at Loma Linda University Medical Center. Conversely, there has been a steady increase in the use of non-ionizing imaging examinations, such as MRI and ultrasound examinations.  We also found that there has been decreased utilization of CT as the initial imaging examination for the evaluation of appendicitis in pediatric patients and there has been increased utilization of ultrasound since the Image Gently Campaign.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057265', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Loma Linda University Medical Center;', u"Loma Linda University Children's Hospital"]]
[u'Ultra-rare disruptive and damaging mutations influence educational attainment in the general population', ['Andrea Ganna', 'Giulio Genovese', 'Daniel P Howrigan', 'Andrea Byrnes', 'Mitja Kurki', 'Seyedeh M Zekavat', 'Christopher W Whelan', 'Robert E Handsaker', 'Mart Kals', 'Alex Bloemendal', 'Jonathan M Bloom', 'Jacqueline I Goldstein', 'Timothy Poterba', 'Cotton Seed', 'Michel G Nivard', 'Pradeep Natarajan', 'Reedik Magi', 'Diane Gage', 'Elise B Robinson', 'Andres Metspalu', 'Veikko Salomaa', 'Jaana Suvisaari', 'Shaun M Purcell', 'Pamela Sklar', 'Sekar Kathiresan', 'Mark J Daly', 'Steven A McCarroll', 'Patrick F Sullivan', 'Aarno Palotie', 'Tonu Esko', 'Christina Hultman', 'Benjamin M Neale'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Ultra-rare inherited and de novo disruptive variants in highly constrained (HC) genes are enriched in neurodevelopmental disorders. However, their impact on cognition in the general population has not been explored. We hypothesize that disruptive and damaging ultra-rare variants (URVs) in HC genes not only confer risk to neurodevelopmental disorders, but also influence general cognitive abilities measured indirectly by years of education (YOE). We tested this hypothesis in 14,133 individuals with whole exome or genome sequencing data. The presence of one or more URVs was associated with a decrease in YOE (3.1 months less for each additional mutation; P-value=3.3x10-8) and the effect was stronger in HC genes enriched for brain expression (6.5 months less, P-value=3.4x10-5). The effect of these variants was more pronounced than the estimated effects of runs of homozygosity and pathogenic copy number variation. Our findings suggest that effects of URVs in HC genes are not confined to severe neurodevelopmental disorder, but influence the cognitive spectrum in the general population.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/050195', [u'Genetics'], [u'Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Estonian Genome Center, University of Tartu;', u'Institute of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Tartu;', u'Department of Health, THL-National Institute for Health and Welfare;', u'Division of Psychiatric Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet;', u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland, FIMM']]
[u'tHapMix: simulating tumour samples through haplotype mixtures', ['Sergii Ivakhno', 'Camilla Colombo', 'Stephen Tanner', 'Philip Tedder', 'Stefano Berri', 'Anthony J. Cox'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Motivation: Large-scale rearrangements and copy number changes combined with different modes of clonal evolution create extensive somatic genome diversity, making it difficult to develop versatile and scalable variant calling tools and create well-calibrated benchmarks. \nResults: We developed a new simulation framework tHapMix that enables the creation of tumour sam-ples with different ploidy, purity and polyclonality features. It easily scales to simulation of hundreds of somatic genomes, while re-use of real read data preserves noise and biases present in sequencing platforms. We further demonstrate tHapMix utility by creating a simulated set of 140 somatic genomes and showing how it can be used in training and testing of somatic copy number variant calling tools.\nAvailability and implementation: tHapMix is distributed under an open source license and can be downloaded from https://github.com/Illumina/tHapMix .', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057414', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Illumina Cambridge Ltd.;', u'Illumina Inc.']]
[u'Dark diversity illuminates the dim side of conservation and restoration', ['Jesper Erenskjold Moeslund', 'Ane Kirstine Brunbjerg', 'Kevin Kuhlmann Clausen', 'Lars Dalby', 'Camilla Fljgaard', 'Anders Juel', 'Jonathan Lenoir'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'1 Dark diversity is a promising concept for prioritizing management efforts as it focuses on missing species, i.e., species present in the regional pool, but locally absent despite suitable environmental conditions. 2 We applied the concept to a massive national plant diversity database (236,923 records from 15,160 surveys involving 564 species) to provide the first geographically comprehensive assessment of dark diversity across a large area (43,000 km2), at a spatial scale (~75 m2) relevant for conservation and restoration planning and across multiple terrestrial habitats, thus maximising its practical application potential. The likelihood for a given plant species to belong to the dark diversity pool was computed and logistically regressed against its ecological preferences (nutrient availability, pH etc.), strategies (competitor, stress tolerance, ruderal), mycorrhizal dependence and infection percentage, seed mass and maximum dispersal distance. 3 Forty-six percent of the species were absent in >95 % of the suitable sites, whereas 7 % of the species were absent in less than 60 % of sites that were deemed suitable. 4 Species that were more likely to belong to the dark diversity tended to depend on mycorrhiza, were mostly adapted to low light and nutrient levels, had poor dispersal abilities, were ruderals and had a low stress tolerance. Synthesis and applications Our findings have important implications for the planning and management of natural ecosystems requiring detailed knowledge of what triggers the presence/absence of individual plant species in a seemingly suitable habitat. We conclude that practitioners may need to carefully consider mycorrhizal inoculations with a suitable assemblage of fungi for certain plant species to become established. Also assisted migration might be necessary to help poor dispersers although spatial and temporal processes are also important to have in mind. Finally, it is important to vary nutrient loads making room for plant species to colonise both nutrient-poor and nutrient-rich localities.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057315', [u'Ecology'], [u'Aarhus University;', u'Aarhus University, Dept. of Bioscience;', u'The Danish Nature Agency;', u'Universit\xe9 de Picardie Jules Verne']]
[u'Brain heating induced by near infrared lasers during multi-photon microscopy', ['Kaspar Podgorski', 'Gayathri Ranganathan'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Two-photon imaging and optogenetic stimulation rely on high illumination powers, particularly for state-of-the-art applications that target deeper structures, achieve faster measurements, or probe larger brain areas. However, little information is available on heating and resulting damage induced by high-power illumination in the brain. Here we used thermocouple probes and quantum dot nanothermometers to measure temperature changes induced by two-photon microscopy in the neocortex of awake and anaesthetized mice. We characterized heating as a function of wavelength, exposure time, and distance from the center of illumination. Although total power is highest near the surface of the brain, heating was most severe hundreds of microns below the focal plane, due to heat dissipation through the cranial window. Continuous illumination of a 1mm2 area produced a peak temperature increase of approximately 1.8\xb0C/100mW. Continuous illumination with powers above 250 mW induced lasting damage, detected with immunohistochemistry against Iba1, GFAP, heat shock proteins, and activated Caspase-3. Higher powers were usable in experiments with limited duty ratios, suggesting an approach to mitigate damage in high-power microscopy experiments.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057364', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'HHMI']]
[u'Stabilizing membrane domains antagonizes n-alcohol anesthesia', ['Ben Machta', 'Ellyn Gray', 'Mariam Nouri', 'Nicola L.C. McCarthy', 'Erin M Grey', 'Ann L. Miller', 'Nicholas J. Brooks', 'Sarah Veatch'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"Diverse molecules induce general anesthesia with potency strongly correlated both with their hydrophobicity and their effects on certain ion channels. We recently observed that several n-alcohol anesthetics inhibit heterogeneity in plasma membrane derived vesicles by lowering the critical temperature (Tc) for phase separation. Here we exploit conditions that stabilize membrane heterogeneity to further test the correlation between the anesthetic potency of n-alcohols and effects on Tc. First we show that hexadecanol acts oppositely to n-alcohol anesthetics on membrane mixing and antagonizes ethanol induced anesthesia in a tadpole behavioral assay. Second, we show that two previously described \u2018intoxication reversers\u2019 raise Tc and counter ethanol's effects in vesicles, mimicking the findings of previous electrophysiological and behavioral measurements.  Third, we find that hydrostatic pressure, long known to reverse anesthesia, also raises Tc in vesicles with a magnitude that counters the effect of butanol at relevant concentrations and pressures.  Taken together, these results demonstrate that \u0394Tc predicts anesthetic potency for n-alcohols better than hydrophobicity in a range of contexts, supporting a mechanistic role for membrane heterogeneity in general anesthesia.", u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057257', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Princeton;', u'University of Michigan;', u'Imperial College London;', u'University of MIchagan']]
[u'Effect of cryopreservation and post-cryopreservation somatic embryogenesis on the epigenetic fidelity of cocoa (Theobroma cacao L.)', ['Raphael Adu-Gyamfi', 'Andy Wetten', 'Carlos Marcelino Rodriguez Lopez'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'While cocoa plants regenerated from cryopreserved somatic embryos can demonstrate high levels of phenotypic variability, little is known about the sources of the observed variability. Previous studies have shown that the encapsulation-dehydration cryopreservation methodology imposes no significant extra mutational load since embryos carrying high levels of genetic variability are selected against during protracted culture. Also, the use of secondary rather than primary somatic embryos has been shown to further reduce the incidence of genetic somaclonal variation. Here, the effect of in vitro conservation, cryopreservation and post-cryopreservation generation of somatic embryos on the appearance of epigenetic somaclonal variation were comparatively assessed. To achieve this we compared the epigenetic profiles, generated using Methylation Sensitive Amplified Polymorphisms, of leaves collected from the ortet tree and from cocoa somatic embryos derived from three in vitro conditions: somatic embryos, somatic embryos cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen and somatic embryos generated from cryoproserved somatic embryos. Somatic embryos accumulated epigenetic changes but these were less extensive than in those regenerated after storage in LN. Furthermore, the passage of cryopreserved embryos through another embryogenic stage led to further increase in variation. Interestingly, this detected variability appears to be in some measure reversible. The outcome of this study indicates that the cryopreservation induced phenotypic variability could be, at least partially, due to DNA methylation changes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057273', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University for Development Studies;', u'Reading University;', u'University of Adelaide']]
[u'Functional anatomy inspires recognition of Ediacaran Dickinsonia and similar fossils as Mollusca (Coleoidea) and precursors of Cambrian Nectocaridids and extant cuttlefish and squid', ['Bernard L Cohen'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'A functional interpretation of the problematic Ediacaran fossils Podolimurus and similar organisms such as Dickinsonia indicates that they are hitherto unrecognized members of Mollusca: Coleoidea and precursors of Cambrian Nectocaridids and of extant cuttlefish and squid. This interpretation enables a new understanding of their taphonomy and reveals how this has deceived previous attempts to understand them.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057372', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Evolutionary dynamics of CRISPR gene drives', ['Charleston Noble', 'Jason Olejarz', 'Kevin Esvelt', 'George Church', 'Martin Nowak'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"The alteration of wild populations has been discussed as a solution to a number of humanity's most pressing ecological and public health concerns. Enabled by the recent revolution in genome editing, CRISPR gene drives, selfish genetic elements which can spread through populations even if they confer no advantage to their host organism, are rapidly emerging as the most promising approach. But before real-world applications are considered, it is imperative to develop a clear understanding of the outcomes of drive release in nature. Toward this aim, we mathematically study the evolutionary dynamics of CRISPR gene drives. We demonstrate that the emergence of drive-resistant alleles presents a major challenge to previously reported constructs, and we show that an alternative design which selects against resistant alleles greatly improves evolutionary stability. We discuss all results in the context of CRISPR technology and provide insights which inform the engineering of practical gene drive systems.", u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057281', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Looking for a Signal in the Noise: Revisiting Obesity and the Microbiome', ['Marc Sze', 'Patrick D Schloss'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'Two recent studies have re-analyzed published data and found that when datasets are analyzed independently there was limited support for the widely accepted hypothesis that changes in the microbiome are associated with obesity. This hypothesis was reconsidered by increasing the number of datasets and pooling the results across the individual datasets. The Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were applied to identify 10 studies for an updated and more synthetic analysis. Alpha diversity metrics and the relative risk of obesity based on those metrics were used to identify a limited number of significant associations with obesity; however, when the results of the studies were pooled using a random effects model significant associations were observed between Shannon diversity, number of observed OTUs, and Shannon evenness and obesity status. They were not observed for the ratio of Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes or their individual relative abundances. Although these tests yielded small P-values, the difference between the Shannon diversity index of non-obese and obese individuals was 2.07%. A power analysis demonstrated that only one of the studies had sufficient power to detect a 5% difference in diversity. When Random Forest machine learning models were trained on one dataset and then tested using the other 9 datasets, the median accuracy varied between 33.01 and 64.77% (median=56.67%). Although there was support for a relationship between the microbial communities found in human feces and obesity status, this association is relatively weak and its detection is confounded by large interpersonal variation and insufficient sample sizes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057331', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Daisy-chain gene drives for the alteration of local populations', ['Charleston Noble', 'John Min', 'Jason Olejarz', 'Joanna Buchthal', 'Alejandro Chavez', 'Andrea L Smidler', 'Erika A DeBenedictis', 'George M Church', 'Martin A Nowak', 'Kevin M Esvelt'], u'June 7, 2016.', u'RNA-guided gene drive elements could address many ecological problems by altering the traits of wild organisms, but the likelihood of global spread tremendously complicates ethical development and use. Here we detail a localized form of CRISPR-based gene drive composed of genetic elements arranged in a daisy-chain such that each element drives the next. "Daisy drive" systems can duplicate any effect achievable using an equivalent global drive system, but their capacity to spread is limited by the successive loss of non-driving elements from the base of the chain. Releasing daisy drive organisms constituting a small fraction of the local wild population can drive a useful genetic element to local fixation for a wide range of fitness parameters without resulting in global spread. We additionally report numerous highly active guide RNA sequences sharing minimal homology that may enable evolutionary stable daisy drive as well as global CRISPR-based gene drive. Daisy drives could simplify decision-making and promote ethical use by enabling local communities to decide whether, when, and how to alter local ecosystems.', u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057307', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Harvard University;', u'Harvard School of Public Health']]
[u'cgCorrect: A method to correct for confounding cell-cell variation due to cell growth in single-cell transcriptomics', ['Thomas Blasi', 'Florian Buettner', 'Michael K Strasser', 'Carsten Marr', 'Fabian J Theis'], u'June 7, 2016.', u"Motivation: Accessing gene expression at the single cell level has unraveled often large heterogeneity among seemingly homogeneous cells, which remained obscured in traditional population based approaches. The computational analysis of single-cell transcriptomics data, however, still imposes unresolved challenges with respect to normalization, visualization and modeling the data. One such issue are differences in cell size, which introduce additional variability into the data, for which appropriate normalization techniques are needed. Otherwise, these differences in cell size may obscure genuine heterogeneities among cell populations and lead to overdispersed steady-state distributions of mRNA transcript numbers.\nResults: We present cgCorrect, a statistical framework to correct for differences in cell size that are due to cell growth in single-cell transcriptomics data. We derive the probability for the cell growth corrected mRNA transcript number given the measured, cell size dependent mRNA transcript number, based on the assumption that the average number of transcripts in a cell increases proportional to the cell's volume during cell cycle. cgCorrect can be used for both data normalization, and to analyze steady-state distributions used to infer the gene expression mechanism. We demonstrate its applicability on both simulated data and single-cell quantitative real-time PCR data from mouse blood stem and progenitor cells. We show that correcting for differences in cell size affects the interpretation of the data obtained by typically performed computational analysis.", u'/content/early/2016/06/06/057463', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Helmholtz Zentrum Muenchen']]
