[u'Analgesic effects of neurotensin agonists in a rat bone cancer pain model', ['Louis Dore-Savard', 'Pascal Tetreault', 'Melisange Roux', 'Marylie Martel', 'Myriam Lemire', 'Karine Belleville', 'Nicolas Beaudet', 'Philippe Sarret'], u'November 24, 2016.', u'Bone metastases are a source of intractable pain, resistant to conventional opioid and non-opioid analgesics. The neurotensin system represents a potential pathway toward bone cancer pain (BCP) relieve via the inhibition of its receptors NTS1 and NTS2. Capitalizing on our recent results using neurotensin analogs in inflammatory and neuropathic pain models, we here show, for the first time, a potential role for neurotensin receptors agonists in the treatment of BCP. The novel non-selective agonist JMV-2009 (300 \u03bcg/kg) reversed mechanical allodynia in our rodent BCP model at both early and late stages of the disease. The NTS2-selective agonist JMV-431 (90 \u03bcg/kg), in addition to anti-allodynia, also had an effect on weight bearing deficits. In parallel, we tested proven analgesics from several classes to put the effect of neurotensin analogs in perspective and found that morphine (3 mg/kg), tramadol (15 mg/kg) and amitriptyline (10 mg/kg) had mild effects on BCP while the cannabinoid nabilone (1 mg/kg) significantly reversed both allodynia and weight bearing deficits. Taken together, our results affirm the potential of the modulation of the neurotensin system for the development of new analgesics for the treatment of bone cancer pain.', u'/content/early/2016/11/24/089169', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'Research Institute - McGill University Health Center;', u'University of Alberta;', u'Universite de Sherbrooke']]
[u'Knowledge Formalization and High-Throughput Data Visualization Using Signaling Network Maps', ['Maria Kondratova', 'Emmanuel Barillot', 'Andrei Zinovyev', 'Inna Kuperstein'], u'November 24, 2016.', u'Graphical representation of molecular biology knowledge in the form of interactive diagrams became widely used in molecular and computational biology. It enables the scientific community to exchange and discuss information on cellular processes described in numerous scientific publications and  to  interpret  high-throughput  data.  Constructing a signaling network  map is a laborious process, therefore application of consistent procedures for representation of molecular processes and accurately organized annotation is essential for generation of a high-quality signaling network map that can be used by various computational tools. We summarize here the major aims and challenges of assembling information in a form of comprehensive maps of molecular interactions and suggest an optimized workflow. We share our experience gained while creating a biological network resource Atlas of Cancer Signaling Network (ACSN) that was successfully applied in several studies. We explain the map construction process. Then we address the problem of user interaction with large signaling maps and suggest to facilitate navigation by hierarchical organization of map structure and by application of semantic zooming principles. In addition, we describe a computational technology using Google Maps API to explore signaling networks in the manner similar to global geographical maps and provide the outline for preparing a biological network for this type of navigation. Nowadays the most demanded application of signaling maps is integration and functional interpretation of high-throughput data. We demonstrate several examples of cancer data visualization in the context of comprehensive signaling network maps.', u'/content/early/2016/11/24/089409', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Institut Curie']]
