[u'Coevolutionary Dynamics of Costly Bonding Ritual and Altruism', ['Karl Frost'], u'June 24, 2016.', u"While altruistic behavior and bonding in altruistic pairs or groups of cooperators is observed throughout the animal kingdom, the genetic evolution of such is on an ongoing source of debate, curiosity, and conflict in the behavioral sciences. Many such bonded groups and pairs are observed to take part in costly ritualized movement behavior that is hypothesized to trigger or maintain altruistic sentiments amongst the participants. Such costly ritualized practices could have evolved if they engaged pre-existing behavioral instincts that manifest as altruism in the new context of ritual bonding. While this seems at first to be a 'Green Beard' hypothesis ('marker (ie., 'green beard') as honest signal of altruistic intent', an hypothesis well-known to be problematic), it is distinct in two important ways. First, the ritual as marker is costly, and second the ritual engages a pre-existing behavioral potential caused by genes which, importantly, have some other benefit. This paper models the genetic coevolutionary dynamics both analytically and through simulation. It finds that such coevolution can lead to fixation of altruism in a population or to cycling of altruism in the population, depending on the balance of costs and benefits. Where cycling occurs, even though altruism is consistently present in the population, population mean fitness declines with the introduction of these bonding rituals.", u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060624', [], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Gene-Culture Coevolution of Prosocial Rituals', ['Karl Frost'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'It has been argued that costly socially learned rituals have the potential to generate prosocial emotional responses arising from genetically based behavioral dispositions, hijacking these behavioral dispositions to solve otherwise intractable cooperation problems. An example is the innovation of synchronous movement rituals which seem to engage the same altruistic response as instinctual mimicry. Arguments against this hypothesis are based in the idea that cheap markers of altruistic intent ("Green Beards")are vulnerable to manipulation from non-cooperating free-riders that are similarly marked. This paper formally models the gene-culture coevolutionary dynamics of a system in which a costly socially learned ritual practice coevolves with the genes underpinning the prosocial response. This takes a \'genetic mismatch\' hypothesis (where fast evolution of socially learned behaviors create a temporary mismatch with the coevolving genes, which take longer to evolve to equilibrium) and models it dynamically. The genetic and cultural fitness equations are first analyzed for equilibrium and then simulations are used to predicting trajectories for both the socially learned behavior and the hijacked genetic trait over time. Relying on fast culture and slow genes, it demonstrates how high levels of ritual efficacy may be established, at least temporarily, through gene culture interaction. It also shows how longer term feedbacks on the genes from culture may lead to decreases in the prosocial gene in the population and reduced overall population mean fitness, despite high levels of altruism in the population.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060632', [], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Calming Meditation Increases Altruism, Decreases Parochialism', ['Karl Frost'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'This research project attempts to answer the question of whether a socially learned calming practice increases altruistic behavior and/or decreases parochialism. In this context, altruism is defined as self-sacrifice in support of others, regardless of group affiliation or identity, and parochialism is defined as such prosocial self-sacrifice restricted to fellow members of a group. This question is examined via a formal behavioral experiment using a simple treatment and control format with a 5 minute calming breath awareness practice, with altruism and parochialism measured through anonymous play in Public Goods games performed with both in-group and out-group individuals. The in vs out group status is established through random assignment into groups, and PG games are played with and between these groups. The sum of contributions gives a measure of altruism, while the difference between the two is a measure of parochialism. The analysis of the results using Bayesian model comparison methods lend support to the hypothesis that calm both reduces parochialism and increases altruism.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060616', [], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Neurobiology as information physics', ['Sterling Street'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'This article reviews the preliminary results of an analysis of the brain that may supplement our current understanding of its structure and function, even if by falsification. This analysis seems to reveal that the information in a system of the brain can be quantified to an appreciable degree of objective precision, that many qualitative properties of the information content of a system of the brain can be inferred by observing matter and energy, and that many general features of brain anatomy and architecture illustrate simple information-energy relationships. It is possible that the brain provides a unique window into the relationship between matter, energy, and physical information.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060467', [], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'The Cultural Evolution of Hard-to-fake Rituals', ['Karl Frost'], u'June 24, 2016.', u"It has been proposed that costly rituals act as honest signals of commitment to group beliefs when such rituals appear dysphoric and unappealing (costly) to non-believers, but appealing to true believers  (Irons, 2001). If only true believers are willing to endure ritual behaviors and true belief also entails belief in altruistic cooperation, associating with other ritual practitioners can help solve cooperation dilemmas in groups by sorting out potential free-riders. While this hypothesis is obviously true if such 'faking' of ritual is strictly impossible, strict impossibility seems implausible. 'Faking' is defined by Irons in this context to be to be performing the ritual without commitment to group beliefs. In this paper, I posit various ways that such faking might be difficult, instead of impossible, or different ways in which such ritual faking might be 'costly' and then formally model the social learning and cultural evolution dynamics to see where it may still hold theoretically that such rituals help maintain altruism in group and under what conditions. Analytic solution for evolutionary equilibrium is derived for each model, verifying that under a wide range of conditions for some, but not all interpretations, such hard-to fake rituals can help groups solve cooperative dilemmas, including in some circumstances that might not be intuitively obvious, such as where such free-riding is not visible and free-riders successfully represent themselves as true believers to observers.\nIt is also the case that while there has been some progress in cleaning up the definitional confusions in the animal signaling literature around costly signaling, the literature on human rituals as costly signals has introduced novel uses of the term 'cost'. Theories referring to completely different mechanisms or even definitions of 'cost' are sometimes conflated. To contextualize the analysis of costly-to-fake rituals, this paper provides a review of the ideas proposed in the literature on costly human rituals and differentiates them from costly signaling as used in the animal behavior literature.", u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060640', [], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Bottom-up ecology of the human microbiome: from metagenomes to metabolomes', ['Daniel R. Garza', 'Marcel C. Van Verk', 'Martijn A. Huynen', 'Bas E. Dutilh'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'The environmental metabolome is a dominant and essential factor shaping microbial communities. Thus, we hypothesized that metagenomic datasets could reveal the quantitative metabolic status of a given sample. Using a newly developed bottom-up ecology algorithm, we predicted high-resolution metabolomes of hundreds of metagenomic datasets from the human microbiome, revealing body-site specific metabolomes consistent with known metabolomics data, and suggesting that common cosmetics ingredients are some of the major metabolites shaping the human skin microbiome.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060673', [], [u'Radboudumc;', u'Utrecht University']]
[u'Hierarchical effects of pro-inflammatory cytokines on the post-influenza susceptibility to pneumococcal coinfection', ['Stefanie Duvigneau', 'Niharika Sharma-Chawla', 'Alessandro Boianelli', 'Sabine Stegemann-Koniszewski', 'Van Kinh Nguyen', 'Dunja Bruder', 'Esteban A. Hernandez-Vargas'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'In the course of influenza A virus (IAV) infections, a secondary bacterial infection frequently leads to serious respiratory conditions provoking high hospitalization and death tolls. Although abundant pro-inflammatory responses have been reported as key contributing factors for these severe dual infections, the relative contribution of cytokines remain largely unclear. In the current study, mathematical modelling on in vivo experimental data highlight IFN-\u03b3 as a decisive candidate responsible for impaired bacterial clearance, thereby promoting bacterial growth and systemic dissemination during acute IAV infection. Moreover, we found a time-dependent detrimental role of IL-6 in curtailing bacterial outgrowth which was however not as distinct as for IFN-\u03b3. Importantly, our results furthermore challenge current beliefs that the TNF-\u03b1 response or the increased availability of nutrients modulated by IAV infection have a central role to the bacterial outgrowth. Ultimately, our findings contribute to a detailed understanding of the mechanisms underlying impaired bacterial clearance following influenza infection.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060293', [], [u'Otto-von-Guericke University Magdeburg;', u'Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research']]
[u'Gamma-rhythmic Gain Modulation', ['Jianguang Ni', 'Thomas Wunderle', 'Christopher M. Lewis', 'Robert Desimone', 'Ilka Diester', 'Pascal Fries'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Cognition requires the dynamic modulation of effective connectivity, i.e. the modulation of the postsynaptic neuronal response to a given input. If postsynaptic neurons are rhythmically active, this might entail rhythmic gain modulation, such that inputs synchronized to phases of high gain benefit from enhanced effective connectivity. We show that visually induced gamma-band activity in awake macaque area V4 rhythmically modulates responses to unpredictable stimulus events. This modulation exceeded a simple additive superposition of a constant response onto ongoing gamma-rhythmic firing, demonstrating the modulation of multiplicative gain. Gamma phases leading to strongest neuronal responses also led to shortest behavioral reaction times, suggesting functional relevance of the effect. Furthermore, we find that constant optogenetic stimulation of anesthetized cat area 21a produces gamma-band activity entailing a similar gain modulation. As the gamma rhythm in area 21a did not spread backwards to area 17, this suggests that postsynaptic gamma is sufficient for gain modulation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060582', [], [u'Ernst Strungmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society;', u'Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, McGovern Institute for Brain Research, MIT']]
[u'16SpeB: Towards defining bacterial species boundaries by intra-species gene sequence identity', ['Adam Chun-Nin Wong', 'Angela E Douglas', 'Patrick Ng'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Summary: 16SpeB (16S rRNA-based Species Boundary) is a package of Perl programs that evaluates total sequence variation of a bacterial species at the levels of the whole 16S rRNA sequences or single hypervariable (V) regions, using publicly-available sequences. The 16SpeB pipelines filter sequences from duplicated strains and of low quality, extracts a V region of interest using general primer sequences, and calculates sequence percentage identity (%ID) through all possible pairwise alignments. \n\nResults:  The minimum %ID of 16S rRNA gene sequences for 15 clinically-important bacterial species, as determined by 16SpeB, ranged from 82.6% to 99.8%.  The relationship between minimum %ID of V2/V6 regions and full-gene sequences varied among species, indicating that %ID species limits should be resolved independently for each region of the 16S rRNA gene and bacterial species.  \n\nAvailability: 16SpeB and user manual are freely available for download from: https://github.com/pnpnpn/16SpeB. A video tutorial is available at: https://youtu.be/Vd6YmMhyBiA', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060657', [], [u'Boston Childrens Hospital, Harvard Medical School;', u'Cornell University']]
[u'Differential stimulation of the retina with glutamate toward a neurotransmitter-based retinal prosthesis', ['Corey Rountree', 'Samsoon Inayat', 'John Troy', 'Laxman Saggere'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Subretinal stimulation of the retina with neurotransmitters, the normal means of conveying visual information, is a potentially better alternative to electrical stimulation widely used in current retinal prostheses for treating blindness from photoreceptor degenerative diseases. Yet, no retinal stimulation study exploiting the inner retinal pathways exists. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of differentially stimulating retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) through the inner nuclear layer of the retina with glutamate, a primary neurotransmitter chemical, in a biomimetic way. We show that controlled pulsatile delivery of glutamate into the subsurface of explanted wild-type rat retinas elicits highly localized simultaneous inhibitory and excitatory spike rate responses in OFF and ON RGCs. We also present the spatiotemporal characteristics of RGC responses to subretinally injected glutamate and the therapeutic stimulation parameters. Our \ufb01ndings could pave the way for future development of a neurotransmitter-based subretinal prosthesis offering more naturalistic vision and better visual acuity than electrical prostheses.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060681', [], [u'University of Illinois at Chicago;', u'University of Lethbridge;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Comparative analysis highlights variable genome content of wheat rusts and divergence of the mating loci.', ['Christina A Cuomo', 'Guus Bakkeren', 'Hala Badr Khalil', 'Vinay Panwar', 'David Joly', 'Rob Linning', 'Sharadha Sakthikumar', 'Xiao Song', 'Xian Adiconis', 'Lin Fan', 'Jonathan M Goldberg', 'Joshua Z Levin', 'Sarah Young', 'Qiandong Zeng', 'Yehoshua Anikster', 'Myron Bruce', 'Meinan Wang', 'Chuntao Yin', 'Brent McCallum', 'Les J Szabo', 'Scot Hulbert', 'Xiaming Chen', 'John P. Fellers'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Three members of the Puccini genus, P. triticina (Pt), P. striiformis f.sp. tritici (Pst), and \nP. graminis f.sp. tritici (Pgt), cause the most common and often most significant foliar diseases of wheat.  While similar in biology and life cycle, each species is uniquely adapted and specialized. The genomes of Pt and Pst were sequenced and compared to that of Pgt to identify common and distinguishing gene content, to determine gene variation among wheat rust pathogens, other rust fungi and basidiomycetes, and to identify genes of significance for infection. Pt had the largest genome of the three, estimated at 135 Mb with expansion due to mobile elements and repeats encompassing 50.9% of contig bases; by comparison repeats occupy 31.5% for Pst and 36.5% for Pgt.  We find all three genomes are highly heterozygous, with Pst (5.97 SNPs/kb) nearly twice the level detected in Pt (2.57 SNPs/kb) and that previously reported for Pgt.  Of 1,358 predicted effectors in Pt, 784 were found expressed across diverse life cycle stages including the sexual stage.  Comparison to related fungi highlighted the expansion of gene families involved in transcriptional regulation and nucleotide binding, protein modification, and carbohydrate enzyme degradation. Two allelic homeodomain, HD1 and HD2, pairs and three pheromone receptor (STE3) mating-type genes were identified in each dikaryotic Puccinia species.  The HD proteins were active in a heterologous Ustilago maydis mating assay and host induced gene silencing of the HD and STE3 alleles reduced wheat host infection.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060665', [], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, United States;', u'Agriculture & Agri-Food Canada, Canada;', u'Universit?? de Moncton, Canada;', u'The Institute for Cereal Crops Improvement, Canada;', u'USDA-ARS, Canada;', u'Washington State University, Canada']]
[u'Qudaich: A smart sequence aligner', ['Sajia Akhter', 'Robert A Edwards'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Next generation sequencing (NGS) technology produces massive amounts of data in a reasonable time and low cost. Analyzing and annotating these data requires sequence alignments to compare them with genes, proteins and genomes in different databases. Sequence alignment is the first step in metagenomics analysis, and pairwise comparisons of sequence reads provide a measure of similarity between environments. Most of the current aligners focus on aligning NGS datasets against long reference sequences rather than comparing between datasets. As the number of metagenomes and other genomic data increases each year, there is a demand for more sophisticated, faster sequence alignment algorithms. Here, we introduce a novel sequence aligner, Qudaich, which can efficiently process large volumes of data and is suited to de novo comparisons of next generation reads datasets. Qudaich can handle both DNA and protein sequences and attempts to provide the best possible alignment for each query sequence. Qudaich can produce more useful alignments quicker than other contemporary alignment algorithms.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060509', [], [u'Computational Science Research Center, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, USA;', u'Department of Computer Science, San Diego State University, San Diego, CA, USA']]
[u'Predicting the stability of homologous gene duplications in a plant RNA virus', ['Anouk Willemsen', 'Mark Peter Zwart', 'Pablo Higueras', 'Josep Sardanyes', 'Santiago F. Elena'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'One of the striking features of many eukaryotes is the apparent amount of redundancy in coding and non-coding elements of their genomes.  Despite the possible evolutionary advantages, there are fewer examples of redundant sequences in viral genomes, particularly those with RNA genomes.  The low prevalence of gene duplication in RNA viruses most likely reflects the strong selective constraints against increasing genome size.  Here we investigated the stability of genetically redundant sequences and how adaptive evolution proceeds to remove them.  We generated plant RNA viruses with potentially beneficial gene duplications, measured their fitness and performed experimental evolution, hereby exploring their genomic stability and evolutionary potential.  We found that all gene duplication events resulted in a loss of viability or significant reductions in fitness.  Moreover, upon evolving the viable viruses and analyzing their genomes, we always observed the deletion of the duplicated gene copy and maintenance of the ancestral copy.  Interestingly, there were clear differences in the deletion dynamics of the duplicated gene associated with the passage duration, the size of the gene and the position for duplication.  Based on the experimental data, we developed a mathematical model to characterize the stability of genetically redundant sequences, and showed that the fitness of viruses with duplications is not enough information to predict genomic stability as a recombination rate dependent on the genetic context - the duplicated gene and its position - is also required.  Our results therefore demonstrate experimentally the deleterious nature of gene duplications in RNA viruses, and we identify factors that constrain the maintenance of duplicated genes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060517', [], [u'Instituto de Biolog\xeda Molecular y Celular de Plantas (CSIC-UPV);', u'Institute of Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne;', u'Independent student researcher;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Asymmetry of the temporal code for space by hippocampal place cells', ['Bryan C. Souza', 'Adriano B. L. Tort'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Hippocampal place cells convey spatial information through spike frequency ("rate coding") and spike timing relative to the theta phase ("temporal coding"). Whether rate and temporal coding are due to independent or related mechanisms has been the subject of wide debate. Here we show that the spike timing of place cells couples to theta phase before major increases in firing rate, anticipating the animal\'s entrance into the classical, rate-based place field. In contrast, spikes rapidly decouple from theta as the animal leaves the place field and firing rate decreases. Therefore, temporal coding has strong asymmetry around the place field center. We further show that the dynamics of temporal coding along space evolves in three stages: phase coupling, phase precession and phase decoupling. These results suggest that place cells represent more future than past locations through their spike timing and that independent mechanisms govern rate and temporal coding.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060590', [], [u'Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte']]
[u'The combination of the functionalities of feedback circuits is determinant for the number and size of attractors of molecular networks', ['Eugenio Azpeitia', 'Stalin Munoz', 'Daniel Gonzalez-Tokman', 'Mariana Esther Martinez-Sanchez', 'Nathan Weinstein', 'Aurelien Naldi', 'Elena ER Alvarez-Buylla', 'David A Rosenblueth', 'Luis Mendoza'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Molecular regulation was initially assumed to follow both a unidirectional and a hierarchical organization forming pathways. Regulatory processes, however, form highly interlinked networks with non-hierarchical and non-unidirectional structures that contain statistically overrepresented circuits (motifs). Here, we analyze the behavior of pathways containing non-hierarchical and non-unidirectional interactions that create motifs. In comparison with unidirectional and hierarchical pathways, our pathways have a high diversity of behaviors, characterized by the size and number of attractors. Motifs have been studied individually showing that feedback circuit motifs regulate the number and size of attractors. It is less clear what happens in molecular networks that usually contain multiple feedbacks. Here, we find that the way feedback circuits couple to each other (i.e., the combination of the functionalities of feedback circuits) regulate both the precise number and size of the attractors. We show that the different sets of expected results of epistasis analysis (a method to infer regulatory interactions) are produced by many non-hierarchical and non-unidirectional structures. Thus, these structures cannot be correctly inferred by epistasis analysis. Finally, we show that the structures producing the epistasis results have remarkably similar sets of combinations of functionalities, that combined with other network properties could greatly improve epistasis analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060608', [], [u'INRIA;', u'UNAM, Mexico;', u'INECOL, Xalapa, Mexico;', u'CINVESTAV, Mexico;', u'Universite de Montpellier, France']]
[u'The fitness effects of spontaneous mutations nearly unseen by selection in a bacterium with multiple chromosomes', ['Marcus M Dillon', 'Vaughn S Cooper'], u'June 24, 2016.', u'Mutation accumulation (MA) experiments employ the strategy of minimizing the population size of evolving lineages to greatly reduce effects of selection on newly arising mutations. Thus, most mutations fix within MA lines independently of their fitness effects. This approach, more recently combined with genome sequencing, has detailed the rates, spectra, and biases of different mutational processes. However, a quantitative understanding of the fitness effects of mutations virtually unseen by selection has remained an untapped opportunity. Here, we analyzed the fitness of 43 sequenced MA lines of the multi-chromosome bacterium Burkholderia cenocepacia that had each undergone 5554 generations of MA and accumulated an average of 6.73 spontaneous mutations. Most lineages exhibited either neutral or deleterious fitness in three different environments in comparison with their common ancestor. The only mutational class that was significantly overrepresented in lineages with reduced fitness was the loss of the plasmid, though nonsense mutations, missense mutations, and coding insertion-deletion mutations were also overrepresented in MA lineages whose fitness had significantly declined. Although the overall distribution of fitness effects was similar between the three environments, the magnitude and even the sign of the fitness of a number of lineages changed with the environment, demonstrating that the fitness of some genotypes was environmentally dependent. These results present an unprecedented picture of the fitness effects of spontaneous mutations in a bacterium with multiple chromosomes and provide greater quantitative support of the theory that the vast majority of spontaneous mutations are neutral or deleterious.', u'/content/early/2016/06/24/060483', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of New Hampshire;', u'University of Pittsburgh']]
