[u'Shorter season options through transplanted fodder beet', ['Edith N Khaembah', 'Shane Maley', 'Warrick Nelson'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Fodder beet has distinct benefits such as high yield potential, excellent feed quality (especially metabolisable energy), and suitability for cool temperate climates. Production area has recently increased dramatically in New Zealand, primarily for non-lactating cow feed during winter but increasingly for other animals and times of the year.\n   Currently, establishing fodder beet requires intensive land cultivation and precision sowing of pelleted seed. It is generally regarded as a difficult crop to grow successfully. Competition from early season weeds means that multiple herbicide applications are commonly applied. Delaying the sowing date, until soil temperatures have risen enough for germination, limits the flexibility of this crop within farm rotations.\n   Transplanting is a plant establishment technique common in both forestry and vegetable crops. It simplifies establishment and reduces the risk of poor establishment. \n   Here we demonstrate that transplanting of fodder beet can be conducted successfully with low variability observed within the transplanted crop. Individual root volume and dry matter content are similar, whether crops are precision-drilled or transplanted. Our results suggest that transplanting is a financially feasible option for fodder beet establishment.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090738', [], [u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant and Food Research Limited;', u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant and Food Ressearch Limited']]
[u'Accounting for GC-content bias reduces systematic errors and batch effects in ChIP-Seq peak callers', ['Mingxiang Teng', 'Rafael A. Irizarry'], u'November 30, 2016.', u"ChIP-seq technology is widely used in biomedical and basic science research. The main application is the detection of genomic regions that bind to a protein of interest. ChIP-Seq studies rely on peak calling algorithms that attempt to infer protein-binding sites by detecting genomic regions associated with more mapped reads (coverage) than expected by chance as a result of the experimental protocol's lack of perfect specificity. We find that GC-content bias accounts for a substantial amount of variability in the observed coverage for ChIP-Seq experiments and that this variability leads to false positive peak calls. More concerning is that the GC-effect varies across experiments, with the effect strong enough to result in a substantial number of peaks called differently when different laboratories perform experiments on the same cell-line. Although solutions have been proposed for GC-bias corrections in other Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) applications, accounting for GC-content in ChIP-Seq data is challenging because the binding sites of interest tend to be more common in high GC-content regions, which confounds real biological signal with the unwanted variability we want to remove. To account for this challenge we introduce a statistical approach, based on a mixture model, that accounts for GC-content effects on both non-specific noise and signal induced by the binding site we seek to detect. The method can be used to account for this bias in binding quantification as well to improve existing peak calling algorithms. We use this approach to show improved consistency across laboratories.", u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090704', [u'Genomics'], [u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute']]
[u'MultiCellDS: a community-developed standard for curating microenvironment-dependent multicellular data', ['Samuel H. Friedman', 'Alexander R.A. Anderson', 'David M. Bortz', 'Alexander G. Fletcher', 'Hermann B. Frieboes', 'Ahmadreza Ghaffarizadeh', 'David Robert Grimes', 'Andrea Hawkins-Daarud', 'Stefan Hoehme', 'Edwin F. Juarez', 'Carl Kesselman', 'Roeland Merks', 'Shannon M. Mumenthaler', 'Paul K. Newton', 'Kerri-Ann Norton', 'Rishi Rawat', 'Russell C. Rockne', 'Daniel Ruderman', 'Jacob Scott', 'Suzanne S. Sindi', 'Jessica L. Sparks', 'Kristin Swanson', 'David B. Agus', 'Paul Macklin'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Exchanging and understanding scientific data and their context represents a significant barrier to advancing research, especially with respect to information siloing. Maintaining information provenance and providing data curation and quality control help overcome common concerns and barriers to the effective sharing of scientific data. To address these problems in and the unique challenges of multicellular systems, we assembled a panel composed of investigators from several disciplines to create the MultiCellular Data Standard (MultiCellDS) with a use-case driven development process. The standard includes (1) digital cell lines, which are analogous to traditional biological cell lines, to record metadata, cellular microenvironment, and cellular phenotype variables of a biological cell line, (2) digital snapshots to consistently record simulation, experimental, and clinical data for multicellular systems, and (3) collections that can logically group digital cell lines and snapshots. We have created a MultiCellular DataBase (MultiCellDB) to store digital snapshots and the 200+ digital cell lines we have generated. MultiCellDS, by having a fixed standard, enables discoverability, extensibility, maintainability, searchability, and sustainability of data, creating biological applicability and clinical utility that permits us to identify upcoming challenges to uplift biology and strategies and therapies for improving human health.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090456', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Southern California;', u'Moffitt Cancer Center;', u'University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Louisville;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Mayo Clinic, Phoenix;', u'University of Leipzig;', u'Centrum Wiskunde & Informatics;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'City of Hope;', u'Cleveland Clinic;', u'University of California, Merced;', u'Miami University;', u'Mayo Clinic;', u'Indiana University']]
[u'Recurring functional interactions predict network architecture of interictal and ictal states in neocortical epilepsy', ['Ankit N Khambhati', 'Danielle S Bassett', 'Brian S Oommen', 'Stephanie H Chen', 'Timothy H Lucas', 'Kathryn A Davis', 'Brian Litt'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Human epilepsy patients suffer from spontaneous seizures, which originate in brain regions that also subserve normal function. Prior studies demonstrate focal, neocortical epilepsy is associated with dysfunction, several hours before seizures. How does the epileptic network perpetuate dysfunction during baseline periods? To address this question, we developed an unsupervised machine learning technique to disentangle patterns of functional interactions between brain regions, or  subgraphs, from dynamic functional networks constructed from approximately 100 hours of intracranial recordings in each of 22 neocortical epilepsy patients. Using this approach, we found: (i) subgraphs from ictal (seizure) and interictal (baseline) epochs are topologically similar, (ii) interictal subgraph topology and dynamics can predict brain regions that generate seizures, and (iii) subgraphs undergo slower and more coordinated fluctuations during ictal epochs compared to interictal epochs. Our observations suggest that the epileptic network drives dysfunction by controlling dynamics of functional interactions between brain regions that generate seizures and those that underlie normal function.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090662', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Fine-scale variation in microclimate across an urban landscape changes the capacity of Aedes albopictus to vector arbovirus', ['Courtney Murdock', 'Michelle V Evans', 'Taylor McClanahan', 'Kerri Miazgowicz', 'Blanka Tesla'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Most statistical and mechanistic models used to predict mosquito borne disease transmission incorporate climate drivers of disease transmission by utilizing environmental data collected at scales that are potentially coarser than what mosquito vectors actually experience.  Temperature and relative humidity can vary greatly between indoor and outdoor environments, and can be influenced strongly by variation in landscape features.  In the Aedes albopictus system, we conducted a proof-of-concept study in the vicinity of the University of Georgia to explore the effects of finescale microclimate variation on mosquito life history and vectorial capacity (VC). We placed Ae. albopictus larvae in artificial pots distributed across three replicate sites within three different land uses, urban, suburban, and rural, which were characterized by high, intermediate, and low proportions of impervious surfaces. Data loggers were placed into each larval environment and in nearby vegetation to record daily variation in water and ambient temperature and relative humidity. The number of adults emerging from each pot and their body size and sex were recorded daily.  We found mosquito microclimate to significantly vary across the season as well as with land use. Urban sites were in general warmer and less humid than suburban and rural sites, translating into decreased larval survival, smaller body sizes, and lower per capita growth rates of mosquitoes on urban sites.  Dengue transmission potential was predicted to be higher in the summer than the fall. Additionally, the effects of land use on dengue transmission potential varied by season. Warm summers resulted in a higher predicted VC on the cooler, rural sites, while warmer, urban sites had a higher predicted VC during the cooler fall season.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090613', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Georgia;', u'University of Arkansas Little Rock']]
[u'Temporal anticipation based on memory', ['Andre M Cravo', 'Gustavo Rohenkohl', 'Karin M Santos', 'Anna Christina Nobre'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'The fundamental role that our long-term memories play in guiding perception is increasingly recognised, but the functional and neural mechanisms are just beginning to be explored. Though experimental approaches are being developed to investigate the influence of long-term memories on perception, these remain mostly static and neglect their temporal and dynamic nature. Here we show we show that our long-term memories can guide attention proactively and dynamically based on learned temporal associations. Across two experiments we found that detection and discrimination of targets appearing within previously learned contexts are enhanced when the timing of target appearance matches the learned temporal contingency. Neural markers of temporal preparation revealed that the learned temporal associations trigger specific temporal predictions. Our findings emphasize the ecological role that memories play in predicting and preparing perception of anticipated events, calling for revision of the usual conceptualisation of contextual associative memory as a reflective and retroactive function.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090555', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universidade Federal do ABC;', u'Oxford Centre for Human Brain Activity, University of Oxford']]
[u'Confirmation bias in human reinforcement learning: evidence from counterfactual feedback processing', ['Stefano Palminteri', 'Germain Lefebvre', 'Emma J Kilford', 'Sarah-Jayne Blakemore'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Previous studies suggest that factual learning, that is learning from obtained outcomes, is biased, such that participants preferentially take into account positive, as compared to negative, prediction errors. However, whether or not the prediction error valence also affects counterfactual learning, that is, learning from forgone outcomes, is unknown. To address this question, we analysed the performance of two cohorts of participants on reinforcement learning tasks using a computational model that was adapted to test if prediction error valance influences learning. Concerning factual learning, we replicated previous findings of a valence-induced bias, whereby participants learned preferentially from positive, relative to negative, prediction errors. In contrast, for counterfactual learning, we found the opposite valence-induced bias: negative prediction errors were preferentially taken into account relative to positive ones. When considering valence-induced bias in the context of both factual and counterfactual learning, it appears that people tend to preferentially take into account information that confirms their current choice. By documenting these valence-induced learning biases, our findings demonstrate the presence of a confirmation bias in human reinforcement learning.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090654', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Laboratoire de Neurosciences Cognitives, Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris, FR.;', u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, London, UK.']]
[u'I3S Classic and Insect Species Identification of Diptera and Hymenoptera (Mosquitoes and Bees).', ['Nayna Vyas-Patel', 'John D Mumford'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Abstract\nA number of image recognition systems have been specifically formulated for the individual recognition of large animals. These programs are versatile and can easily be adapted for the identification of smaller individuals such as insects. The Interactive Individual Identification System, I3S Classic, initially produced for the identification of individual whale sharks was employed to distinguish between different species of mosquitoes and bees, utilising the distinctive vein pattern present on insect wings. I3S Classic proved to be highly effective and accurate in identifying different species and sexes of mosquitoes and bees, with 80% to100% accuracy for the majority of the species tested. The sibling species Apis mellifera and Apis mellifera carnica were both identified with100% accuracy. Bombus terrestris terrestris and Bombus terrestris audax; were also identified and separated with high degrees of accuracy (90% to 100% respectively for the fore wings and 100% for the hind wings). When both Anopheles gambiae sensu stricto and Anopheles arabiensis were present in the database, they were identified with 94% and 100% accuracy respectively, allowing for a morphological and non-molecular method of sorting between these members of the sibling complex. Flat, not folded and entire, rather than broken, wing specimens were required for accurate identification. Only one wing image of each sex was required in the database to retrieve high levels of accurate results in the majority of species tested. The study describes how I3S was used to identify different insect species and draws comparisons with the use of the CO1 algorithm. As with CO1, I3S Classic proved to be suitable software which could reliably be used to aid the accurate identification of insect species. It is emphasised that image recognition for insect species should always be used in conjunction with other identifying characters in addition to the wings, as is the norm when identifying species using traditional taxonomic keys.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090621', [u'Ecology'], [u'Runnemede Bioscience;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Clinical metagenomics of bone and joint infections: a proof of concept study', ['Etienne Ruppe', 'Vladimir Lazarevic', 'Myriam Girard', 'William Mouton', 'Tristan Ferry', 'Frederic Laurent', 'Jacques Schrenzel'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Background. Bone and joint infections (BJI) are severe infections that require a tailored and protracted antibiotic treatment. The diagnostic of BJI relies on the culture of surgical specimens, yet some bacteria would not grow because of extreme oxygen sensitivity or fastidious growth. Hence, metagenomic sequencing could potentially address those limitations. In this study, we assessed the performances of metagenomic sequencing of BJI samples for the identification of pathogens and the prediction of antibiotic susceptibility.\nMethods. A total of 179 samples were considered. The DNA was extracted with a kit aiming to decrease the amount of human DNA (Molzym), and sequenced on an Illumina HiSeq2500 in 2x250 paired-end reads. The taxonomy was obtained by MetaPhlAn2, the bacterial reads assembled with MetaSPAdes and the antibiotic resistance determinants (ARDs) identified using a database made of Resfinder+ARDs from functional metagenomic studies.\nResults. We could sequence the DNA from 24 out of 179 samples. For monomicrobial samples (n=8), the presence of the pathogen was confirmed by metagenomics in all cases. For polymicrobial samples (n=16), 32/55 bacteria (58.2%) were found at the species level (41/55 [74.5%] at the genus level). Conversely, a total of 273 bacteria not found in culture were identified, 182 being possible pathogens undetected in culture and 91 contaminants. A correct antibiotic susceptibility could be inferred in 94.1% cases for monomicrobial samples and in 76.5% cases in polymicrobial samples. \nConclusions. When sufficient amounts of DNA can be extracted from samples, we found that clinical metagenomics is a potential tool to support conventional culture.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090530', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Geneva University Hospital;', u'Hospices Civils de Lyon']]
[u'MetaSRA: normalized sample-specific metadata for the Sequence Read Archive', ['Matthew N. Bernstein', 'AnHai Doan', 'Colin N. Dewey'], u'November 30, 2016.', u"Motivation: The NCBI's Sequence Read Archive (SRA) promises great biological insight if one could analyze the data in the aggregate; however, the data remain largely underutilized, in part, due to the poor structure of the metadata associated with each sample. The rules governing submissions to the SRA do not dictate a standardized set of terms that should be used to describe the biological samples from which the sequencing data are derived. As a result, the metadata include many synonyms, spelling variants, and references to outside sources of information. Furthermore, manual annotation of the data remains intractable due to the large number of samples in the archive. For these reasons, it has been difficult to perform large-scale analyses that study the relationships between biomolecular processes and phenotype across diverse diseases, tissues, and cell types present in the SRA.\nResults: We present MetaSRA, a database of normalized SRA sample-specific metadata following a schema inspired by the metadata organization of the ENCODE project. This schema involves mapping samples to terms in biomedical ontologies, labeling each sample with a sample-type category, and extracting real-valued properties. We automated these tasks via a novel computational pipeline.\nAvailability: The MetaSRA database is available at http://deweylab.biostat.wisc.edu/metasra. Software implementing our computational pipeline is available at https://github.com/deweylab/metasra-pipeline.", u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090506', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Wisconsin - Madison']]
[u'Ubiquitylation activates a peptidase that promotes cleavage and destabilization of its activating E3 ligases and diverse growth regulatory proteins to limit cell proliferation in Arabidopsis', ['Hui Dong', 'Jack Dumenil', 'Fu-Hao Lu', 'Li Na', 'Hannes Vanhaeren', 'Cristin Naumann', 'Maria Klecker', 'Rachel Prior', 'Caroline Smith', 'Neil McKenzie', 'Gerhard Saalbach', 'Liangliang Chen', 'Tian Xia', 'Nathalie Gonzalez', 'Mathilde Seguela', 'Dirk Inze', 'Nico Dissmeyer', 'Yunhai Li', 'Michael W Bevan'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'The characteristic shapes and sizes of organs are established by cell proliferation patterns and final cell sizes, but the underlying molecular mechanisms coordinating these are poorly understood. Here we characterize a ubiquitin- activated peptidase called DA1 that limits the duration of cell proliferation during organ growth in Arabidopsis thaliana. The peptidase is activated by two RING E3 ligases, BB and DA2, which are subsequently cleaved by the activated peptidase and destabilized. In the case of BB, cleavage leads to destabilization by the RING E3 ligase PRT1 of the N-end rule pathway. DA1 peptidase activity also cleaves the de-ubiquitylase UBP15, which promotes cell proliferation, and the transcription factors TCP15 and TCP22, which promote cell proliferation proliferation and repress endoreduplication. We propose that DA1 peptidase activity regulates the duration of cell proliferation and the transition to endoreduplication and differentiation during organ formation in plants by coordinating the destabilization of regulatory proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090563', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'John Innes Centre;', u'Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology;', u'Dept of Plant Systems Biology;', u'Leibniz Institute of Plant Biology (IBP);', u'Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry (IPB);', u'Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin;', u'Dept Plant Systems Biology']]
[u'The effect of known mutator alleles in a cluster of clinical Saccharomyces cerevisiae strains', ['Daniel A Skelly', 'Paul M Magwene', 'Brianna Meeks', 'Helen A Murphy'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Natural selection has the potential to act on all phenotypes, including genomic mutation rate. Classic evolutionary theory predicts that in asexual populations, mutator alleles, which cause high mutation rates, can fix due to linkage with beneficial mutations. This phenomenon has been demonstrated experimentally and may explain the frequency of mutators found in bacterial pathogens. In contrast, in sexual populations, recombination decouples mutator alleles from beneficial mutations, preventing mutator fixation. In the facultatively sexual yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, segregating alleles of MLH1 and PMS1 have been shown to be incompatible, causing a high mutation rate when combined. These alleles had never been found together naturally, but were recently discovered in a cluster of clinical isolates. Here we report that the incompatible mutator allele combination only marginally elevates mutation rate in these clinical strains. Genomic and phylogenetic analyses provide no evidence of a historically elevated mutation rate. We conclude that the effect of the mutator alleles is dampened by background genetic modifiers. Thus, the relationship between mutation rate and microbial pathogenicity may be more complex than once thought. Our findings provide rare observational evidence that supports evolutionary theory suggesting that sexual organisms are unlikely to harbor alleles that increase their genomic mutation rate.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090498', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The Jackson Laboratory;', u'Duke University;', u'The College of William and Mary']]
[u'The NCA-1 ion channel functions downstream of Gq and Rho to regulate locomotion in C. elegans', ['Irini Topalidou', 'Pin-An Chen', 'Kirsten Cooper', 'Shigeki Watanabe', 'Erik M. Jorgensen', 'Michael Ailion'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'The heterotrimeric G protein Gq positively regulates neuronal activity and synaptic transmission. Previously, the Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor Trio was identified as a direct effector of Gq that acts in parallel to the canonical Gq effector phospholipase C. Here we examine how Trio and Rho act to stimulate neuronal activity downstream of Gq in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Through two forward genetic screens, we identify the cation channel NCA-1/NALCN as a downstream target of the Gq/Rho pathway. By performing genetic epistasis analysis using dominant activating mutations and recessive loss-of-function mutations in the members of this pathway, we show that NCA-1 acts downstream of Gq in a linear pathway. Through cell-specific rescue experiments, we show that function of this channel in head acetylcholine neurons is sufficient for normal locomotion in C. elegans. Our results suggest that NCA-1 is a physiologically relevant target of neuronal Gq/Rho signaling in C. elegans.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090514', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Washington, United States;', u'University of Utah, United States;', u'Johns Hopkins University, United States']]
[u'A comparative microarray analysis identifies a conserved gene expression signature between airway injury and lung cancer', ['Adam Giangreco'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Lung squamous cell carcinoma (SqCC) accounts for 30% of lung cancers, with over 400,000 deaths per year worldwide.  Although evidence suggests that chronic lung injury drives carcinogenesis, a comprehensive understanding of this process remains elusive.  Here, I used a comparative microarray analysis to identify gene expression differences shared between airway injury and squamous lung cancer.  Of the 667 genes that exhibited differential expression following murine polidocanol and SO2 injury, 40.6% were additionally dysregulated in human SqCC.  Among these, 150 genes were consistently upregulated and 54 downregulated relative to all controls.  Examples included genes associated with increased cell cycling, aberrant cytokinesis and DNA repair, and enhanced tumour cell invasion and metastases.  For 88.2% of identified genes, altered expression was associated with increased SqCC progression and patient mortality.  These results establish a novel gene expression signature linking airway injury and lung cancer pathogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090605', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UCL']]
[u'Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase and Seven in Absentia Homolog -1 Interactions in Mammalian Cells Visualized Using Proximity Ligation Assay', ['Harkewal Singh', 'Christopher Melm'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Proteins seldom function in isolation and thus protein-protein interactions are critical in understanding the molecular basis of diseases and health (1, 2). There are several well established techniques that are used to investigate protein-protein interactions(3). Most of the methods require some form of genetic modification of the target protein and thus always adds extra steps. However, Proximity Ligation Assay(4-6) (PLA) aka Duolink is one such method that requires no genetic modification of the target protein and probes protein-protein interactions in fixed live cells and tissues.  Briefly, PLA requires the use of primary antibodies specific to the proteins of interest. Once the sample (fixed cells or tissues) is incubated with species specific primary antibodies, secondary antibodies that are conjugated with oligonucleotides (also known as PLUS and MINUS probes respectively) and connector oligonucleotides are added. This complex is ligated if the two PLUS and MINUS probes are within 40nm of each other. The resulting nucleic acid is amplified using rolling circle amplification and then probed with appropriate fluorescent probes. If the two proteins are interacting, one could visualize the interaction as a single red foci (for example Far Red Detection) using fluorescent microscopy. Here, we used PLA to probe protein-protein interactions between Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and seven in absentia homolog 1 (Siah1)  an E3 ubiquitin ligase.  We first use PLA to show that GAPDH and Siah1 proteins exist endogenously in the cytosol of multiple mammalian cell lines. Our data suggest the use of DU145 and T98G cell lines to show translocation of the GAPDH Siah1 complex. Next, we used common nitrosylation agents(7, 8) (S nitrosoglutathione GSNO and SNitroso N acetyl DL pencillamine SNAP) in different concentrations and observed that GAPDH and Siah1 interact presumably due to the nitrosylation of the former, which is consistent with previous studies(9, 10). Interestingly, no interactions were observed between the two proteins in the absence of GSNO or SNAP indicating that nitrosylation might be critical for GAPDH-Siah1 interactions. Our results suggest that GAPDH-Siah-1 interactions originate in the cytosol and migrate to the nucleus under the conditions tested. We quantify the PLA signal using Duolink Image Tool and observe a clear enhancement of GAPDH-Siah-1 PLA signal upon treating the cells with GSNO or SNAP. Next, we used Deprenyl, a known inhibitor of GAPDH4, and show that it abrogates GAPDH Siah 1 PLA complex under the conditions tested. Finally, our data suggest that PLA can detect and quantify the GAPDH-Siah1 complex; a well-known protein-protein interaction implicated in neurodegeneration(9,10,11) and thus could be a method of choice for similar applications.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090068', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'MilliporeSigma']]
[u'Mindcontrol: A Web Application for Brain Segmentation Quality Control', ['Anisha Keshavan', 'Esha Datta', 'Ian McDonough', 'Christopher R Madan', 'Kesshi Jordan', 'Roland Henry'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Tissue classification plays a crucial role in the investigation of normal neural development, brain-behavior relationships, and the disease mechanisms of many psychiatric and neurological illnesses. Ensuring the accuracy of tissue classification is important for quality research and, in particular, the translation of imaging biomarkers to clinical practice. Assessment with the human eye is vital to correct various errors inherent to all currently available segmentation algorithms. Manual quality assurance becomes methodologically difficult at a large scale - a problem of increasing importance as the number of data sets is on the rise. To make this process more efficient, we have developed Mindcontrol, an open-source web application for the collaborative quality control of neuroimaging processing outputs. The Mindcontrol platform consists of a dashboard to organize data, descriptive visualizations to explore the data, an imaging viewer, and an in-browser annotation and editing toolbox for data curation and quality control. Mindcontrol is flexible and can be configured for the outputs of any software package in any data organization structure. Example configurations for three large, open-source datasets are presented: the 1000 Functional Connectomes Project (FCP), the Consortium for Reliability and Reproducibility (CoRR), and the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE) Collection. These demo applications link descriptive quality control metrics, regional brain volumes, and thickness scalars to a 3D imaging viewer and editing module, resulting in an easy-to-implement quality control protocol that can be scaled for any size and complexity of study.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090431', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UCSF;', u'University of Alabama;', u'Boston College']]
[u'The risk of sustained sexual transmission of Zika is underestimated', ['Antoine Allard', 'Benjamin M. Althouse', 'Laurent Hebert-Dufresne', 'Samuel V. Scarpino'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'Pathogens can follow more than one transmission route during outbreaks -- from needle sharing plus sexual transmission of HIV to small droplet aerosol plus fomite transmission of influenza.  Thus, controlling an infectious disease outbreak often requires characterizing the risk associated with multiple mechanisms of transmission.  For example, during the Ebola virus outbreak in West Africa, weighing the relative importance of funeral versus health care worker transmission was essential to stopping disease spread.  Strategic policy decisions regarding interventions must rely on accurately characterizing risks associated with multiple transmission routes. The ongoing Zika virus outbreak challenges our conventional methodologies for translating case-counts into route-specific transmission risk. Critically, most approaches will fail to accurately estimate the risk of seeing sustained sexual transmission of a pathogen that is primarily vectored by a mosquito -- such as the case with the risk of sustained sexual transmission of Zika virus.', u'/content/early/2016/11/30/090324', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Universitat de Barcelona;', u'Institute for Disease Modeling;', u'University of Vermont']]
[u'The unbalanced distribution of the amino aicds(Arg, Lys) in high pI proteins of complete proteomes, its origin and evolution', ['Zhenhua Xie', 'Zhenhua Xie'], u'November 30, 2016.', u'No evolutionary signature  has been found in the complete proteomes of eukaryotes by now, although  amino acid composition signature of  the complete proteomes was discovered as molecular signature of the adaptation for thermophiles and halophiles.  Arginine and lysine respectively have the guanidinium group and the \u03b5-amino group as the ionizable side chain groups with different pKa values of about 12.5 and 10.5. The trends of their distribution seem similar in the range of about pIs\ufe6410.0 and diverge in the range of about pIs\u226510.0 in most complete proteomes of 387 species from the three domains of life.  The complete proteome of Reticulomyxa filose is the one of only in 287 eukaryotic complete proteomes that has a predominance of the trend of lysine over that of arginine in high pI proteins.  The unbalanced distribution of the amino aicds(Arg, Lys) in high pI proteins of complete proteomes may originally come from different pKa values of arginine and lysine and be developed by the influences of an average lysine level of a proteome and evolution.  Because of this unbalanced distribution, the pattern of arginine and lysine distribution in high pI proteins of some complete proteomes can form a particular proteomic structure as evolutionary signature that  may be shaped by massive natural selection in molecular level from hundreds to ten thousands of proteins in the complete proteomes of many animals and green plants.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090290', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Health Sciences and Technology, Graduate School at Shenzhen, Tsinghua']]
[u'Natural Genetic Variation Modifies Gene Expression Dynamics at the Protein Level During Pheromone Response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae', ['Daniel A Pollard', 'Ciara K Asamoto', 'Homa Rahnamoun', 'Austin S Abendroth', 'Suzanne R Lee', 'Scott A Rifkin'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Heritable variation in gene expression patterns plays a fundamental role in trait variation and evolution, making understanding the mechanisms by which genetic variation acts on gene expression patterns a major goal for biology. Both theoretical and empirical work have largely focused on variation in steady-state mRNA levels and mRNA synthesis rates, particularly of protein-coding genes. Yet in order for this variation to affect higher order traits it must lead to differences at the protein level. Variation in protein-specific processes including protein synthesis rates and protein decay rates could amplify, mask, or even reverse effects transmitted from the transcript level, but the extent to which this happens is unclear. Moreover, mechanisms that underlie protein expression variation under dynamic conditions have not been examined. To address this challenge, we analyzed how mRNA and protein expression dynamics covary between two strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae during mating pheromone response. Although divergent steady-state mRNA expression levels explained divergent steady-state protein levels for four out of five genes in our study, the same was true for only one out of five genes for expression dynamics. By integrating decay rate and allele-specific protein expression analyses, we resolved that expression divergence for Fig1p was caused by genetic variation acting in trans on protein synthesis rate, expression divergence for Ina1p was caused by cis-by-trans epistatic effects on transcript level and protein synthesis rate, and expression divergence for Fus3p and Tos6p were caused by divergence in protein synthesis rates. Our study demonstrates that steady-state analysis of gene expression is insufficient to understand the impact of genetic variation on gene expression variation. An integrated and dynamic approach to gene expression analysis - comparing mRNA levels, protein levels, protein decay rates, and allele-specific protein expression - allows for a detailed analysis of the genetic mechanisms underlying protein expression divergences.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090480', [u'Genetics'], [u'Western Washington University;', u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'Multimodal representations of person identity individuated with fMRI', ['Stefano Anzellotti', 'Alfonso Caramazza'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Recognizing the identity of a person is fundamental to guide social interactions. We can recognize\nthe identity of a person looking at her face, but also listening to her voice. An important question\nconcerns how visual and auditory information come together, enabling us to recognize identity\nindependently of the modality of the stimulus. This study reports converging evidence across\nunivariate contrasts and multivariate classification showing that the posterior superior temporal\nsulcus (pSTS), previously known to encode polymodal visual and auditory representations, encodes\ninformation about person identity with invariance within and across modality. In particular, pSTS\nshows selectivity for faces, selectivity for voices, classification of face identity across image\ntransformations within the visual modality, and classification of person identity across modality.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090472', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MIT;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Spatial organization, grouping strategies and cyclic dominance in asymmetric predator-prey games', ['Annette Cazaubiel', 'Alessandra F. Lutz', 'Jeferson J. Arenzon'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Predators may attack isolated or grouped preys in a cooperative, collective way. Whether a gregarious behavior is advantageous to each species depends on\nseveral conditions and game theory is a useful tool to deal with such a problem. We here extend the Lett-Auger-Gaillard model [Theor. Pop. Biol. 65, 263 (2004)] to spatially distributed groups and compare the resulting behavior with their mean field predictions for the coevolving densities of predator and prey strategies. We show that the coexistence phase in which both strategies for each group are present is stable because of an effective, cyclic dominance behavior similar to a well studied generalizations of the Rock-Paper-Scissors game with four species (without neutral pairs), a further example of how ubiquitous this mechanism is. In addition, inside the coexistence phase (but interestingly, only for finite size systems) there is a realization of the survival of the weakest effect that is triggered by a percolation crossover.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090316', [u'Ecology'], [u'\xc9cole Normale Sup\xe9rieure (Paris);', u'Instituto de F\xedsica - UFRGS - Brazil']]
