[u'The Epidemiology and Transmissibility of Zika Virus in Girardot and San Andres Island, Colombia', ['Diana Patricia Rojas', 'Natalie E. Dean', 'Yang Yang', 'Eben Kenah', 'Juliana Quintero', 'Simon Tomasi', 'Erika L. Ramirez', 'Yendy Kelly', 'Carolina Castro', 'Gabriel Carrasquilla', 'M. Elizabeth Halloran', 'Ira M. Longini'], u'April 24, 2016.', u'Background:\nZika virus (ZIKV) is an arbovirus in the same genus as dengue virus and yellow fever virus. ZIKV transmission was first detected in Colombia in September 2015. The virus has spread rapidly across the country in areas infested with the vector Aedes aegypti. As of March 2016, Colombia has reported over 50,000 cases of Zika virus disease (ZVD).\nMethods:\nWe analyzed surveillance data of ZVD cases reported to the local health authorities of San Andres, Colombia, and Girardot, Colombia, between September 2015 and January 2016. Standardized case definitions used in both areas were determined by the Ministry of Health and Colombian National Institute of Health at the beginning of the ZIKV epidemic. ZVD was laboratory- confirmed by a finding of Zika virus RNA in the serum of acute cases. We report epidemiological summaries of the two outbreaks. We also use daily incidence data to estimate the basic reproductive number R0 in each population.\nFindings:\nWe identified 928 and 1,936 laboratory or clinically confirmed cases in San Andres and Girardot, respectively. The overall attack rate for reported ZVD detected by healthcare local surveillance was 12.13 cases per 1,000 residents of San Andres and 18.43 cases per 1,000 residents of Girardot. Attack rates were significantly higher in females in both municipalities. Cases occurred in all age groups but the most affected group was 20 to 49 year olds. The estimated R0 for the Zika outbreak in San Andres was 1.41 (95% CI 1.15 to 1.74), and in Girardot was 4.61 (95% CI 4.11 to 5.16).\nInterpretation:\nTransmission of ZIKV is ongoing and spreading throughout the Americas rapidly. The observed rapid spread is supported by the relatively high basic reproductive numbers calculated from these two outbreaks in Colombia.', u'/content/early/2016/04/24/049957', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA;', u'Fundacion Santa Fe de Bogota, Bogota, Colombia;', u'Secretaria Municipal de Salud, Girardot, Colombia;', u'IPS Universitaria, San Andres, Colombia;', u'Secretaria Departamental de Salud, San Andres, Colombia;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA']]
[u'Discovery of a persistent Zika virus lineage in Bahia, Brazil', ['Samia Naccache', 'Julien Theze', 'Silvia I Sardi', 'Sneha Somasekar', 'Alexander L Greninger', 'Antonio C Bandeira', 'Gubio S Campos', 'Laura B Tauro', 'Nuno R Faria', 'Oliver G Pybus', 'Charles Y Chiu'], u'April 24, 2016.', u'Metagenomic next-generation sequencing coupled with capture probe enrichment was used to recover 11 whole and partial Zika virus (ZIKV) genomes from patients in Bahia, Brazil from April 2015 to January 2016, where the majority of suspected Brazilian ZIKV cases have been reported. Phylogenetic reconstructions and molecular clock analyses using the newly generated data uncovered the existence of a Bahia-specific ZIKV lineage sharing a common ancestor in mid-2014, indicating sustained circulation of this strain in Bahia since that date.', u'/content/early/2016/04/24/049916', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Federal Univeresity of Bahia;', u'University of Washington;', u'Alianca Hospital, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil;', u'Federal University of Bahia;', u'Center of Research Gonzalo Moniz, Foundation Fiocruz;', u'Evandro Chagas Institute']]
[u'Scalable Production of Human Erythrocytes from Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells', ['Ying Wang', 'Yongxing Gao', 'Chaoxie He', 'Zhaohui Ye', 'Sharon Gerecht', 'Linzhao Cheng'], u'April 23, 2016.', u'In vitro production of erythrocytes in physiologic numbers from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) holds great promise for improved transfusion medicine and novel cell therapies. We report here, for the first time, a strategy for scalable and xeno-free differentiation of hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells from hiPSCs and subsequent erythrocytes specification, by using stepwise cell culture conditions and by integrating spinner flasks and rocker. This system supported robust and reproducible definitive hematopoietic differentiation of multiple hiPSC lines. We demonstrated an ultra-high yield of up to 4 billion CD235a+ erythrocytes at >98% purity when using a 1-litre spinner flask for suspension culture.  Erythrocytes generated from our system can reach a mature stage with red blood cell (RBC) characteristics of enucleation, beta-globin protein expression and oxygen-binding ability. The entire process is xeno-free and clinically compliant, allowing future mass production of hiPSC-derived RBCs for transfusion medicine purposes.', u'/content/early/2016/04/23/050021', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine']]
[u'PODOCYTURIA mRNAs: EARLIER AND SUPERIOR PREDICTORS OF CARDIOVASCULAR OUTCOMES', ['Assaad A. Eid', 'Robert H. Habib', 'Ahmed Abdel Fattah', 'Nour Al Jalbout', 'Kamal F. Badr'], u'April 23, 2016.', u'Increased filtration of albumin, a result of injury to glomerular endothelial and epithelial cells (podocytes), leads to increased albumin excretion rate (AER) which defines "moderate albuminuria", a predictor of cardiovascular events (CVD). Since filtered albumin is modified by renal proximal tubule albumin retrieval, we hypothesized that urinary podocyte shedding (podocyturia), as a biomarker of ongoing glomerular microvascular injury, may be a more relevant and earlier predictor of CVD than moderate albuminuria.\nType II diabetic subjects (mean age: 46/60 men/women) with normal AER [<2.26 mg/mmole (20 micrograms/mg) creatinine] and free of overt cardiovascular disease (CVD) were studied. AER and podocyte-specific proteins (podocin and nephrin) mRNAs were measured at baseline (Visit 1), 3-4 years later (Visit 2) and at 7 years (Visit 3). Development of CVD (acute coronary syndrome, stroke, and/or peripheral vascular disease) was collected as outcome. Seven-year Kaplan-Meier time-to-event (log rank) data were compared among baseline biomarker tercile groups (low, intermediate, high).\nAll three biomarkers increased significantly between visits. Visit 1AER terciles exhibited similar time to CVD (p=0.127), in contrast with step-wise and substantial increases in CVD events predicted by Visit 1 podocin and nephrin terciles. Considered as continuous factors, the covariate-adjusted hazard ratios (95% confidence intervals) [HR] were highest for podocin mRNA [HR=15.9 (6.1-41.8); p<0.001], intermediate for nephrin mRNA [HR=7.61 (3.75-15.5); p<0.001] and lowest for AER [HR=1.17 (1.01-1.36); p=0.041].\nCompared to moderate albuminuria, podocyturia predicts more accurately and at a significantly earlier time point the presence of silent systemic vascular injury ultimately manifesting as overt cardiovascular events.', u'/content/early/2016/04/23/050039', [u'Pathology'], [u'American University of Beirut;', u'Hamad General Hospital, Doha']]
[u'Direct binding to RPA-coated ssDNA allows recruitment of the ATR activator TopBP1 to sites of DNA damage', ['Julyana Acevedo', 'Shan Yan', 'Matt Michael'], u'April 23, 2016.', u'A critical event for the ability of cells to tolerate DNA damage and replication stress is activation of the ATR kinase.  ATR activation is dependent on the BRCT repeat-containing protein TopBP1.  Previous work has shown that recruitment of TopBP1 to sites of DNA damage and stalled replication forks is necessary for downstream events in ATR activation, however the mechanism for this recruitment was not known.  Here, we use protein binding assays and functional studies in Xenopus egg extracts to show that TopBP1 makes a direct interaction, via its BRCT2 domain, with RPA-coated ssDNA.  We identify a point mutant that abrogates this interaction, and show that this mutant fails to accumulate at sites of DNA damage, and that the mutant cannot activate ATR.  These data thus supply a mechanism for how the critical ATR activator, TopBP1, senses DNA damage and stalled replication forks to initiate assembly of checkpoint signaling complexes.', u'/content/early/2016/04/23/050013', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Southern California;', u'University of North Carolina at Charlotte']]
[u'Activated Ras expression in eye discs with altered hsr\u03c9 lncRNA causes JNK-induced Dilp8 secretion and reduces post-pupal ecdysone leading to early pupal death in Drosophila', ['Mukulika Ray', 'Subhash C. Lakhotia'], u'April 23, 2016.', u"We examined reasons for pupal death following expression of certain transgenes with predominantly eye-disc expressing GMR-GAL4 or sev-GAL4 drivers in Drosophila. GMR-GAL4 or sev-GAL4 driven expression of activated Ras producing UAS-Ras1V12 transgene caused early (~23-25 Hr pupation) and late pupal death, respectively. Co-expression of UAS-hsr\u03c9-RNAi transgene or EP3037 (lncRNA hsr\u03c9 gene's GAL4-driven over-expressing allele) with sev-GAL4>UAS-Ras1V12 advanced death to 23-25 Hr after pupation. We show that the normal ecdysone surge was absent in 23 Hr old GMR-GAL4>UAS-Ras1V12 pupae or those co-expressing sev-GAL4>UAS-Ras1V12 with hsr\u03c9-RNAi or EP3037. Microarray and immunostaining data revealed Dilp8 and several members of JNK pathway to be elevated in >16 Hr old GMR-GAL4>UAS-Ras1V12,  sev-GAL4>UAS-Ras1V12 hsr\u03c9-RNAi and sev-GAL4>UAS-Ras1V12 EP3037 pupae. Down- or up-regulation of hsr\u03c9 transcripts exaggerates Ras signalling resulting in elevated JNK signalling and consequent more Dilp8 secretion by the affected eye discs. We show for the first time that the intriguing early pupal death following expression of certain transgenes by the predominantly eye-specific GMR-GAL4 or sev-GAL4 drivers activates JNK-mediated Dilp8 secretion which reduces post-pupal ecdysone and thus leads to pupal death.", u'/content/early/2016/04/23/049882', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Banaras HIndu University;', u'Banaras Hindu University']]
[u'New insights in host-associated microbial diversity with broad and accurate taxonomic resolution', ['Matthew T. Agler', 'Alfredo Mari', 'Nina Dombrowski', 'Stephane Hacquard', 'Eric M. Kemen'], u'April 23, 2016.', u'Deep microbiome profiling has sparked a revolution in biology, recontextualizing mechanisms such as macroorganismal adaptation and evolution. Amplicon sequencing has been critical for characterization of highly diverse microbiomes, but several challenges still hinder their investigation: (1) Poor coverage of the full diversity, (2) Read depth losses and (3) Erroneous diversity inflation/distortion. We developed a modular approach to quickly profile at least 8 interchangeable loci in a single sequencing run, including a simple and cost-effective way to block amplification of non-targets (like host DNA). We further correct observed distortion in amplified diversity by phylogenetically grouping erroneous OTUs, creating a phylogeny-based unit we call OPUs.Our approach achieves full, accurate characterization of a mixed-kingdom mock community of bacteria, fungi and oomycetes at high depth even in non-target contaminated systems. The OPU concept enables much more accurate estimations of alpha and beta diversity trends than OTUs and overcomes disagreements between studies caused by methodology. Leveraging the approach in the Arabidopsis thaliana phyllosphere, we generated to our knowledge the most complete microbiome survey to date. Microbiomes are extremely diverse, extending well beyond bacteria and fungi. Our method makes new questions in a variety of fields tractable with accurate, systems-based overviews of microbial community structures.', u'/content/early/2016/04/23/050005', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Max-Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research']]
[u'Olfactory perception of chemically diverse molecules', ['Andreas Keller', 'Leslie B Vosshall'], u'April 23, 2016.', u'Background\nUnderstanding the relationship between a stimulus and how it is perceived reveals fundamental principles about the mechanisms of sensory perception. While this stimulus-percept problem is mostly understood for color vision and tone perception, it is not currently possible to predict how a given molecule smells. While there has been some progress in predicting the pleasantness and intensity of an odor, perceptual data for a larger number of diverse molecules are needed to improve current predictions. Towards this goal, we tested the olfactory perception of 480 structurally and perceptually diverse molecules at two concentrations using a panel of 55 healthy human subjects.\n\nResults\nFor each stimulus, we collected data on perceived intensity, pleasantness, and familiarity. In addition, subjects were asked to apply 20 semantic odor quality descriptors to these stimuli, and were offered the option to describe the smell in their own words. Using this dataset, we replicated several previous correlations between molecular features of the stimulus and olfactory perception. The number of sulfur atoms in a molecule was highly correlated with the descriptors garlic, fish, decayed, and large and structurally complex molecules were perceived to be more pleasant. We discovered a number of strong correlations in intensity perception between molecules, which suggests a shared mechanism for perceiving these molecules. We show that familiarity had a strong effect on the ability of subjects to describe a smell. Many subjects used commercial products to describe familiar odors, highlighting the role of prior experience in biasing verbal report of perceived smells. Nonspecific descriptors like chemical were applied frequently to unfamiliar smells, and unfamiliar odors were generally rated as neither pleasant nor unpleasant. \n\nConclusions\nWe present a very large psychophysical dataset and use this to correlate molecular features of a stimulus to olfactory percept. Our work reveals robust correlations between molecular features and perceptual qualities, and highlights the dominant role of familiarity and experience in assigning verbal descriptors to smells.', u'/content/early/2016/04/23/049999', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Rockefeller University']]
[u'Radical changes persist longer in the absence of sex', ['Joel Sharbrough', 'Meagan Luse', 'Jeffrey L Boore', 'John M Logsdon', 'Maurine Neiman'], u'April 23, 2016.', u'Harmful mutations are ubiquitous and inevitable, and the rate at which these mutations are removed from populations is a critical determinant of evolutionary fate. Closely related and otherwise similar sexual and asexual taxa provide a particularly powerful setting in which to study deleterious mutation elimination because sex should facilitate mutational clearance by reducing selective interference between sites. Here, we compared the rate of removal of conservative and radical nonsynonymous mutations in sexual vs. asexual populations of Potamopyrgus antipodarum, a New Zealand freshwater snail species featuring coexisting and ecologically similar sexual and asexual lineages. Our analyses revealed that radical changes are removed from populations at significantly higher rates than conservative changes and that sexual lineages eliminate these radical changes more rapidly than asexual counterparts, especially over relatively short time scales. Taken together, these results indicate that reduced efficacy of purifying selection in asexual lineages allows harmful mutations to remain polymorphic longer than in sexual lineages, potentially influencing the outcome of competition between sexual and asexual lineages. The fact that our ability to detect differential patterns of mutational clearance in sexual vs. asexual individuals required polymorphism data emphasizes the critical importance of population-level sampling for characterizing evolutionary phenomena.', u'/content/early/2016/04/23/049924', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Iowa;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Uinversity of Iowa']]
[u'The hippocampus generalizes across memories that share item and context information', ['Laura A Libby', 'J Daniel Ragland', 'Charan Ranganath'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Episodic memory is known to rely on the hippocampus, but how the hippocampus organizes different episodes to permit their subsequent retrieval remains controversial. According to one view, hippocampal coding differentiates between similar events to reduce interference, whereas an alternative view is that the hippocampus assigns similar representations to events that share item and context information. Here, we used multivariate analyses of activity patterns measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to characterize how the hippocampus distinguishes between memories based on similarity of their item and/or context information. Hippocampal activity patterns discriminated between events that shared either item or context information, but generalized across events that shared similar item-context associations. The current findings provide novel evidence that, whereas the hippocampus can resist mnemonic interference by separating events that generalize along a single attribute dimension, overlapping hippocampal codes may support memory for events with overlapping item-context relations.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049965', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UC Davis']]
[u'Lactobacillus plantarum is a pathobiont for adult Drosophila.', ['David Fast', 'Aashna Duggal', 'Edan Foley'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Pathobionts are a unique class of symbionts that cause fulminant, and potentially life-threatening disease in animal hosts under specific circumstances. Despite the relevance of pathobiont containment for prolonged health, we know very little about the basis for pathobiont-dependent disease in an animal host. We found that mono-association of adult Drosophila with Lactobacillus plantarum, a widely reported fly commensal, and member of the probiotic Lactobacillus genus, curtails adult longevity and causes extensive intestinal pathology within the host. Intestinal disease includes widespread loss of progenitor cells, disrupted epithelial organization, and impaired barrier function. We show that this phenotype is reverted in flies mutant for the immune deficiency gene, a regulatory component of fly innate defenses against gut bacteria. Our study uncovers a previously unknown pathogenic aspect of Lactobacillus plantarum association with Drosophila and establishes a simple model for the mechanistic exploration of pathobiont biology.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049981', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Alberta']]
[u'Prevalence, phenotype and architecture of developmental disorders caused by de novo mutation', ['Jeremy F McRae', 'Stephen Clayton', 'Tomas W Fitzgerald', 'Joanna Kaplanis', 'Elena Prigmore', 'Diana Rajan', 'Alejandro Sifrim', 'Stuart Aitken', 'Nadia Akawi', 'Mohsan Alvi', 'Kirsty Ambridge', 'Daniel M Barrett', 'Tanya Bayzetinova', 'Philip Jones', 'Wendy D Jones', 'Daniel King', 'Netravathi Krishnappa', 'Laura E Mason', 'Tarjinder Singh', 'Adrian R Tivey', 'Munaza Ahmed', 'Uruj Anjum', 'Hayley Archer', 'Ruth Armstrong', 'Jana Awada', 'Meena Balasubramanian', 'Siddharth Banka', 'Diana Baralle', 'Angela Barnicoat', 'Paul Batstone', 'David Baty', 'Chris Bennett', 'Jonathan Berg', 'Birgitta Bernhard', 'A Paul Bevan', 'Maria Bitner-Glindzicz', 'Edward Blair', 'Moira Blyth', 'David Bohanna', 'Louise Bourdon', 'David Bourn', 'Lisa Bradley', 'Angela Brady', 'Simon Brent', 'Carole Brewer', 'Kate Brunstrom', 'David J Bunyan', 'John Burn', 'Natalie Canham', 'Bruce Castle', 'Kate Chandler', 'Elena Chatzimichali', 'Deirdre Cilliers', 'Angus Clarke', 'Susan Clasper', 'Jill Clayton-Smith', 'Virginia Clowes', 'Andrea Coates', 'Trevor Cole', 'Irina Colgiu', 'Amanda Collins', 'Morag N Collinson', 'Fiona Connell', 'Nicola Cooper', 'Helen Cox', 'Lara Cresswell', 'Gareth Cross', 'Yanick Crow', "Mariella D'Alessandro", 'Tabib Dabir', 'Rosemarie Davidson', 'Sally Davies', 'Dylan de Vries', 'John Dean', 'Charu Deshpande', 'Gemma Devlin', 'Abhijit Dixit', 'Angus Dobbie', 'Alan Donaldson', 'Dian Donnai', 'Deirdre Donnelly', 'Carina Donnelly', 'Angela Douglas', 'Sofia Douzgou', 'Alexis Duncan', 'Jacqueline Eason', 'Sian Ellard', 'Ian Ellis', 'Frances Elmslie', 'Karenza Evans', 'Sarah Everest', 'Tina Fendick', 'Richard Fisher', 'Frances Flinter', 'Nicola Foulds', 'Andrew Fry', 'Alan Fryer', 'Carol Gardiner', 'Lorraine Gaunt', 'Neeti Ghali', 'Richard Gibbons', 'Harinder Gill', 'Judith Goodship', 'David Goudie', 'Emma Gray', 'Andrew Green', 'Philip Greene', 'Lynn Greenhalgh', 'Susan Gribble', 'Rachel Harrison', 'Lucy Harrison', 'Victoria Harrison', 'Rose Hawkins', 'Liu He', 'Stephen Hellens', 'Alex Henderson', 'Sarah Hewitt', 'Lucy Hildyard', 'Emma Hobson', 'Simon Holden', 'Muriel Holder', 'Susan Holder', 'Georgina Hollingsworth', 'Tessa Homfray', 'Mervyn Humphreys', 'Jane Hurst', 'Ben Hutton', 'Stuart Ingram', 'Melita Irving', 'Lily Islam', 'Andrew Jackson', 'Joanna Jarvis', 'Lucy Jenkins', 'Diana Johnson', 'Elizabeth Jones', 'Dragana Josifova', 'Shelagh Joss', 'Beckie Kaemba', 'Sandra Kazembe', 'Rosemary Kelsell', 'Bronwyn Kerr', 'Helen Kingston', 'Usha Kini', 'Esther Kinning', 'Gail Kirby', 'Claire Kirk', 'Emma Kivuva', 'Alison Kraus', 'Dhavendra Kumar', 'V.K Ajith Kumar', 'Katherine Lachlan', 'Wayne Lam', 'Anne Lampe', 'Caroline Langman', 'Melissa Lees', 'Derek Lim', 'Cheryl Longman', 'Gordon Lowther', 'Sally A Lynch', 'Alex Magee', 'Eddy Maher', 'Alison Male', 'Sahar Mansour', 'Karen Marks', 'Katherine Martin', 'Una Maye', 'Emma McCann', 'Vivienne McConnell', 'Meriel McEntagart', 'Ruth McGowan', 'Kirsten McKay', 'Shane McKee', 'Dominic J McMullan', 'Susan McNerlan', 'Catherine McWilliam', 'Sarju Mehta', 'Kay Metcalfe', 'Anna Middleton', 'Zosia Miedzybrodzka', 'Emma Miles', 'Shehla Mohammed', 'Tara Montgomery', 'David Moore', 'Sian Morgan', 'Jenny Morton', 'Hood Mugalaasi', 'Victoria Murday', 'Helen Murphy', 'Swati Naik', 'Andrea Nemeth', 'Louise Nevitt', 'Ruth Newbury-Ecob', 'Andrew Norman', "Rosie O'Shea", 'Caroline Ogilvie', 'Kai-Ren Ong', 'Soo-Mi Park', 'Michael J Parker', 'Chirag Patel', 'Joan Paterson', 'Stewart Payne', 'Daniel Perrett', 'Julie Phipps', 'Daniela T Pilz', 'Martin Pollard', 'Caroline Pottinger', 'Joanna Poulton', 'Norman Pratt', 'Katrina Prescott', 'Sue Price', 'Abigail Pridham', 'Annie Procter', 'Hellen Purnell', 'Oliver Quarrell', 'Nicola Ragge', 'Raheleh Rahbari', 'Josh Randall', 'Julia Rankin', 'Lucy Raymond', 'Debbie Rice', 'Leema Robert', 'Eileen Roberts', 'Jonathan Roberts', 'Paul Roberts', 'Gillian Roberts', 'Alison Ross', 'Elisabeth Rosser', 'Anand Saggar', 'Shalaka Samant', 'Julian Sampson', 'Richard Sandford', 'Ajoy Sarkar', 'Susann Schweiger', 'Richard Scott', 'Ingrid Scurr', 'Ann Selby', 'Anneke Seller', 'Cheryl Sequeira', 'Nora Shannon', 'Saba Sharif', 'Charles Shaw-Smith', 'Emma Shearing', 'Debbie Shears', 'Eamonn Sheridan', 'Ingrid Simonic', 'Roldan Singzon', 'Zara Skitt', 'Audrey Smith', 'Kath Smith', 'Sarah Smithson', 'Linda Sneddon', 'Miranda Splitt', 'Miranda Squires', 'Fiona Stewart', 'Helen Stewart', 'Volker Straub', 'Mohnish Suri', 'Vivienne Sutton', 'Ganesh Jawahar Swaminathan', 'Elizabeth Sweeney', 'Kate Tatton-Brown', 'Cat Taylor', 'Rohan Taylor', 'Mark Tein', 'I Karen Temple', 'Jenny Thomson', 'Marc Tischkowitz', 'Susan Tomkins', 'Audrey Torokwa', 'Becky Treacy', 'Claire Turner', 'Peter Turnpenny', 'Carolyn Tysoe', 'Anthony Vandersteen', 'Vinod Varghese', 'Pradeep Vasudevan', 'Parthiban Vijayarangakannan', 'Julie Vogt', 'Emma Wakeling', 'Sarah Wallwark', 'Jonathon Waters', 'Astrid Weber', 'Diana Wellesley', 'Margo Whiteford', 'Sara Widaa', 'Sarah Wilcox', 'Emily Wilkinson', 'Denise Williams', 'Nicola Williams', 'Louise Wilson', 'Geoff Woods', 'Christopher Wragg', 'Michael Wright', 'Laura Yates', 'Michael Yau', 'Chris Nellaker', 'Michael J Parker', 'Helen V Firth', 'Caroline F Wright', 'David R FitzPatrick', 'Jeffrey C Barrett', 'Matthew E Hurles'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Individuals with severe, undiagnosed developmental disorders (DDs) are enriched for damaging de novo mutations (DNMs) in developmentally important genes. We exome sequenced 4,293 families with individuals with DDs, and meta-analysed these data with published data on 3,287 individuals with similar disorders. We show that the most significant factors influencing the diagnostic yield of de novo mutations are the sex of the affected individual, the relatedness of their parents and the age of both father and mother. We identified 94 genes enriched for damaging de novo mutation at genome-wide significance (P < 7 x 10-7), including 14 genes for which compelling data for causation was previously lacking. We have characterised the phenotypic diversity among these genetic disorders. We demonstrate that, at current cost differentials, exome sequencing has much greater power than genome sequencing for novel gene discovery in genetically heterogeneous disorders. We estimate that 42% of our cohort carry pathogenic DNMs (single nucleotide variants and indels) in coding sequences, with approximately half operating by a loss-of-function mechanism, and the remainder resulting in altered-function (e.g. activating, dominant negative). We established that most haplo insufficient developmental disorders have already been identified, but that many altered-function disorders remain to be discovered. Extrapolating from the DDD cohort to the general population, we estimate that developmental disorders caused by DNMs have an average birth prevalence of 1 in 213 to 1 in 448 (0.22-0.47% of live births), depending on parental age.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049056', [u'Genetics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University Hospital Southampton;', u"St George's Healthcare NHS Trust;", u'University Hospital Of Wales;', u'Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust;', u"Sheffield Children's NHS Trust;", u'Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust;', u'Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS Foundation Trust;', u'NHS Grampian;', u'NHS Tayside;', u'Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust;', u'North West London Hospitals NHS Trust;', u'Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS Trust;', u"Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust;", u'Newcastle upon Tyne Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust;', u'Belfast Health and Social Care Trust;', u'Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Trust;', u"Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust;", u'University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust;', u'Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust;', u'NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde;', u'University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust;', u"Liverpool Women's NHS Foundation Trust;", u"Our Lady's Children's Hospital;", u'Glan Clwyd Hospital']]
[u'Toxicity Management in CAR T cell therapy for B-ALL: Mathematical modelling as a new avenue for improvement.', ['Shalla Hanson', 'David Robert Grimes', 'Jake P. Taylor-King', 'Benedikt Bauer', 'Pravnam I. Warman', 'Ziv Frankenstein', 'Artem Kaznatcheev', 'Michael J. Bonassar', 'Vincent L. Cannataro', 'Zeinab Y. Motawe', 'Ernesto A. B. F. Lima', 'Sungjune Kim', 'Marco L. Davila', 'Arturo Araujo'], u'April 22, 2016.', u"Advances in genetic engineering have made it possible to reprogram individual immune cells to express receptors that recognise markers on tumour cell surfaces. The process of re-engineering T cell lymphocytes to express Chimeric Antigen Receptors (CARs), and then re-infusing the CAR-modified T cells into patients to treat various cancers is referred to as CAR T cell therapy. This therapy is being explored in clinical trials - most prominently for B Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (B-ALL), a common B cell malignancy, for which CAR T cell therapy has led to remission in up to 90% of patients. Despite this extraordinary response rate, however, potentially fatal inflammatory side effects occur in up to 10% of patients who have positive responses. Further, approximately 50% of patients who initially respond to the therapy relapse. Significant improvement is thus necessary before the therapy can be made widely available for use in the clinic.\nTo inform future development, we develop a mathematical model to explore interactions between CAR T cells, inflammatory toxicity, and individual patients' tumour burdens in silico. This paper outlines the underlying system of coupled ordinary differential equations designed based on well-known immunological principles and widely accepted views on the mechanism of toxicity development in CAR T cell therapy for B-ALL - and reports in silico outcomes in relationship to standard and recently conjectured predictors of toxicity in a heterogeneous, randomly generated patient population. Our initial results and analyses are consistent with and connect immunological mechanisms to the clinically observed, counterintuitive hypothesis that initial tumour burden is a stronger predictor of toxicity than is the dose of CAR T cells administered to patients.\nWe outline how the mechanism of action in CAR T cell therapy can give rise to such non-standard trends in toxicity development, and demonstrate the utility of mathematical modelling in understanding the relationship between predictors of toxicity, mechanism of action, and patient outcomes.", u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049908', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Duke University, Universit\xe9 Pierre et Marie Curie, & INRIA;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Oxford & H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology;', u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute;', u'University of Florida;', u'University of South Florida College of Medicine;', u'The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Using Ordinary Differential Equations to Explore Cancer-Immune Dynamics and Tumor Dormancy', ['Kathleen Wilkie', 'Philip Hahnfeldt', 'Lynn Hlatky'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Cancer is not solely a disease of the genome, but is a systemic disease that affects the host on many functional levels, including, and perhaps most notably, the function of the immune response, resulting in both tumor-promoting inflammation and tumor-inhibiting cytotoxic action. The dichotomous actions of the immune response induce significant variations in tumor growth dynamics that mathematical modeling can help to understand. Here we present a general method using ordinary differential equations (ODEs) to model and analyze cancer-immune interactions, and in particular, immune-induced tumor dormancy.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049874', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Center of Cancer Systems Biology']]
[u'The discovery potential of RNA processing profiles', ['Amadis Pages', 'Ivan Dotu', 'Roderic Guigo', 'Eduardo Eyras'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Small non-coding RNAs are highly abundant molecules that regulate essential cellular processes and are classified according to sequence and structure. Here we argue that read profiles from size-selected RNA sequencing, by capturing the post-transcriptional processing specific to each RNA family, provide functional information independently of sequence and structure. SeRPeNT is a computational method that exploits reproducibility across replicates and uses dynamic time-warping and density-based clustering algorithms to identify, characterize and compare small non-coding RNAs, by harnessing the power of read profiles. SeRPeNT is applied to: a) generate an extended human annotation with 671 new RNAs from known classes and 131 from new potential classes, b) show pervasive differential processing between cell compartments and c) predict new molecules with miRNA-like behaviour from snoRNA, tRNA and long non-coding RNA precursors, dependent on the miRNA biogenesis pathway. SeRPeNT facilitates the fast and accurate discovery and characterization of small non-coding RNAs at unprecedented scale.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049809', [u'Genomics'], [u'Pompeu Fabra University;', u'IMIM - Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute;', u'Centre for Genomic Regulation']]
[u'Htm1p-Pdi1p is a folding sensitive mannosidase that marks N-glycoproteins for ER-associated protein degradation', ['Yi-Chang Liu', 'Danica Galonic Fujimori', 'Jonathan S. Weissman'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Our understanding of how the endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation (ERAD) machinery efficiently targets terminally misfolded proteins while avoiding the misidentification of nascent polypeptides and correctly folded proteins is limited. For luminal N-glycoproteins, demannosylation of their N-glycan to expose a terminal \u03b11,6-linked mannose is necessary for their degradation via ERAD, but whether this modification is specific to misfolded proteins is unknown. Here we report that the Htm1p-Pdi1p complex acts as a folding-sensitive mannosidase for catalyzing this first committed step. We reconstitute this step in vitro with Htm1p-Pdi1p and model glycoprotein substrates whose structural states we can manipulate. We find that Htm1p-Pdi1p is a glycoprotein-specific mannosidase, which preferentially targets nonnative glycoproteins trapped in partially structured states. As such, Htm1p-Pdi1p is suited to act as a licensing factor that monitors folding in the ER lumen and preferentially commits glycoproteins trapped in partially structured states for degradation.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049825', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Wedding higher taxonomic ranks with metabolic signatures coded in prokaryotic genomes', ['Gregorio Iraola', 'Hugo Naya'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Taxonomy of prokaryotes has remained a controversial discipline due to the extreme plasticity of microorganisms, causing inconsistencies between phenotypic and genotypic classifications. The genomics era has enhanced taxonomy but also opened new debates about the best practices for incorporating genomic data into polyphasic taxonomy protocols, which are fairly biased towards the identification of bacterial species. Here we use an extensive dataset of Archaea and Bacteria to prove that metabolic signatures coded in their genomes are informative traits that allow to accurately classify organisms coherently to higher taxonomic ranks, and to associate functional features with the definition of taxa. Our results support the ecological coherence of higher taxonomic ranks and reconciles taxonomy with traditional chemotaxonomic traits inferred from genomes. KARL, a simple and free tool useful for assisting polyphasic taxonomy or to perform functional prospections is also pre- sented (https://github.com/giraola/KARL).', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/044115', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Institut Pasteur Montevideo']]
[u'Exploiting Homeostatic Repopulation to Increase DC Vaccine Efficacy in Multiple Myeloma', ['Chandler Gatenbee', 'Nuria Folguera-Blasco', 'Charlie Daneils', 'Jill Gallaher', 'Russ Rockne', 'Casey Adams', 'Michael Nicholson', 'Eleni Maniati', 'John Kennedy', 'Kimberly Luddy', 'Frederick L. Locke', 'Mark Robertson-Tessi'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Standard of care for multiple myeloma involves autologous hematopoietic cell transplant (AHCT), which can extend life by a year; however the disease remains incurable. A dendritic cell vaccine developed at Moffitt will be used both immediately before and after AHCT, with the aim of achieving complete response. Data will be collected during the trial to test the biological activity of the vaccine. This data will parameterize a model that facilitates the exploration of outcomes when varying the timing of vaccination. This calibrated model will also inform the design of a follow-up trial, which will include vaccination in conjunction with other immunotherapies.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049072', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL;', u'Centre de Recerca Matematica. Edifici C, Campus de Bellaterra, 08193 Bellaterra (Barcelona), Spain;', u'Department of Radiology, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke Hospital, Cambridge, UK;', u'Department of Information Sciences, Division of Mathematical Oncology, City of Hope, Duarte, CA;', u'Department of Integrated Mathematical Oncology, Moffitt Canc;', u'School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, UK;', u'Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK;', u'Department of Cancer Imaging and Metabolism, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL;', u'Department of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL']]
[u'Ground truthing tip-dating methods using fossil Canidae reveals major differences in performance', ['Nicholas Joseph Matzke', 'April Wright'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Tip-dating methods are becoming popular alternatives to traditional "node-dating." However, they have not been extensively tested. We "ground-truth" the most popular methods against a dated tree of fossil Canidae derived from monographs by Wang and Tedford. Using a revised canid morphology dataset we compare MrBayes 3.2.5 to Beast 2.1.3 combined with BEASTmasteR (phylo.wikidot.com/beastmaster), an R package that automates the conversion of dates, priors, and NEXUS character matrices into the complex Beast2 XML format. We find that unconstrained MrBayes analysis under the uniform node age prior fails to retrieve reasonable results, exhibiting extremely high uncertainty in dates.  On the other hand, Beast2 inference matches the ground-truth well, under both birth-death serially sampled (BDSS, disallowing direct ancestors) and sampled ancestor (SABD) tree models, as does MrBayes using BDSS. MrBayes using SABD seems to have difficulty converging in some analyses. These results, on a high quality fossil dataset, indicate that while tip-dating is very promising, methodological issues in tip-dating can have drastic effects, and require close attention, especially on more typical datasets where the distinction between "method problems" and "data problems" will be more difficult to detect.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049643', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The Australian National University;', u'Iowa State University']]
[u'The Pseudomonas aeruginosa PSL polysaccharide is a social but non-cheatable trait in biofilms', ['Yasuhiko Irie', 'Aled Roberts', 'Kasper N Kragh', 'Vernita D Gordon', 'Jamie Hutchison', 'Rosalind J Allen', 'Gavin Melaugh', 'Thomas Bjarnsholt', 'Stuart A West', 'Stephen P Diggle'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Biofilm extracellular polysaccharides are compounds secreted by microorganisms into the surrounding environment and which are important for surface attachment and maintaining structural integrity within biofilms. They have been suggested to be metabolically costly to produce, and because they are secreted, to act as co-operative shared resources within biofilm communities. These assumptions have not been experimentally well-examined. Here we empirically test the cooperative nature of the PSL polysaccharide, which is crucial for the formation of biofilms in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We show that: (1) PSL provides population level benefits in biofilms, for both growth and antibiotic tolerance; (2) the benefits of PSL production are social and are shared with other cells; (3) the benefits of PSL production appear to be preferentially directed towards cells which produce PSL; (4) cells which do not produce PSL are unable to successfully exploit cells which produce PSL. Taken together, this suggests that PSL is a social but non-exploitable trait, and that growth within biofilms selects for PSL-producing strains.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049783.1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Umea University;', u'Cardiff Metropolitan University;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'University of Austin in Texas;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'Inferring expressed genes by whole-genome sequencing of plasma DNA', ['Peter Ulz', 'Gerhard G Thallinger', 'Martina Auer', 'Ricarda Graf', 'Karl Kashofer', 'Stephan W Jahn', 'Luca Abete', 'Gunda Pristauz', 'Edgar Petru', 'Jochen B Geigl', 'Ellen Heitzer', 'Michael R Speicher'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'The analysis of cell-free DNA (cfDNA) in plasma represents a rapidly advancing field in\nmedicine. cfDNA consists predominantly of nucleosome-protected DNA shed into the\nbloodstream by cells undergoing apoptosis. We performed whole-genome sequencing\n(WGS) of plasma DNA and identified two discrete regions at transcription start sites (TSS)\nwhere the nucleosome occupancy results in different read-depth coverage patterns in\nexpressed and silent genes. By employing machine learning for gene classification, we\nfound that the plasma DNA read depth patterns from healthy donors reflected the\nexpression signature of hematopoietic cells. In cancer patients with metastatic disease, we\nwere able to classify expressed cancer driver genes in regions with somatic copy number\ngains with high accuracy. We could even determine the expressed isoform of genes with\nseveral TSSs as confirmed by RNA-Seq of the matching primary tumor. Our analyses\nprovide functional information about the cells releasing their DNA into the circulation.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049478', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Institute of Human Genetics, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria;', u'Institute of Molecular Biotechnology, Graz University of Technology, Graz, Austria;', u'Institute of Pathology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria;', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria']]
[u'Epigenetic control of phenotypic plasticity in a filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa', ['Ilkka Kronholm', 'Hanna Johannesson', 'Tarmo Ketola'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Phenotypic plasticity is the ability of a genotype to produce different phenotypes under different environmental or developmental conditions. Phenotypic plasticity is an ubiquitous feature of living organisms, and is typically based on variable patterns of gene expression. However, the mechanisms by which gene expression is influenced and regulated during plastic responses are poorly understood in most organisms.  While modifications to DNA and histone proteins have been implicated as likely candidates for generating and regulating phenotypic plasticity, specific details of each modification and its mode of operation have remained largely unknown. In this study, we investigated how epigenetic mechanisms affect phenotypic plasticity in the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa. By measuring reaction norms of strains that are deficient in one of several key physiological processes we show that epigenetic mechanisms play a role in homeostasis and phenotypic plasticity of the fungus across a range of controlled environments. Effects on plasticity are specific to an environment and mechanism, indicating that epigenetic regulation is context dependent and is not governed by general plasticity genes. In our experiments with Neurospora, histone methylation and the RNA interference pathway had the greatest influence on phenotypic plasticity, while lack of DNA methylation had the least.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049726', [u'Genetics'], [u'Dept. of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Jyv\xe4skyl\xe4;', u'Dept. of Organismal Biology, University of Uppsala;', u'Dept. of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Jyv??skyl??']]
[u'Different Evolutionary Paths to Complexity for Small and Large Populations of Digital Organisms', ['Thomas LaBar', 'Christoph Adami'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'A major aim of evolutionary biology is to explain the respective roles of adaptive versus non-adaptive changes in the evolution of complexity. While selection is certainly responsible for the spread and maintenance of complex phenotypes, this does not automatically imply that strong selection enhances the chance for the emergence of novel traits, that is, the origination of complexity. Population size is one parameter that alters the relative importance of adaptive and non-adaptive processes: as population size decreases, selection weakens and genetic drift grows in importance. Because of this relationship, many theories invoke a role for population size in the evolution of complexity. Such theories are difficult to test empirically because of the time required for the evolution of complexity in biological populations. Here, we used digital experimental evolution to test whether large or small asexual populations tend to evolve greater complexity. We find that both small and large---but not intermediate-sized---populations are favored to evolve larger genomes, which provides the opportunity for subsequent increases in phenotypic complexity. However, small and large populations followed different evolutionary paths towards these novel traits. Small populations evolved larger genomes by fixing slightly deleterious insertions, while large populations fixed rare beneficial insertions that increased genome size. These results demonstrate that genetic drift can lead to the evolution of complexity in small populations and that purifying selection is not powerful enough to prevent the evolution of complexity in large populations.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049767', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Fused regression for multi-source gene regulatory network inference', ['Kari Y. Lam', 'Zachary M. Westrick', 'Christian Muller', 'Lionel Christiaen', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'April 22, 2016.', u"Understanding gene regulatory networks is critical to understanding cellular differentiation and response to external stimuli. Methods for global network inference have been developed and applied to a variety of species. \nMost approaches consider the problem of network inference independently in each species, despite evidence that gene regulation can be conserved even in distantly related species. \nFurther, network inference is often confined to single data-types (single platforms) and single cell types. \nWe introduce a method for multi-source network inference that allows simultaneous estimation of gene regulatory networks in multiple species or biological processes through the introduction of priors based on known gene relationships such as orthology incorporated using fused regression. \nThis approach improves network inference performance even when orthology mapping and conservation are incomplete. \nWe refine this method by presenting an algorithm that extracts the true conserved subnetwork from a larger set of potentially conserved interactions and demonstrate the utility of our method in cross species network inference. \nLast, we demonstrate our method's utility in learning from data collected on different experimental platforms.", u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049775', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'NYU;', u'Simons Foundation;', u'NYU, Simons Foundation']]
[u'From what we perceive to what we remember: Characterizing representational dynamics of visual memorability', ['Seyed-Mahdi Khaligh-Razavi', 'Wilma A. Bainbridge', 'Dimitrios Pantazis', 'Aude Oliva'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Not all visual memories are equal \u2212 some endure in our minds, while others quickly disappear. Recent behavioral work shows we can reliably predict which images will be remembered. This image property is called memorability. Memorability is intrinsic to an image, robust across observers, and unexplainable by low-level visual features. However, its neural bases and relation with perception and memory remain unknown. Here we characterize the representational dynamics of memorability using magnetoencephalography (MEG). We find memorability is indexed by brain responses starting at 218ms for faces and 371ms for scenes \u2212 later than classical early face/scene discrimination perceptual signals, yet earlier than the late memory encoding signal observed at ~700ms. The results show memorability is a high-level image property whose spatio-temporal neural dynamics are different from those of memory encoding. Together, this work brings new insights into the underlying neural processes of the transformation from what we perceive to what we remember.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049700', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MIT']]
[u'The Higher Plant Plastid Complex I (NDH) is a Reversible Proton Pump that increases ATP production by Cyclic Electron Flow Around Photosystem I', ['Deserah D Strand', 'Nicholas Fisher', 'David M. Kramer'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Cyclic electron flow around photosystem I (CEF) is critical for balancing the photosynthetic energy budget of the chloroplast, by generating ATP without net production of NADPH. We demonstrate that the chloroplast NADPH dehydrogenase complex (NDH), a homolog to respiratory Complex I, pumps approximately two protons from the chloroplast stroma to the lumen per electron transferred from ferredoxin to plastoquinone, effectively increasing the efficiency of ATP production via CEF by two-fold compared to CEF pathways involving non-proton-pumping plastoquinone reductases. Under certain physiological conditions, the coupling of proton and electron transfer reactions within NDH should enable a non-canonical mode of photosynthetic electron transfer, allowing electron transfer from plastoquinol to NADPH to be driven by the thylakoid proton motive force possibly helping to sense or remediate mismatches in the photosynthetic budget.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049759', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Cytokine and Leukocyte Profiling Reveal Pro-Inflammatory and Autoimmune Features in Frontotemporal Dementia Patients', ['Philipp A. Jaeger', 'Trisha M. Stan', 'Eva Czirr', 'Markus Britschgi', 'Daniela Berdnik', 'Ruo-Pan Huang', 'Bradley F. Boeve', 'Adam L. Boxer', 'NiCole Finch', 'Gabriela K. Fragiadakis', 'Neill R. Graff-Radford', 'Ruochun Huang', 'Hudson Johns', 'Anna Karydas', 'David S. Knopman', 'Michael Leipold', 'Holde T. Maecker', 'Zachary Miller', 'Ronald Petersen', 'Rosa Rademakers', 'Chung-Huan Sun', 'Steve Younkin', 'Bruce L. Miller', 'Tony Wyss-Coray'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'The growing link between systemic environment and brain function opens the possibility that cellular communication and composition in blood are correlated with brain health. We tested this concept in frontotemporal dementia with novel, unbiased tools that measure hundreds of soluble signaling proteins or characterize the vast immune cell repertoire in blood. With these tools we discovered complementary abnormalities indicative of abnormal T cell populations and autoimmunity in frontotemporal dementia.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049791', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Ray Biotech, Inc.;', u'Mayo Clinic Rochester;', u'UCSF;', u'May Clinic Jacksonville;', u'Mayo Clinic Jacksonville;', u'RayBiotech, Inc.']]
[u'Fast, scalable and accurate differential expression analysis for single cells', ['Debarka Sengupta', 'Nirmala Arul Rayan', 'Michelle Lim', 'Bing Lim', 'Shyam Prabhakar'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Analysis of single-cell RNA-seq data is challenging due to technical variability, high noise levels and massive sample sizes. Here, we describe a normalization technique that substantially reduces technical variability and improves the quality of downstream analyses. We also introduce a nonparametric method for detecting differentially expressed genes that scales to > 1,000 cells and is both more accurate and ~ 10 times faster than existing parametric approaches.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049734', [u'Genomics'], [u'Genome Institute of Singapore']]
[u'HDAC inhibition protects degenerating cone photoreceptors in vivo', ['Dragana Trifunovic', 'Blanca Arango-Gonzalez', 'Antonella Comitato', 'Melanie Barth', 'Ayse Sahaboglu', 'Eva del Amo', 'Manoj Kulkarni', 'Stefanie Hauck', 'Marius Ueffing', 'Arto Urtti', 'Yvan Arsenijevic', 'Marius Ueffing', 'Francois Paquet-Durand'], u'April 22, 2016.', u'Retinal diseases caused by cone photoreceptor cell death are devastating as the patients are experiencing loss of accurate and color vision. Understanding the mechanisms of cone cell death and the identification of key players therein could provide new treatment options. We studied the neuroprotective effects of a histone deacetylase inhibitor, Trichostatin A (TSA), in a mouse model of inherited, primary cone degeneration (cpfl1). We show that HDAC inhibition protects cones in vitro, in retinal explant cultures. More importantly, in vivo a single TSA injection increased cone survival for up to 10 days post-injection. In addition, the abnormal, incomplete cone migration pattern in the cpfl1 retina was significantly improved by HDAC inhibition. These findings suggest a crucial role for HDAC activity in primary cone degeneration and highlight a new avenue for future therapy developments for cone dystrophies and diseases associated with impaired cone migration.', u'/content/early/2016/04/22/049742', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Tuebingen;', u'University of Modena and Reggio Emilia;', u'University of Eastern Finland;', u'Helmholtz Center Munich;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'Hopital Ophtalmique Jules Gonin']]
[u'Transplantation of Endothelial Progenitor Cells Solely Leads to Development of Functional Neo-vessels in vivo.', ['Rokhsareh Rohban', 'Nathalie Etchart', 'Thomas Pieber'], u'April 21, 2016.', u'It has been believed that de novo vessel formation (neo-vasculogenesis) can be induced by co-transplantation of pericytes or mesenchymal stem/progenitor cells (MSPC) with endothelial cells or endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFC). The requirement for co-transplantation of two adult progenitor cells is one factor that can potentially complicate the process of therapeutic vasculogenesis which hampers the development of strategies for therapeutic intervention referred to as regenerative medicine. Here we employed a novel strategy for therapeutic vessel development by transplanting endothelial colony forming progenitor cells solely to immune compromised mice and detect vessel formation capacity of single ECFC transplants compared to ECFC/MSPC co-transplants. We applied umbilical cord derived and bone marrow derived-MSPC and umbilical cord derived ECFC with different total cell number for subcutaneous transplantation in matrix composites either alone or mixed at a ratio of 1:5 subcutaneously into immune deficient NOD.Cg-Prkdcscid Il2rgtm1Wjl/SzJ; NSG mice. Implants were harvested one day, one, two, eight and 24 weeks after transplantation for detecting the state of vessel formation and stability of the transplants by histological assessments. Additionally, endothelial progenitor cells derived from various human tissues such as umbilical cord blood, peripheral blood and white adipose tissue were used to assess their potential for vessel formation in vivo.  \nResults confirmed that single transplantation of ECFCs with a higher cell number and later in the time course after transplantation is as efficient as co-transplantation of ECFC with MSPC at forming stable-perfused human vessels. Amongst ECFCs isolated from different human sources, white adipose tissue derived ECFC are most potent in forming neo-vessels (micro-vessels) in vivo, thus WAT-ECFC could be an optimal cell for vasculogenesis regenerative application.\nCo-transplantation of ECFC and MSPC with the defined 5:1 ratio or sole ECFC with a higher cell dosage was essential for vessel generation in vivo.', u'/content/early/2016/04/21/049650', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Medical University of Graz']]
[u'Vasculogenesis Potential of Mesenchymal and Endothelial Stem Cells Isolated from Various Human Tissues.', ['Rokhsareh Rohban', 'Nathalie Etchart', 'Thomas Pieber'], u'April 21, 2016.', u'Neo vessel formation can be initiated by co-transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) with endothelial colony-forming cells (ECFC). The two adult stem cell types can be isolated and expanded from a variety of tissues to be used for regenerative applications pro-angiogenesis.\nHere we performed a systematic study to evaluate the neo-vasculogenesis potential of MSC and ECFC isolated from various human tissues. MSC were isolated, purified and expanded in vitro from umbilical cord (UC) and umbilical cord blood (UCB), white adipose tissue (WAT), bone marrow (BM), and amniotic membrane of placenta (AMN). \nECFC were isolated from UC and UCB, WAT and peripheral blood (PB). ECFC and MSC and were co-transplanted admixed with extracellular matrix (Matrigel) at a ratio of 5:1 to immune-deficient NSG mice, subcutaneously. The transplants were harvested after two weeks and the state of vessel formation and stability in the explants were investigated using immune-histochemical methods. The number of created micro-vessels was quantified using Hematoxylin & Eosin (H&E) staining followed by image J quantification.\nResults showed that ECFC and MSC possess variable capacity in contributing to neo-vasculogenesis. WAT and UCB-derived ECFC and WAT, UCB and BM-derived MSC are most potent cells in terms of neo-vessel formation in vivo. UC-derived ECFC and AMN-derived MSC have been shown to be least potent in contributing to neo-vasculogenesis. This variability might be due to variable phenotypes, or different genetic profiles of MSC and ECFC isolated from different tissues and/or donors.\nThe findings might give an insight into better regenerative strategies for neo-vessel formation in vivo.\nKey words: neo-vasculogenesis, mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), endothelial colony forming cells (ECFC), tissue of origin', u'/content/early/2016/04/21/049668', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Medical University of Graz']]
[u'Transcriptional bursting explains the noise-versus-mean relationship in mRNA and protein levels', ['Roy D. Dar', 'Sydney M. Schaffer', 'Siddarth S. Dey', 'Jonathan E. Foley', 'Abhyudai Singh', 'Brandon S. Razooky', 'Adam P. Arkin', 'David V. Schafer', 'Michael L. Simpson', 'Arjun Raj', 'Leor S. Weinberger'], u'April 21, 2016.', u'Recent analysis (Dey et al, 2015), demonstrates that the HIV-1 Long Terminal Repeat (HIV LTR) promoter exhibits a range of possible transcriptional burst sizes and frequencies for any mean-expression level.  However, these results have also been interpreted as demonstrating that cell-to-cell expression variability (noise) and mean are uncorrelated, a significant deviation from previous results.  Here, we re-examine the available mRNA and protein abundance data for the HIV LTR and find that noise in mRNA and protein expression scales inversely with the mean along analytically predicted transcriptional burst-size manifolds.  We then experimentally perturb transcriptional activity to test a prediction of the multiple burst-size model: that increasing burst frequency will cause mRNA noise to decrease along given burst-size lines as mRNA levels increase.  The data show that mRNA and protein noise decrease as mean expression increases, supporting the canonical inverse correlation between noise and mean.', u'/content/early/2016/04/21/049528', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Department of Bioengineering, University of Pennsylvania;', u'Hubrecht Institute-KNAW (Royal Netherlands Acad of Arts and Sciences) and Univ Medical Ctr Utrecht;', u'Gild, Inc., San Francisco, California;', u'University of Delaware;', u'Rockefeller University;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Oak Ridge National Laboratory;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Gladstone Institute (Virology and Immunology)']]
[u'Inferring intrinsic and extrinsic noise from a dual fluorescent reporter', ['Erik van Nimwegen'], u'April 21, 2016.', u'Dual fluorescent reporter constructs, which measure gene expression from two identical promoters within the same cell, allow total gene expression noise to be decomposed into an extrinsic component, roughly associated with cell-to-cell fluctuations in cellular component concentrations, and intrinsic noise, roughly associated with inherent stochasticity of the biochemical reactions involved in gene expression [1]. A recent paper by Fu and Pachter presented frequentist statistical estimators for intrinsic and extrinsic noise using data from dual reporters [2]. For comparison, I here present results of a Bayesian analysis of this problem. I show that the orthodox estimators suffer from pathologies such as predicting negative values for a manifestly non-negative quantity, i.e. variance, and show that the Bayesian estimators do not suffer from such pathologies. In addition, I show that the Bayesian analysis automatically identifies that optimal estimates of intrinsic and extrinsic noise depend on a subtle combination of two statistics of the data, allowing for accuracies that are up to twice the accuracy of the orthodox estimators in some parameter regimes.\nI hope up this little worked out example contrasting orthodox statistical analysis based on ad hoc estimators with estimators resulting from a Bayesian analysis, will be educational for others in the field. I distribute a Mathematica Notebook with this paper that allows users to easily reproduce all results and figures of the paper.', u'/content/early/2016/04/21/049486', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Biozentrum, University of Basel']]
[u'Mortality Selection in a Genetic Sample and Implications for Association Studies', ['Benjamin W Domingue', 'Daniel W Belsky', 'Amal Harrati', 'Dalton Conley', 'David Weir', 'Jason Boardman'], u'April 21, 2016.', u'Mortality selection is a general concern in the social and health sciences. Recently, existing health and social science cohorts have begun to collect genomic data. Causes of selection into a genomic dataset can influence results from genomic analyses. Selective non-participation, which is specific to a particular study and its participants, has received attention in the literature.  But mortality selection---the very general phenomenon that genomic data collected at a particular age represents selective participation by only the subset of birth cohort members who have survived to the time of data collection---has been largely ignored. Here we test the hypothesis that such mortality selection may significantly alter estimates in polygenic association studies of both health and non-health traits. We demonstrate mortality selection into genome-wide SNP data collection at older ages using the U.S.-based Health and Retirement Study (HRS). We then model the selection process. Finally, we test whether mortality selection alters estimates from genetic association studies. We find evidence for mortality selection. Healthier and more socioeconomically advantaged individuals are more likely to survive to be eligible to participate in the genetic sample of the HRS. Mortality selection leads to modest drift in estimating time-varying genetic effects, a drift that is enhanced when estimates are produced from data that has additional mortality selection. There is no general solution for correcting for mortality selection in a birth cohort prior to entry into a longitudinal study. We illustrate how genetic association studies using HRS data can adjust for mortality selection from study entry to time of genetic data collection by including probability weights that account for mortality selection. Mortality selection should be investigated more broadly in genetically-informed samples from other cohort studies.', u'/content/early/2016/04/21/049635', [u'Genetics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Duke Univesrity;', u'Princeton University;', u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Colorado Boulder']]
[u'Noise Control In Gene Regulatory Networks With Negative Feedback', ['Michael Hinczewski', 'Dave Thirumalai'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Genes and proteins regulate cellular functions through complex circuits of biochem- ical reactions. Fluctuations in the components of these regulatory networks result in noise that invariably corrupts the signal, possibly compromising function. Here, we create a practical formalism based on ideas introduced by Wiener and Kolmogorov (WK) for filtering noise in engineered communications systems to quantitatively assess the extent to which noise can be controlled in biological processes involving negative feedback. Application of the theory, which reproduces the previously proven scaling of the lower bound for noise suppression in terms of the number of signaling events, shows that a tetracycline repressor-based negative-regulatory gene circuit behaves as a WK filter. For the class of Hill-like nonlinear regulatory functions, this type of filter provides the optimal reduction in noise. Our theoretical approach can be readily combined with experimental measurements of response functions in a wide variety of genetic circuits, to elucidate the general principles by which biological networks minimize noise.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049502', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Case Western Reserve University;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Evolution of mating types driven by purifying selection against mitochondrial mutations', ['Arunas L Radzvilavicius'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Sexual cell fusion combines genetic material of two gametes, but why the two reproductive cells have to belong to distinct self-incompatible gamete classes is not known. In a vast majority of sexual eukaryotes, mitochondria are inherited uniparentally from only one of the two mating types, which is thought to facilitate purifying selection against deleterious mitochondrial mutations and limit the inter-genomic conflicts. Here I argue that two mating types in eukaryotes represent a mechanism of mitochondrial quality control through the highly asymmetric transmission of mitochondrial genes at cell fusion. I develop a mathematical model to explicitly study the evolution of two self-incompatible mating type alleles linked to the nuclear locus controlling the pattern of organelle inheritance. The invasion of mating-type alleles is opposed by the short-term fitness benefit of mitochondrial mixing under negative epistasis and the lower chance of encountering a compatible mating partner. Nevertheless, under high mitochondrial mutation rates purifying selection against defective mitochondria can drive two mating types with uniparental inheritance to fixation. The invasion is further facilitated by the paternal leakage of mitochondria under paternal control of cytoplasmic inheritance. In contrast to previous studies, the model does not rely on the presence of selfish cytoplasmic elements, providing a more universal solution to the long-standing evolutionary puzzle of two sexes.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049577', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University College London']]
[u'Robust cell tracking in epithelial tissues through identification of maximum common subgraphs', ['Jochen Kursawe', 'Remi Bardenet', 'Jeremiah J Zartman', 'Ruth E Baker', 'Alexander George Fletcher'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"Tracking of cells in live-imaging microscopy videos of epithelial sheets is a powerful tool for investigating fundamental processes in embryonic development.  Observing the growth, proliferation, intercalation, and apoptosis of individual cells helps us understand how global morphogenetic processes, such as tissue invagination or extension, are locally regulated and controlled.  Accurate cell tracking requires correctly resolving cells moving in and out of field of view between frames, cell neighbour exchanges, cell removal and cell division events.  Here, we present a novel algorithm for epithelial cell tracking.  The algorithm exploits the graph-theoretic concept of a `maximum common subgraph' to track cells between successive frames of a video.  It does not require the adjustment of tissue-specific parameters, and scales in polyonomial time with tissue size.  The algorithm does not rely on precise positional information and thus permits large cell movements between frames, enabling cell tracking in data sets acquired at low temporal resolution due to experimental constraints such as photoxicity.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049551', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Universit\xe9 de Lille;', u'University of Notre Dame;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'Adapterama IV: Sequence Capture of Dual-digest RADseq Libraries with Identifiable Duplicates (RADcap)', ['Sandra Hoffberg', 'Troy J Kieran', 'Julian M Catchen', 'Alison Devault', 'Brant C Faircloth', 'Rodney Mauricio', 'Travis C Glenn'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Molecular ecologists seek to genotype hundreds to thousands of loci from hundreds to thousands of individuals at minimal cost per sample.  Current methods such as restriction site associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) and sequence capture are constrained by costs associated with inefficient use of sequencing data and sample preparation, respectively.  Here, we demonstrate RADcap, an approach that combines the major benefits of RADseq (low cost with specific start positions) with those of sequence capture (repeatable sequencing of specific loci) to significantly increase efficiency and reduce costs relative to current approaches.  The RADcap approach uses a new version of dual-digest RADseq (3RAD) to identify candidate SNP loci for capture bait design, and subsequently uses custom sequence capture baits to consistently enrich candidate SNP loci across many individuals.  We combined this approach with a new library preparation method for identifying and removing PCR duplicates from 3RAD libraries, which allows researchers to process RADseq data using traditional pipelines, and we tested the RADcap method by genotyping sets of 96 to 384 Wisteria plants.  Our results demonstrate that our RADcap method: 1) can methodologically reduce (to <5%) and computationally remove PCR duplicate reads from data; (2) achieves 80-90% reads-on-target in 11 of 12 enrichments; (3) returns consistent coverage (\u22654x) across >90% of individuals at up to 99.9% of the targeted loci; (4) produces consistently high occupancy matrices of genotypes across hundreds of individuals; and (5) is inexpensive, with reagent and sequencing costs totaling <$6/sample and adapter and primer costs of only a few hundred dollars.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/044651', [u'Genetics'], [u'Unversity of Georgia;', u'University of Georgia;', u'University of Illinios;', u'MycroArray;', u'Louisiana State University']]
[u'The Prevalence of Inappropriate Image Duplication in Biomedical Research Publications', ['Elisabeth M Bik', 'Arturo Casadevall', 'Ferric C Fang'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Inaccurate data in scientific papers can result from honest error or intentional falsification.  This study attempted to determine the percentage of published papers containing inappropriate image duplication, a specific type of inaccurate data.  The images from a total of 20,621 papers in 40 scientific journals from 1995-2014 were visually screened.  Overall, 3.8% of published papers contained problematic figures, with at least half exhibiting features suggestive of deliberate manipulation.  The prevalence of papers with problematic images rose markedly during the past decade.   Additional papers written by authors of papers with problematic images had an increased likelihood of containing problematic images as well.  As this analysis focused only on one type of data, it is likely that the actual prevalence of inaccurate data in the published literature is higher.  The marked variation in the frequency of problematic images among journals suggest that journal practices, such as pre-publication image screening, influence the quality of the scientific literature.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049452', [u'Scientific Communication'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Johns Hopkins School of Medicine;', u'University of Washington School of Medicine']]
[u'Sanctions, partner recognition, and variation in mutualistic symbiosis', ['Jeremy B Yoder', 'Peter Tiffin'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"Most mechanisms proposed to protect mutualistic species interactions against invasion by non-cooperative individuals imply that mutualist populations should consist only of fully cooperative individuals. Empirical studies, however, find that genetic variation in mutualist quality is widespread. A possible explanation for this paradox is that mutualistic interactions are mediated not only by assessment of partner quality, but also by genetically independent partner signals. Here, we build and evaluate a model of host-symbiont coevolution in which alleles at one locus determine host recognition of compatible symbionts, and alleles at a second locus determine whether hosts are able to sanction non-cooperative symbionts. Symbionts' expression of signals recognized by the hosts and cooperation in mutualism are similarly determined by separate loci. In contrast to simpler models that either fail to maintain variation in symbiosis outcomes or long-term persistence of cooperative symbionts, this model can maintain variation in both species. Individual-based simulations conducted over a range of reasonable parameter values and starting conditions show that the dual-system model is more likely to maintain variation in mutualism outcomes than simpler models, more likely to maintain variation in host loci, and able to promote greater among-site variation in symbiont quality. The dual genetic systems of sanctions and host-symbiont recognition also converge toward conditions similar to one recently-developed model of symbiosis, in which hosts offering the right incentives to potential symbionts can initiate symbiosis without prior screening for partner quality. Our results suggest that a full understanding of mutualistic symbiosis requires integration of communication between partner species as well as the exchange of benefits.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049593', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Curvature Analysis of Estrogen Receptor Positive Breast Cancer Under PI3K Inhibition', ['Romeil Sandhu', 'Eneda Toska', 'Maurizio Scaltriti', 'Jose Baselga', 'Joseph Deasy', 'Jung Hun Oh', 'Sarah Tannenbaum', 'Allen Tannenbaum'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"In this note, we re-examine the work of Bosch et al. from a network point of view. In particular, we employ an extended definition of Ollivier-Ricci curvature that allows us to study graphs with both positive and negative weights. This is done by utilizing a dual formulation of the Wasserstein metric, allowing us to extend the Earth Mover's Distance to signed measures. The resulting curvature may be applied study the robustness properties of general networks modeled as weighted graphs. In this note, we apply the theory to elucidate the robustness and therefore possible mechanisms of resistance of estrogen receptor positive breast cancer under PI3K inhibition.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049437', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Stony Brook Univesity;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Columbia University;', u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'Estimating seven coefficients of pairwise relatedness using population genomic data', ['Matthew Ackerman', 'Parul Johri', 'Ken Spitze', 'Thomas Doak', 'Kimberly Young', 'Michael Lynch', 'Sen Xu'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Population structure can be described by genotypic correlation coefficients between groups of individuals, the most basic of which are the pair-wise relatedness coefficients between any two individuals. There are nine pair-wise relatedness coefficients in the most general model, and we show that these can be reduced to seven coefficients for biallelic loci. Although all nine coefficients can be estimated from pedigrees, six coefficients have been beyond empirical reach. We provide a numerical optimization procedure that estimates them from population-genomic data. Simulations show that the procedure is nearly unbiased, even at 3\xd7 coverage, and errors in five of the seven coefficients are statistically uncorrelated. The remaining two coefficients have a negative correlation of errors, but their sum provides an unbiased assessment of the overall correlation of heterozygosity between two individuals. Application of these new methods to four populations of the freshwater crustacean Daphnia pulex reveal the occurrence of half-siblings in our samples, as well as a number of identical individuals that are likely obligately asexual clone-mates. Statistically significant negative estimates of these pair-wise relatedness coefficients, including inbreeding coefficents that were typically negative, underscore the difficulties that arise when interpreting genotypic correlations as estimations of the probability that alleles are identical by descent.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049411', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indiana University: Bloomington, United States;', u'University of Windsor, United States']]
[u'From Visual Exploration to Storytelling and Back Again', ['Samuel Gratzl', 'Alexander Lex', 'Nils Gehlenborg', 'Nicola Cosgrove', 'Marc Streit'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"The primary goal of visual data exploration tools is to enable the discovery of new insights. To justify and reproduce insights, the discovery process needs to be documented and communicated. A common approach to documenting and presenting findings is to capture visualizations as images or videos. Images, however, are insufficient for telling the story of a visual discovery, as they lack full provenance information and context. Videos are difficult to produce and edit, particularly due to the non-linear nature of the exploratory process. Most importantly, however, neither approach provides the opportunity to return to any point in the exploration in order to review the state of the visualization in detail or to conduct additional analyses. In this paper we present CLUE (Capture, Label, Understand, Explain), a model that tightly integrates data exploration and presentation of discoveries. Based on provenance data captured during the exploration process, users can extract key steps, add annotations, and author 'Vistories', visual stories based on the history of the exploration. These Vistories can be shared for others to view, but also to retrace and extend the original analysis. We discuss how the CLUE approach can be integrated into visualization tools and provide a prototype implementation. Finally, we demonstrate the general applicability of the model in two usage scenarios: a Gapminder-inspired visualization to explore public health data and an example from molecular biology that illustrates how Vistories could be used in scientific journals.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049585', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johannes Kepler University Linz;', u'University of Utah;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'FGMP: assessing fungal genome completeness and gene content', ['Ousmane Hamadoun Cisse', 'Jason Eric Stajich'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Motivation: Inexpensive high-throughput DNA sequencing has democratizing access to genetic information for most organisms so that access to a genome or transcriptome of an organism is not limited to model systems. However, the quality of the sampled genomes can vary greatly which hampers utility for comparisons and meaningful interpretation. The uncertainty of the completeness of a given genome sequence can limit feasibility of asserting patterns of high rates of gene loss reported in many lineages.\nResults: We propose a computational framework and sequence resource for assessing completeness of fungal genomes called FGMP (Fungal Genome Mapping Project). Our approach is based on evolutionary conserved sets of proteins and ultra conserved DNA elements and is applicable to various types of genomic data. We present a comparison of FGMP with state-of-the-art methods utilizing 246 genome assemblies of fungi. We discuss genome assembly improvements/degradations in 56 two-point fungal genome assemblies, as recorded by NCBI assembly archive.\nAvailability and Implementation: FGMP software and datasets are freely available from https://github.com/stajichlab/FGMP or biocluster.ucr.edu/~ocisse/manuscript/FGMP.v.1.0.tar.gz Contact: ousmanecis@gmail.com or jason.stajich@ucr.edu\nSupplementary information: Supplementary data are available at biocluster.ucr.edu/~ocisse/manuscript.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049619', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Institutes of Health;', u'University Of California, Riverside']]
[u'First detection of Zika virus in neotropical primates in Brazil: a possible new reservoir.', ['Silvana Favoretto', 'Danielle Araujo', 'Danielle Oliveira', 'Nayle Duarte', 'Flavio Mesquita', 'Paolo Zanotto', 'Edison Durigon'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Samples from sera and oral swabs from fifteen marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) and nine capuchin-monkeys (Sapajus libidinosus) captured in Ceara State in Brazil were tested for Zika virus.  Samples were positive by Real time PCR and sequencing of the amplified product from a capuchin monkey showed 100% similarity to other ZIKV from South America. This is the first report on ZIKV detection among Neotropical primates.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049395', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Pasteur Institute of Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'University of Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'State Health Department - Ceara State, Brazil']]
[u'ExM-STORM: Expansion Single Molecule Nanoscopy', ['Hu Cang', 'Zhisong Tong', 'Paolo Beuzer', 'Qing Ye', 'Josh Axelrod', 'Zhenmin Hong'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Recently, Chen et al. invented Expansion Microscopy, or ExM, which imprints a specimen features of interest onto a polymer hydrogel network and expands the network homogeneously to magnify sub-diffraction-limit features. However, ExM bleaches massively, 50-100% of the fluorescent molecules; thus it is not suited for single-molecule imaging. Here, we describe improved ExM that is free of bleaching, and thus can be synergically integrated with single-molecule nanoscopy, STORM.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049403', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'The Salk Institute for Biological Studies']]
[u'Power and sample size calculations for fMRI studies based on the prevalence of active peaks.', ['Joke Durnez', 'Jasper Degryse', 'Beatrijs Moerkerke', 'Ruth Seurinck', 'Vanessa Sochat', 'Russell Poldrack', 'Thomas Nichols'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Mounting evidence over the last few years suggest that published neuroscience research suffer from low power, and especially for published fMRI experiments. Not only does low power decrease the chance of detecting a true effect, it also reduces the chance that a statistically significant result indicates a true effect (Ioannidis, 2005). Put another way, findings with the least power will be the least reproducible, and thus a (prospective) power analysis is a critical component of any paper. In this work we present a simple way to characterize the spatial signal in a fMRI study with just two parameters, and a direct way to estimate these two parameters based on an existing study. Specifically, using just (1) the proportion of the brain activated and (2) the average effect size in activated brain regions, we can produce closed form power calculations for given sample size, brain volume and smoothness. This procedure allows one to minimize the cost of an fMRI experiment, while preserving a predefined statistical power. The method is evaluated and illustrated using simulations and real neuroimaging data from the Human Connectome Project. The procedures presented in this paper are made publicly available in an online web-based toolbox available at www.neuropowertools.org.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049429', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Ghent University;', u'University of Warwick']]
[u'CNView: a visualization and annotation tool for copy number variation from whole-genome sequencing', ['Ryan L Collins', 'Matthew R Stone', 'Harrison Brand', 'Joseph T Glessner', 'Michael E Talkowski'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Summary: Copy number variation (CNV) is a major component of structural differences between individual genomes. The recent emergence of population-scale whole-genome sequencing (WGS) datasets has enabled genome-wide CNV delineation. However, molecular validation at this scale is impractical, so visualization is an invaluable preliminary screening approach when evaluating CNVs.  Standardized tools for visualization of CNVs in large WGS datasets are therefore in wide demand. \nMethods & Results: To address this demand, we developed a software tool, CNView, for normalized visualization, statistical scoring, and annotation of CNVs from population-scale WGS datasets. CNView surmounts challenges of sequencing depth variability between individual libraries by locally adapting to cohort-wide variance in sequencing uniformity at any locus. Importantly, CNView is broadly extensible to any reference genome assembly and most current WGS data types.\nAvailability and Implementation: CNView is written in R, is supported on OS X, MS Windows, and Linux, and is freely distributed under the MIT license. Source code and documentation are available from https://github.com/RCollins13/CNView\nContact: talkowski@chgr.mgh.harvard.edu \nSupplementary Information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049536', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Massachussetts General Hospital;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'CD44 Controls Endothelial Proliferation and Functions as Endogenous Inhibitor of Angiogenesis', ['Anne Pink', 'Marianna Skolnaja', 'Taavi Paell', 'Andres Valkna'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"CD44 membrane glycoprotein is involved in angiogenesis, but it is not clear whether CD44 functions as a pro- or anti-angiogenic molecule. Here, we assess the role of CD44 in angiogenesis and endothelial proliferation by using Cd44-null mice and silencing in human endothelial cells. We demonstrate that angiogenesis is increased in Cd44-null mice compared to either wild type or heterozygous animals. Silencing of CD44 expression in cultured endothelial cells results in augmented proliferation and viability. CD44's growth-suppressive effect is mediated by its extracellular domain and it is independent of its hyaluronan binding function. CD44-mediated effect on cell proliferation is independent of specific angiogenic growth factor stimulation. These results show that CD44 expression on endothelial cells constrains endothelial cell proliferation and angiogenesis. Thus, endothelial CD44 might serve as a therapeutic target in either cardiovascular diseases where endothelial protection is desired or, in contrast, as an antiangiogenic molecule for cancer treatment.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049494', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Competence Centre for Cancer Research and Tallinn University of Technology']]
[u'Temporal microbiome road-maps guided by perturbations', ['Beatriz Garcia-Jimenez', 'Mark Wilkinson'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Motivation: There are few tools that allow longitudinal analysis of metagenomic data subjected to distinct perturbations.\n\nMethods: This study examines longitudinal metagenomics data modelled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). Given an external perturbation, the MDP predicts the next microbiome state in a temporal sequence, selected from a finite set of possible microbiome states.\n\nResults: We examined three distinct datasets to demonstrate this approach.  An MDP created for a vaginal microbiome time series generates a variety of behaviour policies.  For example, that moving from a state associated with bacterial vaginosis to a healthier one, requires avoiding perturbations such as lubricant, sex toys, tampons and anal sex. The flexibility of our proposal is verified after applying MDPs to human gut and chick gut microbiomes, taking nutritional intakes, or salmonella and probiotic treatments, respectively, as perturbations. In the latter case, MDPs provided a quantitative explanation for why salmonella vaccine accelerates microbiome maturation in chicks. This novel analytical approach has applications in, for example, medicine where the MDP could suggest the sequence of perturbations (e.g. clinical interventions) to apply to follow the best path from any given starting state, to a desired (healthy) state, avoiding strongly negative states.', u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049510', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Center for Plant Biotechnology and Genomics (CBGP) UPM-INIA']]
[u"Promoter architecture and sex-specific gene expression in the microcrustacean Daphnia pulex  revealed by large-scale profiling of 5'-mRNA ends", ['R. Taylor Raborn', 'Ken Spitze', 'Volker P Brendel', 'Michael Lynch'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"Large-scale identification of transcription start sites (TSSs) using Cap Analysis of Gene Expression (CAGE) has yielded insight into promoter location, architecture, and regulation for a small set of taxa representing major model organisms. However, comparative and evolutionary genomics studies of cis-regulatory control of transcription initiation for a wider spectrum of Metazoa are still outstanding. To broaden our understanding of core promoter structure in species from metazoan clades with currently scant genome data, we sought to characterize the landscape of cis-regulatory elements in the microcrustacean water flea Daphnia pulex, an important model organism for studies in ecology, toxicology, and genetics. We performed CAGE from total RNA derived from three separate developmental states: sexual females, asexual females, and males, reflecting distinct sexes and modes of reproduction. We mapped over 120 million CAGE reads to the D. pulex, genome and generated a 'Daphnia Promoter Atlas' containing 12,662 unique promoters. Characterization of the transcription initiation sites showed the expected enrichment of the CA-dinucleotide at TSSs [-1,+1] (associated with Initiator-motif containing promoters) but also significant over-representation of GN-dinucleotides. Overall, these data suggest that D. pulex initiation sites are among the most GC-rich yet observed for any organism. Computational de novo motif discovery around CAGE-identified TSSs revealed eight putative core promoter elements, including the canonical TATA (TATAWAA) and Initiator (CAGWY) motifs, as well as statistically significant motifs with no obvious orthologs in other metazoans. Finally, we compared promoter activity across the three sampled developmental states, revealing sex- and condition-specific transcription initiation. Analysis of the deferentially expressed genes suggests that a significant number of cell cycle genes (each with net negative regulatory effects on meiosis) are upregulated in asexual females, providing a glimpse of the molecular events that underpin the cyclical parthenogenesis in D. pulex. Taken together, this work provides the first picture of transcription initiation and promoter architecture within Crustacea. The Daphnia Promoter Atlas we present here provides a basis for future study among Daphnia spp. as well as for comparative genomic analyses of metazoan transcriptional control.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/047894', [u'Genomics'], [u'Indiana University at Bloomington']]
[u'Local versus global effects of isoflurane anesthesia on visual processing in the fly brain', ['Dror Cohen', 'Oressia H Zalucki', 'Bruno van Swinderen', 'Naotsugu Tsuchiya'], u'April 20, 2016.', u"What distinguishes the awake and anesthetized brain? General anesthetics abolish behavioural responsiveness in all animals, suggesting that the mechanisms involved are conserved. Studies in humans have shown that general anesthesia is characterized by distinct spectral signatures. We questioned whether anesthesia has similar effects on the Drosophila melanogaster brain. Using a multi-electrode technique we recorded Local Field Potentials from different areas of the fly brain simultaneously under increasing concentrations of isoflurane. Flickering visual stimuli ('frequency tags') allowed us to track evoked responses in the frequency domain. We found that isoflurane reduced power and coherence at the tagging frequency (13 or 17Hz) in central brain regions. Unexpectedly, isoflurane increased power and coherence at twice-the tag frequency in the optic lobes. With simple modeling, we explain the observed anesthetic effects as altered local processing in the periphery. We conclude that general anesthesia has distinct local and global effects on the fly brain.", u'/content/early/2016/04/20/049460', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University;', u'University of Queensland']]
[u'Remotely-sensed tornado signatures indicate an ecological threshold for eagle nest destruction', ['Jeremy D Ross', 'Cheryl L Cavert', 'Lena C Larsson'], u'April 20, 2016.', u'Bald Eagles (Haliaeetus leucocephalus) will reuse massive nests placed high in trees over multiple years, potentially exposing them to catastrophe loss during severe storms. The stochasticity of localized weather, however, has traditionally been viewed as impeding the quantitative study of such risks. In March 2015 a severe weather outbreak along the Arkansas River near Tulsa, Oklahoma caused widespread damage among a highly-concentrated and long-monitored population of nesting Bald Eagles. We conducted field surveys on the extent of nest loss and consulted weather and observer records to determine what characteristics of the storm (maximum azimuthal wind shear) or nests (years of use) might have been associated with nest destruction. We found 5 of 9 nests along a ~24km stretch of the river were destroyed during the storm, causing the death of at least 8 eaglets. Mean years of use was higher among destroyed nests (4.8) than surviving nests (4.0), though not significantly so within this limited sample. The degree of maximum azimuthal shear (i.e., wind rotation) during the storm within 800m of the nests, however, did significantly differ both in terms of maximums (15.8 vs 9.5 ms-1) and means (9.4 vs 6.6 ms-1) for destroyed versus persisting nests, respectively. Our findings suggest a threshold of tornadic wind shear beyond which Bald Eagle nests, irrespective of age, could be prone to catastrophe. Such insights are key to developing accurate models of population persistence, especially in light of potential shifts in severe weather patterns under various climate change scenarios.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049387', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Oklahoma;', u'Bald Eagle Survey Team (BEST);', u'Sutton Avian Research Center']]
[u'Periodic actin structures in neuronal axons are required to maintain microtubules', ['Yue Qu', 'Ines Hahn', 'Stephen Webb', 'Andreas Prokop'], u'April 19, 2016.', u"Axons are cable-like neuronal processes wiring the nervous system. These delicate structures have to be sustained for an organism's lifetime. Their backbones and life-sustaining transport highways are formed by parallel microtubules bundles, surrounded by recently discovered periodic axonal actin structures (PAAS). Here we demonstrate the first functional role of PAAS. Via super-resolution microscopy we show that PAAS are evolutionarily conserved. Imaging of 11 genetic and 3 drug-based manipulations of actin or actin regulators revealed that these structures are composed of short actin filaments dependent on Adducin, Spectrin, Ena/VASP, Arp2/3 and DAAM. They are required to maintain axonal microtubules through sustained polymerisation, in parallel to independent stabilising mechanisms mediated by microtubule-binding spectraplakin proteins. Removing both stabilisation mechanisms triggers axon degeneration. Our data establish PAAS as functionally relevant, evolutionarily conserved structural components of axons. They provide new conceptual explanations for neural disorders linked to cortical actin regulators and for injury-derived axon degeneration.", u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049379', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Manchester;', u'Rutherford Appleton Laboratory']]
[u'Ten simple rules for managing high-throughput nucleotide sequencing data', ['Rutger Aldo Vos'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'The challenges posed by large data volumes produced by high-throughput nucleotide sequencing technologies are well known. This document establishes ten simple rules for coping with these challenges. At the level of master data management, (1) data triage reduces data volumes; (2) some lossless data representations are much more compact than others; (3) careful management of data replication reduces wasted storage space. At the level of data analysis, (4) automated analysis pipelines obviate the need for storing work files; (5) virtualization reduces the need for data movement and bandwidth consumption; (6) tracking of data and analysis provenance will generate a paper trail to better understand how results were produced. At the level of data access and sharing, (7) careful modeling of data movement patterns reduces bandwidth consumption and haphazard copying; (8) persistent, resolvable identifiers for data reduce ambiguity caused by data movement; (9) sufficient metadata enables more effective collaboration. Finally, because of rapid developments in HTS technologies, (10) agile practices that combine loosely coupled modules operating on standards-compliant data are the best approach for avoiding lock-in. A generalized scenario is presented for data management from initial raw data generation to publication of result data.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049338', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center']]
[u'Allele Surfing Promotes Microbial Adaptation from Standing Variation', ['Matti Gralka', 'Fabian Stiewe', 'Fred Farrell', 'Wolfram Moebius', 'Bartlomiej Waclaw', 'Oskar Hallatschek'], u'April 19, 2016.', u"The coupling of ecology and evolution during range expansions enables mutations to establish at expanding range margins and reach high frequencies. This phenomenon, called allele surfing, is thought to have caused revolutions in the gene pool of many species, most evidently in microbial communities. It has remained unclear, however, under which conditions allele surfing promotes or hinders adaptation. Here, using microbial experiments and simulations, we show that, starting with standing adaptive variation, range expansions generate a larger increase in mean fitness than spatially uniform population expansions. The adaptation gain results from 'soft' selective sweeps emerging from surfing beneficial mutations. The rate of these surfing events is shown to sensitively depend on the strength of genetic drift, which varies among strains and environmental conditions. More generally, allele surfing promotes the rate of adaptation per biomass produced, which could help developing biofilms and other resource-limited populations to cope with environmental challenges.", u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049353', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Departments of Physics and Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720;', u'Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organization, 37077 G\xf6ttingen, Germany;', u'SUPA, School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u"Nonsinusoidal oscillations underlie pathological phase-amplitude coupling in the motor cortex in Parkinson's disease", ['Scott R Cole', 'Erik J Peterson', 'Roemer van der Meij', 'Coralie de Hemptinne', 'Philip A Starr', 'Bradley Voytek'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'Parkinson\'s disease (PD) is associated with abnormal beta oscillations (13-30 Hz) in the basal ganglia and motor cortex (M1). Recent reports show that M1 beta-high gamma (50-200 Hz) phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) is exaggerated in PD and is reduced following acute deep brain stimulation (DBS). Here we analyze invasive M1 electrocorticography recordings in PD patients on and off DBS, and in isolated cervical dystonia patients, and show that M1 beta oscillations are nonsinusoidal, having sharp and asymmetric features. These sharp oscillatory beta features underlie the previously reported PAC, providing an alternative to the standard interpretation of PAC as an interaction between two distinct frequency components. Specifically, the ratio between peak and trough sharpness is nearly perfectly correlated with beta-high gamma PAC (r = 0.96) and predicts PD-related motor deficit. Using a simulation of the local field potential, we demonstrate that sharp oscillatory waves can arise from synchronous synaptic activity. We propose that exaggerated beta-high gamma PAC may actually reflect such synchronous synaptic activity, manifesting as sharp beta oscillations that are "smoothed out" with DBS. These results support the "desynchronization" hypothesis of DBS wherein DBS counteracts pathological synchronization throughout the basal ganglia-thalamocortical loop. We argue that PAC can be influenced by more than one mechanism. In this case synaptic synchrony, rather than the often assumed spike-field coherence, may underlie exaggerated PAC. These often overlooked temporal features of the oscillatory waveform carry critical physiological information about neural processes and dynamics that may lead to better understanding of underlying neuropathology.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049304', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Ocular Motoneuron Pools Develop Along a Dorsoventral Axis in Zebrafish, Danio rerio', ['Marie R. Greaney', 'Ann E. Privorotskiy', "Kristen P. D'Elia", 'David Schoppik'], u'April 19, 2016.', u"Both spatial and temporal cues determine the fate of immature neurons. A major challenge at the interface of developmental and systems neuroscience is to relate this spatiotemporal trajectory of maturation to circuit-level functional organization. This study examined the development of two ocular cranial motor nuclei (nIII and nIV), structures in which a motoneuron's identity, or choice of muscle partner, defines its behavioral role. We used retro-orbital dye fills, in combination with fluorescent markers for motoneuron location and birthdate, to probe spatial and temporal organization of the oculomotor (nIII) and trochlear (nIV) nuclei in the larval zebrafish. We described a dorsoventral organization of the four nIII motoneuron pools, in which inferior and medial rectus motoneurons occupy dorsal nIII, while inferior oblique and superior rectus motoneurons occupy distinct divisions of ventral nIII. Dorsal nIII motoneurons are, moreover, born before motoneurons of ventral nIII and nIV. Order of neurogenesis can therefore account for the dorsoventral organization of nIII and may play a primary role in determining motoneuron identity. We propose that the temporal development of ocular motoneurons plays a key role in assembling a functional oculomotor circuit.", u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049296', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'NYU Langone Medical Center']]
[u'LEM2 and CHMP7 function in ESCRT-dependent nuclear envelope closure in yeast and human cells', ['Mingyu Gu', 'Opal S Chen', 'Dollie Lajoie', 'Mark S Ladinsky', 'Michael J Redd', 'Linda Nikolova', 'Pamela J Bjorkman', 'Katharine S Ullman', 'Wesley I Sundquist', 'Adam Frost'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'ESCRT-III proteins have been implicated in sealing the nuclear envelope in mammals, spindle pole body dynamics in fission yeast, and the clearance of defective nuclear pore complexes in budding yeast. Here, we report that Lem2p (LEM2), a member of the LEM (Lap2-Emerin-Man1) family of inner nuclear membrane proteins, and the ESCRT-II/ESCRT-III hybrid protein Cmp7p (CHMP7), collaborate to recruit ESCRT-III proteins to holes in the nuclear membrane. In fission yeast, deletion of the ATPase vps4 leads to severe defects in nuclear morphology and integrity. These phenotypes are suppressed by loss-of-function mutations that arise spontaneously in lem2 or cmp7, implying that all three function in the same pathway. In mammals, ESCRT factors participate in nuclear envelope reformation in anaphase, and we show that this process similarly depends on both LEM2 and CHMP7. Our observations suggest that Lem2p/LEM2 acts as a site-specific adaptor that recruits Cmp7p/CHMP7 and other ESCRT factors to the nuclear envelope.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049312', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Utah;', u'Cal-Tech;', u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Impact of knowledge accumulation on pathway enrichment analysis', ['Lina Wadi', 'Mona Meyer', 'Joel Weiser', 'Lincoln D Stein', 'Juri Reimand'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'Pathway-based interpretation of gene lists is a staple of genome analysis. It depends on frequently updated gene annotation databases. We analyzed the evolution of gene annotations over the past seven years and found that the vocabulary of pathways and processes has doubled. This strongly impacts practical analysis of genes: 80% of publications we surveyed in 2015 used outdated software that only captured 20% of pathway enrichments apparent in current annotations.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049288', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Guided self-organization recapitulates tissue architecture in a bioengineered brain organoid model', ['Madeline A Lancaster', 'Nina S Corsini', 'Thomas R Burkard', 'Juergen A Knoblich'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'Recently emerging methodology for generating human tissues in vitro has the potential to revolutionize drug discovery and disease research. Currently, three-dimensional cell culture models either rely on the pronounced ability of mammalian cells to self organize in vitro1-6, or use bioengineered constructs to arrange cells in an organ-like configuration7,8. While self-organizing organoids can recapitulate developmental events at a remarkable level of detail, bioengineered constructs excel at reproducibly generating tissue of a desired architecture. Here, we combine these two approaches to reproducibly generate micropatterned human forebrain tissue while maintaining its self-organizing capacity. We utilize poly(lactide-co-glycolide) copolymer (PLGA) fiber microfilaments as a scaffold to generate elongated embryoid bodies and demonstrate that this influences tissue identity. Micropatterned engineered cerebral organoids (enCORs) display enhanced neuroectoderm formation and improved cortical development. Furthermore, we reconstitute the basement membrane at later stages leading to characteristic cortical tissue architecture including formation of a polarized cortical plate and radial units. enCORs provide the first in vitro system for modelling the distinctive radial organization of the cerebral cortex and allow for the study of neuronal migration. We demonstrate their utility by modelling teratogenic effects of ethanol and show that defects in leading process formation may be responsible for the neuronal migration deficits in fetal alcohol syndrome. Our data demonstrate that combining 3D cell culture with bioengineering can significantly enhance tissue identity and architecture, and establish organoid models for teratogenic compounds.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049346', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge Biomedical Campus, Cambridge, UK;', u'IMBA - Institute of Molecular Biotechnology of the Austrian Academy of Science Vienna 1030, Austria;', u'Institute of Molecular Biotechnology']]
[u'Cosmid based mutagenesis causes genetic instability in Streptomyces coelicolor, as shown by targeting of the lipoprotein signal peptidase gene', ['John Tyson Munnoch', 'David A Widdick', 'Govind Chandra', 'Iain C Sutcliffe', 'Tracy Palmer', 'Matthew I Hutchings'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'Bacterial lipoproteins are a class of extracellular proteins tethered to cell membranes by covalently attached lipids. Deleting the lipoprotein signal peptidase (lsp) gene in Streptomyces coelicolor results in growth and developmental defects that cannot be restored by reintroducing the lsp. We report resequencing of the genomes of the wild-type M145 and the cis-complemented \u2206lsp mutant (BJT1004), mapping and identifying secondary mutations, including an insertion into a novel putative small RNA, scr6809. Disruption of scr6809 led to a range of developmental phenotypes. However, these secondary mutations do not increase the efficiency of disrupting lsp suggesting they are not lsp specific suppressors. Instead we suggest that these were induced by introducing the cosmid St4A10\u2206lsp as part of the Redirect mutagenesis protocol, which transiently duplicates a number of important cell division genes. Disruption of lsp using no gene duplication resulted in the previously observed phenotype. We conclude that lsp is not essential in S. coelicolor but loss of lsp does lead to developmental defects due to the loss of lipoproteins from the cell.  Significantly, our results indicate the use of cosmid libraries for the genetic manipulation of bacteria can lead to unexpected phenotypes not necessarily linked to the gene or pathway of interest.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/049320', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of East Anglia;', u'John Innes Centre;', u'Northumbria University;', u'University of Dundee']]
[u'Using Y chromosomal haplogroups in genetic association studies and suggested implications', ['A. Mesut Erzurumluoglu', 'Denis Baird', 'Tom G Richardson', 'Nicholas J Timpson', 'Santiago Rodriguez'], u'April 19, 2016.', u'Y chromosomal (Y-DNA) haplogroups are more widely used in population genetics than in genetic epidemiology, although associations between Y-DNA haplogroups and several traits (including cardio-metabolic traits) have been reported. In apparently homogeneous populations, there is still Y-DNA haplogroup variation which will result from population history. Therefore, hidden stratification and/or differential phenotypic effects by Y-DNA haplogroups could exist. To test this, we hypothesised that stratifying individuals according to their Y-DNA haplogroups before testing associations between autosomal SNPs and phenotypes will yield difference in association. For proof of concept, we derived Y-DNA haplogroups from 6,537 males from two epidemiological cohorts, ALSPAC (N=5,080, 816 Y-DNA SNPs) and 1958 Birth Cohort (N=1,457, 1,849 Y-DNA SNPs). For illustration, we studied well-known associations between 32 SNPs and body mass index (BMI), including associations involving FTO SNPs. Overall, no association was replicated in both cohorts when Y-DNA haplogroups were considered and this suggests that, for BMI at least, there is little evidence of differences in phenotype or gene association by Y-DNA structure. Further studies using other traits, Phenome-wide association studies (PheWAS), haplogroups and/or autosomal SNPs are required to test the generalisability of this approach.', u'/content/early/2016/04/19/048504', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Bristol']]
[u'Metabolic signatures of birth weight in 18288 adolescents and adults', ['Peter Wurtz', 'Qin Wang', 'Marjo Niironen', 'Tuulia Tynkkynen', 'Mika Tiainen', 'Fotios Drenos', 'Antti J Kangas', 'Pasi Soininen', 'Michael Skilton', 'Kauko Heikkila', 'Anneli Pouta', 'Mika Kahonen', 'Terho Lehtimaki', 'Richard J Rose', 'Eero Kajantie', 'Markus Perola', 'Jaakko Kaprio', 'Johan Eriksson', 'Olli Raitakari', 'Debbie A Lawlor', 'George Davey Smith', 'Marjo-Riitta Jarvelin', 'Mika Ala-Korpela', 'Kirsi Auro'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Background: Lower birth weight is associated with increased susceptibility to cardiometabolic diseases in adulthood, but the underlying molecular pathways are incompletely understood. We examined associations of birth weight with a comprehensive metabolic profile measured in adolescents and adults.\nMethods: High-throughput nuclear magnetic resonance metabolomics and biochemical assays were used to quantify 87 circulating metabolic measures in seven cohorts from Finland and the United Kingdom comprising altogether 18 288 individuals (mean age 26 years, range 15-75). Metabolic associations with birth weight were assessed by linear regression models adjusted for sex, gestational age, and age at blood sampling. The metabolic associations with birth weight were compared to the corresponding associations with adult body mass index (BMI).\nResults: Lower birth weight was adversely associated with cardiometabolic biomarkers, including lipoprotein subclasses, fatty acids, amino acids, and markers of inflammation and impaired liver function (P<0.0015 for 46 measures). Associations were consistent across cohorts with different ages at metabolic profiling, but the magnitudes were weak. The pattern of metabolic deviations associated with lower birth weight resembled the metabolic signature of higher adult BMI (R2=0.77). The resemblance indicated that 1-kg lower birth weight is associated with similar metabolic aberrations as caused by 0.92-units higher BMI in adulthood.\nConclusion: Lower birth weight is associated with adverse biomarker aberrations across multiple metabolic pathways. Coherent metabolic signatures between lower birth weight and higher adult adiposity suggest potentially shared underlying molecular mechanisms. However, the magnitudes of metabolic associations with birth weight are modest in comparison to the effects of adiposity, implying that birth weight is only a weak indicator of metabolic risk in adulthood.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049247', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Oulu;', u'Finnish National Institute of Health and Welfare;', u'University of Eastern Finland;', u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Sydney;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'University of Tampere;', u'Indiana University;', u'University of Turku;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Robust generation of transgenic mice by hypotonic shock mediated transgene delivery in testicular germ cells', ['Abul Usmani', 'Nirmalya Ganguli', 'Subodh Jain', 'Nilanjana Ganguli', 'Rajesh Kumar Sarkar', 'Mayank Choubey', 'Hironmoy Sarkar', 'Subeer Majumdar'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Although our ability to decipher gene sequences has increased enormously with the advent of modern sequencing tools, the efficiency of obtaining information about functions of new genes have not increased correspondingly. This is mainly due to lack of advancements in methods of transgenesis. Presently practiced zygotic pronuclear DNA-microinjection is time consuming, tedious and requires highly skilled persons for embryo-manipulation. Hence, we have established an innovative technique for making transgenic mice by hypotonic-shock driven gene delivery in male germ cells. For this, suspension of transgene in hypotonic Tris-HCl solution was delivered in testis non-surgically by simple injection. This resulted in internalization and integration of the transgene in dividing germ-cells by hypotonic-shock leading to generation of transgenic progeny by such males. We have also achieved gene silencing by using construct containing shRNA for specific mRNA.  Several transgenic animals can be generated within short span of time by this easily adaptable novel technique.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049239', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Institute of Immunology;', u'Dr. H. S. Gour University']]
[u'Omics Discovery Index - Discovering and Linking Public Omics Datasets', ['Yasset Perez-Riverol', 'Mingze Bai', 'Felipe Leprevost', 'Silvano Squizzato', 'Young Mi Park', 'Ove Kenneth Haug', 'Adam J. Carroll', 'Dylan Spalding', 'Justin Paschall', 'Mingxun Wang', 'Noemi del-Toro', 'Tobias Ternent', 'Peng Zhang', 'Nicola Buso', 'Nuno Bandeira', 'Eric Deutsch', 'David S. Campbell', 'Ronald C. Beavis', 'Reza Salek', 'Alexey Nesvizhskii', 'Susanna-Assunta Sansone', 'Christoph Steinbeck', 'Rodrigo Lopez', 'Juan Antonio Vizcaino', 'Peipei Ping', 'Henning Hermjakob'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Biomedical data, in particular omics datasets are being generated at an unprecedented rate. This is due to the falling costs of generating experimental data, improved accuracy and better accessibility to different omics platforms such as genomics, proteomics and metabolomics. As a result, the number of deposited datasets in public repositories originating from various omics approaches has increased dramatically in recent years. This increase in public data deposition of omics results is a good starting point, but opens up a series of new challenges. For example the research community must now find more efficient ways for storing, organizing and providing access to biomedical data across platforms. These challenges range from achieving a common representation framework for the datasets and the associated metadata from different omics fields, to the availability of efficient methods, protocols and file formats for data exchange between multiple repositories. Therefore, there is a great need for development of new platforms and applications to make possible to search datasets across different omics fields, making such information accessible to the end-user. \nIn this context, we introduce the Omics Discovery Index (OmicsDI - http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/omicsdi), an integrated and open source platform facilitating the access and dissemination of omics datasets. OmicsDI provides a unique infrastructure to integrate datasets coming from multiple omics studies, including at present proteomics, genomics and metabolomics, as a distributed resource.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049205', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI);', u'School of Bio-information, Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Chongqing, China;', u'Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48109, USA;', u'Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Canberra, 0200, Australia;', u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, USA;', u'Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, Washington, USA.;', u'Biochemistry & Medical Genetics, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, R3T 2N2, Canada.;', u'Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48109, USA.;', u'Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford, 7 Keble Road, OX1 3QG, UK.;', u'Department of Physiology and Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, UCLA, California, USA']]
[u'Heat*seq: an interactive web tool for high-throughput sequencing experiment comparison with public data', ['Guillaume Devailly', 'Anna Mantsoki', 'Anagha Joshi'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Better protocols and decreasing costs have made high-throughput sequencing experiments now accessible even to small experimental laboratories. However, comparing one or few experiments generated by an individual lab to the vast amount of relevant data freely available in the public domain might be limited due to lack of bioinformatics ex-pertise. Though several tools, including genome browsers, allow such comparison at a single gene level, they do not provide a genome-wide view. We developed Heat*seq, a web-tool that allows genome scale comparison of high throughput experiments (ChIP-seq, RNA-seq and CAGE) provided by a user, to the data in the public domain. Heat*seq currently contains over 12,000 experiments across diverse tissue and cell types in human, mouse and dro-sophila. Heat*seq displays interactive correlation heatmaps, with an ability to dynamically subset datasets to contex-tualise user experiments. High quality figures and tables are produced and can be downloaded in multiple formats.\nWeb application: http://www.heatstarseq.roslin.ed.ac.uk/. Source code: https://github.com/gdevailly.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049254', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Membrane binding by CHMP7 coordinates ESCRT-III dependent nuclear envelope reformation', ['Jeremy Carlton', 'Anna Perdrix', 'Yolanda Olmos'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'The Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport-III (ESCRT-III) machinery controls nuclear envelope (NE) reformation during mitotic exit by sealing holes in the reforming NE. It also acts to repair the NE upon rupture. The ESCRT-III component CHMP7 is responsible for recruitment of ESCRT-III to this organelle. Here, we show that the N-terminus of CHMP7, comprising tandem Winged Helix (WH)-domains, is a novel membrane-binding module. This activity allows CHMP7 to bind to the Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER), an organelle contiguous with the NE, and provides a platform to direct NE-localisation of ESCRT-III during mitotic exit. Point mutations that disrupt membrane-binding prevent CHMP7 localising to the ER and its subsequent enrichment at the reforming NE. These mutations prevent both assembly of downstream ESCRT-III components at the reforming NE and proper establishment of post-mitotic nucleo-cytoplasmic compartmentalisation. These data identify a novel membrane-binding activity within an ESCRT-III subunit that is essential for nuclear biogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049221', [u'Cell Biology'], [u"King's College London"]]
[u'Genomic evidence for adaptive evolution of the invasive Asian tiger mosquito towards temperate environment', ['Clement Goubert', 'Helene Henri', 'Guillaume Minard', 'Claire Valiente Moro', 'Patrick Mavingui', 'Cristina Vieira', 'Matthieu Boulesteix'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Invasive species represent unique opportunities to evaluate the role of local adaptation during colonization of new environments. Among these, the Asian tiger mosquito, Aedes albopictus, is a threatening vector of several human viral diseases, including dengue, chikungunya and the emerging Zika fevers. Its broad presence in both temperate and tropical environments has sometimes been considered as the reflect of a great "ecological plasticity". However, no study has been conducted to assess the role of adaptive evolution in the ecological success of Ae. albopictus at the molecular level. In the present study we performed a genomic scan to search for potential signatures of selection leading to local adaptation in a hundred of field collected mosquitoes from native populations of Vietnam and temperate invasive populations of Europe. High throughput genotyping of transposable element insertions generated more than 120 000 polymorphic loci, which in their great majority revealed a virtual absence of structure between bio-geographic areas. Nevertheless, 92 outlier loci show a high level of differentiation between temperate and tropical populations. The majority of these loci segregates at high insertion frequencies among European populations, indicating that this pattern could have been caused by recent events of adaptive evolution in temperate areas. Six outliers were located near putative diapause effector genes, suggesting fine tunning of this critical pathway during local adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049197', [u'Genomics'], [u'UMR CNRS 5558 Laboratoire de Biometrie et de Biologie Evolutive;', u'UMR CNRS 5557 Ecologie Microbienne, Villeurbanne, France; INRA, UMR 1418']]
[u'High-resolution interrogation of functional elements in the noncoding genome', ['Neville E Sanjana', 'Jason Wright', 'Kaijie Zheng', 'Ophir Shalem', 'Pierre Fontanillas', 'Julia Joung', 'Christine Cheng', 'Aviv Regev', 'Feng Zhang'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'The noncoding genome plays a major role in gene regulation and disease yet we lack tools for rapid identification and manipulation of noncoding elements. Here, we develop a large-scale CRISPR screen employing ~18,000 sgRNAs targeting >700 kb of noncoding sequence in an unbiased manner surrounding three genes (NF1, NF2, and CUL3) involved in resistance to the BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib in the BRAF-mutant melanoma cell line A375. We identify specific noncoding locations near genes that modulate drug resistance when mutated. These sites have predictive hallmarks of noncoding function, such as physical interaction with gene promoters, evolutionary conservation and tissue-specific chromatin accessibility. At a subset of identified elements at the CUL3 locus, we show that engineered mutations lead to a loss of gene expression associated with changes in transcription factor occupancy and in long-range and local epigenetic environments, implicating these sites in gene regulation and chemotherapeutic resistance. This demonstration of an unbiased mutagenesis screen across large noncoding regions expands the potential of pooled CRISPR screens for fundamental genomic discovery and for elucidating biologically relevant mechanisms of gene regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049130.1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'NY Genome Center & NYU;', u'Broad Institute;', u'Broad Institute / Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Broad Institute and MIT']]
[u'Discrete step sizes of molecular motors lead to bimodal non-Gaussian velocity distributions under force', ['Huong Vu', 'Shaon Chakrabarti', 'Michael Hinczewski', 'Dave Thirumalai'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Fluctuations in the physical properties of biological machines are inextricably linked to their functions. Distributions of run-lengths and velocities of processive molecular motors, like kinesin- 1, are accessible through single molecule techniques, yet there is lack a rigorous theoretical model for these probabilities up to now. We derive exact analytic results for a kinetic model to predict the resistive force (F ) dependent velocity (P (v)) and run-length (P (n)) distribution functions of generic finitely processive molecular motors that take forward and backward steps on a track. Our theory quantitatively explains the zero force kinesin-1 data for both P(n) and P(v) using the detachment rate as the only parameter, thus allowing us to obtain the variations of these quantities under load. At non-zero F, P(v) is non-Gaussian, and is bimodal with peaks at positive and negative values of v. The prediction that P(v) is bimodal is a consequence of the discrete step-size of kinesin-1, and remains even when the step-size distribution is taken into account. Although the predictions are based on analyses of kinesin-1 data, our results are general and should hold for any processive motor, which walks on a track by taking discrete steps.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049064', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Maryland;', u'Case Western Reserve University']]
[u'Mega-analysis of 31,396 individuals from 6 countries uncovers strong gene-environment interaction for human fertility', ['Felix C Tropf', 'Renske M Verweij', 'Peter J van der Most', 'Gert Stulp', 'Andrew Bakshi', 'Daniel A Briley', 'Matthew Robinson', 'Anastasia Numan', 'Tonu Esko', 'Andres Metspalu', 'Sarah E. Medland', 'Nicholas G. Martin', 'Harold Snieder', 'S Hong Lee', 'Melinda C Mills'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Family and twin studies suggest that up to 50% of individual differences in human fertility within a population might be heritable. However, it remains unclear whether the genes associated with fertility outcomes such as number of children ever born (NEB) or age at first birth (AFB) are the same across geographical and historical environments. By not taking this into account, previous genetic studies implicitly assumed that the genetic effects are constant across time and space. We conduct a mega-analysis applying whole genome methods on 31,396 unrelated men and women from six Western countries. Across all individuals and environments, common single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) explained only  ~4% of the variance in NEB and AFB. We then extend these models to test whether genetic effects are shared across different environments or unique to them. For individuals belonging to the same population and demographic cohort (born before or after the 20th century fertility decline), SNP-based heritability was almost five times higher at 22% for NEB and 19% for AFB. We also found no evidence suggesting that genetic effects on fertility are shared across time and space. Our findings imply that the environment strongly modifies genetic effects on the tempo and quantum of fertility, that currently ongoing natural selection is heterogeneous across environments, and that gene-environment interactions may partly account for missing heritability in fertility. Future research needs to combine efforts from genetic research and from the social sciences to better understand human fertility.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049163', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Groningen;', u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine;', u'University of Queensland;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'Broad Institute of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University;', u'University of Tartu;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute;', u'University of New England']]
[u'Chm7 and Heh1 form a nuclear envelope subdomain for nuclear pore complex quality control', ['Brant M Webster', 'David J Thaller', 'Jens Jaeger', 'Sarah E Ochmann', 'C. Patrick Lusk'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'Mechanisms that ensure the integrity of the nuclear envelope rely on membrane remodeling proteins like the ESCRTs and the AAA ATPase Vps4, which help seal the nuclear envelope at the end of mitosis and prevent the formation of defective nuclear pore complexes (NPCs). Here, we show that the integral inner nuclear membrane proteins Heh1 and Heh2 directly bind the ESCRT-III, Snf7, and the ESCRT-II/III chimera, Chm7, in their "open" forms. Moreover, Heh1 is required for Chm7-recruitment to the nuclear envelope. As Chm7 accumulates on the nuclear envelope upon blocks to NPC assembly, but not to nuclear transport, interactions between ESCRTs and the Heh proteins might form a biochemically distinct nuclear envelope subdomain that delimits regions of assembling NPCs. Interestingly, deletion of CHM7 suppresses the formation of the storage of improperly assembled NPC compartment prevalent in vps4\u0394; strains. Thus, our data support that the Heh1-dependent recruitment of Chm7 is a key component of a quality control pathway whose local regulation by Vps4 and the transmembrane nup, Pom152, prevents loss of nuclear compartmentalization by defective NPCs.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049148', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Yale School of Medicine']]
[u'Did viruses evolve as a distinct supergroup from common ancestors of cells?', ['Ajith Harish', 'Aare Abroi', 'Julian Gough', 'Charles Kurland'], u'April 18, 2016.', u'The evolutionary origins of viruses according to marker gene phylogenies, as well as their relationships to the ancestors of host cells remains unclear. In a recent article Nasir and Caetano-Anoll\xe9s reported that their genome-scale phylogenetic analyses identify an ancient origin of the \u2033viral supergroup\u2033 (Nasir et al (2015) A phylogenomic data-driven exploration of viral origins and evolution. Science Advances, 1(8):e1500527). It suggests that viruses and host cells evolved independently from a universal common ancestor. Examination of their data and phylogenetic methods indicates that systematic errors likely affected the results. Reanalysis of the data with additional tests shows that small-genome attraction artifacts distort their phylogenomic analyses. These new results indicate that their suggestion of a distinct ancestry of the viral supergroup is not well supported by the evidence.', u'/content/early/2016/04/18/049171', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Uppsala University;', u'Estonian Biocentre;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Lund University']]
