[u'Climate change promotes hybridisation between deeply divergent species of European toads', ['Daniele Canestrelli', 'Roberta Bisconti', 'Andrea Chiocchio', 'Luigi Maiorano', 'Mauro Zampiglia', 'Giuseppe Nascetti'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Rare hybridisations between deeply divergent animal species have been reported for decades in a wide range of taxa, but have often remained unexplained, mainly regarded as chance events and, as such, reported as anecdotal. Here, we combine field observations with long-term data concerning natural hybridizations, climate, land-use, and field-validated species distribution models, for two deeply divergent, naturally sympatric, and occasionally interbreeding toad species in Europe, belonging to the Bufo bufo and Bufotes viridis species groups. We show that climate warming and seasonal extreme temperatures are conspiring to set the scene for these maladaptive hybridisations, by differentially affecting life-history traits of both species. Our results identify and provide evidence of an ultimate cause for such events, and reveal that the potential influence of climate change on interspecific hybridisations goes far beyond closely related species. Furthermore, climate projections suggest that the chances for these events will steadily increase in the near future.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/066258', [], [u'Tuscia University;', u'University of Rome La Sapienza']]
[u'Natural selection and maladaptive plasticity in the red-shouldered soapberry bug', ['Meredith Cenzer'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Natural selection and phenotypic plasticity can both produce locally differentiated phenotypes, but novel environments or gene combinations can produce plasticity that works in opposition to adaptive change. The red-shouldered soapberry bug (Jadera haematoloma) was locally adapted to feed on the seeds of an introduced and a native host plant in Florida in the 1980s. By 2014, local differentiation was lost and replaced by phenotypically similar populations all adapted to the introduced host, likely as a result of gene flow. Here, I quantify the effects of these two host plants on individual performance, natural selection, and phenotypic plasticity. I find that the seed coat and seedpod of the native host have strong negative effects on juvenile survival and adult reproduction compared to the introduced host. I find support for the hypothesis that the seedpod is driving diversifying natural selection on beak length, which was previously locally adapted between hosts. I also find maladaptive plasticity induced by host plant: bugs develop beak lengths that are mismatched with the seedpod size of the host they are reared on. This plasticity may be the result of gene flow; hybrids in the 1990s showed the same pattern of maladaptive plasticity, and plasticity is stronger in the present in areas with high gene flow. Although ongoing natural selection has produced locally adapted genotypes in soapberry bugs, maladaptive plasticity has masked the phenotypic difference between populations in the field.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/082016', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'De-novo emergence and template switching of SINE retroposons during the early evolution of passerine birds', ['Alexander Suh', 'Sandra Bachg', 'Stephen Donnellan', 'Leo Joseph', 'Juergen Brosius', 'Jan Ole Kriegs', 'Juergen Schmitz'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Passeriformes ("perching birds" or passerines) make up more than half of all extant bird species. Here, we resolve their deep phylogenetic relationships using presence/absence patterns of short interspersed elements (SINEs), a group of retroposons which is abundant in mammalian genomes but considered largely inactive in avian genomes. The resultant retroposon-based phylogeny provides a powerful and independent corroboration of previous indications derived from sequence-based analyses. Notably, SINE activity began in the common ancestor of Eupasseres (passerines excl. the New Zealand wrens Acanthisittidae) and ceased before the rapid diversification of oscine passerines (songbirds). Furthermore, we find evidence for very recent SINE activity within suboscine passerines, following the emergence of a SINE via acquisition of a different tRNA head as we suggest through template switching. We propose that the early evolution of passerines was unusual among birds in that it was accompanied by activity of SINEs. Their genomic and transcriptomic impact warrants further study in the light of the massive diversification of passerines.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081950', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Uppsala University;', u'University of Muenster;', u'South Australian Museum;', u'CSIRO National Research Collections Australia;', u'LWL-Museum fuer Naturkunde Muenster']]
[u'SimTracker tool and code template to design, manage and analyze neural network model simulations in parallel NEURON', ['Marianne Bezaire', 'Ivan Raikov', 'Kelly Burk', 'Caren Armstrong', 'Ivan Soltesz'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Advances in technical computing enable larger and more detailed neural models that can incorporate ever more of the rapidly expanding body of quantitative neuroscience data. In principle, such complex network models that are strongly constrained by experimental data could direct experimental research and provide novel insights into experimental observations. However, as network models grow in complexity and scale, the necessary tasks of development and organization become unwieldy. Further, the models risk becoming inaccessible to experimentalists and other modelers, and their results may then be seen as less relevant to experimental work. To address these obstacles, we developed a tool for managing simulations called SimTracker. It supports users at each step of the modeling process, including execution of large scale parallel models on supercomputers. SimTracker is suitable for users with a range of modeling experience. SimTracker can be a valuable modeling resource that promotes iterative progress between experiment and model.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081927', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Boston University;', u'Stanford;', u'UC Irvine']]
[u'Pif1-family helicases cooperate to suppress widespread replication fork arrest at tRNA genes', ['Joseph S Osmundson', 'Jayashree Kumar', 'Rani Yeung', 'Duncan J Smith'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes two distinct Pif1-family helicases - Pif1 and Rrm3 - which have been reported to play distinct roles in numerous nuclear processes. Here, we systematically characterize the roles of Pif1 helicases in replisome progression and lagging- strand synthesis in S. cerevisiae. We demonstrate that either Pif1 or Rrm3 redundantly stimulate strand-displacement by DNA polymerase \u03b4; during lagging-strand synthesis. By analyzing replisome mobility in pif1 and rrm3 mutants, we show that Rrm3, with a partially redundant contribution from Pif1, suppresses widespread terminal arrest of the replisome at tRNA genes. Although both head-on and codirectional collisions induce replication fork arrest at tRNA genes, head-on collisions arrest a higher proportion of replisomes; consistent with this observation, we find that head-on collisions between tRNA transcription and replisome progression are under-represented in the S. cerevisiae genome. Further, we demonstrate that tRNA-mediated arrest is R-loop independent, and propose that replisome arrest and DNA damage are mechanistically separable.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/082008', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'New York University']]
[u'Activity Dynamics and Signal Representation in Striatal Network Model with Distance-dependent Connectivity', ['Sebastian Spreizer', 'Martin Angelhuber', 'Jyotika Bahuguna', 'Ad Aertsen', 'Arvind Kumar'], u'October 19, 2016.', u"Striatum is predominantly inhibitory and the main input nucleus of the basal ganglia. A functional characterization of its activity dynamics is crucial for understanding the mechanisms underlying phenomenon such as action selection and initiation. Here, we investigated the effects of the spatial connectivity structure on the emergence and maintenance of localized bumps of activity in large-scale striatal networks (10,000 neurons). We show that in striatal network model in which the distance-dependent connection probability varies in a Gaussian fashion (Gaussian networks), the activity remains asynchronous irregular (AI) and spatially homogeneous, independent of the background input. By contrast, when the distance-dependent connectivity varies according to a Gamma distribution (Gamma networks), with short-range connectivity suppressed, a repertoire of activity dynamics can be observed: While weak background inputs induce spatially homogeneous AI activity, stronger background inputs induce stable, spatially localized activity bumps as in 'winner-take-all' (WTA) dynamics. Interestingly, for intermediate background inputs, the networks exhibit spatially localized, but unstable activity bumps (Transition Activity, TA), resembling the experimentally observed neuronal assembly dynamics in the striatum.\nAmong the three main regimes of network activity (AI, WTA, TA) we found that in the AI and TA regimes, network dynamics are flexible and can be easily modified by external stimuli. Moreover, the dynamical state of the network returns to the baseline after the stimulus is removed. By contrast, the dynamics in the WTA state are rigid and can only be changed by very strong external stimuli. These results support the hypothesis that the flexibility of the striatal network state in response to stimuli is important for its normal function and the 'rigid' network states (WTA) correspond to brain disorders such as Parkinson's disease, where the striatum looses its repertoire of dynamic states and is only receptive to very strong inputs.", u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081752', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Freiburg;', u'Research Centre Juelich;', u'KTH Royal Institute of Technology']]
[u'Linkage disequilibrium dependent architecture of human complex traits reveals action of negative selection', ['Steven Gazal', 'Hilary Finucane', 'Nicholas A Furlotte', 'Po-Ru Loh', 'Pier Francesco Palamara', 'Xuanyao Liu', 'Armin Schoech', 'Brendan Bulik-Sullivan', 'Benjamin M Neale', 'Alexander Gusev', 'Alkes L Price'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Recent work has hinted at the linkage disequilibrium (LD) dependent architecture of human complex traits, where SNPs with low levels of LD (LLD) have larger per-SNP heritability after conditioning on their minor allele frequency (MAF). However, this has not been formally assessed, quantified or biologically interpreted. Here, we analyzed summary statistics from 56 complex diseases and traits (average N = 101,401) by extending stratified LD score regression to continuous annotations. We determined that SNPs with low LLD have significantly larger per-SNP heritability. Roughly half of the LLD signal can be explained by functional annotations that are negatively correlated with LLD, such as DNase I hypersensitivity sites (DHS) and histone marks. The remaining signal is largely driven by MAF-adjusted predicted allele age (P = 2.38 x 10-104), with the youngest 20% of common SNPs explaining 3.9x more heritability than the oldest 20% -substantially larger than MAF-dependent effects (1.8x). We also inferred jointly significant effects of other LD-related annotations, including smaller per-SNP heritability for SNPs in high recombination rate regions, opposite to the direction of the LLD effect but consistent with the Hill-Robertson effect. Effect directions were remarkably consistent across traits, but with varying magnitude. Forward simulations confirmed that these findings are consistent with the action of negative selection on deleterious variants that affect complex traits, complementing efforts to learn about negative selection by analyzing much smaller rare variant data sets.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/082024', [u'Genetics'], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'23andMe, Inc. Mountain View, California;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
[u'Genome-wide meta-analysis of cognitive empathy: heritability, and correlates with sex, neuropsychiatric conditions and brain anatomy', ['Varun Warrier', 'Katrina Grasby', 'Florina Uzefovsky', 'Roberto Toro', 'Paula Smith', 'Bhismadev Chakrabarti', 'Jyoti Khadake', 'Nadia Litterman', 'Jouke-Jan Hottenga', 'Gitta Lubke', 'Dorret I Boomsma', 'Nicholas G Martin', 'Peter K Hatemi', 'Sarah E Medland', 'David A Hinds', 'Thomas Bourgeron', 'Simon Baron-Cohen'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'We conducted a genome-wide meta-analysis of cognitive empathy using the Reading the Mind in the Eyes Test (Eyes Test) in 88,056 Caucasian research participants (44,574 females and 43,482 males) from 23andMe Inc., and an additional 1,497 Caucasian participants (891 females and 606 males) from the Brisbane Longitudinal Twin Study (BLTS). We confirmed a female advantage on the Eyes Test (Cohens d  = 0.21, P < 0.001), and identified a locus in 3p26.1 that is associated with scores on the Eyes Test in females (rs7641347, Pmeta = 1.57 x 10-8). Common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) explained 20% of the twin heritability and 5.6% (\xb1 0.76 ; P = 1.72 x 10-13) of the total trait variance in both sexes. Finally, we identified significant genetic correlation between the Eyes Test and measures of empathy (the Empathy Quotient), openness (NEO-Five Factor Inventory), and different measures of educational attainment and cognitive aptitude, and show that the genetic determinants of striatal volumes (caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens) are positively correlated with the genetic determinants of performance on the Eyes Test.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081844', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Australia.;', u'Autism Research Centre, University of Cambridge;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'University of Reading;', u'NIHR Cambridge BioResource;', u'23andMe;', u'Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Australia;', u'Political Science,Microbiology and Biochemistry, Pennsylvania State University;', u'23andMe Inc.,']]
[u'Dynamic proteomics of HSV1 infection reveals molecular events that govern non-stochastic infection outcomes', ['Nir Drayman', 'Omer Karin', 'Avi Mayo', 'Tamar Danon', 'Lev Shapira', 'Oren Kobiler', 'Uri Alon'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Viral infection is usually studied at the level of cell populations, averaging over hundreds of\nthousands of individual cells. Moreover, measurements are typically done by analyzing a few\ntime points along the infection process. While informative, such measurements are limited in\naddressing how cell variability affects infection outcome. Here we employ dynamic proteomics to\nstudy virus-host interactions, using the human pathogen Herpes Simplex virus 1 as a model. We\ntracked >50,000 individual cells as they respond to HSV1 infection, allowing us to model\ninfection kinetics and link infection outcome (productive or not) with the cell state at the time of initial infection. We find that single cells differ in their preexisting susceptibility to HSV1, and that this is partially mediated by their cell-cycle position. We also identify specific changes in protein levels and localization in infected cells, attesting to the power of the dynamic proteomics approach for studying virus-host interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081653', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science;', u'Tel-Aviv University']]
[u'Reactive Oxygen Species Regulate Activity-Dependent Neuronal Structural Plasticity', ['Matthew C W Oswald', 'Paul S Brooks', 'Maarten F Zwart', 'Amrita Mukherjee', 'Ryan J H West', 'Khomgrit Morarach', 'Sean T Sweeney', 'Matthias Landgraf'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'Neurons adjust their excitability, connectivity and structure in response to changes in activity, yet how neurons sense their activity level remains unclear. We have found that motorneurons cell-autonomously monitor their activity by responding to the levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), a metabolic mitochondrial byproduct. The highly conserved Parkinsons disease-linked protein DJ1b is central to this, acting as a redox sensor to regulate pre- and postsynaptic structural plasticity via activation of the PI3Kinase pathway.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081968', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'HHMI Janelia Research Campus;', u'University of York;', u'Khomgrit Morarach1']]
[u'Combining transcription factor binding affinities with open-chromatin data for accurate gene expression prediction', ['Florian Schmidt', 'Nina Gasparoni', 'Gilles Gasparoni', 'Kathrin Gianmoena', 'Cristina Cadenas', 'Julia K. Polansky', 'Peter Ebert', 'Karl Nordstroem', 'Matthias Barann', 'Anupam Sinha', 'Sebastian Froehler', 'Jieyi Xiong', 'Azim Dehghani Amirabad', 'Fatemeh Behjati Ardakani', 'Barbara Hutter', 'Gideon Zipprich', 'Baerbel Felder', 'Juergen Eils', 'Benedikt Brors', 'Wei Chen', 'Jan G. Hengstler', 'Alf Hamann', 'Thomas Lengauer', 'Philip Rosenstiel', 'Joern Walter', 'Marcel H. Schulz'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'The binding and contribution of transcription factors (TF) to cell specific gene expression is often deduced from open-chromatin measurements to avoid costly TF ChIP-seq assays.\nThus, it is important to develop computational methods for accurate TF binding prediction in open-chromatin regions (OCRs).\nHere, we report a novel segmentation-based method, TEPIC, to predict TF binding by combining sets of OCRs with position weight matrices.\nTEPIC can be applied to various open-chromatin data, e.g. DNaseI-seq and NOMe-seq.\nAdditionally, Histone-Marks (HMs) can be used to identify candidate TF binding sites.\nTEPIC computes TF affinities and uses open-chromatin/HM signal intensity as quantitative measures of TF binding strength.\nUsing machine learning, we find low affinity binding sites to improve our ability to explain gene expression variability compared to the standard presence/absence classification of binding sites.\nFurther, we show that both footprints and peaks capture essential TF binding events and lead to a good prediction performance.\nIn our application, gene-based scores computed by TEPIC with one open-chromatin assay nearly reach the quality of several TF ChIP-seq datasets.\nFinally, these scores correctly predict known transcriptional regulators as illustrated by the application to novel DNaseI-seq and NOMe-seq data for primary human hepatocytes and CD4+ T-cells, respectively.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081935', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Cluster of Excellence on Multimodal Computing and Interaction, Saarland University;', u'Department of Genetics, Saarland University;', u'Leibniz Research Centre for Working Environment and Human Factors IfADo;', u'Experimental Rheumatology, German Rheumatism Research Centre;', u'Computational Biology & Applied Algorithmics, Max Planck Institute for Informatics;', u'Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel;', u'Berlin Institute for Medical Systems Biology, Max-Delbrueck Center for Molecular Medicine;', u'Applied Bioinformatics, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum;', u'Data Management and Genomics IT, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum;', u'Leibniz Research Centre for Working Environment and Human Factors, IfADo;', u'Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrects-University Kiel']]
[u'A regulated environment for micro-organs defines essential conditions for intercellular Ca2+ waves', ['Cody E Narciso', 'Nicholas M Contento', 'Thomas J Storey', 'David J Hoelzle', 'Jeremiah J Zartman'], u'October 19, 2016.', u"The mechanical stress state of an organ is a critical, but still poorly understood, driver of organogenesis and regeneration. Here we report a chip-based regulated environment for micro-organs (REM-Chip) that enables systematic investigations of the crosstalk between an organ's mechanical stress environment and biochemical signaling under a multitude of genetic and chemical perturbations. This method has enabled us to identify essential conditions for generating organ-scale intercellular calcium (Ca2+) waves (ICWs) in Drosophila wing imaginal discs that are also observed in vivo. Spontaneous ICWs require the presence of components in fly extract-based growth serum (FEX). Using the REM-Chip, we demonstrate that the release and not the initial application of mechanical compression is sufficient but not necessary to initiate ICWs. Further, the extent of the Ca2+ response is heterogeneous between discs and correlates with the degree of spontaneous ICWs activity in the pre-stress state. This system and method enable detailed examinations of the interplay between mechanical stress state, biochemical regulatory networks, and physiology in complex, hierarchically organized organ cultures.", u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081869', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Notre Dame;', u'The Ohio State University']]
[u'ULTRAFAST LASER-PROBING SPECTROCOPY FOR STUDYING MOLECULAR STRUCTURE OF POLYMERIC PROTEINS', ['Huihun Jung', 'Chester Szwejkowski', 'Abdon Pena-Francesch', 'Benjamin Allen', 'Sahin Ozdemir', 'Patrick Hopkins', 'Melik Demirel'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'We report the development of a new technique to screen protein crystallinity quantitatively based on laser-probing spectroscopy with sub-picosecond resolution. First, we show theoretically that the temperature dependence of the refractive index of a polymeric protein is correlated to its crystallinity. Then, we performed time-domain thermo-transmission experiments on purified semi-crystalline proteins, both native and recombinant (i.e., silk and squid ring teeth), and also on intact E. coli cells bearing overexpressed recombinant protein. Our results demonstrate, for the first time, quantification of crystallinity in real time for polymeric proteins. Our approach can potentially be used for screening an ultra-large number of polymeric proteins in vivo.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081943', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Penn State;', u'University of Virginia;', u'Washington University, St. Louis']]
[u'Contamination as a major factor in poor Illumina assembly of microbial isolate genomes', ['Haeyoung Jeong', 'Jae-Goo Pan', 'Seung-Hwan Park'], u'October 19, 2016.', u'The nonhybrid hierarchical assembly of PacBio long reads is becoming the most preferred method for obtaining genomes for microbial isolates. On the other hand, among massive numbers of Illumina sequencing reads produced, there is a slim chance of re-evaluating failed microbial genome assembly (high contig number, large total contig size, and/or the presence of low-depth contigs). We generated Illumina-type test datasets with various levels of sequencing error, pretreatment (trimming and error correction), repetitive sequences, contamination, and ploidy from both simulated and real sequencing data and applied k-mer abundance analysis to quickly detect possible diagnostic signatures of poor assemblies. Contamination was the only factor leading to poor assemblies for the test dataset derived from haploid microbial genomes, resulting in an extraordinary peak within low-frequency k-mer range. When thirteen Illumina sequencing reads of microbes belonging to genera Bacillus or Paenibacillus from a single multiplexed run were subjected to a k-mer abundance analysis, all three samples leading to poor assemblies showed peculiar patterns of contamination. Read depth distribution along the contig length indicated that all problematic assemblies suffered from too many contigs with low average read coverage, where 1% to 15% of total reads were mapped to low-coverage contigs. We found that subsampling or filtering out reads having rare k-mers could efficiently remove low-level contaminants and greatly improve the de novo assemblies. An analysis of 16S rRNA genes recruited from reads or contigs and the application of read classification tools originally designed for metagenome analyses can help identify the source of a contamination. The unexpected presence of proteobacterial reads across multiple samples, which had no relevance to our lab environment, implies that such prevalent contamination might have occurred after the DNA preparation step, probably at the place where sequencing service was provided.', u'/content/early/2016/10/19/081885', [u'Genomics'], [u'Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology']]
