[u'The Phenoscape Knowledgebase: tools and APIs for computing across phenotypes from evolutionary diversity and model organisms', ['James P Balhoff'], u'August 28, 2016.', u'The Phenoscape Knowledgebase (KB) is an ontology-driven database that combines existing phenotype annotations from model organism databases with new phenotype annotations from the evolutionary literature. Phenoscape curators have created phenotype annotations for more than 5,000 species and higher taxa, by defining computable phenotype concepts for more than 20,000 character states from over 160 published phylogenetic studies. These phenotype concepts are in the form of Entity-Quality (EQ) compositions which incorporate terms from the Uberon anatomy ontology, the Biospatial Ontology (BSPO), and the Phenotype and Trait Ontology (PATO). Taxonomic concepts are drawn from the Vertebrate Taxonomy Ontology (VTO). This knowledge of comparative biodiversity is linked to potentially relevant developmental genetic mechanisms by importing associations of genes to phenotypic effects and gene expression locations from zebrafish (ZFIN), mouse (MGI), Xenopus (Xenbase), and human (Human Phenotype Ontology project). Thus far, the Phenoscape KB has been used to identify candidate genes for evolutionary phenotypes, to match profiles of ancestral evolutionary variation with gene phenotype profiles, and to combine data across many evolutionary studies by inferring indirectly asserted values within synthetic supermatrices. Here we describe the software architecture of the Phenoscape KB, including data ingestion, integration of OWL reasoning, web service interface, and application features.', u'/content/early/2016/08/28/071951', [], [u'RTI International']]
[u'Deep mutational scanning identifies sites in influenza nucleoprotein that affect viral inhibition by MxA', ['Orr Ashenberg', 'Jai Padmakumar', 'Michael B Doud', 'Jesse Bloom'], u'August 28, 2016.', u'The innate-immune restriction factor MxA inhibits influenza replication by targeting the viral nucleoprotein (NP). Human influenza is more resistant than avian influenza to inhibition by human MxA, and prior work has compared human and avian viral strains to identify amino-acid differences in NP that affect sensitivity to MxA. However, this strategy is limited to identifying sites in NP where mutations that affect MxA sensitivity have fixed during the small number of documented zoonotic transmissions of influenza to humans. Here we use an unbiased deep mutational scanning approach to quantify how all \u224810,000 amino-acid mutations to NP affect MxA sensitivity. We both identify new sites in NP where mutations affect MxA resistance and re-identify mutations known to have increased MxA resistance during historical adaptations of influenza to humans. Most of the sites where mutations have the greatest effect are almost completely conserved across all influenza A viruses, and the amino acids at these sites confer relatively high resistance to MxA. These sites cluster in regions of NP that appear to be important for its recognition by MxA. Overall, our work systematically identifies the sites in influenza nucleoprotein where mutations affect sensitivity to MxA. We also demonstrate a powerful new strategy for identifying regions of viral proteins that affect interactions with host factors.', u'/content/early/2016/08/28/071969', [], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'University of Washington / Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center / University of Washington']]
