[u'In\u2212silico studies of facilitated VEGF(s) \u2212 VEGFR(s) bindings for assessment of Lysine as an indirect Low\u2212Mol\u2212Wt angiogen: Experimental validation of a potential synthetic Low\u2212Mol\u2212Wt angiogen.', ['PRIYANSHU VERMA', 'Aritri Bir', 'Anindita Banerjee', 'Joy Basu', 'Sujoy Kar', 'Sujoy Kumar Samanta', 'Debatosh Datta'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'In\u2212vivo angiogenesis process is highly conserved and is mediated through a family of peptides having VEGF\u2212A as the lead member. A respective receptor family comprising of members VEGFR\u22121, 2, 3 gets expressed on the endothelial cell membrane of the vascular bed in ischemic zone along with parallel expressions of VEGF\u2212A, B, C, D and PlGF. Degree of ischaemia is the main regulator of these coupled expressions of angiogenic peptides/factors (AFs) and respective receptor(s) for a paracrine angiogenic process to take place. Physiological angiogenesis in intrauterine growth phase is the lead process in foetal growth, organogenesis and cellular specialization. Post birth and with aging, this process gets gradually inefficient and slow. In the present in\u2212silico study, all angiogenic factors and receptor species are examined as for their binding stability in basal unaided condition and in presence of a possible Low\u2212Mol\u2212Wt linkage molecule\u2212Lysine. Also a Lysine analogue 1,6\u2212diaminohexanoic acid has been examined for its angiogenic potential both in dry docking experiment and in cell culture assay.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077677', [], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Patna;', u'ICARE Institute of Medical Sciences & Research, Haldia, India;', u'Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, Kolkata, India']]
[u'Mechanisms for Stable Bump Activity, Winner-Take-All and Group Selection in Neuronal Spiking Networks', ['Yanqing Chen'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'A major function of central nervous systems is to discriminate different categories or types of sensory input. Neuronal networks accomplish such tasks by learning different sensory maps at several stages of neural hierarchy, such that different neurons fire selectively to reflect different internal or external patterns and states. The exact mechanisms of such map formation processes in the brain are not totally understood. Here we study the mechanism by which a simple recurrent/reentrant neuronal network accomplish group selection and discrimination to different inputs in order to generate sensory maps. We describe the conditions and mechanism of transition from a rhythmic epileptic state (in which all neurons fire synchronized and indiscriminately to any input) to a winner-take-all state in which only a subset of neurons fire for a specific input. We prove an analytic condition under which a stable bump solution and a soft winner-take-all state can emerge from the local recurrent excitation-inhibition interactions in a three-layer spiking network with distinct excitatory and inhibitory populations, and demonstrate the importance of surround inhibitory connection topology on the stability of dynamic patterns in spiking neural network.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077396', [], [u'The Neurosciences Institute']]
[u'Treadmilling by FtsZ filaments drives peptidoglycan synthesis and bacterial cell division.', ['Alexandre Wilson Bisson Filho', 'Yen-Pang Hsu', 'Georgia Squyres', 'Erkin Kuru', 'Fabai Wu', 'Calum Jukes', 'Cees Dekker', 'Seamus Holden', 'Michael VanNieuwenhze', 'Yves Brun', 'Ethan Garner'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'How bacteria produce a septum to divide in two is not well understood. This process is mediated by periplasmic cell-wall producing enzymes that are positioned by filaments of the cytoplasmic membrane-associated actin FtsA and the tubulin FtsZ (FtsAZ). To understand how these components act in concert to divide cells, we visualized their movements relative to the dynamics of cell wall synthesis during cytokinesis. We find that the division septum is built at discrete sites that move around the division plane. Furthermore, FtsAZ filaments treadmill in circumferential paths around the division ring, pulling along the associated cell-wall-synthesizing enzymes. We show that the rate of FtsZ treadmilling controls both the rate of cell wall synthesis and cell division. The coupling of both the position and activity of the cell wall synthases to FtsAZ treadmilling guides the progressive insertion of new cell wall, synthesizing increasingly small concentric rings to divide the cell.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077560', [], [u'Molecular and Cellular Biology (FAS) Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University;', u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biochemistry, Indiana University;', u'Department of Bionanoscience, Kavli Institute of Nanoscience Delft, Delft University of Technology;', u'Centre for Bacterial Cell Biology, Institute for Cell and Molecular Biosciences, Newcastle Universit;', u'Department of Chemistry, Indiana University;', u'Department of Biology, Indiana University']]
[u'The Opiliones Tree of Life: shedding light on harvestmen relationships through transcriptomics', ['Rosa Fernandez', 'Prashant Sharma', 'Ana LM Tourinho', 'Gonzalo Giribet'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Opiliones are iconic arachnids with a Paleozoic origin and a diversity that reflects ancient biogeographical patterns dating back at least to the times of Pangea. Due to interest in harvestman diversity, evolution and biogeography, their relationships have been thoroughly studied using morphology and PCR-based Sanger approaches to systematics. More recently, two studies utilized transcriptomics-based phylogenomics to explore their basal relationships and diversification, but sampling was limiting for understanding deep evolutionary patterns, as they lacked good taxon representation at the family level. Here we analyze a set of the 14 existing transcriptomes with 40 additional ones generated for this study, representing ca. 80% of the extant familial diversity in Opiliones. Our phylogenetic analyses, including a set of data matrices with different gene occupancy and evolutionary rates, and using a multitude of methods correcting for a diversity of factors affecting phylogenomic data matrices, provide a robust and stable Opiliones tree of life, where most families are precisely placed. Our dating analyses also using alternative calibration points, methods, and analytical parameters provide well-resolved old divergences, consistent with ancient regionalization in Pangea in some groups, and Pangean vicariance in others.  The integration of state-of-the-art molecular techniques and analyses, together with the broadest taxonomic sampling to date presented in a phylogenomic study of harvestmen, provide new insights into harvestmen interrelationships, as well as a general overview of the general biogeographic patterns of this ancient arthropod group.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077594', [], [u'Harvard University;', u'University of Wisconsin - Madison;', u'Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia, Coordenacao de Biodiversidade (CBIO)']]
[u'Synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2C (SV2C) modulates dopamine release and is disrupted in Parkinsons disease', ['Amy R. Dunn', 'Kristen A. Stout', 'Minagi Ozawa', 'Kelly M. Lohr', 'Alison I. Bernstein', 'Yingjie Li', 'Minzheng Wang', 'Carmelo Sgobio', 'Namratha Sastry', 'Huaibin Cai', 'W. Michael Caudle', 'Gary W. Miller'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'The synaptic vesicle glycoprotein 2 (SV2) family of proteins are involved in synaptic function throughout the brain. The ubiquitously expressed SV2A has been widely implicated in epilepsy, though SV2C with its restricted basal ganglia distribution has no known function. SV2C is emerging as a potentially relevant protein in Parkinsons disease (PD), as it is a genetic modifier of nicotine neuroprotection and sensitivity to L-DOPA. Here we identify SV2C as a mediator of dopamine homeostasis and report that disrupted expression of SV2C within the basal ganglia is a pathological feature of PD. Genetic deletion of SV2C leads to reduced dopamine release in the dorsal striatum as measured by fast-scan cyclic voltammetry, reduced striatal dopamine content, disrupted alpha-synuclein expression, deficits in motor function, and alterations in neurochemical effects of nicotine. Further, SV2C expression is dramatically altered in postmortem brain tissue from PD cases, but not in Alzheimers disease, progressive supranuclear palsy or multiple system atrophy. This disruption was paralleled in mice overexpressing mutated -synuclein. These data establish SV2C as a novel mediator of dopamine neuron function and suggest that SV2C disruption is a unique feature of PD that likely contributes to dopaminergic dysfunction.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077586', [], [u'Emory University;', u'National Institutes of Health']]
[u'Logistic proliferation of cells in scratch assays is delayed', ['Wang Jin', 'Esha T Shah', 'Catherine J Penington', 'Scott W McCue', 'Philip K Maini', 'Matthew J Simpson'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Scratch assays are used to study how a population of cells re\u2013colonises a vacant region on a two\u2013dimensional substrate after a cell monolayer is scratched. These experiments are used in many applications including drug design for the treatment of cancer and chronic wounds.  To provide insights into the mechanisms that drive scratch assays, the solution of continuum reaction\u2013diffusion models have been calibrated to data from scratch assays.  These models typically include a logistic source term to model carrying capacity-limited proliferation, however the choice of using a logistic source term is often made without examining whether it is valid.  Here we study the proliferation of PC-3 prostate cancer cells in a scratch assay, and we focus on the proliferation of these cells far away from the scratch.  All experimental results for the scratch assay are compared with equivalent results from a proliferation assay where the cell monolayer is not scratched.  Visual inspection of the evolution of the cell density as a function of time reveals a series of sigmoid curves that could be naively calibrated to the solution of the logistic growth model.  However, careful analysis of the per capita growth rate as a function of density reveals several key differences between the proliferation of cells in scratch and proliferation assays.  The per capita growth rate in the proliferation assay decreases, approximately linearly, with density in the proliferation assay suggesting that the logistic growth model is valid for the entire duration of the proliferation assay.  However, the per capita growth rate in the scratch assay increases with density when the density is sufficiently small in the scratch assay, suggesting that the logistic growth model does not apply.  Instead, guided by data, we find that there are two phases of proliferation in a scratch assay.  At short time we have a disturbance phase where proliferation is not logistic, and this is followed by a growth phase where proliferation appears to be logistic.  Accounting for the differences in the growth and disturbance phase, we obtain biologically realistic estimates of the proliferation rate and carrying capacity density. In contrast, simply calibrating the solution of the logistic growth equation to all data from the scratch assays, we obtain an excellent match between the data and the model, but the parameter estimates vary wildly and are not biologically realistic.  Overall our study shows that simply calibrating the solution of a continuum model to a scratch assay might produce misleading parameter estimates, and this issue can be resolved by making a distinction between the disturbance and growth phases.  Repeating our procedure for other scratch assays will provide insight into the roles of the disturbance and growth phases for different cell lines and scratch assays performed on different substrates.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077388', [], [u'Queensland Univeristy of Technology;', u'Queensland University of Technology;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'A pyrethroid-treated bed net increases host attractiveness for Anopheles gambiae s.s carrying the kdr allele in a dual choice olfactometer', ['Angelique Porciani', 'Malal Mamadou Diop', 'Nicolas Moiroux', 'Tatiana Kadoke-Lambi', 'Anna Cohuet', 'Fabrice Chandre', 'Laurent Dormont', 'Cedric Pennetier'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'The use of long lasting insecticide nets (LLINs) treated with pyrethroid is known for its major contribution in malaria control. However, LLINs are suspected to induce behavioral changes in malaria vectors, which may in turn drastically affect their efficacy against Plasmodium sp. transmission. In sub Saharan Africa, where malaria imposes the heaviest burden, the main malaria vectors are widely resistant to pyrethroids, the insecticide family used on LLINs, which also threatens LLIN efficiency. There is therefore a crucial need for deciphering how insecticide-impregnated materials might affect the host-seeking behavior of malaria vectors in regards to insecticide resistance. In this study, we explored the impact of permethrin-impregnated net on the host attractiveness for Anopheles gambiae mosquitoes, either susceptible to insecticides, or carrying the insecticide resistance conferring allele kdr. Groups of female mosquitoes were released in a dual-choice olfactometer and their movements towards an attractive odor source (a rabbit) protected by insecticide-treated (ITN) or untreated nets (UTN) were monitored. Kdr homozygous mosquitoes, resistant to insecticides, were more attracted by a host behind an ITN than an UTN, while the presence of insecticide on the net did not affect the choice of susceptible mosquitoes. These results suggest that permethrin-impregnated net is detectable by malaria vectors and that the kdr mutation impacts their response to a LLIN protected host. We discuss the implication of these results for malaria vector control.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077552', [], [u'Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement (IRD);', u'CREC;', u'CNRS-CEFE']]
[u'Variational Bayesian parameter estimation techniques for the general linear model', ['Ludger Starke', 'Dirk Ostwald'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Variational Bayes (VB), variational maximum likelihood (VML), restricted maximum likelihood (ReML), and maximum likelihood (ML) are cornerstone parametric statistical estimation techniques in the analysis of functional neuroimaging data. However, the theoretical underpinnings of these model parameter estimation techniques are rarely covered in introductory statistical texts. Because of the widespread  practical use of  VB, VML, ReML, and ML in the neuroimaging community, we reasoned that a theoretical treatment of their relationships and their application in a basic modelling scenario may be helpful for both neuroimaging novices and practitioners alike. In this technical study, we thus revisit the conceptual and formal underpinnings of VB, VML, ReML, and ML and provide a detailed account of their mathematical relationships and implementational details. We further apply VB, VML, ReML, and ML to the general linear model (GLM) with non-spherical error covariance as commonly encountered in the first-level analysis of fMRI data. To this end, we explicitly derive the corresponding free energy objective functions and ensuing iterative algorithms. Finally, in the applied part of our study, we evaluate the parameter and model recovery properties of VB, VML, ReML, and ML, first in an exemplary setting and then in the analysis of experimental fMRI data acquired from a single participant under visual stimulation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077461', [], [u'Freie Universitaet Berlin']]
[u'Managing Uncertainty in Metabolic Network Structure and Improving Predictions Using EnsembleFBA', ['Matthew Biggs', 'Jason A Papin'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Genome-scale metabolic network reconstructions (GENREs) are repositories of knowledge about the metabolic processes that occur in an organism. GENREs have been used to discover and interpret metabolic functions, and to engineer novel network structures. A major barrier preventing more widespread use of GENREs, particularly to study non-model organisms, is the extensive time required to produce a high-quality GENRE. Many automated approaches have been developed which reduce this time requirement, but automatically-reconstructed draft GENREs still require curation before useful predictions can be made. We present a novel ensemble approach to the analysis of GENREs which improves the predictive capabilities of draft GENREs and is compatible with many automated reconstruction approaches. We refer to this new approach as Ensemble Flux Balance Analysis (EnsembleFBA). We validate EnsembleFBA by predicting growth and gene essentiality in the model organism Pseudomonas aeruginosa UCBPP-PA14. We demonstrate how EnsembleFBA can be included in a systems biology workflow by predicting essential genes in six Streptococcus species and mapping the essential genes to small molecule ligands from DrugBank. We found that some metabolic subsystems contribute disproportionately to the set of predicted essential reactions in a way that is unique to each Streptococcus species. These species-specific network structures lead to species-specific outcomes from small molecule interactions. Through these analyses of P. aeruginosa and six Streptococci, we show that ensembles increase the quality of predictions without drastically increasing reconstruction time, thus making GENRE approaches more practical for applications which require predictions for many non-model organisms. All of our functions and accompanying example code are available in an open online repository.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077636', [], [u'University of Virginia']]
[u'An Electrochemistry Study of Cryoelectrolysis in Frozen Physiological Saline', ['Thomas J. Manuel', 'Pujita Munnangi', 'Boris Rubinsky'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'This is the first quantitative study on the fundamental physical and electrochemical processes that occur during cryoelectrolysis. Cryoelectrolysis is a new minimally invasive tissue ablation surgical technique that combines the processes of electrolysis and solid/liquid phase transformation (freezing). We measured the pH front propagation and the changes in resistance in a tissue simulant made of physiological saline gel with a pH dye as a function of the sample temperature in the high subzero range above the eutectic. Results demonstrate that effective electrolysis can occur in a high subzero freezing milieu and that the propagation of the pH front is only weakly dependent on temperature.  These observations are consistent with a mechanism involving ionic movement through the concentrated saline solution channels between ice crystals at subfreezing temperatures above the eutectic.  The Joule heating in these microchannel may cause local microscopic melting, the observed weak dependence of pH front propagation on temperature, and the large changes in resistance with time. In addition, we observed that the pH front propagation from the anode is more rapid than from the cathode. The explanation is the electro-osmotic flow from the cathode to the anode.  The findings in this paper may be of fundamental value for designing future cryoelectrolytic ablation surgery protocols.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077545', [], [u'Mississippi State University;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Scrounging by foragers can resolve the paradox of enrichment', ['Wataru Toyokawa'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Theoretical models of predator-prey system predict that sufficient enrichment of prey can generate large amplitude limit cycles, paradoxically causing a high risk of extinction (the paradox of enrichment). While real ecological communities contain many gregarious species whose foraging behaviour should be influenced by socially transmitted information, few theoretical studies have examined the possibility that social foraging might be a resolution of the paradox. I considered a predator population in which individuals play the producer-scrounger foraging game both in a one-prey-one-predator system and a two-prey-one-predator system. I analysed the stability of a coexisting equilibrium point in the former one-prey system and that of non-equilibrium dynamics of the latter two-prey system. The result showed that social foraging can stabilise both systems and thereby resolves the paradox of enrichment when scrounging behaviour is prevalent in predators. This suggests a previously neglected mechanism underlying a powerful effect of group-living animals on sustainability of ecological communities.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077537', [], [u'University of St Andrews']]
[u'Contribution of de novo non-coding mutations to autism and identification of risk genes from whole-genome sequencing of affected families', ['Yuwen Liu', 'A. Ercument Cicek', 'Yanyu Liang', 'Jinchen Li', 'Rebecca A Muhle', 'Nicholas Knoblauch', 'Martina Krenzer', 'Yue Mei', 'Yan Wang', 'Yi Jiang', 'Even Geller', 'Zhongshan Li', 'Iuliana Ionita-Laza', 'Jinyu Wu', 'Kun Xia', 'James P Noonan', 'Zhong Sheng Sun', 'Xin He'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Analyzing de novo mutations (DNMs) in protein-coding genes from whole-exome sequencing (WES) data has emerged as a powerful tool for mapping risk genes of autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The impact of non-coding mutations in ASD, however, has been largely unknown. This represents a large gap in our understanding of the genetics of ASD, as the majority of GWAS hits for a range of disorders fall into non-coding regions. To address this question, we performed a meta-analysis of DNMs using whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data from more than 300 individuals with ASD. We found that DNMs are enriched within brain transcriptional regulatory elements near genes involved in neuropsychiatric disorders. In these genes and in evolutionarily constrained genes, we also found an excess of DNMs that are predicted to affect pre-mRNA splicing. Collectively, we estimate that non-coding mutations explain at least one third of the ASD genetic risk attributable to DNMs. By combining information of non-coding DNMs with published WES data, we identified three new ASD risk genes at a false discovery rate (FDR) < 0.1, and 11 at a FDR < 0.3. A number of these genes are known to regulate critical processes in neural development and have been associated with other neuropsychiatric disorders. Taken together, our results demonstrate the pathogenic contribution of non-coding DNMs in ASD etiology and highlight some promising ASD risk genes. The analytic tools we provided in this study, for estimating contribution of non-coding mutations to disease risk and for mapping susceptibility genes using both coding and regulatory mutations, are applicable to any WGS studies on DNMs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077578', [], [u'University of Chicago;', u'Bilking University;', u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Yale School of Medicine;', u'The University of Chicago;', u'Wenzhou Medical University;', u'Columbia University;', u'Central South University;', u'Chinese academy of Sciences']]
[u'A fast multi-locus random-SNP-effect EMMA for genome-wide association studies', ['Yang-Jun Wen', 'Hanwen Zhang', 'Jin Zhang', 'Jian-Ying Feng', 'Bo Huang', 'Jim M. Dunwell', 'Yuan-Ming Zhang', 'Rongling Wu'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Although the mixed linear model (MLM) such as efficient mixed model association (EMMA), has been widely used in genome-wide association studies (GWAS), relatively little is known about fast and efficient algorithms to implement multi-locus GWAS. To address this issue, we report a fast multi-locus random-SNP-effect EMMA (FASTmrEMMA). In this method, a new matrix transformation was constructed to obtain a new genetic model that includes only quantitative trait nucleotide (QTN) variation and normal residual error; letting the number of nonzero eigenvalues be one and fixing the polygenic-to-residual variance ratio was used to increase computing speed. All the putative QTNs with the \u22640.005 P-values in the first step of the new method were included in one multi-locus model for true QTN detection. Owing to the multi-locus feature, the Bonferroni correction is replaced by a less stringent selection criterion. Results from analyses of both simulated and real data showed that FASTmrEMMA is more powerful in QTN detection, model fit and robustness, has less bias in QTN effect estimation, and requires less running time than the current single- and multi-locus methodologies for GWAS, such as E-BAYES, SUPER, EMMA, CMLM and ECMLM. Therefore, FASTmrEMMA provides an alternative for multi-locus GWAS.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077404', [u'Genetics'], [u'Nanjing Agricultural University;', u'The University of British Columbia;', u'University of Reading;', u'Huazhong Agricultural University;', u'The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Glutton: large-scale integration of non-model organism transcriptome data for comparative analysis', ['Alan Medlar', 'Laura Laakso', 'Andreia Miraldo', 'Ari Loytynoja'], u'September 26, 2016.', u"High-throughput RNA-seq data has become ubiquitous in the study of non-model organisms, but its use in comparative analysis remains a challenge. Without a reference genome for mapping, sequence data has to be de novo assembled, producing large numbers of short, highly redundant contigs. Preparing these assemblies for comparative analyses requires the removal of redundant isoforms, assignment of orthologs and converting fragmented transcripts into gene alignments. In this article we present Glutton, a novel tool to process transcriptome assemblies for downstream evolutionary analyses. Glutton takes as input a set of fragmented, possibly erroneous transcriptome assemblies. Utilising phylogeny-aware alignment and reference data from a closely related species, it reconstructs one transcript per gene, finds orthologous sequences and produces accurate multiple alignments of coding sequences. We present a comprehensive analysis of Glutton's performance across a wide range of divergence times between study and reference species. We demonstrate the impact choice of assembler has on both the number of alignments and the correctness of ortholog assignment and show substantial improvements over heuristic methods, without sacrificing correctness. Finally, using inference of Darwinian selection as an example of downstream analysis, we show that Glutton-processed RNA-seq data give results comparable to those obtained from full length gene sequences even with distantly related reference species. Glutton is available from http://wasabiapp.org/software/glutton/ and is licensed under the GPLv3.", u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077511', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki;', u'Center for Macroecology and Evolution, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'ImSig: A resource for the identification and quantification of immune signatures in blood and tissue transcriptomics data', ['Ajit Johnson Nirmal', 'Tim Regan', 'Barbara Bo-Ju Shih', 'David Arthur Hume', 'Andrew Harvey Sims', 'Tom Charles Freeman'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'The outcome of many diseases is commonly correlated with the immune response at the site of pathology. The ability to monitor the status of the immune system in situ provides a mechanistic understanding of disease progression, a prognostic assessment and a guide for therapeutic intervention. Global transcriptomic data can be deconvoluted to provide an indication of the cell types present and their activation state, but the gene signatures proposed to date are either disease-specific or have been derived from data generated from isolated cell populations. Here we describe an improved set of immune gene signatures, ImSig, derived based on their co-expression in blood and tissue datasets. ImSig includes validated lists of marker genes for the main immune cell types and a number of core pathways. When used in combination with network analysis, ImSig is an accurate and easy to use approach for monitoring immune phenotypes in transcriptomic data derived from clinical samples.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077487', [u'Immunology'], [u'The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh;', u'Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre, Institute of Genetics & Molecular Medicine, Univ of Edinburgh']]
[u'Co-estimation of Phylogeny-aware Alignment and Phylogenetic Tree', ['Chunxiang Li', 'Alan Medlar', 'Ari Loytynoja'], u'September 26, 2016.', u"The phylogeny-aware alignment algorithm implemented in both PRANK and PAGAN has been found to produce highly accurate alignments for comparative sequence analysis. However, the algorithm's reliance on a guide tree during the alignment process can bias the resulting alignment rendering it unsuitable for phylogenetic inference. To overcome these issues, we have developed a new tool, Canopy, for parallelized iterative search of optimal alignment. Using Canopy, we studied the impact of the guide tree as well as the number and relative divergence of sequences on the accuracy of the alignment and inferred phylogeny. We find that PAGAN is the more robust of the two phylogeny-aware alignment methods to errors in the guide tree, but Canopy largely resolves the guide tree-related biases in PRANK. We demonstrate that, for all experimental settings tested, Canopy produces the most accurate sequence alignments and, further, that the inferred phylogenetic trees are of comparable accuracy to those obtained with the leading alternative method, SAT\xe9. Our analyses also show that, unlike traditional alignment algorithms, the phylogeny-aware algorithm effectively uses the information from denser sequence sampling and produces more accurate alignments when additional closely-related sequences are included. All methods are available for download at http://wasabiapp.org/software.", u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077503', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki']]
[u'The Mstncmpt-Dl1abc mutation impairs secretion of promyostatin', ['Viktor Vasarhelyi', 'Maria Trexler', 'Laszlo Patthy'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Hypermuscularity of Compact mouse is caused by a 12-bp deletion in the myostatin gene, but the molecular basis of decreased myostatin activity is unclear since the deletion does not affect the integrity of the growth factor domain. In the present work we show that the deletion causes misfolding and impaired secretion of myostatin precursor with concomitant decrease in myostatin activity. We suggest that some modifier genes that influence the expression of the Compact phenotype of myostatin mutant MstnCmpt-dl1Abc mice may exert their action through their role in the Unfolded Protein Response.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077412', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Institute of Enzymology, Research Centre for Natural Sciences']]
[u'Brain oscillations and connectivity in autism spectrum disorders (ASD): new approaches to methodology, measurement and modelling', ['Klaus Kessler', 'Robert Al Seymour', 'Gina Rippon'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Although atypical social behaviour remains a key characterisation of ASD, the presence of sensory and perceptual abnormalities has been given a more central role in recent classification changes. An understanding of the origins of such aberrations could thus prove a fruitful focus for ASD research. Early neurocognitive models of ASD suggested that the study of high frequency activity in the brain as a measure of cortical connectivity might provide the key to understanding the neural correlates of sensory and perceptual deviations in ASD. As our review shows, the findings from subsequent research have been inconsistent, with a lack of agreement about the nature of any high frequency disturbances in ASD brains. Based on the application of new techniques using more sophisticated measures of brain synchronisation, direction of information flow, and invoking the coupling between high and low frequency bands, we propose a framework which could reconcile apparently conflicting findings in this area and would be consistent both with emerging neurocognitive models of autism and with the heterogeneity of the condition.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077263', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Aston University']]
