[u'grID: A CRISPR-Cas9 guide RNA Database and Resource for Genome-Editing', ['Vinod Jaskula-Ranga', 'Don J. Zack'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'CRISPR-Cas9 genome-editing is a revolutionary technology that is transforming biological research.  The explosive growth and advances in CRISPR research over the last few years, coupled with the potential for clinical applications and therapeutics, is heralding a new era for genome engineering. To further support this technology platform and to provide a universal CRISPR annotation system, we introduce the grID database (http://crispr.technology), an extensive compilation of gRNA properties including sequence and variations, thermodynamic parameters, off-target analyses, and alternative PAM sites, among others.  To aid in the design of optimal gRNAs, the website is integrated with other prominent databases, providing a wealth of additional resources to guide users from in silico analysis through experimental CRISPR targeting.  Here, we make available all the tools, protocols, and plasmids that are needed for successful CRISPR-based genome targeting.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097352', [], [u'Johns Hopkins School of Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'When Attended and Conscious Perception Deactivates Fronto-Parietal Regions', ['Ausaf A Farooqui', 'Tom Manly'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Conscious and attended perception is commonly thought to elicit fronto-parietal activity. However, supportive evidence comes largely from studies which involve detecting a target and reporting its visibility. This approach confounds conscious perception with goal completion of either the perceptual task of detection or the metacognitive task of introspective reporting. In contrast, in real life such perceptions are a means of achieving goals and rarely a goal in themselves, and almost never involve explicit metacognitive reports. It therefore remains unclear if fronto-parietal activity is indeed a correlate of conscious perception or is the result of confounds related to goal completion. Here we show that conscious and attended perception when delinked from goals does not increase fronto-parietal activity, and when inconsequential for the goal may even deactivate these regions. In experiments 1 and 2 participants attended to a highly visible stream of letters to detect the occasional targets in their midst. The non-target letters, in spite of being visible and attended to, deactivated fronto-parietal regions. In experiment 3 we looked at the activity elicited by a loud auditory cue that had to be kept in memory for up to 9 s and used to select the correct rule for completing the goal. Even such a salient, attended and remembered event did not elicit prefrontal activity. Across these experiments conscious and attended perception only activated the relevant sensory regions while goal completion events activated fronto-parietal regions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097410', [], [u'MRC Cognition & Brain Sciences Unit']]
[u'Environment driven conformational changes modulate H-NS DNA bridging activity', ['Ramon A. van der Valk', 'Jocelyne Vreede', 'Geri F. Moolenaar', 'Andreas Hofmann', 'Nora Goosen', 'Remus T. Dame'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Bacteria frequently need to adapt to altered environmental conditions. Adaptation requires changes in gene expression, often mediated by global regulators of transcription. The nucleoid-associated protein H NS is a key global regulator in Gram-negative bacteria, and is believed to be a crucial player in bacterial chromatin organization via its DNA bridging activity. H NS activity in vivo is modulated by physico-chemical factors (osmolarity, pH, temperature) and interaction partners. Mechanistically it is unclear how functional modulation of H-NS by such factors is achieved. Here, we show that a diverse spectrum of H-NS modulators alter the ability of H-NS to bridge DNA. Changes in monovalent and divalent ion concentrations drive an abrupt switch between a bridging and non-bridging DNA binding mode. Similarly, synergistic and antagonistic co-regulators modulate the DNA bridging efficiency. Structural studies suggest a conserved mechanism: H-NS switches between a \u201cclosed\u201d and an \u201copen\u201d, bridging competent, conformation driven by environmental cues and interaction partners.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097436', [], [u'Leiden Institute of Chemistry, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands;', u'Computational Chemistry, van t Hoff Institute for Molecular Sciences, University of Amsterdam;', u'Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany']]
[u'Tandem duplications lead to novel expression patterns through exon shuffling in D. yakuba', ['Rebekah L. Rogers', 'Ling Shao', 'Kevin R Thornton'], u'December 30, 2016.', u"One common hypothesis to explain the impacts of tandem duplications is that whole gene duplications commonly produce additive changes in gene expression due to copy number changes.  Here, we use genome wide RNA-seq data from a population sample of Drosophila yakuba to test this \u2018gene dosage\u2019 hypothesis.  We observe little evidence of expression changes in response to whole transcript duplication capturing 5' and 3' UTRs.  Among whole gene duplications, we observe evidence that dosage sharing across copies is likely to be common. The lack of expression changes after whole gene duplication suggests that the majority of genes are subject to tight regulatory control and therefore not sensitive to changes in gene copy number.  Rather, we observe changes in expression level due to both shuffling of regulatory elements and the creation of chimeric structures via tandem duplication.  Additionally, we observe 30 de novo gene structures arising from tandem duplications, 23 of which form with expression in the testes.   Thus, the value of tandem duplications is likely to be more intricate than simple changes in gene dosage. The common regulatory effects from chimeric gene formation after tandem duplication may explain their contribution to genome evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097501', [], [u'UNC Charlotte;', u'UC Irvine']]
[u'Comparison of linear spatial filters for identifying oscillatory activity in multichannel data', ['Michael X Cohen'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Background. Large-scale synchronous neural activity produces electrical fields that can be measured by electrodes outside the head, and volume conduction ensures that neural sources can be measured by many electrodes. However, most data analyses in M/EEG research are univariate, meaning each electrode is considered as a separate measurement. Several multivariate linear spatial filtering techniques have been introduced to the cognitive electrophysiology literature, but these techniques are not commonly used; comparisons across filters would be beneficial to the field.  New method. The purpose of this paper is to evaluate and compare the performance of several linear spatial filtering techniques, with a focus on those that use generalized eigendecomposition to facilitate dimensionality reduction and signal-to-noise ratio maximization.  Results. Simulated and empirical data were used to assess the accuracy, signal-to-noise ratio, and interpretability of the spatial filter results. When the simulated signal is powerful, different spatial filters provide convergent results. However, more subtle signals require carefully selected analysis parameters to obtain optimal results.  Comparison with existing methods. Linear spatial filters can be powerful data analysis tools in cognitive electrophysiology, and should be applied more often; on the other hand, spatial filters can latch onto artifacts or produce uninterpretable results.  Conclusions. Hypothesis-driven analyses, careful data inspection, and appropriate parameter selection are necessary to obtain high-quality results when using spatial filters.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097402', [], [u'Radboud University']]
[u'Parallel streams define the temporal dynamics of speech processing across human auditory cortex', ['Liberty S Hamilton', 'Erik Edwards', 'Edward F Chang'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'To derive meaning from speech, we must extract multiple dimensions of concurrent information from incoming speech signals, including phonetic and prosodic cues. Equally important is the detection of acoustic cues that give structure and context to the information we hear, such as sentence boundaries. How the brain organizes this information processing is unknown. Here, using data-driven computational methods on an extensive set of high-density intracranial recordings, we reveal a large-scale partitioning of the entire human speech cortex into two spatially distinct regions that detect important cues for parsing natural speech. These caudal (Zone 1) and rostral (Zone 2) regions work in parallel to detect onsets and prosodic information, respectively, within naturally spoken sentences. In contrast, local processing within each region supports phonetic feature encoding. These findings demonstrate a fundamental organizational property of the human auditory cortex that has been previously unrecognized.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097485', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Training Genotype Callers with Neural Networks', ['Remi Torracinta', 'Fabien Campagne'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'We present an open source software toolkit for training deep learning models to call genotypes in high-throughput sequencing data. The software supports SAM, BAM, CRAM and Goby alignments and the training of models for a variety of experimental assays and analysis protocols. We evaluate this software in the Illumina platinum whole genome datasets and find that a deep learning model trained on 80% of the  genome achieves a 0.986% accuracy on variants (genotype concordance) when trained with 10% of the data from a genome. The software is distributed at https://github.com/CampagneLaboratory/variationanalysis. The software makes it possible to train genotype calling models on consumer hardware with CPUs or GPU(s). It will enable individual investigators and small laboratories to train and evaluate their own models and to make open source contributions. We welcome contributions to extend this early prototype or evaluate its performance on other gold standard datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097469', [], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine;', u'Campagne Laboratory at Weill Cornell Medicine']]
[u'A new improved and extended version of the multicell bacterial simulator gro', ['Martin Eduardo Gutierrez', 'Paula Gregorio-Godoy', 'Guillermo Perez del Pulgar', 'Luis Enrique Munoz', 'Sandra Saez', 'Alfonso Rodriguez-Paton'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'gro is a cell programming language developed in Klavins Lab for simulating colony growth and cell-cell communication. It is used as a synthetic biology prototyping tool for simulating multicellular biocircuits. In this work, we present several extensions made to gro that improve the performance of the simulator, make it easier to use and provide new functionalities. The new version of gro is between one and two orders of magnitude faster than the original version. It is able to grow microbial colonies with up to 105 cells in less than 20 minutes. A new library, CellEngine, accelerates the resolution of spatial physical interactions between growing and dividing cells by implementing a new shoving algorithm. A genetic library, CellPro, based on Probabilistic Timed Automata, simulates gene expression dynamics using simplified and easy to compute digital proteins. We also propose a more convenient language specification layer, ProSpec, based on the idea that proteins drive cell behavior. CellNutrient, another library, implements Monod-based growth and nutrient uptake functionalities. The intercellular signaling management was improved and extended in a library called CellSignals. Finally, bacterial conjugation, another local cell-cell communication process, was added to the simulator. To show the versatility and potential outreach of this version of gro, we provide studies and novel examples ranging from synthetic biology to evolutionary microbiology. We believe that the upgrades implemented for gro have made it into a powerful and fast prototyping tool capable of simulating a large variety of systems and synthetic biology designs.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097444', [], [u'Universidad Polit\xe9cnica de Madrid;', u'Universidad Politecnica de Madrid']]
[u'Interspecific plastome recombination reveals ancient reticulate evolution in Picea (Pinaceae)', ['Alexis R. Sullivan', 'Bastian Schiffthaler', 'Stacey Lee Thompson', 'Nathaniel R. Street', 'Xiao-Ru Wang'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Plastid sequences are a cornerstone in plant systematic studies but key aspects of their evolution, such as uniparental inheritance and absent recombination, are often treated as axioms. While exceptions to these assumptions can profoundly influence evolutionary inference, detecting them can require extensive sampling, abundant sequence data, and detailed testing. Using advancements in highthroughput sequencing, we analyzed the whole plastomes of 65 accessions of Picea, a genus of ~35 coniferous forest trees, to test for deviations from canonical plastome evolution. Using complementary hypothesis and data-driven tests, we found evidence for plastomes generated by interspecific hybridization and recombination in the clade comprising Norway spruce (P. abies) and ten other species. Support for interspecific recombination remained after controlling for sequence saturation, positive selection, and potential alignment artifacts. These results reconcile conflicting plastid-based phylogenies reported in previous studies and strengthen the mounting evidence of reticulate evolution in Picea. Given the relatively high frequency of biparental plastid inheritance and hybridization in plants, we suggest interspecific plastome recombination may be more widespread than currently appreciated and could underlie reported cases of discordant plastid phylogenies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097519', [], [u'Umea University;', u'Dalhousie University']]
[u'Convergence of dispersed regulatory mutations predicts driver genes in prostate cancer', ['Richard C Sallari', 'Nicholas A Sinnott-Armstrong', 'Juliet D French', 'Ken J Kron', 'Jason Ho', 'Jason H Moore', 'Vuk Stambolic', 'Stacey L Edwards', 'Mathieu Lupien', 'Manolis Kellis'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Cancer sequencing predicts driver genes using recurrent protein-altering mutations, but detecting recurrence for non-coding mutations remains unsolved. Here, we present a convergence framework for recurrence analysis of non-coding mutations, using three-dimensional co-localization of epigenomically-defined regions. We define the regulatory plexus of each gene as its cell-type-specific three-dimensional gene-regulatory neighborhood, inferred using Hi-C chromosomal interactions and chromatin state annotations. Using 16 matched tumor-normal prostate transcriptomes, we predict tumor-upregulated genes, and find enriched plexus mutations in distal regulatory regions normally repressed in prostate, suggesting out-of-context de-repression. Using 55 matched tumor-normal prostate genomes, we predict 15 driver genes by convergence of dispersed, low-frequency mutations into high-frequency dysregulatory events along prostate-specific plexi, controlling for mutational heterogeneity across regions, chromatin states, and patients. These play roles in growth signaling, immune evasion, mitochondrial function, and vascularization, suggesting higher-order pathway-level convergence. We experimentally validate the PLCB4 plexus and its ability to affect the canonical PI3K cancer pathway.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097451', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Stanford University;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute;', u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'The replisomes remain spatially proximal throughout the cell cycle in bacteria', ['Sarah M. Mangiameli', 'Brian T. Veit', 'Houra Merrikh', 'Paul A. Wiggins'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'The positioning of the DNA replication machinery (replisome) has been the subject of several studies. Two conflicting models for replisome localization have been proposed: In the Factory Model, sister replisomes remain spatially colocalized as the replicating DNA is translocated through a stationary replication factory. In the Track Mode, sister replisomes translocate independently along a stationary DNA track and the replisomes are spatially separated for the majority of the cell cycle. Here, we used time-lapse imaging to observe and quantify the position of fluorescently labeled processivity-clamp (DnaN) complexes throughout the cell cycle in two highly-divergent bacterial model organisms: Bacillus subtilis and Escherichia coli. Because DnaN is a core component of the replication machinery, its localization patterns should be an appropriate proxy for replisome positioning in general. We present automated statistical analysis of DnaN positioning in large populations, which is essential due to the high degree of cell-to-cell variation. We find that both bacteria show remarkably similar DnaN positioning, where any potential separation of the two replication forks remains below the diffraction limit throughout the majority of the replication cycle. Additionally, the localization pattern of several other core replisome components is consistent with that of DnaN. These data altogether indicate that the two replication forks remain spatially colocalized and mostly function in close proximity throughout the replication cycle.The conservation of the observed localization patterns in these highly divergent species suggests that the subcellular positioning of the replisome is a functionally critical feature of DNA replication.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097303', [], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'FORENSIC POST-MORTEM INTERVAL (PMI) ESTIMATES: VARIATION IN FLY DEVELOPMENTAL TIMES OF INDIVIDUALS', ['Mihaly Foldvari'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Immature stages of flies are paramount in establishing the post-mortem interval (PMI) in forensic practice. My focus is on differences in developmental time that can be influenced by genetic differences or individual life history traits, which latter may be interpreted as life history decisions. \nData of a calliphorid fly species (Lucilia ampullacea) are presented: one female produced 300 eggs within an hour and the individual developmental time varied subsequently to a great extent - when the first flies emerged from their puparia there were still first instar larvae in the food (pig liver) provided.\nIn conclusion the estimated PMI must be based on a wide range of collected flies (not simply the oldest or largest or widest individual), since a limited sample can be one extremity of a potentially bell shaped (Gaussian) frequency distribution of developmental times - unrepresentative sampling will bias the PMI in an unpredictable way. One possible solution can be to use large, randomized samples and their body measurement means.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/064782', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Debrecen, MTA-DE Lend\xfclet Behavioural Ecology Research Group']]
[u'Dopamine Negatively Regulates the NCA Ion Channels in C. elegans', ['Irini Topalidou', 'Kirsten Cooper', 'Michael Ailion'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'The NALCN/NCA ion channel is a cation channel related to voltage-gated sodium and calcium channels. NALCN has been reported to be a sodium leak channel, but its precise cellular role and regulation are unclear. We previously found that NCA-1, one of two Caenorhabditis elegans orthologs of NALCN, is activated by a signal transduction pathway acting downstream of the heterotrimeric G protein Gq and the small GTPase Rho. Using a forward genetic screen, here we identify the GPCR kinase GRK-2 as a new player in the Gq-Rho-NCA pathway. We find that GRK-2 acts in the head acetylcholine neurons to positively regulate locomotion and Gq signaling. Using structure-function analysis, we show that the GPCR phosphorylation and membrane association domains of GRK-2 are required for its function. Our genetic epistasis data suggest that GRK-2 acts on the D2-like dopamine receptor DOP-3 to inhibit Go signaling and positively regulate NCA-1 and NCA-2 activity. We also demonstrate that dopamine, through DOP-3, negatively regulates NCA-1 and NCA-2 function. Thus, dopamine regulates activity of the NCA channels through G protein signaling pathways.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097394', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Bioorthogonal pro-metabolites for profiling short chain fatty acylation', ['Wilson R. Sinclair', 'Thomas T. Zengeya', 'Julie M. Garlick', 'Andrew J. Worth', 'Ian A. Blair', 'Nathaniel W. Snyder', 'Jordan L. Meier'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) play a central role in health and disease. One function of these signaling molecules is to serve as precursors for short chain fatty acylation, a class of metabolically-derived posttranslational modifications (PTMs) that are established by lysine acetyltransferases (KATs) and lysine deacetylases (KDACs). Via this mechanism, short chain fatty acylation serves as an integrated reporter of metabolism as well as KAT and KDAC activity, and has the potential to illuminate the role of these processes in disease. However, few methods to study short chain fatty acylation exist. Here we report a bioorthogonal pro-metabolite strategy for profiling short chain fatty acylation in living cells. Inspired by the dietary component tributyrin, we synthesized a panel of ester-caged bioorthogonal short chain fatty acids. Cellular evaluation of these agents led to the discovery of an azido-ester that is metabolized to its cognate acyl-coenzyme A (CoA) and affords robust protein labeling profiles. We comprehensively characterize the metabolic dependence, toxicity, and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitory activity of these bioorthogonal pro-metabolites, and apply an optimized probe to identify novel candidate protein targets of short chain fatty acids in cells. Our studies showcase the utility of bioorthogonal pro-metabolites for unbiased profiling of cellular protein acylation, and suggest new approaches for studying the signaling functions of SCFAs in differentiation and disease.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097360', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Chemical Biology Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute;', u'Penn SRP Center, Center of Excellence in Environmental Toxicology, University of Pennsylvania;', u'Drexel University, A.J. Drexel Autism Institute']]
[u'Choreography of budding yeast chromosomes during the cell cycle', ['Luciana Lazar-Stefanita', 'Vittore Scolari', 'Guillaume Mercy', 'Agnes Thierry', 'Heloise Muller', 'Julien Mozziconacci', 'Romain Koszul'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'To ensure the proper transmission of the genetic information, DNA molecules must be faithfully duplicated and segregated. These processes involve dynamic modifications of chromosomes internal structure to promote their individualization, as well as their global re-positioning into daughter cells (Guacci et al., 1994; Kleckner et al., 2014; Mizuguchi et al., 2014). In eukaryotes, these events are regulated by conserved architectural proteins, such as structural maintenance of chromosomes (SMC i.e. cohesin and condensin) complexes (Aragon et al., 2013a; Uhlmann, 2016). Although the roles of these factors have been actively investigated, the genome-wide chromosomal architecture and dynamics both at small and large-scales during cell division remains elusive. Here we report a comprehensive Hi-C (Dekker et al., 2002; Lieberman-Aiden et al., 2009) analysis of the dynamic changes of chromosomes structure over the Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell cycle. We uncover specific SMC-dependent structural transitions between the different phases of the mitotic cycle. During replication, cohesion establishment promotes the increase of long-range intra-chromosomal contacts. This process correlates with the individualization of chromosomes, which culminates at metaphase. Mitotic chromosomes are then abruptly reorganized in anaphase by the mechanical forces exerted by the mitotic spindle on the centromere cluster. The formation of a condensin-dependent loop, that bridges centromere cluster with the cen-proximal flanking region of the rDNA, suggests that these forces may directly facilitate nucleolus segregation. This work provides a comprehensive overview of chromosome dynamics during the cell cycle of a unicellular eukaryote that recapitulates and unveils new features of highly conserved stages of the cell division.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/096826', [u'Genetics'], [u'Institut Pasteur;', u'UPMC']]
[u'MrTADFinder: A network modularity based approach to identify topologically associating domains in multiple resolutions', ['Koon-Kiu Yan', 'Mark Gerstein'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Genome-wide proximity ligation based assays such as Hi-C have revealed that eukaryotic genomes are organized into structural units called topologically associating domains (TADs). From a visual examination of the so-called chromosomal contact map, however, it is clear that the organization of the domains is not precisely defined. Instead, TADs exhibit various length scales, and in many cases nested organization can also be found. Here, by exploiting the resemblance between TADs in a chromosomal contact map and densely connected modules in a network, we formulate TAD identification as an optimization problem and propose an algorithm, MrTADFinder, to identify TADs from intra-chromosomal contact maps. MrTADFinder is based on the concept of modularity. A key component is to derive a background model for any given contact map, by numerically solving a set of matrix equations. The background model preserves the coverage of each genomic bin as well as the distance dependence of contact frequency for any pair of bins exhibited by the empirical map. Also, by introducing a tunable resolution parameter, MrTADFinder provides a self-consistent approach to identify TADs at different length scales, or resolutions. At a low resolution, larger TADs are found whereas, at a high resolution, smaller TADs are identified. We then apply MrTADFinder to identify TADs in various Hi-C datasets. The identified domains exhibit boundary signatures that are consistent with the earlier works. Moreover, by calling TADs at different resolutions, we observe that boundary signatures change with respect to the resolution, and different chromatin features may have different characteristic resolutions. We then report an enrichment of HOT regions near TAD boundaries and investigate the role of different transcription factors in determining domain borders at various resolutions. To further explore the interplay between domains organization and epigenomic features, we examine a distinctive pattern exhibited by the distribution of somatic mutations across boundaries. Overall, MrTADFinder provides a novel computational framework to explore the multi-scale structures stored in Hi-C contact maps.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097345', [u'Genomics'], [u'Yale University']]
[u'Microprocessor dynamics shows co- and post-transcriptional processing of pri-miRNAs', ['Annita Louloupi', 'Evgenia Ntini', 'Julia Liz', 'Ulf A Orom'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'miRNAs are small regulatory RNAs involved in the regulation of translation of target\ntranscripts. miRNA biogenesis is a multi-step process starting with the cleavage of the\nprimary miRNA transcript in the nucleus by the Microprocessor complex. Endogenous\nprocessing of pri-miRNAs is challenging to study and the in vivo kinetics of this process is\nnot known. Here, we present a method for determining the processing kinetics of pri-miRNAs\nwithin intact cells over time using a pulse-chase approach to obtain nascent RNA within a 1-\nhour window after labeling with bromouridine. We show, that pri-miRNAs exhibit different\nprocessing kinetics ranging from fast over intermediate to slow processing and provide\nevidence that pri-miRNA processing can occur both co-transcriptionally and post18\ntranscriptionally.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097311', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics']]
[u'Tracking stem cell differentiation without biomarkers using pattern recognition and phase contrast imaging', ['John Duncan Delaney', 'Yuhki Nakatake', 'David Mark Eckley', 'Nikita V. Orlov', 'Christopher Edmond Coletta', 'Chris Chen', 'Minoru S. Ko', 'Ilya Gregory Goldberg'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Bio-image informatics is the systematic application of image analysis algorithms to large image datasets to provide an objective method for accurately and consistently scoring image data. Within this field, pattern recognition (PR) is a form of supervised machine learning where the computer identifies relevant patterns in groups (classes) of images after being trained on examples.  Rather than segmentation, image-specific algorithms or adjustable parameter sets, PR relies on extracting a common set of image descriptors (features) from the entire image to determine similarities and differences between image classes.\nGross morphology can be the only available description of biological systems prior to their molecular characterization, but these descriptions can be subjective and qualitative.  In principle, generalized PR can provide an objective and quantitative characterization of gross morphology, thus providing a means of computationally defining morphological biomarkers. In this study, we investigated the potential of a pattern recognition approach to a problem traditionally addressed using genetic or biochemical biomarkers. Often these molecular biomarkers are unavailable for investigating biological processes that are not well characterized, such as the initial steps of stem cell differentiation.\n\tHere we use a general contrast technique combined with generalized PR software to detect subtle differences in cellular morphology present in early differentiation events in murine embryonic stem cells (mESC) induced to differentiate by the overexpression of selected transcription factors.  Without the use of reporters, or a priori knowledge of the relevant morphological characteristics, we identified the earliest differentiation event (3 days), reproducibly distinguished eight morphological trajectories, and correlated morphological trajectories of 40 mESC clones with previous micro-array data.  Interestingly, the six transcription factors that caused the greatest morphological divergence from an ESC-like state were previously shown by expression profiling to have the greatest influence on the expression of downstream genes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097329', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Institute on Aging;', u'Keio University;', u'University of Maryland School of Medicine;', u'Keio University School Of Medicine;', u'Mind Share Medical']]
[u'Parallel adaptation to higher temperatures in divergent clades of the nematode Pristionchus pacificus', ['Mark Leaver', 'Merve Kayhan', 'Angela McGaughran', 'Christian Roedelsperger', 'Anthony A Hyman', 'Ralf Sommer'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Studying the effect of temperature on fertility is particularly important in the light of ongoing climate change. We need to know if organisms can adapt to higher temperatures and, if so, what are the evolutionary mechanisms behind such adaptation.  Such studies have been hampered by the lack different populations of sufficient sizes with which to relate the phenotype of temperature tolerance to the underlying genotypes.   Here, we examined temperature adaptation in populations of the nematode Pristionchus pacificus, in which individual strains are able to successfully reproduce at 30\xb0C. Analysis of the frequency of heat tolerant strains in different temperature zones on La Reunion supports that this trait is subject to natural selection. Reconstruction of ancestral states along the phylogeny of highly differentiated P. pacificus clades suggests that heat tolerance evolved multiple times independently. This is further supported by genome wide association studies showing that heat tolerance is a polygenic trait and that different loci are used by individual P. pacificus clades to develop heat tolerance. More precisely, analysis of allele frequencies indicated that most genetic markers that are associated with heat tolerance are only polymorphic in individual clades. While in some P. pacificus clades, parallel evolution of heat tolerance can be explained by ancestral polymorphism or by gene flow across clades, we observe at least one clearly distinct and independent scenario where heat tolerance emerged by de novo mutation. Thus, temperature tolerance evolved at least two times independently in the evolutionary history of this species.   Our data suggest that studies of wild populations of P. pacificus will reveal distinct cellular mechanisms driving temperature adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/096727', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics;', u'Bilkent University;', u'Australian National University;', u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology;', u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and genetics']]
[u'Spatial specificity of the functional MRI blood oxygenation response relative to neuronal activity', ['Denis Chaimow', 'Essa Yacoub', 'Kamil Ugurbil', 'Amir Shmuel'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Previous attempts at characterizing the spatial specificity of the blood oxygenation level dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI) response by estimating its point-spread function (PSF) have conventionally relied on spatial representations of visual stimuli in area V1. Consequently, their estimates were confounded by the width and scatter of receptive fields of V1 neurons. Here, we circumvent these limits by instead using the inherent cortical spatial organization of ocular dominance columns (ODCs) to determine the PSF for both Gradient Echo (GE) and Spin Echo (SE) BOLD imaging at 7 Tesla. By applying Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling on a probabilistic generative model of imaging ODCs, we quantified the PSFs that best predict the spatial structure and magnitude of differential responses of ODCs. Prior distributions for the ODC model parameters were determined by analyzing published data of cytochrome oxidase patterns from post-mortem histology of human V1 and of neurophysiological ocular dominance indices. The most probable PSF full-widths at half maximum were 0.82 mm (SE) and 1.02 mm (GE). Our results provide a quantitative basis for the spatial specificity of BOLD fMRI at ultra-high fields, which can be used for planning and interpretation of high-resolution differential fMRI of fine-scale cortical organizations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097287', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CMRR, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA;', u'MNI, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada']]
[u'A more accurate account of the effect of k-space sampling and signal decay on the effective spatial resolution in functional MRI', ['Denis Chaimow', 'Amir Shmuel'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'The effects of k-space sampling and signal decay on the effective spatial resolution of MRI and functional MRI (fMRI) are commonly assessed by means of the magnitude point-spread function (PSF), defined as the absolute values(magnitudes) of the complex MR imaging PSF. It is commonly assumed that this magnitude PSF signifies blurring, which can be quantified by its full-width at half-maximum (FWHM). Here we show that the magnitude PSF fails to accurately represent the true effects of k-space sampling and signal decay. Firstly, a substantial part of the width of the magnitude PSF is due to MRI sampling per se. This part is independent of any signal decay and its effect depends on the spatial frequency composition of the imaged object. Therefore, it cannot always be expected to introduce blurring. Secondly, MRI reconstruction is typically followed by taking the absolute values (magnitude image) of the reconstructed complex image. This introduces a non-linear stage into the process of image formation. The complex imaging PSF does not fully describe this process, since it does not reflect the stage of taking the magnitude image. Its corresponding magnitude PSF fails to correctly describe this process, since convolving the original pattern with the magnitude PSF is different from the true process of taking the absolute following a convolution with the complex imaging PSF. Lastly, signal decay can have not only a blurring, but also a high-pass filtering effect. This cannot be reflected by the strictly positive width of the magnitude PSF.\n\nAs an alternative, we propose to first approximate the MRI process linearly. We then model the linear approximation by decomposing it into a signal decay-independent MR sampling part and an approximation of the signal decay effect. We approximate the latter as a convolution with a Gaussian PSF or, if the effect is that of high-pass filtering, as reversing the effect of a convolution with a Gaussian PSF. We show that for typical high-resolution fMRI at 7 Tesla, signal decay in Spin-Echo has a moderate blurring effect (FWHM = 0.89 voxels, corresponds to 0.44 mm for 0.5 mm wide voxels). In contrast, Gradient-Echo acts as a moderate high-pass filter that can be interpreted as reversing a Gaussian blurring with FWHM = 0.59 voxels (0.30 mm for 0.5 mm wide voxels). Our improved approximations and findings hold not only for Gradient-Echo and Spin-Echo fMRI but also for GRASE and VASO fMRI. Our findings support the correct planning, interpretation, and modeling of high resolution fMRI.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097154', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CMRR, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA;', u'MNI, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; CMRR, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA;']]
[u'DeepScope: Nonintrusive Whole Slide Saliency Annotation and Prediction from Pathologists at the Microscope', ['Andrew J Schaumberg', 'Sahussapont Joseph Sirintrapun', 'Hikmat A Al-Ahmadie', 'Peter J Schueffler', 'Thomas J Fuchs'], u'December 29, 2016.', u"Modern digital pathology departments have grown to produce whole-slide image data at petabyte scale, an unprecedented treasure chest for medical machine learning tasks.  Unfortunately, most digital slides are not annotated at the image level, hindering large-scale application of supervised learning.  Manual labeling is prohibitive, requiring pathologists with decades of training and outstanding clinical service responsibilities.  This problem is further aggravated by the United States Food and Drug Administration's ruling that primary diagnosis must come from a glass slide rather than a digital image.  We present the first end-to-end framework to overcome this problem, gathering annotations in a nonintrusive manner during a pathologist's routine clinical work: (i) microscope-specific 3D-printed commodity camera mounts are used to video record the glass-slide-based clinical diagnosis process; (ii) after routine scanning of the whole slide, the video frames are registered to the digital slide; (iii) motion and observation time are estimated to generate a spatial and temporal saliency map of the whole slide.  Demonstrating the utility of these annotations, we train a convolutional neural network that detects diagnosis-relevant salient regions, then report accuracy of 85.15% in bladder and 91.50% in prostate, with 75.00% accuracy when training on prostate but predicting in bladder, despite different pathologists examining the different tissues.", u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097246', [u'Pathology'], [u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer']]
[u'An efficient targeted nuclease strategy for high-resolution mapping of DNA binding sites', ['Peter J. Skene', 'Steven Henikoff'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'We describe Cleavage Under Targets and Release Using Nuclease (CUT&RUN), a chromatin profiling strategy in which antibody-targeted controlled cleavage by micrococcal nuclease releases specific protein-DNA complexes into the supernatant for paired-end DNA sequencing. Unlike Chromatin Immunoprecipitation (ChIP), which fragments and solubilizes total chromatin, CUT&RUN is performed in situ, allowing for both quantitative high-resolution chromatin mapping and probing of the local chromatin environment. When applied to yeast and human nuclei, CUT&RUN yielded precise transcription factor profiles while avoiding cross-linking and solubilization issues. CUT&RUN is simple to perform and is inherently robust, with extremely low backgrounds requiring only ~1/10th the sequencing depth as ChIP, making CUT&RUN especially cost-effective for transcription factor and chromatin profiling. When used in conjunction with native ChIP-seq and applied to human CTCF, CUT&RUN mapped directional long range contacts at high resolution. We conclude that in situ mapping of protein-DNA interactions by CUT&RUN is an attractive alternative to ChIP-seq.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097188', [u'Genomics'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Metagenomic Characteristics of Bacterial Response to Petroleum Hydrocarbon Contamination in Diverse Environments as Revealed by Functional Taxonomic Strategies', ['Arghya Mukherjee', 'Bobby Chettri', 'James S. Langpoklakpam', 'Pijush Basak', 'Aravind Prasad', 'Ashis K. Mukherjee', 'Maitree Bhattacharyya', 'Arvind K. Singh', 'Dhrubajyoti Chattopadhyay'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Microbial remediation of oil polluted habitats remains one of the foremost methods for restoration of petroleum hydrocarbon contaminated environments. The development of effective bioremediation strategies however, require an extensive understanding of the resident microbiome of these habitats. Recent developments such as high-throughput sequencing has greatly facilitated the advancement of microbial ecological studies in oil polluted habitats. However, effective interpretation of biological characteristics from these large datasets remains a considerable challenge. In this study, we have implemented recently developed bioinformatic tools for analyzing 65 publicly available 16S rRNA datasets from 12 diverse hydrocarbon polluted habitats to decipher metagenomic characteristics of bacterial communities of the same. We have comprehensively described phylogenetic and functional compositions of these habitats and additionally inferred a multitude of metagenomic features including 255 taxa and 414 functional modules which can be used as biomarkers for effective distinction between the 12 oil polluted sites. We have identified essential metabolic signatures and also showed that significantly over-represented taxa often contribute to either or both, hydrocarbon degradation and additional important functions. Our findings reveal significant differences between hydrocarbon contaminated sites and establishes the importance of endemic factors in addition to petroleum hydrocarbons as driving factors for sculpting hydrocarbon contaminated bacteriomes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097063', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Universty of Calcutta;', u'North-Eastern Hill University;', u'University of Calcutta;', u'Bioinformatics Resources and Applications Facility, Centre for Development of Advance Computing;', u'Tezpur University;', u'University of Caclutta']]
[u'Fast Assembling of Neuron Fragments in Serial 3D Sections', ['Hanbo Chen', 'Daniel M. Iascone', 'Nuno Macarico da Costa', 'Ed Lein', 'Tianming Liu', 'Hanchuan Peng'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Reconstructing neurons from 3D image-stacks of serial sections of thick brain tissue is very time-consuming and often becomes a bottleneck in high-throughput brain mapping projects. We developed NeuronStitcher, a software suite for stitching non-overlapping neuron fragments reconstructed in serial 3D image sections. With its efficient algorithm and user-friendly interface, NeuronStitcher has been used successfully to reconstruct very large and complex human and mouse neurons.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097253', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Georgia, Athen, GA, USA;', u'Columbia University, New York, NY, USA;', u'Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA']]
[u'Electro-diffusion modulation of synaptic input in dendritic spines using deconvolved voltage sensor time series', ['Jerome Cartailler', 'TK Kwon', 'Rafael Yuste', 'David Holcman'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'The inward current flowing inside the post-synaptic terminal of a neuron modulates transiently the membrane voltage potential. Most of the excitatory connections are made on dendritic spines characterized by a large variability in their geometry. How the voltage in a spine is modulated by geometry remains elusive due in part to the absence of direct measurements. To understand the spine voltage-current relation, we combine live cell imaging data and a model for the voltage to extract electrical properties.  We first deconvolve the genetically encoded voltage sensor expressed in hippocampal neurons and then use electro-diffusion theory, to compute the electric field and the ionic flows induced in a dendritic spine. The ionic flow is driven by the electric field coupled to the charge densities that interact through the non-cylindrical spine geometry.Thus modulating the postsynaptic current can be achieved by changing the number of receptors or by altering the spine geometry which independently affects the transformation of current into voltage.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097279', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'ENS;', u'Columbia']]
[u"Peripheral Htt silencing does not ameliorate central signs of disease in the B6.HttQ111/+ mouse model of Huntington's Disease", ['Sydney Coffey', 'Robert M Bragg', 'Shawn Minnig', 'Seth A Ament', 'Anne Glickenhaus', 'Daniel Shelnut', 'Jose Carrillo', 'Dominic D Shuttleworth', 'Julie-Anne Rodier', 'Kimihiro Noguchi', 'C. Frank Bennet', 'Nathan D Price', 'Holly B Kordasiewicz', 'Jeffrey B Carroll'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Huntingtons disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease whose neuropathological signature is a selective loss of medium spiny neurons in the striatum.  Despite this selective neuropathology, the mutant protein (huntingtin) is found in virtually every cell so far studied, and, consequently, phenotypes are observed in a wide range of organ systems both inside and outside the central nervous system.  We, and others, have suggested that peripheral dysfunction could contribute to the rate of progression of striatal phenotypes of HD.  To test this hypothesis, we lowered levels of huntingtin by treating mice with antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) targeting the murine Huntingtin gene.  To study the relationship between peripheral huntingtin levels and striatal HD phenotypes, we utilized a knock-in model of the human HD mutation (the B6.HttQ111/+ mouse).  We treated mice with ASOs from 2-10 months of age, a time period over which significant HD-relevant signs progressively develop in the brains of HttQ111+ mice.  Peripheral treatment with ASOs led to persistent reduction of huntingtin protein in peripheral organs, including liver, brown and white adipose tissues.  This reduction was not associated with alterations in the severity of HD-relevant signs in the striatum of HttQ111/+ mice at the end of the study, including transcriptional dysregulation, the accumulation of neuronal intranuclear inclusions, and behavioral changes such as subtle hypoactivity and reduced exploratory drive.  These results suggest that the amount of peripheral reduction achieved in the current study does not significantly impact the progression of HD-relevant signs in the central nervous system.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/096990', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Western Washington University;', u'University of Maryland;', u'Universite Grenoble Alpes;', u'Ionis Pharmaceuticals;', u'Institute for Systems Biology']]
[u'Rab5-mediated Yolk Endocytosis modulates Zebrafish Epiboly Biomechanics and Tissue Movements', ['Maria Marsal', 'Amayra Hernandez-Vega', 'Philippe-Alexandre Pouille', 'Enrique Martin-Blanco'], u'December 29, 2016.', u'Morphogenesis in early embryos demands the coordinated allocation of cells and tissues to their final end in a spatio-temporal controlled way. Topographical and scalar differences in adhesion and contractility are essential for these morphogenetic movements, while less clear are the roles that membrane remodeling (reviewed in [1]) may have. To determine how surface turnover may modulate tissue arrangements during embryogenesis we resorted to study epiboly in the zebrafish. Experimental analyses and modeling have shown that the expansion of the blastoderm during epiboly relies on an asymmetry of mechanical tension along the embryo surface [2]. In this scenario, we found that membrane turnover at the external yolk syncitial layer (E-YSL) in early zebrafish is mainly directed by the GTPase rab5ab. rab5ab was essential for endocytosis, and interference in its expression resulted in reduction of yolk acto-myosin contractility, disruption of cortical and internal flows, a disequilibrium in force balance and epiboly impairment. We conclude that regulated membrane remodelling is crucial for directing cell and tissue mechanics and coordinating morphogenetic movements.', u'/content/early/2016/12/29/097212', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'IBMB (CSIC)']]
