[u'Feasibility Study of an Optical Caustic Plasmonic Light Scattering Sensor for Human Serum Anti-Dengue Protein E Antibody Detection', ['Antonio A Garcia', 'Lina S. Franco', 'M A Pirez-Gomez', 'J. L. Pech-Pacheco', 'J. F. Mendez-Galvan', 'C. Machain-Williams', 'L. Talavera-Aguilar', 'J. H. Espinosa-Carrillo', 'M. M. Duarte-Villasenor', 'Ch. J. Be Ortiz', 'L. E. Espinosa de los Monteros', 'A. Castillo-Pacheco', 'J. E. Garcia-Rejon', 'B. Chavez'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Antibody detection and accurate diagnosis of tropical diseases is essential to help prevent the spread of disease. However, most detection methods lack cost-effectiveness and field-portability, which are essential features for achieving diagnosis in a timely manner in developing countries. To address this problem, transparent 3D printed sample chambers with a total volume of 700 microliters and an oblate spheroid shape were fabricated to measure green light scattering of gold nanoparticles using an optical caustic focus to detect antibodies.  Scattering signals from 90 degree scattering of 20, 40, 50, 60, 80, 100, and 200 nm gold nanoparticles using a green laser and standard quartz cuvette were compared to the scattering signals from a green LED light source with an oblate spheroid sample chamber and to Mie theory by fitting the data to a logistic curve.  The change in signal from 60 nm to 120 nm decreased in the order of Mie Theory > Optical Caustic scattering > standard laser 90 degree scattering.  These results suggested that conjugating 60 nm gold nanoparticles with Dengue Protein E and using an optical caustic system to detect plasmonic light scattering would result in a sensitive test for detecting human antibodies against Dengue Protein E in serum.  To explore this possibility, we studied the light scattering response of protein E conjugated gold nanoparticles exposed to different concentrations of anti-protein E antibody, and posteriorly via a feasibility study consisting of 10 human serum samples using a modified dot blot protocol and a handheld optical caustic-based sensor device. The overall agreement between the benchtop light scattering and dot blot results and the handheld optical caustic sensor suggest that the new sensor concept shows promise to detect gold nanoparticle aggregation caused by the presence of the antibody using a homogeneous assay.  Further testing and protocol optimization is needed in order to draw conclusions on the positive predictive and negative predictive values for this new testing system.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080218', [], [u'Arizona State University;', u'Solex Vintel;', u'Hospital Infantil de M\xe9xico Federico Gomez;', u'Universidad Autonoma de Yucatan;', u'Hemolab S.A.']]
[u'Integrated Genomic Analysis of Mitochondrial RNA Processing in Human Cancers', ['Youssef Idaghdour', 'Alan Hodgkinson'], u'October 13, 2016.', u"Alterations to mitochondrial function and mutations in mitochondrial genes have been reported for a wide variety of cancers, however the mitochondrial transcriptome remains largely unexplored in cancer despite an emerging appreciation of the role that post-transcriptional regulation plays in the etiology of these diseases. Here, we quantify and assess changes to mitochondrial RNA processing in human cancers using integrated genomic analysis of RNA Sequencing and genotyping data from 1226 samples across 12 different cancer types.  We find significant changes to m1A and m1G post-transcriptional methylation rates at functionally important positions in mitochondrial tRNAs in tumor tissues across all cancers. Pathways of RNA processing are strongly associated with methylation rates in normal tissues (P=2.85x10-27), yet these associations are lost in tumors. Furthermore, we report 18 gene-by-disease-state interactions where altered methylation rates occur under cancer status conditional on genotype, implicating genes associated with mitochondrial function or cancer (e.g. CACNA2D2, LMO2 and FLT3) and suggesting that nuclear genetic variation can potentially modulate an individual's ability to maintain unaltered rates of mitochondrial RNA processing under cancer status. Finally, we report a significant association between the magnitude of methylation rate changes in tumors and patient survival outcomes. These results highlight mitochondrial post-transcriptional events as a clinically relevant mechanism and as a theme for the further investigation of cancer processes, biomarkers and therapeutic interventions.", u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080820', [], [u'New York University Abu Dhabi;', u"King's College London"]]
[u'Linking structure and activity in nonlinear spiking networks', ['Gabriel Koch Ocker', 'Kresimir Josic', 'Eric Shea-Brown', 'Michael A. Buice'], u'October 13, 2016.', u"Recent experimental advances are producing an avalanche of data on both neural connectivity and neural activity.  To take full advantage of these two emerging datasets we need a framework that links them, revealing how collective neural activity arises from the structure of neural connectivity and intrinsic neural dynamics.  This problem of structure-driven activity has drawn major interest in computational neuroscience.  Existing methods for relating activity and architecture in spiking networks rely on linearizing activity around a central operating point and thus fail to capture the nonlinear responses of individual neurons that are the hallmark of neural information processing.  Here, we overcome this limitation and present a new relationship between connectivity and activity in networks of nonlinear spiking neurons.  We explicitly show how recurrent network structure produces pairwise and higher-order correlated activity, and how nonlinearities impact the networks' spiking activity. \nFinally, we demonstrate how correlations due to recurrent connectivity impact the fidelity with which populations encode simple signals and how nonlinear dynamics impose a new effect of correlations on coding: to translate response distributions in addition to stretching them.  Our findings open new avenues to investigating how neural nonlinearities---including those expressed across multiple cell types---combine with connectivity to shape population activity and function.", u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080705', [], [u'Allen Institute for Brain Science;', u'University of Houston;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Effect of error and missing data on population structure inference using microsatellite data', ['Patrick A Reeves', 'Cheryl L Bowker', 'Christa E Fettig', 'Luke R Tembrock', 'Christopher M Richards'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Missing data and genotyping errors are common in microsatellite data sets.  We used simulated data to quantify the effect of these data aberrations on the accuracy of population structure inference.  Data sets with complex, randomly generated, population histories were simulated under the coalescent.  Models describing the characteristic patterns of missing data and genotyping error in real microsatellite data sets were used to modify the simulated data sets.  Accuracy of ordination, tree based, and model based methods of inference was evaluated before and after data set modifications.  The ability to recover correct population clusters decreased as missing data increased.  The rate of decrease was similar among analytical procedures, thus no single analytical approach was preferable.  For every 1% of a data matrix that contained missing genotypes, 2-4% fewer correct clusters were found.  For every 1% of a matrix that contained erroneous genotypes, 1-2% fewer correct clusters were found using ordination and tree based methods.  Model-based procedures that minimize the deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium in order to assign individuals to clusters performed better as genotyping error increased.  We attribute this surprising result to the inbreeding-like nature of microsatellite genotyping error, wherein heterozygous genotypes are mischaracterized as homozygous.  We show that genotyping error elevates estimates of the level of genetic admixture.  Overall, missing data negatively impact population structure inference more than typical genotyping errors.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080630', [], [u'USDA-ARS;', u'Colorado State University']]
[u'Chironomus riparius (Diptera) genome sequencing reveals the impact of minisatellite transposable elements on population divergence', ['Ann-Marie Oppold', 'Hanno Schmidt', 'Marcel Rose', 'Soren Lukas Hellmann', 'Florian Dolze', 'Fabian Ripp', 'Bettina Weich', 'Urs Schmidt-Ott', 'Erwin Schmidt', 'Robert Kofler', 'Thomas Hankeln', 'Markus Pfenninger'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Active transposable elements (TEs) may result in divergent genomic insertion and abundance patterns among conspecific populations. Upon secondary contact, such divergent genetic backgrounds can theoretically give rise to classical Dobzhansky-Muller incompatibilities (DMI), a way how TEs can contribute to the evolution of endogenous genetic barriers and eventually population divergence. We investigated whether differential TE activity created endogenous selection pressures among conspecific populations of the non-biting midge Chironomus riparius, focussing on a Chironomus-specific TE, the minisatellite-like Cla-element, whose activity is associated with speciation in the genus.\nUsing an improved and annotated draft genome for a genomic study with five natural C. riparius populations, we found highly population-specific TE insertion patterns with many private insertions. A highly significant correlation of pairwise population FST from genome-wide SNPs with the FST estimated from TEs suggests drift as the major force driving TE population differentiation. However, the significantly higher Cla-element FST level due to a high proportion of differentially fixed Cla-element insertions indicates that segregating, i.e. heterozygous insertions are selected against. With reciprocal crossing experiments and fluorescent in-situ hybridisation of Cla-elements to polytene chromosomes, we documented phenotypic effects on female fertility and chromosomal mispairings that might be linked to DMI in hybrids. We propose that the inferred negative selection on heterozygous Cla-element insertions causes endogenous genetic barriers and therefore acts as DMI among C. riparius populations. The intrinsic genomic turnover exerted by TEs, thus, may have a direct impact on population divergence that is operationally different from drift and local adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080721', [], [u'Goethe-University Frankfurt am Main & Senckenberg BIK-F, Germany;', u'Senckenberg BIK-F, Frankfurt am Main, Germany;', u'Goethe-University Frankfurt am Main, Germany;', u'Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Germany;', u'Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, USA;', u'VetMedUni Wien']]
[u'Degenerate time-dependent network dynamics anticipate seizures in human epileptic brain', ['Adria Tauste Campo', 'Alessandro Principe', 'Miguel Ley', 'Rodrigo Rocamora', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Epileptic seizures are known to follow specific changes in brain dynamics. While some algorithms can nowadays robustly detect these changes, a clear understanding of the mechanism by which these alterations occur and generate seizures is still lacking. Here, we provide evidence that such changes are initiated by an alteration of physiological network state dynamics. Specifically, our analysis of long intracranial EEG recordings from a group of 10 patients identifies a critical phase of a few hours in which time-dependent network states become less variable ("degenerate") and is followed by a global functional connectivity reduction before seizure onset. This critical phase is characterized by an increased presence of high-connected network states and is shown to particularly constraint the activity of the epileptogenic zone in patients with validated good post-operative outcome. Our approach characterizes pre-seizure networks dynamics as a cascade of two sequential events providing new insights into seizure prediction and control.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080739', [], [u'Epilepsy Monitoring Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar medical Research Centre;', u'Epilepsy Monitoring Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar Medical Research Centre;', u'Epilepsy Monitoring Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar Medical Research Center;', u'Epilepsy Monitoring Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital del Mar Medical Research;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Assessing sampling sufficiency of network metrics using bootstrap', ['Grasiela Casas', 'Vinicius Augusto Galvao Bastazini', 'Vanderlei Julio Debastiani', 'Valerio De Patta Pillar'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Sampling the full diversity of interactions in an ecological community is a highly intensive effort. Recent studies have demonstrated that many network metrics are sensitive to both sampling effort and network size. Here, we develop a statistical framework, based on bootstrap resampling, that aims to assess sampling sufficiency for some of the most widely used metrics in network ecology, namely connectance, nestedness (NODF- nested overlap and decreasing fill) and modularity (using the QuaBiMo algorithm). Our framework can generate confidence intervals for each network metric with increasing sample size (i.e., the number of sampled interaction events, or number of sampled individuals), which can be used to evaluate sampling sufficiency. The sample is considered sufficient when the confidence limits reach stability or lie within an acceptable level of precision for the aims of the study. We illustrate our framework with data from three quantitative networks of plant and frugivorous birds, varying in size from 16 to 115 species, and 17 to 2,745 interactions. These data sets illustrate that, for the same dataset, sampling sufficiency may be reached at different sample sizes depending on the metric of interest. The bootstrap confidence limits reached stability for the two largest networks, but were wide and unstable with increasing sample size for all three metrics estimated based on the smallest network. The bootstrap method is useful to empirical ecologists to indicate the minimum number of interactions necessary to reach sampling sufficiency for a specific network metric. It is also useful to compare sampling techniques of networks in their capacity to reach sampling sufficiency. Our method is general enough to be applied to different types of metrics and networks.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080655', [], [u'Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul']]
[u'Bayesian Analysis of High Throughput Data', ['Eric Ma', 'Islam Hussein', 'Vivian Zhong', 'Christopher Bandoro', 'Jonathan Runstadler'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Duplicate or triplicate experimental replicates are commonplace in the high throughput literature. However, it has not been tested whether this is statistically defensible or not. To address this issue, we use probabilistic programming to develop a simple hierarchical model for analyzing high throughput measurement data. With the model and simulated data, we show that a small increase in replicate experiments can quantitatively improve accuracy in measurement. We also provide posterior densities for statistical parameters used in the evaluation of HT data. Finally, we provide an extensible open source implementation that ingests data structured in a simple format and produces posterior densities of estimated measurement and assay evaluation parameters.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/079525', [], [u'MIT']]
[u'Liberation from equations: An equation-free method reveals the ecological interaction networks within complex microbial ecosystems', ['Kenta Suzuki', 'Katsuhiko Yoshida', 'Yumiko Nakanishi', 'Shinji Fukuda'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Mapping the network of ecological interactions is key to understanding the composition, stability, function and dynamics of microbial communities. These ecosystem properties provide the mechanistic basis for understanding and designing microbial treatments that attempt to promote human health and provide environmental services. In recent years various approaches have been used to reveal microbial interaction networks, inferred from metagenomic sequencing data using time-series analysis, machine learning and statistical techniques. Despite these efforts it is still not possible to capture details of the ecological interactions behind complex microbial dynamics. Here, we develop the sparse S-map method (SSM), which generates a sparse interaction network from a multivariate ecological time-series without presuming any mathematical formulation for the underlying microbial processes. We show that this method outperforms a comparative equation-based method and that the results were robust to the range of observational errors and quantity of data that we tested. We then applied the method to the microbiome data of six mice and found that the mice had similar interaction networks when they were middle- to old-aged (36-72 week-old), characterized by the high connectivity of an unclassified Clostridiales. However, there was almost no shared network patterns when they were young- to middle-aged (4-36 week-old). The results shed light on the universality of microbial interactions during the lifelong dynamics of mouse gut-microbiota. The complexity of microbial relationships impede detailed equation-based modeling, and our method provides a powerful alternative framework to infer ecological interaction networks of microbial communities in various environments.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080697', [], [u'National Institute for Environmental Studies;', u'RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical Sciences;', u'Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University']]
[u'Linking gene expression to unilateral pollen-pistil reproductive barriers', ['Amanda K Broz', 'Rafael F Guerrero', 'April M Randle', 'You Soon Baek', 'Matthew W Hahn', 'Patricia A Bedinger'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Unilateral incompatibility (UI) is an asymmetric reproductive barrier that unidirectionally prevents gene flow between species and/or populations.  UI is characterized by a compatible interaction between partners in one direction, but in the reciprocal cross fertilization fails, generally due to pollen tube rejection by the pistil.  Although UI has long been observed in crosses between different species, the underlying molecular mechanisms are only beginning to be characterized.  The wild tomato relative Solanum habrochaites provides a unique study system to investigate the molecular basis of this reproductive barrier, as populations within the species exhibit both interspecific and interpopulation UI.  Here we used a transcriptomic approach to identify genes in both pollen and pistil tissues that may be probable key players in UI. We confirmed UI at the pollen-pistil level between a self-incompatible population and a self-compatible population of S. habrochaites.  A comparison of gene expression between pollinated styles exhibiting the incompatibility response and unpollinated controls revealed only a small number of differentially expressed transcripts.  Many more differences in transcript profiles were identified between UI-competent versus UI-compromised reproductive tissues.  A number of intriguing candidate genes were highly differentially expressed, including a putative pollen arabinogalactan protein, a stylar Kunitz family protease inhibitor, and a stylar peptide hormone Rapid Alkalinization Factor.  These results also provide transcriptomic evidence that fundamental processes including reactive oxygen species signaling are likely key in UI pollen-pistil interactions between both populations and species. Our analyses highlighted specific genes, including those in ROS signaling pathways that warrant further study in investigations of UI.  To our knowledge, this is the first report to identify candidate genes involved in unilateral barriers between populations of the same species.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080663', [], [u'Colorado State University;', u'Indiana University']]
[u'Topological features of gene regulatory networks predict patterns of natural diversity in environmental response', ['David L Des Marais', 'Rafael Guerrero', 'Jesse R Lasky', 'Samuel V Scarpino'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Molecular interactions affect the evolution of complex traits. For instance, adaptation may be constrained by pleiotropic or epistatic effects, both of which will be reflected in the structure of molecular interaction networks. To date, empirical studies investigating the role of molecular interactions in phenotypic evolution have been idiosyncratic, offering no clear patterns. Here, we investigated the network topology of genes putatively involved in local adaptation to two abiotic stressors -- drought and cold -- in Arabidopsis thaliana. Our findings suggest that the gene-interaction topologies for both cold and drought stress response are non-random, with genes that show genetic variation in drought response (GxE) being significantly more peripheral and cold response genes being significantly more central than genes not involved in either response. We suggest that the observed topologies reflect different constraints on the genetic pathways involved in the assayed phenotypes. The approach presented here may inform predictive models linking genetic variation in molecular signaling networks with phenotypic variation, specifically traits involved in environmental response.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080804', [], [u'Harvard University;', u'Indiana University;', u'Pennsylvania State University.;', u'University of Vermont']]
[u'An improved de novo pipeline for enrichment of high diversity mitochondrial genomes from Amphibia to high-throughput sequencing', ['Xing Chen', 'Kai He', 'Zhao-Li Ding', 'Gui-Mei Li', 'Adeniyi C. Adeola', 'Robert Murphy', 'Wen-Zhi Wang', 'Ya-Ping Zhang'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'We present an improved de novo pipeline by combining long-range polymerase chain reaction (LR-PCR) and capture hybridization for enriching mitochondrial DNA to high-throughput sequencing. We test a new set of primers and hybridizing long-range library (LR-HY) with 112 mitochondrial genomes (MtG) representing three orders, 12 families, 54 genera, and 106 species of Amphibia. The primers are used for obtaining wide taxonomic MtG amplicons to sequence directly and/or make probes for closely related species. LR-HY is compared to standard hybridization. The primers successfully amplify 82 MtGs from all three order, all families, 92.6% (50/54) of the genera, and 74.5% (79/106) of the species, despite some DNA degradation and gene rearrangement. We observe a significantly negative correlation between sequence depth and gene variation. The pattern of highly variable regions is separately distributed in different regions within the length of < 4 kb in the 33-pooled sample. We demonstrate that using 2 kb libraries generate deeper sequence coverage in the highly variable loci than using 400 bp libraries. In total, the pipeline successfully recovers 83 complete and 14 almost complete MtGs from 53 of 54 genera, including 14 MtGs had rearranged protein-coding genes. This universal primers combined with LR-HY is an efficient way to enrich complete MtGs across the entire Amphibia.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080689', [], [u'Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Royal Ontario Museum']]
[u'The rate of false polymorphisms introduced when imputing genotypes from global imputation panels', ['Ida Surakka', 'Antti-Pekka Sarin', 'Sanni E Ruotsalainen', 'Richard Durbin', 'Veikko Salomaa', 'Mark Daly', 'Aarno Palotie', 'Samuli Ripatti'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Previous studies1,2 have shown that large multi-population imputation reference panels increases the number of well-imputed variants. However, to our knowledge, no previous studies have evaluated the rate of introduced variation in monomorphic sites of the study population when using imputation panels with admixed populations. In this study we evaluate the rate of false positive variants introduced by the imputation of Finnish genotype data using global reference panels (Haplotype Reference Consortium1; HRC, and the 1000Genomes project Phase I3; 1000G) and compare the results to a Finnish population-specific reference panel combining whole genome and exome sequenced samples. In sites that were monomorphic in our test set, we observed high false positive rates for the global reference panels (4.0% for 1000G and 2.6% for HRC) compared to the Finnish panel (0.26%). This rate was even higher (7.4%) when using a combination panel of 1000G and Finnish whole genome sequences with cross-panel imputation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080770', [], [u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM);', u'Sanger Institute;', u'National Institute for Health and Welfare;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'An improved assembly and annotation of the allohexaploid wheat genome identifies complete families of agronomic genes and provides genomic evidence for chromosomal translocations.', ['Bernardo J. Clavijo', 'Luca Venturini', 'Christian Schudoma', 'Gonzalo Garcia Accinelli', 'Gemy Kaithakottil', 'Jonathan Wright', 'Philippa Borrill', 'George Kettleborough', 'Darren Heavens', 'Helen Chapman', 'James Lipcombe', 'Tom Barker', 'Fu-Hao Lu', 'Neil McKenzie', 'Dina Raats', 'Ricardo H. Ramirez Gonzalez', 'Aurore Coince', 'Ned Peel', 'Lawrence Percival-Alwyn', 'Owen Duncan', 'Josua Trosch', 'Goutai Yu', 'Dan Bolser', 'Guy Naamati', 'Arnaud Kerhornou', 'Manuel Spannagl', 'Heidrun Gundlach', 'Georg Haberer', 'Robert P. Davey', 'Christine Fosker', 'Federica Di Palma', 'Andrew Phillips', 'A. Harvey Millar', 'Paul J Kersey', 'Cristobal Uauy', 'Ksenia V Krasileva', 'David Swarbreck', 'Michael W Bevan', 'Matthew D Clark'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Advances in genome sequencing and assembly technologies are generating many high quality genome sequences, but assemblies of large, repeat-rich polyploid genomes, such as that of bread wheat, remain fragmented and incomplete. We have generated a new wheat whole-genome shotgun sequence assembly using a combination of optimised data types and an assembly algorithm designed to deal with large and complex genomes. The new assembly represents more than 78% of the genome with a scaffold N50 of 88.8kb that has a high fidelity to the input data. Our new annotation combines strand-specific Illumina RNAseq and PacBio full-length cDNAs to identify 104,091 high confidence protein-coding genes and 10,156 non-coding RNA genes. We confirmed three known and identified one novel genome rearrangements. Our approach enables the rapid and scalable assembly of wheat genomes, the identification of structural variants, and the definition of complete gene models, all powerful resources for trait analysis and breeding of this key global crop.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080796', [], [u'Earlham Institute;', u'John Innes Centre;', u'University of Western Australia;', u'EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Helmholtz Zentrum Muenchen, Plant Genome and Systems Biology;', u'Rothamsted Research;', u'EMBL - The European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'DNA Methylation Landscape Reflects the Spatial Organization of Chromatin in Different Cells', ['Ling Zhang', 'Wen Jun Xie', 'Sirui Liu', 'Luming Meng', 'Chan Gu', 'Yi Qin Gao'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'It has been thought that DNA methylation can remodel chromatin structure, and modulate the transcriptional level of genes by altering chromatin density and accessibility of DNA to cellular machinery, which is still largely unknown. Here we report that both the long-range and local correlations in DNA methylation reflect the spatial organization of chromatin. We discover a long-range power law correlation that implies a scale-free property of DNA methylation and the cell-class-specific scaling exponents reflect the global change of DNA methylation landscape during cellular differentiation or oncogenesis which can be further related with chromatin structure. By analyzing on the local correlation which correlates with nucleosome positioning, Hi-C data and molecular modeling, we show that partially methylated domain (PMD) prefers a compact structure. We further demonstrate that chromatin structures reflect the DNA sequence property and are intimately related to gene expression. Our study therefore provides a novel view of the spatial organization of chromatin structure from a perspective of DNA methylation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080531', [], [u'Peking University']]
[u'InterPred: A pipeline to identify and model protein-protein interactions', ['Bjorn Wallner', 'Claudio Mirabello'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Protein-protein interactions (PPI) are crucial for protein\nfunction. There exist many techniques to identify PPIs experimentally,\nbut to determine the interactions in molecular detail is still\ndifficult and very time-consuming. The fact that the number of PPIs is\nvastly larger than the number of individual proteins makes it\npractically impossible to characterize all interactions\nexperimentally. Computational approaches that can bridge this gap and\npredict PPIs and model the interactions in molecular detail are\ngreatly needed.  Here we present InterPred, a fully automated pipeline\nthat predicts and model PPIs from sequence using structural modeling\ncombined with massive structural comparisons and molecular docking. A\nkey component of the method is the use of a novel random forest\nclassifier that integrate several structural features to distinguish\ncorrect from incorrect protein-protein interaction models. We show\nthat InterPred represents a major improvement in protein-protein\ninteraction detection with a performance comparable or better than\nexperimental high-throughput techniques.  We also show that our\nfull-atom protein-protein complex modelling pipeline performs better\nthan any state of the art protein docking method on a standard\nbenchmark set. In addition, it was also top-ranked in the latest CAPRI37 benchmark (http://duffman.it.liu.se/capri/).', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080754', [], [u'Linkoping University']]
[u'Extracellular peptidases in subsurface sediments of the White Oak River estuary, NC, suggest microbial community adaptation to oxidize degraded organic matter', ['Andrew Decker Steen', 'Richard T. Kevorkian', 'Jordan T. Bird', 'Nina Dombrowski', 'Brett J. Baker', 'Shane M. Hagen', 'Katherine H. Mulligan', 'Jenna M. Schmidt', 'Austen T. Webber', 'Marc J. Alperin'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'Microbial communities inhabiting subsurface sediments contain abundant heterotrophs, which oxidize organic matter to obtain carbon and energy. Subsurface sediments contain very low concentrations of canonically bioavailable compounds, and it is not clear what fraction of sedimentary organic matter the community metabolizes. To gain a more mechanistic understanding of subsurface heterotrophy, we studied both the genetic potential encoded within metagenomes for extracellular peptidase production, and experimentally assayed the potential activities of a wide range of extracellular peptidases in sediments of the White Oak River estuary, NC. Deeply sequenced metagenomes revealed genes coding for at least 15 classes of extracellular peptidases. We observed enzyme-catalyzed hydrolysis of 11 different peptidase substrates in subsurface sediments. Potential activities (Vmax) of extracellular peptidases decreased downcore, but cell-specific Vmax was relatively constant and similar to values observed in seawater phytoplankton blooms. Decreases in half-saturation constants and relative increases in activities of D-phenylalanyl aminopeptidase and ornithyl aminopeptidase with depth indicate a community of heterotrophs that is adapted to access degraded organic matter. These results suggest a subsurface heterotrophic community that converts degraded organic matter into a bioavailable form, rather than a surface-adapted community relying on ever-decreasing concentrations of more labile organic matter.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080671', [], [u'University of Tennessee;', u'University of Texas-Austin;', u'Louisiana State University;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'SIRVs: Spike-In RNA Variants as External Isoform Controls in RNA-Sequencing', ['Lukas Paul', 'Petra Kubala', 'Gudrun Horner', 'Michael Ante', 'Igor Hollaender', 'Seitz Alexander', 'Torsten Reda'], u'October 13, 2016.', u'SSpike-In RNA variants (SIRVs) enable for the first time the validation of RNA sequencing workflows using external isoform transcript controls. 69 transcripts, derived from seven human model genes, cover the eukaryotic transcriptome complexity of start- and end-site variations, alternative splicing, overlapping genes, and antisense transcription in a condensed format. Reference RNA samples were spiked with SIRV mixes, sequenced, and exemplarily four data evaluation pipelines were challenged to account for biases introduced by the RNA-Seq workflow. The deviations of the respective isoform quantifications from the known inputs allow to determine the comparability of sequencing experiments and to extrapolate to which degree alterations in an RNA-Seq workflow affect gene expression measurements. The SIRVs as external isoform controls are an important gauge for inter-experimental comparability and a modular spike-in contribution to clear the way for diagnostic RNA-Seq applications.', u'/content/early/2016/10/13/080747', [], [u'Lexogen GmbH']]
[u'Analysis of noise mechanisms in cell size control', ['Saurabh Kartik Modi', 'Cesar Augusto Vargas-Garcia', 'Khem Raj Ghusinga', 'Abhyudai Singh'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'At the single-cell level, noise features in multiple ways through the inherent stochasticity of biomolecular processes, random partitioning of resources at division, and fluctuations in cellular growth rates. How these diverse noise mechanisms combine to drive variations in cell size within an isoclonal population is not well understood. To address this problem, we systematically investigate the contributions of different noise sources in well-known paradigms of cell-size control, such as the adder (division occurs after adding a fixed size from birth) and the sizer (division occurs upon reaching a size threshold). Analysis reveals that variance in cell size is most sensitive to errors in partitioning of volume among daughter cells, and not surprisingly, this process is well regulated among microbes. Moreover, depending on the dominant noise mechanism, different size control strategies (or a combination of them) provide efficient buffering of intercellular size variations.\nWe further explore mixer models of size control, where a timer phase precedes/follows an adder, as has been proposed in \tCaulobacter crescentus. While mixing a timer with an adder can sometimes attenuate size variations, it invariably leads to higher-order moments growing unboundedly over time. This results in the cell size following a power-law distribution with an exponent that is inversely dependent on the noise in the timer phase. Consistent with theory, we find evidence of power-law statistics in the tail of C. crescentus cell-size distribution, but there is a huge discrepancy in the power-law exponent as estimated from data and theory. However, the discrepancy is removed after data reveals that the size added by individual newborns from birth to division itself exhibits power-law statistics. Taken together, this study provides key insights into the role of noise mechanisms in size homeostasis, and suggests an inextricable link between timer-based models of size control and heavy-tailed cell size distributions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080465', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Delaware']]
[u'The duration of mitosis and daughter cell size are modulated by nutrients in budding yeast', ['Ricardo Mendes Leitao', 'Annie Pham', 'Douglas Kellogg'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Previous studies have suggested that the size of budding yeast cells is controlled almost entirely by a cell size checkpoint that acts in G1 phase. In contrast, we show here that a previously unknown checkpoint that acts during mitosis plays a major role in cell size control.  Over 80% of cell growth in rich nutrient sources occurs during mitosis, while only 8% occurs during G1 phase.  When growth is slowed by poor nutrients, the mitotic checkpoint compensates by prolonging both metaphase and anaphase, thereby increasing the duration of growth.  The mitotic delay in poor nutrients is controlled partly by inhibitory phosphorylation of Cdk1 and partly by a novel mechanism that is independent of Cdk1 inhibitory phosphorylation.  PP2A associated with the conserved Rts1 regulatory subunit is a key component of the checkpoint and appears to control cell size by enforcing a mechanistic link between growth rate and size.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080648', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of California, Santa Cruz;', u'University of Colorado, Denver Anschutz Medical Campus']]
[u'A risk stratification approach for improved interpretation of diagnostic accuracy statistics', ['Hormuzd Katki', 'Mark Schiffman'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Diagnostic accuracy statistics, including predictive values, risk-differences, Youden\'s index and Area Under the Curve (AUC), assess the promise of novel biomarkers proposed as diagnostic tests.  We reinterpret these statistics in light of risk-stratification (how well a biomarker separates those at higher risk from those at lower risk) to better understand their implications for public-health programs. We introduce an intuitively simple statistic, Mean Risk Stratification (MRS): the average change in risk (pre-test vs. post-test) revealed for tested individuals.  High MRS implies better risk separation achieved by testing.  MRS demonstrates that conventional predictive values can mislead because they do not account for disease prevalence or test-positivity rates.  Little risk-stratification is possible for rare diseases, demonstrating a "high-bar" to justify population-based screening.  Importantly, we demonstrate that the risk-difference, Youden\'s index, and AUC measure only multiplicative relative gains in risk-stratification: AUC=0.6 achieves only 20% of maximum risk-stratification (AUC=0.9 achieves 80%).  However, large relative gains in risk-stratification might not imply large absolute gains if disease is rare or if the test is rarely positive. We illustrate MRS by our experience comparing the performance of cervical cancer screening tests in China vs. the USA.  The test with the worst AUC=0.72 in China (visual inspection with ascetic acid) provides twice the risk-stratification of the test with best AUC=0.83 in the USA (human papillomavirus and Pap cotesting) because China has three times more cervical precancer/cancer.  MRS could be routinely calculated to better understand the clinical/public-health implications of standard diagnostic accuracy statistics.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080366', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'National Cancer Institute']]
[u'A bacterial chaperone is required for plastid function in malaria parasites', ['Anat Florentin', 'David W Cobb', 'Jillian D Fishburn', 'Paul S Kim', 'Manuel A Fierro', 'Vasant Muralidharan'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Apicomplexan parasites such as Plasmodium falciparum, the causative agent of malaria, contain a non-photosynthetic plastid known as the apicoplast that functions to produce essential metabolic compounds. It was previously reported that several members of the Clp family of chaperones and proteases localize to the apicoplast. In bacteria and in chloroplasts these proteins form complexes that degrade proteins in a proteasome-like manner to regulate key cellular processes, but their function in the apicoplast is completely unknown. In this study, we generated a conditional mutant of the P. falciparum apicoplast-targeted pfclpc gene and found that under normal conditions it localizes to the apicoplast. Knockdown of PfClpC results in growth inhibition and morphological defects, indicating that PfClpC is essential for parasite viability. Upon inhibition, PfClpC loses its apicoplast localization and appears in vesicle-like structures. Other apicoplast-targeted proteins also localize to these structures, suggesting that organelle integrity is compromised. Addition of isopentynyl pyrophosphate completely rescued the growth inhibition, indicating that the only essential function of PfClpC is related to the apicoplast. Moreover, cellular assays suggest that PfClpC inhibition interferes with the ability of the schizont-stage parasites to properly sort functional apicoplast organelles into daughter-merozoites. These data show that PfClpC is an essential gene that functions to maintain apicoplast integrity.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080408', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Inferring exemplar discriminability in brain representations', ['Hamed Nili', 'Alexander Walther', 'Arjen Alink', 'Nikolaus Kriegeskorte'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Representational distinctions within categories are important in all perceptual modalities and also in cognitive and motor representations. Recent pattern-information studies of brain activity have used condition-rich designs to sample the stimulus space more densely. To test whether brain response patterns discriminate among a set of stimuli (e.g. exemplars within a category) with good sensitivity, we can pool statistical evidence over all pairwise comparisons. A popular test statistic reflecting exemplar information is the exemplar discriminability index (EDI), which is defined as the average of the pattern dissimilarity estimates between different exemplars minus the average of the pattern dissimilarity estimates between repetitions of identical exemplars. The EDI is commonly tested with a t test (H0: population mean EDI = 0) across subjects (subject as random effect). However, it is unclear whether this approach is either valid or optimal. Here we describe a wide range of statistical tests of exemplar discriminability and assess the validity (specificity) and power (sensitivity) of each test. The tests include previously used and novel, parametric and nonparametric tests, which treat subject as a random or fixed effect, and are based on different dissimilarity measures, different test statistics, and different inference procedures. We use simulated and real data to determine which tests are valid and which are most sensitive. The popular across-subject t test of the EDI (typically using correlation distance as the pattern dissimilarity measure) requires the assumption that the EDI is 0-mean normal under H0, which is not strictly true. Reassuringly, our simulations suggest that the test controls the false-positives rate at the nominal level and is thus valid in practice. However, test statistics based on average Mahalanobis distances or average linear-discriminant t values (both accounting for the multivariate error covariance among responses) are substantially more powerful for both random- and fixed-effects inference. We suggest preferred procedures for safely and sensitively detecting subtle pattern differences between exemplars.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080580', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxord;', u'MRC CBSU;', u'University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf;', u'Medical Research Council']]
[u'Human anterolateral entorhinal cortex volumes are associated with preclinical cognitive decline', ['Rosanna K Olsen', 'Lok-Kin Yeung', 'Alix Noly-Gandon', "Maria C D'Angelo", 'Arber Kacollja', 'Victoria Smith', 'Jennifer D Ryan', 'Morgan D Barense'], u'October 12, 2016.', u"We investigated whether older adults without subjective memory complaints, but who present with cognitive decline in the laboratory, demonstrate atrophy in medial temporal lobe (MTL) subregions associated with Alzheimer's disease. Forty community-dwelling older adults were categorized based on Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) performance. Total grey/white matter, cerebrospinal fluid, and white matter hyperintensity load were quantified from whole-brain T1-weighted and FLAIR magnetic resonance imaging scans, while hippocampal subfields and MTL cortical subregion volumes (CA1, dentate gyrus/CA2/3, subiculum, anterolateral and posteromedial entorhinal, perirhinal, and parahippocampal cortices) were quantified using high-resolution T2-weighted scans. Cognitive status was evaluated using standard neuropsychological assessments. No significant differences were found in the whole-brain measures. However, MTL volumetry revealed that anterolateral entorhinal cortex (alERC) volume --  the same region in which Alzheimer's pathology originates -- was strongly associated with MoCA performance. This is the first study to demonstrate that alERC volume is related to cognitive decline in preclinical, community-dwelling older adults.", u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080374', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Baycrest;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Genetic,transcriptome, proteomic and epidemiological evidence for blood brain barrier disruption and polymicrobial brain invasion as determinant factors in Alzheimers disease.', ['Chris J Carter'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Multiple pathogens have been detected in Alzheimers disease (AD) brains. A bioinformatics approach was used to assess relationships between pathogens and AD genes (GWAS), the AD hippocampal transcriptome and plaque or tangle proteins. Host/pathogen interactomes (C.albicans, C.Neoformans, Bornavirus, B.Burgdorferri, cytomegalovirus, Ebola virus, HSV-1, HERV-W, HIV-1, Epstein-Barr, hepatitis C, influenza, C.Pneumoniae, P.Gingivalis, H.Pylori, T.Gondii, T.Cruzi) significantly overlap with misregulated AD hippocampal genes , with plaque and tangle proteins and, except Bornavirus, Ebola and HERV-W, with AD genes. Upregulated AD hippocampal genes match those upregulated by multiple bacteria, viruses, fungi or protozoa in immunocompetent blood cells. AD genes are enriched in bone marrow and immune locations and in GWAS datasets reflecting pathogen diversity, suggesting selection for pathogen resistance. The age of AD patients implies resistance to infections afflicting the younger.  APOE4 protects against malaria and hepatitis C, and immune/inflammatory gain of function applies to APOE4, CR1, TREM2 and presenilin variants.  30/78 AD genes are expressed in the blood brain barrier (BBB), which is disrupted by AD risk factors (ageing, alcohol, aluminium, concussion, cerebral hypoperfusion, diabetes, homocysteine, hypercholesterolaemia, hypertension, obesity, pesticides, pollution, physical inactivity, sleep disruption and smoking). The BBB and AD benefit from statins, NSAIDs, oestrogen, melatonin and the Mediterranean diet.  Polymicrobial involvement is supported by the upregulation of pathogen sensors/defenders (bacterial, fungal, viral) in the AD brain, blood or CSF.  Cerebral pathogen invasion permitted by BBB inadequacy, activating a hyper-efficient immune/inflammatory system, beta-amyloid and other antimicrobial defence may be responsible for AD which may respond to antibiotic, antifungal or antiviral therapy.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080333', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'PolygenicPathways']]
[u'A roadmap for a quantitative ecosystem-based environmental impact assessment', ['Jennifer Coston-Guarini', 'Jean-Marc Guarini', 'Jody Edmunds', 'Shawn Hinz', 'Jeff Wilson', 'Laurent Chauvaud'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'A new roadmap for quantitative methodologies of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is proposed, using an ecosystem-based approach. EIA recommendations are currently based on case-by-case rankings, distant from statistical methodologies, and based on ecological ideas that lack proof of generality or predictive capacities. These qualitative approaches ignore process dynamics, scales of variations and interdependencies and are unable to address societal demands to link socio-economic and ecological processes (e.g. population dynamics). We propose to re-focus EIA around the systemic formulation of interactions between organisms (organized in populations and communities) and their environments but inserted within a strict statistical framework. A systemic formulation allows scenarios to be built that simulate impacts on chosen receptors. To illustrate the approach, we design a minimum ecosystem model that demonstrates non-trivial effects and complex responses to environmental changes. We suggest further that an Ecosystem-Based EIA - in which the socio-economic system is an evolving driver of the ecological one - is more promising than a socio-economic-ecological system where all variables are treated as equal. This refocuses the debate on cause-and-effect, processes, identification of essential portable variables, and a potential for quantitative comparisons between projects, which is important in cumulative effects determinations.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080242', [u'Ecology'], [u'UMR-6539 LEMAR (UBO);', u'LIA BeBEST (UBO);', u'LimOce Environmental Consulting, Ltd.;', u'Gravity Environmental Consulting']]
[u'Cortical seizure propagation respects functional connectivity underlying sensory processing', ['Luigi Federico Rossi', 'Robert C Wykes', 'Dimitri Kullman', 'Matteo Carandini'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Focal epilepsy involves excessive and synchronous cortical activity that propagates both locally and dis-tally. Does this propagation follow the same routes as normal cortical activity? We induced focal seizures in primary visual cortex (V1) of awake mice, and compared their propagation to the retinotopic organization of V1 and higher visual areas. We measured activity through simultaneous local field potential recordings and widefield imaging of a genetically encoded calcium indicator, and observed both prolonged seizures (ictal events) and brief interictal events. Both types of event were orders of magnitude larger than normal visual responses, and both started as standing waves: synchronous elevated activity in the focal V1 region and in corresponding retinotopic locations in higher areas. Following this common beginning, however, seizures, persisted and propagated both locally and into distal regions. These regions matched each other in retinotopy. We conclude that seizure propagation respects the functional connectivity underlying normal visual processing.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080598', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London']]
[u'A shared representation of order between encoding and recognition in visual short-term memory', ['Kristjan Kalm', 'Dennis Norris'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Most complex tasks require people to bind individual stimuli into a sequence in short term memory (STM). For this purpose information about the order of the individual stimuli in the sequence needs to be in active and accessible form in STM over a period of few seconds. Here we investigated how the temporal order information is shared between the presentation and response phases of an STM task. We trained a classification algorithm on the fMRI activity patterns from the presentation phase of the STM task to predict the order of the items during the subsequent recognition phase. While voxels in a number of brain regions represented positional information during either presentation and recognition phases, only voxels in the lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the anterior temporal lobe (ATL) represented position consistently across task phases. A shared positional code in the ATL might reflect verbal recoding of visual sequences to facilitate the maintenance of order information over several seconds.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080317', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Medical Research Council']]
[u'iCARE: An R Package to Build and Apply Absolute Risk Models', ['Paige Maas', 'William Wheeler', 'Mark Brook', 'David Check', 'Montserrat Garcia-Closas', 'Nilanjan Chatterjee'], u'October 12, 2016.', u"This report describes an R package, called the Individualized Coherent Absolute Risk Estimation (iCARE) tool, which allows researchers to quickly build models for absolute risk, and apply them to estimate an individual's risk of developing disease during a specified time interval, based on a set of user defined input parameters. An attractive feature of the software is that it gives users flexibility to update models rapidly based on new knowledge of risk factors and tailor models to different populations.  The tool requires three input arguments be specified: (1) a model for relative risk (2) an age-specific disease incidence rate and (3) the distribution of risk factors for the population of interest. The tool handles missing risk factor information for individuals for whom risks are to be predicted using a coherent approach where all estimates are derived from a single model after appropriate model averaging. The software allows single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) to be incorporated into the model using published odds ratios and allele frequencies.  We discuss the statistical framework, handling of missing data and genetic factors, and provide real data examples that demonstrate the utility of iCARE for building and applying absolute risk models, using breast cancer as an example.", u'/content/early/2016/10/12/079954', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Cancer Institute;', u'Information Management Services;', u'The Institute of Cancer Research;', u'The National Cancer Institute;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'MaxEnt\u2032s parameter configuration and small samples: Are we paying attention to recommendations?', ['Narkis S Morales', 'Ignacio C Fernandez', 'Victoria Baca-Gonzalez'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Environmental niche modeling (ENM) is commonly used to develop probabilistic maps of species distribution. Among available ENM techniques, MaxEnt has become one of the most popular tools for modeling species distribution, with hundreds of peer-reviewed articles published each year. MaxEnt\u2032s popularity is mainly due to the use of a graphical interface and automatic parameter configuration capabilities. However, recent studies have shown that using the default automatic configuration may not be always appropriate because it can produce non-optimal models; particularly when dealing with a small number of species presence points. Thus, the recommendation is to evaluate the best potential combination of parameters (feature classes and regularization multiplier) to select the most appropriate model. In this work we reviewed 244 articles from 142 journals between 2013 and 2015 to assess whether researchers are following recommendations to avoid using the default parameter configuration when dealing with small sample sizes, or if they are using MaxEnt as a \u2033black box tool\u2033. Our results show that in only 16% of analyzed articles authors evaluated best feature classes, in 6.9% evaluated best regularization multipliers, and in a meager 3.7% evaluated simultaneously both parameters before producing the definitive distribution model. These results are worrying, because publications are potentially reporting over-complex or over-simplistic models that can undermine the applicability of their results. Of particular importance are studies used to inform policy making. Therefore, researchers, practitioners, reviewers and editors need to be very judicious when dealing with MaxEnt, particularly when the modelling process is based on small sample sizes.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080457', [u'Ecology'], [u'Macquarie University;', u'Arizona State University;', u'Universidad Complutense de Madrid']]
[u'Lactobacillus plantarum favors the early emergence of fit and fertile adult Drosophila upon chronic undernutrition', ['Melisandre Tefit', 'Francois Leulier'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Animals are naturally surrounded by a variety of microorganisms with which they constantly interact. Among these microbes, some live closely associated with a host and form its microbiota. These communities are now extensively studied, owing to their contributions to shaping various aspects of animal physiology. One of these commensal species, Lactobacillus plantarum, and in particular the L.p.WJL strain, has been shown to promote the growth of Drosophila larvae upon nutrient scarcity, allowing earlier metamorphosis and adult emergence compared to axenic individuals. As for many insects, conditions surrounding the post-embryonic development dictate key Drosophila adult life history traits, and adjusting developmental timing according to the environment is essential for adult fitness. The growth acceleration induced by L.p.WJL occurs in a context of poor nutrition and we wondered if this could adversely impact the fitness of Drosophila adults. Here we show that the L.p.WJL-mediated acceleration of growth is not deleterious; adults emerging after an accelerated development are as fit as their axenic siblings. Additionally, L.p.WJL presence even leads to a lifespan extension in nutritionally challenged males. These results demonstrate that L.p.WJL is a beneficial partner for Drosophila melanogaster through its entire life cycle. This commensal bacteria allows the earlier emergence and longer survival of fit and fertile individuals and might represent one of the factors contributing to the ecological success of Drosophila.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080549', [u'Physiology'], [u'Ecole Normale Superieure de Lyon']]
[u'Functional analysis of a biosynthetic cluster essential for production of 4-formylaminooxyvinylglycine, a germination-arrest factor from Pseudomonas fluorescens WH6', ['Rachel Okrent', 'Kristin Trippe', 'Maciej Maselko', 'Viola Manning'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Rhizosphere-associated Pseudomonas fluorescens WH6 produces the germination-arrest factor,\n4-formylaminooxyvinylglycine (FVG). FVG has previously been shown to both arrest the\ngermination of weedy grasses and to inhibit the growth of the bacterial plant pathogen Erwinia\namylovora. Very little is known about the mechanism by which FVG is produced. Although a\nprevious study identified a region of the genome that may be involved in FVG biosynthesis, it\nhas not yet been determined which genes within that region are sufficient and necessary for FVG\nproduction. In the current study, we explored the role of each of the putative genes encoded in\nthat region by constructing deletion mutations. Mutant strains were assayed for their ability to\nproduce FVG with a combination of biological assays and thin-layer chromatographic analyses.\nThis work defined the core FVG biosynthetic gene cluster and revealed several interesting\ncharacteristics of FVG production. We determined that FVG biosynthesis requires two small\nopen reading frames of less than 150 nucleotides and that multiple transporters have overlapping\nbut distinct functionality. In addition, two genes in the center of the biosynthetic gene cluster are not required for FVG production, suggesting that additional products may be produced from the cluster. Transcriptional analysis indicated that at least three active promoters play a role in the expression of genes within this cluster. The results of this study enrich our knowledge regarding the diversity of mechanisms by which bacteria produce non-proteinogenic amino acids like vinylglycines.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080572', [u'Microbiology'], [u'USDA ARS National Forage Seed Production Research Unit;', u'USDA ARS National Forage Seed Production Research Center']]
[u'Temporal and spatial localization of prediction-error signals in the visual brain', ['Patrick Johnston', 'Jonathan Robinson', 'Athanasios Kokkinakis', 'Samuel Ridgeway', 'Michael Simpson', 'Sam Johnson', 'Andrew W Young'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'It has been suggested that the brain pre-empts changes in the visual environment through generating predictions, although real-time eletrophysiological evidence of prediction violations remains elusive. In a series of experiments we showed participants sequences of images that followed a predictable implied sequence or whose final image violated the implied sequence. Through careful design we were able to use the same final image transitions across predictable and unpredictable conditions, ensuring that any differences in neural responses were due only to preceding context and not to the images themselves. EEG and MEG recordings showed that early/mid-latency visual evoked potentials were robustly modulated by images that violated the implied sequence across a range of types of image change (expression deformations, rigid-rotations and visual field location). This modulation occurred irrespective of stimulus object category. Although the stimuli were static images, MEG source reconstruction of the early latency signal (N/M170) localised expectancy violation signals to brain areas associated with motion perception. Our findings suggest that the N/M170 can index mismatches between predicted and actual visual inputs in a system that predicts trajectories based on ongoing context. This has important implications for understanding the N/M170 and investigating how the brain represents context to generate perceptual predictions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/079848', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'QUT;', u'University of York;', u'York Neuroimaging Centre, University of York']]
[u'Bayesian Analysis of Evolutionary Divergence with Genomic Data Under Diverse Demographic Models', ['Yujin Chung', 'Jody Hey'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'We present a new Bayesian method for estimating demographic and phylogenetic history using population genomic data. Several key innovations are introduced that allow the study of diverse models within an Isolation with Migration framework. For the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) phase of the analysis, we use a reduced state space, consisting of simple coalescent trees without migration paths, and a simple importance sampling distribution without demography. Migration paths are analytically integrated using a Markov chain as a representation of genealogy. The new method is scalable to a large number of loci with excellent MCMC mixing properties. Once obtained, a single sample of trees is used to calculate the joint posterior density for model parameters under multiple diverse demographic\nmodels, without having to repeat MCMC runs. As implemented in the computer program MIST, we demonstrate the accuracy, scalability and other advantages of the new method using simulated data and DNA sequences of two common chimpanzee subspecies: Pan troglodytes troglodytes (P. t.) and P. t. verus.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080606', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Temple University']]
[u'Microtubule stabilization drives centrosome migration to initiate primary ciliogenesis', ['Amandine Pitaval', 'Fabrice Senger', 'Gaelle Letort', 'Xavier Gidrol', 'James Sillibourne', 'Manuel THERY'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Primary cilia are sensory organelles located at the cell surface. Their assembly is primed by centrosome migration to the apical surface. Yet surprisingly little is known about this initiating step. To gain insight into the mechanisms driving centrosome migration, we exploited the reproducibility of cell architecture on adhesive micropatterns to investigate the cytoskeletal remodeling supporting it. Microtubule network densification, with the transient formation of an array of cold-stable microtubules and increased EB1 recruitment at the centrosome, and actin cytoskeleton asymmetric contraction participated in concert to destabilize basal centrosome position and drive apical centrosome migration. A candidate-based siRNA screen identified roles of specific ciliogenesis effectors in this process. The distal appendage protein Cep164 appeared to be a key actor involved in the cytoskeleton remodeling and centrosome migration, whereas the role of IFT88 seemed to be restricted to axoneme elongation. Together our data elucidate the hitherto unexplored mechanism of centrosome migration and show that it is driven by the increase and clustering of mechanical forces to push the centrosome toward the cell apical pole.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080556', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'CEA;', u'Hopital Saint Louis, CEA']]
[u'In vivo bioluminescent imaging reveals temporal and spatial dynamics of giardiasis', ['Nanelle Barash', 'Christopher Nosala', 'Jonathan K Pham', 'Shane G McInally', 'Stephane Gourguechon', 'Brendan McCarthy-Sinclair', 'Scott C Dawson'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Giardia lamblia  is a protistan parasite causing acute and chronic diarrheal disease in over one billion people worldwide, primarily in areas lacking adequate water treatment. Animal hosts ingest Giardia cysts that excyst in the gut to become motile trophozoites. Trophozoites colonize the small intestine, later differentiating into infectious cysts that are excreted and can contaminate water sources. Due to the limited accessibility of the gastrointestinal tract, our understanding of in vivo temporal and spatial dynamics of giardiasis is largely inferred from parasite physiology in laboratory culture. While in vitro models of giardiasis are informative, they may not adequately mirror in vivo parasite physiology in the host. To evaluate in vivo giardiasis directly, we developed bioluminescent imaging (BLI) methods to quantify temporal and spatial dynamics of giardiasis in mice using parasites expressing constitutive or encystation-specific luciferase bioreporters. Consistent with prior work, BLI confirms that metabolically active parasites primarily colonize the proximal small intestine. Contrasting with previous studies, we find that encystation is initiated and peaks early during infection and is localized to foci of high parasite density in the small intestine.  Both BLI and immunostaining of encystation-specific vesicles (ESVs) corroborate that encystation is initiated in the proximal rather than the distal small intestine. This non-invasive method of imaging giardiasis provides an unprecedented and precise quantification of in vivo temporal and spatial patterns of infection, and an improved animal model for evaluation of anti-giardial drugs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080226', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of California Davis;', u'University of California Berkeley']]
[u'Sexual selection drives floral scent diversification in carnivorous pitcher plants (NA Sarraceniaceae)', ['Winnie Ho', 'Nathan Kutz', 'Julienne Ng', 'Jeff Riffell'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Plant volatiles mediate vital ecological services, including pollination and herbivory. Empirical studies show that both pollinators and herbivores exert strong selective pressures on plant phenotypes, leading to the expectation that volatiles from floral and vegetative tissues should exhibit the respective signatures of sexual and natural selection. We tested this hypothesis in the North American pitcher plants, which have modified leaves to capture prey and provide an ideal opportunity to understand the evolution of scent compounds across different plant organs. We collected a comprehensive dataset of floral and vegetative volatiles from across the NA Sarraceniaceae, and used multivariate analysis methods to investigate scent evolution in this unique taxon. Our major findings revealed that (i) flowers and traps produced highly distinct scent profiles, consistent with the hypothesis that volatiles alleviate trade-offs due to incidental pollinator-consumption; (ii) across species, floral scent separated into distinct regions of scent space, while traps were showed little evidence of clustering - this may be due to convergence on a generalist strategy for insect capture; and (iii) floral scent evolved much more rapidly than trap scent, showing that even in carnivorous taxa, our framework for phenotypic evolution should incorporate pollinator-mediated sexual selection, and herbivore-mediated natural selection.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/079947', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'University of Colorado']]
[u'Temperature drives plant and soil microbial diversity patterns across an elevation gradient from the Andes to the Amazon', ['Andrew Nottingham', 'Noah Fierer', 'Benjamin Turner', 'Jeanette Whitaker', 'Nick Ostle', 'Niall McNamara', 'Richard Bardgett', 'Jonathan Leff', 'Norma Salinas', 'Adan Ccahuana', 'Miles Silman', 'Patrick Meir'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'1.\tClimate strongly regulates plant community composition and diversity, exemplified by gradients in plant diversity and community structure with elevation. However, we do not know if soil bacteria and fungi, key drivers of terrestrial biogeochemical cycling, follow similar biogeographical patterns determined by the same climatic drivers.\n2.\tWe studied an Andean tropical forest transect traversing 3.5 km in elevation. The species richness (\u03b1-diversity) and compositional dissimilarity of communities (\u03b2-diversity) were determined for plants, bacteria and fungi. We determined the environmental drivers of these patterns, using 31 environmental and edaphic predictor variables, and the relationship between microbial communities and soil organic matter cycling (extracellular enzymes).\n3.\tWe found co-ordinated changes with elevation in the species richness and composition of plants, soil bacteria and fungi. Across all groups, \u03b1-diversity declined significantly as elevation increased, and \u03b2-diversity increased with increased elevation difference. Temperature was the dominant driver of these diversity gradients, with only weak influences of edaphic properties, including soil pH, which did not vary substantially across the study transect. The gradients in microbial diversity were strongly correlated with the activities of enzymes involved in soil organic matter cycling, and were accompanied by a transition in microbial traits, towards slower-growing, more oligotrophic taxa at higher elevations. \n4.\tWe provide the first evidence of co-ordinated temperature-driven patterns in the diversity and distribution of plants, soil bacteria and fungi in tropical ecosystems. This finding suggest that, across landscape scales of relatively constant soil pH, shared patterns and environmental drivers of plant and microbial communities can occur, with large implications for tropical forest communities under future climate change.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/079996', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Colorado;', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute;', u'Centre of Ecology and Hydrology;', u'Lancaster Environment Centre;', u'The University of Manchester;', u'Pontificia Universidad Catolica del Peru;', u'Universidad Nacional de San Antonio Abad del Cusco;', u'Wake Forest University;', u'Australian National University']]
[u'De novo assembly of viral quasispecies using overlap graphs', ['Jasmijn Baaijens', 'Amal Zine El Aabidine', 'Eric Rivals', 'Alexander Schoenhuth'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'A viral quasispecies, the ensemble of viral strains populating an infected person, can be highly diverse. For optimal assessment of virulence, pathogenesis and therapy selection, determining the haplotypes of the individual strains can play a key role. As many viruses are subject to high mutation and recombination rates, high-quality reference genomes are often not available at the time of a new disease outbreak. We present SAVAGE, a computational tool for reconstructing individual haplotypes of intra-host virus strains without the need for a high-quality reference genome. SAVAGE makes use of either FM-index based data structures or ad-hoc consensus reference sequence for constructing overlap graphs from patient sample data. In this overlap graph, nodes represent reads and/or contigs, while edges reflect that two reads/contigs, based on sound statistical considerations, represent identical haplotypic sequence. Following an iterative scheme, a new overlap assembly algorithm that is based on the enumeration of statistically well-calibrated groups of reads/contigs then efficiently reconstructs the individual haplotypes from this overlap graph. In benchmark experiments on simulated and on real deep coverage data, SAVAGE drastically outperforms the only de novo viral quasispecies assembler available so far. When run on ad-hoc consensus reference sequence, SAVAGE performs very favorably in comparison with state-of-the-art reference genome guided tools. We also apply SAVAGE on a deep coverage (30000x) sample of a patient infected by the Zika virus, which sheds light on the genetic structure of the respective viral quasispecies.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080341', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica;', u'LIRMM UMR  5506 CNRS Universite Montpellier II']]
[u'FUNCTIONAL MRI IN AWAKE DOGS PREDICTS SUITABILITY FOR ASSISTANCE WORK', ['Gregory S. Berns', 'Andrew M. Brooks', 'Mark Spivak', 'Kerinne Levy'], u'October 12, 2016.', u"The overall goal of this work was to measure the efficacy of fMRI for predicting whether a dog would be a successful service dog. The training and imaging were performed in 50 dogs entering advanced training at 17-21 months of age. FMRI responses were measured while each dog observed hand signals indicating either reward or no reward and given by both a familiar handler and a stranger. 49 dogs successfully completed fMRI training and scanning. Of these, 33 eventually completed service training and were matched with a person, while 10 were released for behavioral reasons. Using anatomically defined regions-of-interest in the ventral caudate, amygdala, and visual cortex, we developed a classifier based on the dogs' outcomes. We found that responses in the stranger condition were sufficient to develop an accurate brain-based classifier. On all data, the classifier had a positive predictive value of 96% with 10% false positives. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.90 (0.79 with 4-fold cross-validation, P=0.02), indicating a significant diagnostic capability. Within the stranger condition, the differential response to [reward - no reward] in ventral caudate was positively correlated with a successful outcome, while the differential response in the amygdala was negatively correlated to outcome. These results show that successful service dogs transfer knowledge to strangers as indexed by ventral caudate activity without excessive arousal as measured in the amygdala.", u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080325', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Emory University;', u'Dog Star Technologies;', u'Canine Companions for Independence']]
[u'deSPI: efficient classification of metagenomic reads with lightweight de Bruijn graph-based reference indexing', ['Dengfeng Guan', 'Bo Liu', 'Yadong Wang'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'In metagenomic studies, fast and effective tools are on wide demand to implement taxonomy classification for upto billions of reads. Herein, we propose deSPI, a novel read classification method that classifies reads by recognizing and analyzing the matches between reads and reference with de Bruijn graph-based lightweight reference indexing. deSPI has faster speed with relatively small memory footprint, meanwhile, it can also achieve higher or similar sensitivity and accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080200', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harbin Institute of Technology']]
[u'AN OSCILLATORY NETWORK MODEL OF HEAD DIRECTION, SPATIALLY PERIODIC CELLS AND PLACE CELLS USING LOCOMOTOR INPUTS', ['Karthik Soman', 'Vignesh Muralidharan', 'Srinivasa Chakravarthy'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'We propose a computational modeling approach that explains the formation of a range of spatial cells like head direction cells, grid cells, border cells and place cells which are believed to play a pivotal role in the spatial navigation of an animal. Most existing models insert special symmetry conditions in the models in order to obtain such symmetries in the outcome; our models do not require such symmetry assumptions. Our modeling approach is embodied in two models: a simple one (Model #1) and a more detailed version (Model #2). In Model #1, velocity input is presented to a layer of Head Direction cells, with no special topology requirements, the outputs of which are presented to a layer of Path Integration neurons. A variety of spatially periodic responses resembling grid cells, are obtained using the Principal Components of Path Integration layer. In Model #2, the input consists of the locomotor rhythms from the four legs of a virtual animal. These rhythms are integrated into the phases of a layer of oscillatory neurons, whose outputs drive a layer of Head Direction cells. The Head Direction cells in turn drive a layer of Path Integration neurons, which in turn project to two successive layers of   Lateral Anti Hebbian Networks (LAHN). Cells in the first LAHN resemble grid cells (with both hexagonal and square gridness), and border cells. Cells in the second LAHN exhibit place cell behaviour and a new cell type known as corner cell. Both grid cells and place cells exhibit phase precession in 1D and 2D spaces.  The models outline the neural hierarchy necessary to obtain the complete range of spatial cell responses found in the hippocampal system.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080267', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Madras']]
[u'Rapid evolution of primate type 2 immune response factors linked to asthma susceptibility', ['Matthew F. Barber', 'Elliot M. Lee', 'Hayden Griffin', 'Nels C. Elde'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Host immunity pathways evolve rapidly in response to antagonism by pathogens. Microbial infections can also trigger excessive inflammation that contributes to diverse autoimmune disorders including asthma, lupus, diabetes, and arthritis. Definitive links between immune system evolution and human autoimmune disease remain unclear. Here we provide evidence that several components of the type 2 immune response pathway have been subject to recurrent positive selection in the primate lineage. Notably, rapid evolution of the central immune regulator IL13 corresponds to a polymorphism linked to asthma susceptibility in humans. We also find evidence of accelerated amino acid substitutions as well as repeated gene gain and loss events among eosinophil granule proteins, which act as toxic antimicrobial effectors that promote asthma pathology by damaging airway tissues. These results support the hypothesis that evolutionary conflicts with pathogens promote tradeoffs for increasingly robust immune responses during animal evolution. Our findings are also consistent with the view that natural selection has contributed to the spread of autoimmune disease alleles in humans.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080424', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Utah']]
[u'Identification of genetic variants affecting vitamin D receptor binding and associations with autoimmune disease', ['Giuseppe Gallone', 'Wilfried Haerty', 'Giulio Disanto', 'Sreeram Ramagopalan', 'Chris P Ponting', 'Antonio J Berlanga-Taylor'], u'October 12, 2016.', u"Background: Large numbers of statistically significant associations between sentinel SNPs and case-control status have been replicated by genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Nevertheless, currently few underlying molecular mechanisms of complex disease are known. Our approach has been to investigate whether variation in binding of a transcription factor, the vitamin D receptor (VDR) whose activating ligand vitamin D has often been proposed as a modifiable factor in multiple disorders, could explain any of these associations. VDR modifies gene expression by binding DNA as a heterodimer with the Retinoid X receptor (RXR).  Results: We identified 43,332 genetic variants significantly associated with altered VDR binding affinity (VDR-BVs) using a high-resolution (ChIP-exo) genome-wide analysis of 27 HapMap lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). The VDR-BVs are over-represented in well conserved consensus RXR::VDR binding motifs. However, most fell outside of recognisable RXR::VDR motifs, implying that genetic variation often affects RXR::VDR binding affinity only indirectly. Finally, we compared 341 VDR-BVs replicating by position in multiple individuals against background sets of variants lying within VDR-binding regions that had been matched in allele frequency and were independent with respect to linkage disequilibrium. In this stringent test, these replicated VDR-BVs were significantly (q < 0.1) and substantially (> 2-fold) enriched in GWAS intervals associated with autoimmune and other diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease, Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis.  Conclusions: Our findings are consistent with altered RXR::VDR binding contributing to immunity-related diseases. Replicated VDR-BVs associated with these disorders could represent causal disease risk alleles whose effect may be modifiable by vitamin D levels.", u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080143', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Earlham Institute;', u'MRC Functional Genomics Unit, Oxford;', u'Evidera Inc.;', u'MRC Human Genetics Unit, University of Edinburgh;', u'MRC-PHE Centre for Environment and Health, Imperial College London']]
[u'Association of polygenic risk for major psychiatric illness with subcortical volumes and white matter integrity in UK Biobank', ['Lianne M Reus', 'Xueyi Shen', 'Jude Gibson', 'Ella Wigmore', 'Lannie Ligthart', 'Mark J Adams', 'Gail Davies', 'Simon R Cox', 'Saskia P Hagenaars', 'Mark E Bastin', 'Ian J Deary', 'Heather C Whalley', 'Andrew M McIntosh'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SCZ) and bipolar disorder (BP) are common, disabling and heritable psychiatric diseases with a complex overlapping polygenic architecture. Individuals with these disorders, as well as their unaffected relatives, show widespread structural differences in corticostriatal and limbic networks. Structural variation in many of these brain regions is also heritable and polygenic but whether their genetic architecture overlaps with major psychiatric disorders is unknown. We sought to address this issue by examining the impact of polygenic risk of MDD, SCZ, and BP on subcortical brain volumes and white matter (WM) microstructure in a large single sample of neuroimaging data; the UK Biobank Imaging study. The first release of UK Biobank imaging data compromised participants with overlapping genetic data and subcortical volumes (N = 978) and WM measures (N = 816). Our, findings however, indicated no statistically significant associations between either subcortical volumes or WM microstructure, and polygenic risk for MDD, SCZ or BP. In the current study, we found little or no evidence for genetic overlap between major psychiatric disorders and structural brain measures. These findings suggest that subcortical brain volumes and WM microstructure may not be closely linked to the genetic mechanisms of major psychiatric disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080283', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Vrije universiteit']]
[u'Lysine as a potential low molecular weight angiogen: its clinical, experimental and in-silico validation- A brief study', ['Debatosh Datta', 'Priyanshu Verma', 'Anindita Banerjee', 'Sujoy Kar', 'Tanima Sengupta', 'Nalinava Sengupta', 'Sujoy Kumar Samanta', 'Enam Murshed Khan'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Globally, the area of angiogenesis is dominated by investigations on anti-angiogenic agents and processes, due to its role in metastatic cancer treatment. Although, the area of ischemic tissue reperfusion is having much bigger demand and foot-mark. Following clinical failure of VEGF (Vascular endothelial growth factor) as a potential agent for induction of a controlled angiogenic response in ischemic tissues and organs, the progress is reasonably quiet as for new low molecular weight (LMW) angiogen molecules and their clinical applications are concerned. Basic amino acid Lysine has been observed to have profound angiogenic property in ischemic tissues, which is controlled, reproducible, time bound and without any accompanying reperfusion damage. In this study, the basic amino acid Lysine has been suggested as a LMW-angiogen, where it has been proposed to have a molecular binding property between VEGF and VEGF receptor (VEGFR). Here, the molecular adhesive hypothesis is being probed and confirmed both in the clinical and lab conditions through induced angiogenic response in tissue repair and in chick chorio allantoic membrane (CAM), respectively; and in dry-docking experiments (in-silico studies).', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080176', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, Kolkata, India;', u'Indian Institute of Technology Patna;', u'ICARE Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Haldia, India;', u'Epigen, Akershus Universitetssykehus, 1478 Lorenskog, Norway;', u'iNANOD AS, Oslo, Norway']]
[u'Contrasting patterns of genome-level diversity across distinct co-occurring bacterial populations', ['Sarahi L Garcia', 'Sarah L. R Stevens', 'Benjamin Crary', 'Manuel Martinez-Garcia', 'Ramunas Stepanauskas', 'Tanja Woyke', 'Susannah G Tringe', 'Siv Andersson', 'Stefan Bertilsson', 'Rex R Malmstrom', 'Katherine D McMahon'], u'October 12, 2016.', u"To understand the forces driving differentiation and diversification in wild bacterial populations, we must be able to delineate and track ecologically relevant units through space and time. Mapping metagenomic sequences to reference genomes derived from the same environment can reveal genetic heterogeneity within populations, and in some cases, be used to identify boundaries between genetically similar, but ecologically distinct, populations. Here we examine population structure within abundant and ubiquitous freshwater bacterial groups such as the acI Actinobacteria and LD12 Alphaproteobacteria (the freshwater sister clade to the marine SAR11) using 33 single cell genomes and a 5-year metagenomic time series. The single cell genomes grouped into 15 monophyletic clusters (termed 'tribes') that share at least 97.9% 16S rRNA identity. Distinct populations were identified within most tribes based on the patterns of metagenomic read recruitments to single-cell genomes representing these tribes. Genetically distinct populations within tribes of the acI actinobacterial lineage living in the same lake had different seasonal abundance patterns, suggesting these populations were also ecologically distinct. In contrast, sympatric LD12 populations were much less genetically differentiated and had similar temporal abundance patterns. This suggests that within one lake, some freshwater lineages harbor genetically discrete (but still closely related) and ecologically distinct populations, while other lineages are composed of less differentiated populations with overlapping niches. Our results point at an interplay of evolutionary and ecological forces acting on these communities that can be observed in real time.", u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080168', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Uppsala University;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'University of Alicante;', u'Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences;', u'DOE Joint Genome Institute;', u'University of Wisconsin Madison']]
[u'Fast Inference of Individual Admixture Coefficients Using Geographic Data', ['Kevin Caye', 'Flora Jay', 'Olivier Michel', 'Olivier Francois'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'Accurately evaluating the distribution of genetic ancestry across geographic space is one of the main questions addressed by evolutionary biologists. This question has been commonly addressed through the application of Bayesian estimation programs allowing their users to estimate individual admixture proportions and allele frequencies among putative ancestral populations. Following the explosion of high-throughput sequencing technologies, several algorithms have been proposed to cope with computational burden generated by the massive data in those studies. In this context, incorporating geographic proximity in ancestry estimation algorithms is an open statistical and computational challenge. In this study, we introduce new algorithms that use geographic information to estimate ancestry proportions and ancestral genotype frequencies from population genetic data. Our algorithms combine matrix factorization methods and spatial statistics to provide estimates of ancestry matrices based on least-squares approximation.  We demonstrate the benefit of using spatial algorithms through extensive computer simulations, and we provide an example of application of our new algorithms to a set of spatially referenced samples for the plant species Arabidopsis thaliana.  Without loss of statistical accuracy, the new algorithms exhibit runtimes that are much shorter than those observed for previously developed spatial methods. Our algorithms are implemented in the R package,  tess3r, which is available from <a href="https://github.com/BioShock38/TESS3_encho_sen">https://github.com/BioShock38/TESS3_encho_sen</a>.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080291', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Universite Grenoble-Alpes;', u'Universite Paris Diderot']]
[u'Using the Price equation to analyze multi-level selection on the reproductive policing mechanism of bacterial plasmids', ['Kyriakos Kentzoglanakis', 'Sam P Brown', 'Richard A Goldstein'], u'October 12, 2016.', u"The replication control system of non-conjugative bacterial plasmids constitutes a simple and elegant example of a reproductive policing mechanism that moderates competition in the intra-cellular replication pool and establishes a mutually beneficial partnership among plasmids within a bacterial host and between plasmids and their hosts. The emergence of these partnerships is a product of the conflict between the evolutionary interests of hosts, who seek to maximize their growth rates within the population, and plasmids, who seek to maximize their growth rates within hosts. We employ a multi-scale computational model describing the growth, division and death of hosts, as well as the independent replication of plasmids within hosts, in order to investigate the implications of this conflict for the evolution of the plasmid replication parameters. We apply the multi-level form of the Price equation in order to quantify and elucidate the various selective pressures that drive the evolution of plasmid replication control. Our analysis shows how the evolution of the constituent components of the plasmid replication control system are shaped by selection acting at the level of hosts and the level of plasmids. In addition, we calculate finer-grained selective pressures that are attributed to atomic plasmid-related events (such as intra-cellular replication and plasmid loss due to host death) and demonstrate their special role at the early stages of the evolution of policing. Our approach constitutes a novel application of the Price equation for discerning and discussing the synergies between the levels of selection given the availability of a mechanistic model for the generation of the system's dynamics. We show how the Price equation, particularly in its multi-level form, can provide significant insight by quantifying the relative importance of the various selective forces that shape the evolution of policing in bacterial plasmids.", u'/content/early/2016/10/12/079574', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University College London;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Single Cell Phenotyping Reveals Heterogeneity among Haematopoietic Stem Cells Following Infection', ['Adam L MacLean', 'Maia A Smith', 'Juliane Liepe', 'Aaron Sim', 'Reema Khorshed', 'Nico Scherf', 'Axel Krinner', 'Ingo Roeder', 'Cristina Lo Celso', 'Michael PH Stumpf'], u'October 12, 2016.', u'The haematopoietic stem cell (HSC) niche provides essential micro  environmental cues for the production and maintenance of HSCs within the bone marrow. During inflammation, haematopoietic dynamics are perturbed, but it is not known whether\nchanges to the HSC-niche interaction occur as a result. We visualise HSCs directly in vivo, enabling detailed analysis of the 3D niche dynamics and migration patterns in murine bone marrow following Trichinella spiralis infection. Spatial statistical analysis of these HSC trajectories reveals two distinct modes of HSC behaviour: (i) a preference for revisiting previously explored space, and (ii) a preference for exploring new space. Whereas HSCs from control donors predominantly follow pattern (i), those from infected mice follow both. Using detailed computational analyses of cell migration tracks and life-history theory, we show that the increased motility of HSCs following infection can, perhaps counterintuitively, enable mice to cope better in deteriorating HSC-niche micro-environments following infection.', u'/content/early/2016/10/12/080416', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'TU Dresden']]
