[u'Gene expression analysis provides insight into the physiology of the important staple food crop cassava', ['Mark C Wilson', 'Andrew M Mutka', 'Aaron W Hummel', 'Jeffrey Berry', 'Raj Deepika Chauhan', 'Anupama Vijayaraghavan', 'Nigel J Taylor', 'Daniel F Voytas', 'Daniel H. Chitwood', 'Rebecca S Bart'], u'September 3, 2016.', u'Cassava (Manihot esculenta) feeds approximately 800 million people worldwide. Although this crop displays high productivity under drought and poor soil conditions, it is susceptible to disease, postharvest deterioration and the roots contain low nutritional content. Here, we provide molecular identities for eleven cassava tissue types through RNA- sequencing and develop an open access, web-based interface for further interrogation of the data. Through this dataset, we report novel insight into the physiology of cassava and identify promoters able to drive specified tissue expression profiles. Specifically, we focus on identification of the transcriptional signatures that define the massive, underground storage roots used as a food source and the favored target tissue for transgene integration and genome editing, friable embryogenic callus (FEC). The information gained from this study is of value for both conventional and biotechnological improvement programs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/03/073213', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Department of Genetics, University of Minnesota']]
[u'Accurate De Novo Prediction of Protein Contact Map by Ultra-Deep Learning Model', ['Sheng Wang', 'Siqi Sun', 'Zhen Li', 'Renyu Zhang', 'Jinbo Xu'], u'September 3, 2016.', u'Motivation: Protein contacts contain key information for the understanding of protein structure and function and thus, contact prediction from sequence is an important problem. Recently exciting progress has been made on this problem, but the predicted contacts for proteins without many sequence homologs is still of low quality and not extremely useful for de novo structure prediction. \n\nMethod: This paper presents a new deep learning method for contact prediction that predicts contacts by integrating both evolutionary coupling (EC) information and sequence conservation information through an ultra-deep neural network consisting of two deep residual neural networks. The first residual network conducts a series of 1-dimensional convolutional transformation of sequential features; the second residual network conducts a series of 2-dimensional convolutional transformation of pairwise information including output of the first residual network, EC information and pairwise potential. This neural network allows us to model very complex relationship between sequence and contact map as well as long-range interdependency between contacts and thus, obtain high-quality contact prediction. \n\nResults: Our method greatly outperforms existing contact prediction methods and leads to much more accurate contact-assisted protein folding. For example, on the 105 CASP11 test proteins, the L/10 long-range accuracy obtained by our method is 83.3% while that by CCMpred and MetaPSICOV (the CASP11 winner) is 43.4% and 60.2%, respectively. On the 398 membrane proteins, the L/10 long-range accuracy obtained by our method is 79.6% while that by CCMpred and MetaPSICOV is 51.8% and 61.2%, respectively. Ab initio folding guided by our predicted contacts can yield correct folds (i.e., TMscore>0.6) for 224 of the 579 test proteins, while that by MetaPSICOV- and CCMpred-predicted contacts can do so for only 79 and 62 of them, respectively. Further, our contact-assisted models also have much better quality (especially for membrane proteins) than template-based models.', u'/content/early/2016/09/03/073239', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago']]
[u'Real-time detection of PRT1-mediated ubiquitination via fluorescently labeled substrate probes', ['Nico Dissmeyer', 'Augustin C Mot', 'Erik Prell', 'Maria Klecker', 'Christin Naumann', 'Frederik Faden', 'Bernhard Westermann'], u'September 3, 2016.', u'The N-end rule pathway has emerged as a major system for controlling protein stability in medical, animal and plant sciences as well as agriculture. Although, novel functions and enzymes of the pathway were discovered, ubiquitination mechanism and substrate specificity of N-end rule pathway E3 Ubiquitin ligases remained elusive. Taking the first discovered bone fide plant N-end rule E3 ligase PROTEOLYSIS1 (PRT1) as a model, we describe a novel tool to molecularly characterize polyubiquitination live, in real-time. We demonstrated for the first time that PRT1 is indeed an E3 ligase, which was hypothesized for a long time. We gained mechanistic insights in PRT1 substrate preference and activation by monitoring live ubiquitination by using a fluorescent chemical probe coupled to artificial substrate reporters. Ubiquitination can then be measured by rapid in-gel fluorescence scanning in classical end-point assays as well as in real time by fluorescence polarization in standard microplate readers. Enzymatic activity, substrate specificity, reaction mechanisms and optimization can be easily investigated ad hoc in short time and with significantly reduced reagent consumption. These results demonstrate that PRT1 has the potential to be involved in polyubiquitination of various substrates and therefore pave the way to understand recently discovered phenotypes of prt1 mutants.', u'/content/early/2016/09/03/062067', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Leibniz Institute of Plant Biochemistry (IPB)']]
[u'Network Modules Driving Plant Stress Response, Tolerance and Adaptation: A case study using Abscisic acid Induced Protein-protein Interactome of Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Khader Shameer', 'Mahantesha B Naika', 'Oommen K Mathew', 'Ramanathan Sowdhamini'], u'September 3, 2016.', u'Understanding key protein-protein interaction network mediated by genes responsive to biotic and abiotic stress could help to understand the functional modules and network topologies driven genes responsive to stresses. It still remains to be an open question whether distinct protein-protein interaction networks have functional or regulatory role in mediating abiotic or biotic stress response in plants. To address this question we compiled abscisic acid responsive genes from Stress-responsive TranscrIption Factor DataBase (version 2; STIFDB2); derived protein-protein interaction network mediated by the genes from STRING database and performed biological network analyses using Cytoscape plugins. We have used Molecular Complex Detection algorithm for deriving highly connected module from the abscisic acid responsive network. Biological Network Gene Ontology tool was used to derive functional enrichment of abscisic acid responsive interaction network using GOSlim_Plants ontology. GraphletCounter was used to identify graph motifs in the network and NetworkAnalyzer was used to compute various network topological parameters. We found 26S proteasome subunits as a highly clustered module using Molecular Complex Detection algorithm. Enrichment analysis indicates that several biological processes terms including "flower development" are associated with the network. Results from this case study can be used to understand network properties of abiotic stress responsive genes and gene products in a model plant system.', u'/content/early/2016/09/03/073247', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'NCBS - TIFR, Bangalore;', u'National Centre for Biological Sciences (TIFR)']]
[u'A Novel Clustering Method for Patient Stratification', ['Hongfu Liu', 'Rui Zhao', 'Hongsheng Fang', 'Feixiong Cheng', 'Yun Fu', 'Yang-Yu Liu'], u'September 3, 2016.', u'Patient stratification or disease subtyping is crucial for precision medicine and personalized treatment of complex diseases. The increasing availability of high-throughput molecular data provides a great opportunity for patient stratification. In particular, many clustering methods have been employed to tackle this problem in a purely data-driven manner. Yet, existing methods leveraging high-throughput molecular data often suffers from various limitations, e.g., noise, data heterogeneity, high dimensionality or poor interpretability. Here we introduced an Entropy-based Consensus Clustering (ECC) method that overcomes those limitations all together. Our ECC method employs an entropy-based utility function to fuse many basic partitions to a consensus one that agrees with the basic ones as much as possible. Maximizing the utility function in ECC has a much more meaningful interpretation than any other consensus clustering methods. Moreover, we exactly map the complex utility maximization problem to the classic K-means clustering problem with a modified distance function, which can then be efficiently solved with linear time and space complexity. Our ECC method can also naturally integrate multiple molecular data types measured from the same set of subjects, and easily handle missing values without any imputation. We applied ECC to both synthetic and real data, including 35 cancer gene expression benchmark datasets and 13 cancer types with four molecular data types from The Cancer Genome Atlas. We found that ECC shows superior performance against existing clustering methods. Our results clearly demonstrate the power of ECC in clinically relevant patient stratification.', u'/content/early/2016/09/03/073189', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Northeastern University;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
