[u'Mortality prediction in sepsis via gene expression analysis: a community approach', ['Timothy E Sweeney', 'Thanneer M Perumal', 'Ricardo Henao', 'Marshall Nichols', 'Judith A Howrylak', 'Augustine M Choi', 'Jesus F Bermejo-Martin', 'Raquel Almansa', 'Eduardo Tamayo', 'Emma E Davenport', 'Katie L Burnham', 'Charles J Hinds', 'Julian C Knight', 'Stephen F Kingsmore', 'Chris W Woods', 'Geoffrey S Ginsburg', 'Hector R Wong', 'Grant P Parnell', 'Benjamin Tang', 'Lyle L Moldawer', 'Frederick E Moore', 'Larsson Omberg', 'Purvesh Khatri', 'Ephraim L Tsalik', 'Lara M Mangravite', 'Raymond J Langley'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Improved risk stratification and prognosis in sepsis is a critical unmet need. Clinical severity scores and available assays such as blood lactate reflect global illness severity with suboptimal performance, and do not specifically reveal the underlying dysregulation of sepsis. Here three scientific groups were invited to independently generate prognostic models for 30-day mortality using 12 discovery cohorts (N=650) containing transcriptomic data collected from primarily community-onset sepsis patients. Predictive performance was validated in 5 cohorts of community-onset sepsis patients (N=189) in which the models showed summary AUROCs ranging from 0.765-0.89. Similar performance was observed in 4 cohorts of hospital-acquired sepsis (N=282). Combining the new gene-expression-based prognostic models with prior clinical severity scores led to significant improvement in prediction of 30-day mortality (p<0.01). These models provide an opportunity to develop molecular bedside tests that may improve risk stratification and mortality prediction in patients with sepsis, improving both resource allocation and prognostic enrichment in clinical trials.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095489', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'Sage Bionetworks;', u'Duke University;', u'Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center;', u'Cornell Medical Center;', u'Hospital Clinico Universitario de Valladolid;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics;', u'Queen Mary University;', u'Rady Childrens Institute for Genomic Medicine;', u'Cincinnati Childrens Hospital Medical Center and Cincinnati Childrens Research Foundation;', u'Centre for Immunology and Allergy Research, Westmead Institute for Medical Research;', u'Nepean Hospital;', u'University of Florida College of Medicine;', u'University of South Alabama']]
[u'In silico epitope prediction and 3D model analysis of Peste des petits ruminants virus nucleoprotein (PPRV N)', ['Bakang Baloi'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) is an acute, highly contagious viral disease of small ruminants. It is endemic to sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and the Arabian Peninsula. The disease is a major constraint to food security, causing significant economic losses to subsistence farmers in affected areas. \nThe nucleoprotein of morbilliviruses is highly immunogenic and produced in large quantities in virus infected cells. This makes it a suitable target for the immune response. In this study, B-cell and T-cell epitopes of PPRV Nig/75/1 nucleoprotein were predicted using a suite of in silico tools. Forty-six T-cell epitopes were predicted, of which 38 were MHC-I binding while eight were MHC-II binding. Of the 19 B-cell epitopes predicted, 15 were linear epitopes while four were discontinuous epitopes. Homology modelling of PPRV-N was done to elucidate the 3D structure of the protein and conformational epitopes. Conservation analysis of the discontinuous epitopes gave an indication into the similarity of the selected epitopes with other isolates of PPRV. \nPredicted epitopes may form an important starting point for serological screening and diagnostic tools against PPRV. Experimental validation of the predicted epitopes will assist in selection of promising candidates for consideration as antigen-based diagnostic tools. Such diagnostic tools would play a role in the global fight and possible eradication of PPR.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095505', [], [u'University of Botswana']]
[u'Malate-dependent Fe accumulation is a critical checkpoint in the root developmental response to low phosphate', ['Javier Mora-Macias', 'Jonathan Odilon Ojeda-Rivera', 'Dolores Gutierrez-Alanis', 'Lenin Yong-Villalobos', 'Araceli Oropeza-Aburto', 'Javier Raya-Gonzalez', 'Gabriel Jimenez-Dominguez', 'Gabriela Chavez-Calvillo', 'Ruben Rellan-Alvarez', 'Luis Rafael Herrera-Estrella'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Low phosphate (Pi) availability constrains plant development and crop production in both natural and agricultural ecosystems. When Pi is scarce, modifications of root system architecture (RSA) enhance soil exploration ability and can lead to an increase in Pi uptake. In Arabidopsis, an iron-dependent determinate developmental program that induces premature differentiation in the root apical meristem (RAM) begins when the root tip contacts low Pi media, resulting in a short-root phenotype. However, the mechanisms that enable the regulation of root growth in response to Pi-limiting conditions remain largely unknown. Cellular, genomic and transcriptomic analysis of low-Pi insensitive mutants revealed that the malate-exudation related genes SENSITIVE TO PROTON RHIZOTOXICITY (STOP1) a n d ALUMINUM ACTIVATED MALATE TRANSPORTER 1 (ALMT1) represent a critical checkpoint in the root developmental response to Pi starvation in Arabidopsis thaliana.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095497', [], [u'Laboratorio Nacional de Genomica para la Biodiversidad (Langebio)/Unidad de Genomica Avanzada']]
[u'Co-estimating Reticulate Phylogenies and Gene Trees from Multi-locus Sequence Data', ['Dingqiao Wen', 'Luay Nakhleh'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'The multispecies network coalescent (MSNC) is a stochastic process that captures how gene trees grow within the \nbranches of a phylogenetic network. Coupling the MSNC with a stochastic mutational process that operates along the branches of \nthe gene trees gives rise to a generative model of how multiple loci from within and across species evolve in the presence of both \nincomplete lineage sorting (ILS) and gene flow. We report on the first Bayesian method for sampling the parameters \nof this generative model, including the species phylogeny, gene trees, divergence times, and population sizes, from DNA sequences \nof multiple independent loci. We demonstrate the utility of our method by analyzing simulated data and reanalyzing three biological data sets. \nOur results demonstrate the significance of not only co-estimating species phylogenies and gene trees, but also accounting for \ngene flow and ILS simultaneously. In particular, we show that when gene flow occurs, our method accurately estimates the evolutionary histories, \n coalescence times, and divergence times. Methods that do not account for gene flow, on the other hand, underestimate divergence times and \n overestimate coalescence times.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095539', [], [u'Rice University']]
[u'Hardy Weinberg Exact Test In Large Scale Variant Calling Quality Control', ['Zhuoyi Huang', 'Navin Rustagi', 'Degui Zhi', 'Adrienne Cupples', 'Richard Gibbs', 'Eric Boerwinkle', 'Fuli Yu'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium (HWE) test is widely used as a quality control measure to detect sequencing artifacts like mismapping, allelic dropout and biases. However, in the high throughput sequencing era, where the sample size is beyond a thousand scale, the utility of HWE test in reducing the false positive rate remains unclear. In this paper, we demonstrate that HWE test has limited power in identifying sequencing artifacts when the variant allele frequency is lower than 1% in a variant call set produced from more than five thousand whole genome sequenced samples from two homogeneous populations. We develop a novel strategy of implementing HWE filtering in which we incorporate site frequency spectrum information and determine the p-value cutoff which optimizes the tradeoff between sensitivity and specificity. The novel strategy is shown to outperform the exact test of HWE with an empirical constant p-value cutoff regardless of the sequencing sample size. We also present best practice recommendations for identifying possible sources of false positives from large sequencing datasets based on an analysis of intrinsic biases in the variant calling process. Our novel strategy of determining the HWE test p-value cutoff and applying the test to the common variants provides a practical approach for the variant level quality controls in the upcoming sequencing projects with tens to hundreds of thousand of samples.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095521', [], [u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'University of Alabama at Birmingham;', u'Boston University School of Public Health;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston']]
[u'Blood flow directs arterial-venous remodeling through Notch activation and endothelial cell migration', ['Bart Weijts', 'Edgar Gutierrez', 'Semion K Saikin', 'Ararat J Ablooglu', 'David Traver', 'Alex Groisman', 'Eugene Tkachenko'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Arteries and veins are lined by arterial and venous endothelial cells (ECs), which are functionally different. During embryonic development, vascular remodeling transforms some arteries into veins and because arterial and venous embryonic ECs have the plasticity to transdifferentiate into each other, suggests that the transformation of arteries to veins may be accompanied by trans-differentiation of ECs. Here, we show that transformation of arterial intersegmental vessels (aISVs) into veins occurs without trans-differentiation, by the displacement of arterial ECs by venous ECs and requires normal blood flow. At the same time, the establishment of blood flow prevents neighboring aISVs from transforming into veins by the upregulation of Notch signaling in these aISVs. Here, we propose that through these two processes, blood flow facilitates the transformation of the all-arterial trunk vasculature into a functional vascular network with near equal numbers of arteries and veins.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095307', [], [u'Univ. California San Deigo;', u'Harvard;', u'UC San Diego']]
[u'Large-scale network dynamics of beta-band oscillations underlie auditory perceptual decision making', ['Mohsen Alavash', 'Christoph Daube', 'Malte Woestmann', 'Alex Brandmeyer', 'Jonas Obleser'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Perceptual decisions vary in the speed at which we make them. Evidence suggests that translating sensory information into behavioral decisions relies on distributed interacting neural populations, with decision speed hinging on power modulations of neural oscillations. Yet, the dependence of perceptual decisions on the large-scale network organization of coupled neural oscillations has remained elusive. We measured magnetoencephalography signals in human listeners who judged acoustic stimuli made of carefully titrated clouds of tone sweeps. These stimuli were used under two task contexts where the participants judged the overall pitch or direction of the tone sweeps. We traced the large-scale network dynamics of source-projected neural oscillations on a trial-by-trial basis using power envelope correlations and graph-theoretical network discovery. Under both tasks, faster decisions were predicted by higher segregation and lower integration of coupled beta-band (~16-28 Hz) oscillations. We also uncovered brain network states that promoted faster decisions and emerged from lower-order auditory and higher-order control brain areas. Specifically, decision speed in judging tone-sweep direction critically relied on nodal network configurations of anterior temporal, cingulate and middle frontal cortices. Our findings suggest that global network communication during perceptual decision-making is implemented in the human brain by large-scale couplings between beta-band neural oscillations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095356', [], [u'University of Luebeck;', u'Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences']]
[u'In situ estimates of iron-oxidation and accretion rates for iron-oxidizing bacterial mats at Loihi Seamount.', ['David Emerson', 'Jarrod J Scott', 'Anna H Leavitt', 'Emily Fleming', 'Craig L Moyer'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'It is increasingly recognized that diffuse, hydrothermal venting is an important source of iron to the deep sea that can influence oceanic iron dynamics and abundance. Lithotrophic Fe oxidizing bacteria (FeOB) are dominant at diffuse hydrothermal vent sites, producing microbial iron mats that are often centimeters or more thick. At present, little is known about in situ Fe-oxidation rates, or accretion rates for iron mats. An in situ productivity chamber was developed that took advantage of the unique mineral morphotypes produced by FeOB to estimate rates of Fe oxidation and accretion. Chambers were placed at two diffuse vents (1179 and 1300 mbsl) at Loihi Seamount where they were colonized by FeOB for different amounts of time. From this analysis, it was estimated that Fe-oxidation rates could range from 8.2 to 51.9 x 10-6 mol . hr-1, and that iron mats could accrete at around 2.2 cm . yr-1. Molecular analysis indicated that the relative abundance of Zetaproteobacteria, a group of known FeOB, accounted for 80 to 90% of the bacteria colonizing the chambers. There was a distinct difference between populations at the 1179m site (Pohaku), and the 1300m site (North Hiolo Ridge). Microscope slides placed within the productivity chambers were colonized by different morphotypes of FeOB. The cells responsible for one common morphotype that produces a Y shaped filament were identified as Zetaproteobacteria by use of a small subunit rRNA probe. This work confirms the importance of FeOB in the formation of chemosynthetic iron mats, and provides the first estimates for in situ Fe oxidation rates and mat accretion rates.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095414', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences;', u'California State University, Chico;', u'Western Washington University']]
[u'Habitat predicts levels of genetic admixture in Saccharomyces cerevisiae', ['Viranga Tilakaratna', 'Douda Bensasson'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Genetic admixture can provide material for populations to adapt to local environments, and this process has played a crucial role in the domestication of plants and animals. The model yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, has been domesticated multiple times for the production of wine, sake, beer and bread, but the high rate of admixture between yeast lineages has so far been treated as a complication for population genomic analysis. Here we make use of the low recombination rate at centromeres to investigate admixture in yeast using a classic Bayesian approach and a more conservative locus by locus phylogenetic approach developed here. Using both approaches, we find that S. cerevisiae from stable oak woodland habitats are less likely to show recent genetic admixture compared with those isolated from transient habitats such as fruits, wine or human infections. When woodland yeast strains do show recent genetic admixture, the degree of admixture is lower than in strains from other habitats. Furthermore, S. cerevisiae populations from oak woodlands are genetically isolated from each other, with only occasional migration between woodlands and local fruit habitats. Application of our phylogenetic approach suggests that there is a previously undetected population in North Africa that is the closest outgroup to the European S. cerevisiae, including the domesticated Wine population. Thorough testing for admixture in S. cerevisiae therefore leads to a better understanding of the underlying population structure of the species and will be important for understanding the selective processes underlying domestication in this economically important species.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095265', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Manchester;', u'University of Georgia']]
[u'The social evolution of siderophore production in Pseudomonas aeruginosa is environmentally determined.', ['Freya Harrison', 'Alan McNally', 'Ana C. da Silva', 'Stephen P. Diggle'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Bacteria secrete various exoproducts whose benefits can be shared by all cells in the vicinity. The potential importance of these "public goods" in bacterial evolutionary ecology has been extensively studied. Cheating by siderophore-null mutants of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa has received particular attention. The potential of siderophore mutants to attenuate virulence, and the possibility of exploiting this for clinical ends, have generated a wealth of publications. However, the possibility that genotype \xd7 environment interactions govern the evolutionary consequences of siderophore loss has been almost entirely ignored. A review of the available literature revealed (i) widespread use of an undefined mutant as a siderophore cheat; and (ii) a reliance on experiments conducted in iron-limited minimal medium. Whole genome sequencing of the undefined mutant revealed a range of mutations affecting phenotypes other than siderophore production. We then conducted cheating assays using defined deletion mutants, grown in conditions designed to model infected fluids and tissue in CF lung infection and non-healing wounds. Depending on the environment, we found that siderophore loss could lead to cheating, simple fitness defects, or no fitness effect at all. It is therefore crucial to develop appropriate in vitro growth conditions in order to better predict the social evolution of traits in vivo.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095323', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Nottingham;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'Second Generation Drosophila Chemical Tags: Sensitivity, Versatility and Speed', ['Ben Sutcliffe', 'Julian Ng', 'Thomas O. Auer', 'Mathias Pasche', 'Richard Benton', 'Gregory S. X. E. Jefferis', 'Sebastian Cachero'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Labeling and visualizing cells and sub-cellular structures within thick tissues, whole organs and even intact animals is key to studying biological processes. This is particularly true for studies of neural circuits where neurons form sub-micron synapses but have arbors that may span millimeters in length. Traditionally labeling is achieved by immunofluorescence; however diffusion of antibody molecules (>100 kDa) is slow and often results in uneven labeling with very poor penetration into the centre of thick specimens; these limitations can be partially addressed by extending staining protocols to over a week (Drosophila brain) and months (mice). Recently we developed an alternative approach using genetically encoded chemical tags CLIP, SNAP, Halo and TMP for tissue labeling; this resulted in >100 fold increase in labeling speed in both mice and Drosophila, at the expense of a considerable drop in absolute sensitivity when compared to optimized immunofluorescence staining. We now present a second generation of UAS and LexA responsive CLIP, SNAP and Halo chemical labeling reagents for flies. These multimerized tags with translational enhancers have up to 64 fold increase in sensitivity over first generation reagents. In addition we developed a suite of conditional reporters (4xSNAP tag and CLIP-SNAP-Halo) that are activated by the DNA recombinase Bxb1. Our new reporters can be used with weak and strong GAL4 and LexA drivers and enable stochastic, intersectional and multicolor Brainbow labeling. These improvements in sensitivity and experimental versatility, while still retaining the substantial speed advantage that is a signature of chemical labeling, should significantly increase the scope of this technology.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095398', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, United Kingdom;', u'University of Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Center for Integrative Genomics, Switzerland']]
[u'Detection of long repeat expansions from PCR-free whole-genome sequence data', ['Egor Dolzhenko', 'Joke J.F.A. van Vugt', 'Richard J. Shaw', 'Mitchell A. Bekritsky', 'Marka van Blitterswijk', 'Zoya Kingsbury', 'Sean J. Humphray', 'Raymond D. Schellevis', 'William J. Brands', 'Matt Baker', 'Rosa Rademakers', 'Maarten Kooyman', 'Gijs H.P. Tazelaar', 'Michael A. van Es', 'Russell McLaughlin', 'William Sproviero', 'Aleksey Shatunov', 'Ashley Jones', 'Ahmad Al Khleifat', 'Alan Pittman', 'Sarah Morgan', 'Orla Hardiman', 'Ammar Al-Chalabi', 'Leonard H. van den Berg', 'David R. Bentley', 'Michael A. Eberle', 'Jan H. Veldink'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Accurately identifying large repeat expansions including those that cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Fragile X syndrome is challenging for short-read (100-150bp) whole genome sequencing (WGS) data. A solution to this problem is an important step towards integrating WGS into precision medicine. We have developed a research tool called ExpansionHunter that, using PCR-free WGS data, can identify repeat expansions at the locus of interest, even if the expansion is larger than the read length. We applied our algorithm to WGS data from 3,001 ALS patients who have been tested for the presence of the C9orf72 repeat expansion with repeat-primed PCR (RP-PCR). Southern blot and fragment length analysis were applied on a subset of samples to confirm the presence or absence of the repeat expansion. Compared to the RP-PCR results, our WGS-based method identified pathogenic repeat expansions (>30 GGCCCC repeats) with 98.1% sensitivity and 99.7% specificity. Further inspection identified that 11 of the 12 conflicting calls were resolved as errors in the original RP-PCR results. Compared against this updated result, ExpansionHunter correctly classified 99.5% (212/213) of the expanded samples and all (2,788/2,788) of the wild type samples. The targeted repeat expansion caller we describe here marks a significant step towards a single whole genome medical test that includes detection of other pathogenic repeat expansions in WGS.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/093831', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Illumina, San Diego, USA;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands;', u'Illumina, Cambridge, UK;', u'Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA;', u'Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands;', u'Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, Republic of Ireland;', u"King's College London, London, UK;", u'UCL Institute of Neurology, London, UK']]
[u'Shared activity patterns arising at genetic susceptibility loci reveal underlying genomic and cellular architecture of human disease.', ['John Kenneth Baillie', 'Andrew Bretherick', 'Chris Haley', 'Sara Clohisey', 'Alan Gray', 'Jeffrey Barret', 'Eli Stahl', 'Albert Tenesa', 'Robin Andersson', 'James Bentley Brown', 'Geoffrey Faulkner', 'Marina Lizio', 'Ulf Schaefer', 'Carsten Daub', 'Masayoshi Itoh', 'Naoto Kondo', 'Timo Lassmann', 'Jun Kawai', 'Vladimir B Bajic', 'Peter Heutink', 'Michael Rehli', 'Hideya Kawaji', 'Albin Sandelin', 'Harukazu Suzuki', 'Jack Satsangi', 'Christine Wells', 'Hacohen Nir', 'Tom Freeman', 'Yoshihide Hayashizaki', 'Piero Carninci', 'Alistair R Forrest', 'David A Hume'], u'December 19, 2016.', u"Genetic variants underlying complex traits, including disease susceptibility, are enriched within the transcriptional regulatory elements, promoters and enhancers. There is emerging evidence that regulatory elements associated with particular traits or diseases share patterns of transcriptional regulation. Accordingly, shared transcriptional regulation (coexpression) may help prioritise loci associated with a given trait, and help to identify the biological processes underlying it. Using cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE) profiles of promoter- and enhancer-derived RNAs across 1824 human samples, we have quantified coexpression of RNAs originating from trait-associated regulatory regions using a novel analytical method (network density analysis; NDA). For most traits studied, sequence variants in regulatory regions were linked to tightly coexpressed networks that are likely to share important functional characteristics. These networks implicate particular cell types and tissues in disease pathogenesis; for example, variants associated with ulcerative colitis are linked to expression in gut tissue, whereas Crohn's disease variants are restricted to immune cells. We show that this coexpression signal provides additional independent information for fine mapping likely causative variants. This approach identifies additional genetic variants associated with specific traits, including an association between the regulation of the OCT1 cation transporter and genetic variants underlying circulating cholesterol levels. This approach enables a deeper biological understanding of the causal basis of complex traits.", u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095349', [u'Genomics'], [u'Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Mater Medical Research Institute;', u'RIKEN Institute;', u'KAUST;', u'German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases;', u'University Hospital Regensburg, 93053 Regensburg;', u'University of Queensland;', u'Broad Institute;', u'RIKEN OMICS Science Center']]
[u'RNAtor: an Android-based application for biologists to plan RNA sequencing experiments.', ['Shruti Kane', 'Himanshu Garg', 'Neeraja M Krishnan', 'Aditya Singh', 'Binay Panda'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a powerful technology for identification of novel transcripts (coding, non-coding and splice variants), understanding of transcript structures and estimation of gene and/or allelic expression. There are specific challenges that biologists face in determining the number of replicates to use, total number of sequencing reads to generate for detecting marginally differentially expressed transcripts and the number of lanes in a sequencing flow cell to use for the production of right amount of information. Although past studies attempted answering some of these questions, there is a lack of accessible and biologist-friendly mobile applications to answer these questions. Keeping this in mind, we have developed RNAtor, a mobile application for Android platforms, to aid biologists in correctly designing their RNA-seq experiments. The recommendations from RNAtor are based on simulations and real data.\n\nAvailability and Implementation\nThe Android version of RNAtor is available on Google Play Store and the code from GitHub (https://github.com/binaypanda/RNAtor).', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095315', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Ganit Labs']]
[u'Incidental identification of maternal malignancies in two Asian women underwent noninvasive prenatal test', ['Xing Ji', 'Fang Chen', 'Yafeng Zhou', 'Jia LI', 'Yuying Yuan', 'Yu Mo', 'Qiang Liu', 'Jen-Yu Tseng', 'Diego Shih-Chieh Lin', 'Shu-Huei Shen', 'Yu Liu', 'Weiping Ye', 'Hongyun Zhang', 'Na Liu', 'Li Shen', 'Xin Jin', 'Pi-Lin Sung', 'Mao Mao'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Noninvasive prenatal test (NIPT) has been widely used as a screening test for trisomy 13, 18 and 21 worldwide. Recently, coexistence of maternal malignancy and pregnancy has drawn increasing attention in NIPT studies. Malignancy in pregnant women potentially affected NIPT results, which may cause false positive results or failed tests. However, no such case has ever been reported in Asian population. In this study, for the first time, we reported a stage III dysgerminoma and advanced gastric cancer during pregnancy accidentally identified during NIPT tests. These two women showed aberrant chromosome aneuploidies in NIPT results and concordant pattern of genome disruption found in tumor samples. The findings in this study further validate the effect of maternal malignancy on NIPT results and strengthen the possibility of detecting malignant tumors through NIPT in the future.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095364', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Department of Prenatal Diagnosis, Xin Hua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University;', u'BGI-Shenzhen, Shenzhen, 518083, China;', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan;', u'National Yang-Ming University School of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan;', u'Department of obstetrics, Xin Hua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University;', u'Department of Pathology, Shanghai Pu Nan Hospital, Shanghai, China']]
[u'Distributed alpha networks underlie individual differences in memory performance', ['Roy Cox', 'Anna C Schapiro', 'Robert Stickgold'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Episodic memory, our ability to remember specific events, varies considerably across individuals. However, little is known about the neural basis of this variability. To address this issue, we investigated the role of distributed networks of oscillatory activity, as measured through electroencephalography (EEG). We observed that individual differences in alpha network structure reliably predict individual memory capacity. Specifically, individuals whose network profiles during encoding were most different from their resting state networks exhibited greatest subsequent memory performance, suggesting that optimal information processing requires substantial shifts in large-scale oscillatory organization. Furthermore, these results were not observed in circumscribed topographical regions or individual connections, indicating that distributed network approaches were more sensitive to functional processes than more conventional methods. These findings uncover a physiological correlate of individual differences in episodic memory and demonstrate the utility of multivariate EEG techniques to uncover brain-behavior correlates.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095430', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center / Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Fetal therapy model of myelomeningocele with three-dimensional skin using amniotic fluid cell-derived induced pluripotent stem cells', ['Kazuhiro Kajiwara', 'Tomohiro Tanemoto', 'Seiji Wada', 'Jurii Karibe', 'Norimasa Ihara', 'Yu Ikemoto', 'Tomoyuki Kawasaki', 'Yoshie Ohishi', 'Osamu Samura', 'Kohji Okamura', 'Shuji Takada', 'Hidenori Akutsu', 'Haruhiko Sago', 'Aikou Okamoto', 'AKIHIRO UMEZAWA'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Myelomeningocele (MMC) is a congenital disease without genetic abnormalities. Neurological symptoms are irreversibly impaired after birth. No effective treatment has been reported to date. Only surgical repairs have reported so far. In this study, we performed antenatal treatment of MMC with an artificial skin using induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) generated from a patient with Down syndrome (AF\u2212T21\u2212iPSCs) and twin\u2212twin transfusion syndrome (AF\u2212TTTS\u2212iPSCs) to a rat model. We manufactured three\u2212dimensional skin with epidermis generated from keratinocytes derived from AF\u2212T21\u2212iPSCs and AF\u2212TTTS\u2212iPSCs and dermis of human fibroblasts and collagen type I. For generation of epidermis, we developed a novel protocol using Y\u221227632 and epidermal growth factor. The artificial skin was successfully covered over MMC defect sites during pregnancy, implying a possible antenatal surgical treatment with iPSC technology.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095281', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Research Institute for Child Health and Development;', u'Chiba University Graduate School of Medicine;', u'The Jikei University School of Medicine']]
[u'The complex sequence landscape of maize revealed by single molecule technologies', ['Yinping Jiao', 'Paul Peluso', 'Jinghua Shi', 'Tiffany Liang', 'Michelle C Stitzer', 'Bo Wang', 'Michael Campbell', 'Joshua C Stein', 'Xuehong Wei', 'Chen-Shan Chin', 'Katherine Guill', 'Michael Regulski', 'Sunita Kumari', 'Andrew Olson', 'Jonathan Gent', 'Kevin L Schneider', 'Thomas K Wolfgruber', 'Michael May', 'Nathan Springer', 'Eric Antoniou', 'Richard McCombie', 'Gernot G Presting', 'Michael McMullen', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra', 'R. Kelly Dawe', 'Alex Hastie', 'David R Rank', 'Doreen Ware'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Complete and accurate reference genomes and annotations provide fundamental tools for characterization of genetic and functional variation. These resources facilitate elucidation of biological processes and support translation of research findings into improved and sustainable agricultural technologies. Many reference genomes for crop plants have been generated over the past decade, but these genomes are often fragmented and missing complex repeat regions.  Here, we report the assembly and annotation of maize, a genetic and agricultural model organism, using Single Molecule Real-Time (SMRT) sequencing and high-resolution genome map. Relative to the previous reference genome, our assembly features a 52-fold increase in contig length and significant improvements in the assembly of intergenic spaces and centromeres. Characterization of the repetitive portion of the genome revealed over 130,000 intact transposable elements (TEs), allowing us to identify TE lineage expansions unique to maize. Gene annotations were updated using 111,000 full-length transcripts obtained by SMRT sequencing.  In addition, comparative optical mapping of two other inbreds revealed a prevalence of deletions in the region of low gene density region and maize lineage-specific genes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/079004', [u'Genomics'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'BioNano Genomics;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'USDA-ARS;', u'University of Georgia;', u'University of Hawaii;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of California;', u'USDA-ARS/Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'Environmental exposure does not explain putative maladaptation in road-adjacent populations', ['Steven P Brady'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'While the ecological consequences of roads are well described, little is known of their role as agents of natural selection, which can shape adaptive and maladaptive responses in populations influenced by roads. This is despite a growing appreciation for the influence of evolution in human-altered environments. There, insights indicate that natural selection typically results in local adaptation. Thus populations influenced by road-induced selection should evolve fitness advantages in their local environment. Contrary to this expectation, wood frog tadpoles from roadside populations show evidence of a fitness disadvantage, consistent with local maladaptation. Specifically, in reciprocal transplants, roadside populations survive at lower rates compared to populations away from roads. A key question remaining is whether roadside environmental conditions experienced by early-stage embryos induce this outcome. This represents an important missing piece in evaluating the evolutionary nature of this maladaptation pattern. Here, I address this gap using a reciprocal transplant experiment designed to test the hypothesis that embryonic exposure to roadside pond water induces a survival disadvantage. Contrary to this hypothesis, my results show that reduced survival persists when embryonic exposure is controlled. This indicates that the survival disadvantage is parentally mediated, either genetically and/or through inherited environmental effects. This result suggests that roadside populations are either truly maladapted or potentially locally adapted at later life stages. I discuss these interpretations, noting that regardless of mechanism, patterns consistent with maladaptation have important implications for conservation. In light of the pervasiveness of roads, further resolution explaining maladaptive responses remains a critical challenge in conservation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095273', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'McClintock: An integrated pipeline for detecting transposable element insertions in whole genome shotgun sequencing data.', ['Michael G. Nelson', 'Raquel S. Linheiro', 'Casey M. Bergman'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Background: Transposable element (TE) insertions are among the most challenging type of variants to detect in genomic data because of their repetitive nature and complex mechanisms of replication. Nevertheless, the recent availability of large resequencing datasets has spurred the development of many new methods to detect TE insertions in whole genome shotgun sequences. These methods generate output in diverse formats and have a large number of software and data dependencies, making their comparative evaluation challenging for potential users.\n\nResults: Here we develop an integrated bioinformatics pipeline for the detection of TE insertions in whole genome shotgun data, called McClintock, that automatically runs and generates standardized output for multiple TE detection methods. We demonstrate the utility of the McClintock system by performing comparative evaluation of six TE detection methods using simulated and real genome data from the model microbal eukaryote, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We find substantial variation among McClintock component methods in their ability to detect non-reference insertions in the yeast genome, but show that non-reference TEs at nearly all biologically-realistic locations can be detected in simulated data by combining multiple methods that use split-read and read-pair evidence. In general, our results reveal that split-read methods detect fewer non-reference TE insertions than read-pair methods, but generally have much higher positional accuracy. Analysis of a large sample of real yeast genomes reveals that most, but not all, McClintock component methods can recover known aspects of TE biology in yeast such as the transpositional activity status of families, tRNA gene target preferences, and TSD structure, albeit with varying levels of positional accuracy. \n\nConclusions: Our results suggest that no single TE detection method currently provides comprehensive detection of non-reference TEs, even in the context of a simplified model eukaryotic genome like S. cerevisiae. In spite of these limitations, the McClintock system provides a framework for testing, developing and integrating results from multiple TE detection methods to achieve this ultimate aim, as well as useful guidance for yeast researchers to select appropriate TE detection tools.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095372', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Manchester;', u'Universidade Catolica Portuguesa;', u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Silversword and lobeliad reintroduction linked to landscape restoration on Mauna Loa and Kilauea, and its implications for plant adaptive radiation in Hawaii', ['Robert H Robichaux', 'Patrice Y Moriyasu', 'Jaime H Enoka', 'Sierra McDaniel', 'Rhonda K Loh', 'Kealii F Bio', 'Ane Bakutis', 'J Timothy Tunison', 'Steven T Bergfeld', 'J Lyman Perry', 'Frederick R Warshauer', 'Mark Wasser', 'T Colleen Cole', 'Nicholas R Agorastos', 'Ian W Cole', 'J Kualii Camara', 'Tanya Rubenstein', 'A Namaka Whitehead', 'Joshua R VanDeMark', 'Reid Loo', 'Marie M Bruegmann'], u'December 19, 2016.', u"The endemic Hawaiian silversword and lobeliad lineages, which are two of the world's premier examples of plant adaptive radiation, exemplify the severity of the threats confronting the Hawaiian flora, especially the threats posed by alien species. We have implemented collaborative reintroduction efforts with the endangered Kau silversword (Argyroxiphium kauense) and Pele lobeliad (Clermontia peleana) in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. The efforts with the Kau silversword have involved rediscovery, helicopter assisted rescue of diminutive remnant founders, managed breeding, outplanting at two sites in the Park of more than 21,000 seedlings deriving from 169 founders, and facilitated achene dispersal following flowering. The efforts with the Pele lobeliad have involved rediscovery, air-layering of remnant founders while suspended on climbing ropes, managed breeding, and outplanting at two sites in the Park of more than 1,000 seedlings (to date) deriving from six of the seven known founders. We have linked the reintroduction efforts to landscape restoration at large scales in the Park and in adjacent State and private lands, thereby increasing the opportunities for substantial population growth and expansion of the Kau silversword and Pele lobeliad in the future. Additionally, we have extended the reintroduction efforts, including the link to landscape restoration, to encompass all other endangered silversword and lobeliad taxa occurring historically on the eastern slopes of Mauna Loa or on Kilauea. In so doing, we seek to restore the possibility of adaptive radiation of the silversword and lobeliad lineages going forward, especially on the youngest and most geologically active, and thus perhaps most evolutionarily dynamic, part of the Hawaiian archipelago.", u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095216', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Arizona;', u'Volcano Rare Plant Facility, University of Hawaii;', u'Hawaii Volcanoes National Park;', u'BioLogical LLC;', u'Molokai Plant Extinction Prevention Program;', u'Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources;', u'US Geological Survey;', u'Three Mountain Alliance;', u'Kamehameha Schools;', u'Hawaii Plant Extinction Prevention Program;', u'US Fish and Wildlife Service']]
[u'Genome Wide Computational Prediction of miRNAs in Kyasanur Forest Disease Virus and their Targeted Genes in Human', ['Sandeep Saini', 'Chander Jyoti Thakur', 'Varinder Kumar'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'RNAs are versatile biomolecules and can be coding or non-coding. Among the non-coding RNAs, miRNAs are small endogenous molecules that play important role in posttranscriptional gene regulation. miRNAs are identified in viruses too and involved in down regulation of host genes. Flavivirus family members are classified in to two groups: mosquito-borne flaviviruses (MBFV) and tick-borne flaviviruses (TBFV). Kyasanur forest disease virus (KFDV) found in India in 1957 (Karnataka) relates to TBFV. Virus has been diffuse to new areas in India and needs attention as it can cause severe hemorrhagic fever. Here in this study, we scanned the virus genome for prediction of miRNAs that can inhibit host target genes. VMir, tool was used for extraction of pre-miRNAs. A total of four miRNAs were found and submitted to ViralMir for classification in to real or pseudo. Interestingly, all four pre-miRNAs were classified as real. Eight mature miRNAs were located in pre-miRNAs by Mature Bayes. A total of 539 human target genes has been identified by using miRDB but ANGPT1 (angiopoietin 1) and TFRC (transferrin receptor) genes were screened to play role in hemorrhagic fever and neurological problems. GO analysis of target genes also supported the evidences. \nKeywords: Kyasanur forest disease virus, Flavivirus, miRNA, target prediction \n\n*Corresponding author: email: sandeep.5sep@yahoo.co.in', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095083', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'GGDSD College, Sector-32C, Chandigarh, India']]
[u'A tutorial on Gaussian process regression with a focus on exploration-exploitation scenarios', ['Eric Schulz', 'Maarten Speekenbrink', 'Andreas Krause'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'This tutorial introduces the reader to Gaussian process regression as a tool to model, actively explore and exploit unknown functions. Gaussian process regression is a powerful, non-parametric Bayesian approach towards regression problems that can be utilized in exploration and exploitation scenarios. This tutorial aims to provide an accessible introduction to these techniques. We will introduce Gaussian processes as a distribution over functions used for Bayesian non-parametric regression and demonstrate different applications of it. Didactic examples will include a simple regression problem, a demonstration of kernel-encoded prior assumptions, a pure exploration scenario within an optimal design framework, and a bandit-like exploration-exploitation scenario where the goal is to recommend movies. Beyond that, we describe a situation in which an additional constraint (not to sample below a certain threshold) needs to be accounted for and summarize recent psychological experiments utilizing Gaussian processes. Software and literature pointers will be provided.', u'/content/early/2016/12/19/095190', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University College London;', u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'Same-day diagnostic and surveillance data for tuberculosis via whole genome sequencing of direct respiratory samples.', ['Antonina A Votintseva', 'Phelim Bradley', 'Louise Pankhurst', 'Carlos del Ojo Elias', 'Matthew Loose', 'Kayzad Nilgiriwala', 'Anirvan Chatterjee', 'E Grace Smith', 'Nicholas Sanderson', 'Timothy M Walker', 'Marcus R Morgan', 'David H Wyllie', 'A Sarah Walker', 'Tim EA Peto', 'Derrick W Crook', 'Zamin Iqbal'], u'December 19, 2016.', u'Routine full characterization of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (TB) is culture-based, taking many weeks. Whole-genome sequencing (WGS) can generate antibiotic susceptibility profiles to inform treatment, augmented with strain information for global surveillance; such data could be transformative if provided at or near point of care.\n\nWe demonstrate a low-cost DNA extraction method for TB WGS direct from patient samples. We initially evaluated the method using the Illumina MiSeq sequencer (40 smear-positive respiratory samples, obtained after routine clinical testing, and 27 matched liquid cultures). M. tuberculosis was identified in all 39 samples from which DNA was successfully extracted. Sufficient data for antibiotic susceptibility prediction was obtained from 24 (62%) samples; all results were concordant with reference laboratory phenotypes. Phylogenetic placement was concordant between direct and cultured samples. Using an Illumina MiSeq/MiniSeq the workflow from patient sample to results can be completed in 44/16 hours at a cost of 96/198 GBP per sample. \n\nWe then employed a non-specific PCR-based library preparation method for sequencing on an Oxford Nanopore Technologies MinION sequencer. We applied this to cultured Mycobacterium bovis BCG strain (BCG), and to combined culture-negative sputum DNA and BCG DNA. For the latest flowcell, the estimated turnaround time from patient to identification of BCG was 6 hours, with full susceptibility and surveillance results 2 hours later. Antibiotic susceptibility predictions were fully concordant. A critical advantage of the MinION is the ability to continue sequencing until sufficient coverage is obtained, providing a potential solution to the problem of variable amounts of M. tuberculosis in direct samples.', u'/content/early/2016/12/16/094789', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Nottingham;', u'Foundation for Medical Research, Mumbai;', u'Heartlands Hospital, Birmingham;', u'John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK']]
