[u'On the Effectiveness of Event-related Beta tACS on Episodic Memory Formation and Motor Cortex Excitability', ['Verena Braun', 'Rodika Sokoliuk', 'Simon Hanslmayr'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Background: Transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) is widely used to entrain or modulate brain oscillations in order to investigate causal relationships between oscillations and cognition. Objective: In a series of experiments we here addressed the question of whether event-related, transient tACS in the beta frequency range can be used to entrain beta oscillations in two different domains: episodic memory formation and motor cortex excitability. Methods: In experiments 1 and 2, 72 healthy human participants engaged in an incidental encoding task of verbal and non-verbal material while receiving tACS to the left and right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) at 6.8Hz, 10.7Hz, 18.5Hz, 30Hz, 48Hz and sham stimulation for 2s during stimulus presentation.\nIn experiment 3, tACS was administered to M1 at the individual motor beta frequency of eight subjects. We investigated the relationship between the size of TMS induced MEPs and tACS phase. Results: Beta tACS did not affect memory performance compared to sham stimulation in experiments 1 and 2. Likewise, in experiment 3, MEP size was not modulated by the tACS phase. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that event-related, transient tACS in the beta frequency range cannot be used to modulate the formation of episodic memories or motor cortex excitability. These null-results question the effectiveness of event-related tACS to entrain beta oscillations and modulate cognition.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078964', [], [u'School of Psychology, University of Birmingham, UK']]
[u'The Healthy Brain Network Serial Scanning Initiative: A resource for evaluating inter-individual differences and their reliabilities across scan conditions and sessions.', ["David O'Connor", 'Natan Vega Potler', 'Meagan Kovacs', 'Ting Xu', 'Lei Ai', 'John Pellman', 'Tamara Vanderwal', 'Lucas Parra', 'Samantha Cohen', 'Satrajit Ghosh', 'Jasmine Escalera', 'Natalie Grant-Villegas', 'Yael Osman', 'Anastasia Bui', 'Richard Cameron Craddock', 'Michael Peter Milham'], u'October 3, 2016.', u"Background: Although typically measured during the resting state, a growing literature is illustrating the ability to map intrinsic connectivity in task and naturalistic viewing fMRI paradigms. These paradigms are drawing excitement due to their greater tolerability in clinical and developing populations and because they enable a wider range of analyses (e.g. inter-subject correlations). To be clinically useful, the test-retest reliability of connectivity measured during these paradigms needs to be established. This resource provides data for evaluating test-retest reliability for full-brain connectivity patterns detected during each of four scan conditions that differ with respect to level of engagement (rest, abstract animations, movie clips, flanker task). Data is provided for thirteen participants, each scanned in twelve sessions with 10 minutes for each scan of the four conditions. Diffusion kurtosis imaging data was also obtained at each session. Findings: Technical validation and demonstrative reliability analyses found that variation in intrinsic functional connectivity across sessions was greater than that attributable to scan condition. Between-condition reliability was generally high, particularly for the frontoparietal and default networks. Between-session reliabilities obtained separately for the different scan conditions were comparable, though notably lower than between-condition reliabilities. Conclusions: The described resource provides a test-bed for quantifying the reliability of connectivity indices across conditions and time. The resource can be used to compare and optimize different frameworks for measuring connectivity and data collection parameters such as scan length. Additionally, investigators can explore the unique perspectives of the brain's functional architecture offered by each of the scan conditions.", u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078881', [], [u'Child Mind Institute Healthy Brain Network;', u'Yale University;', u'City College of New York;', u'The Graduate Center of the City University of New York;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Monkey in the middle: monkeys serve as amplification hosts but not reservoir hosts of sylvatic chikungunya virus', ['Benjamin M Althouse', 'Matilde Guerbois', 'Derek AT Cummings', 'Ousmane Diop', 'Ousmane Faye', 'Abdourahmane Faye', 'Diawo Diallo', 'Bakary Djilocalisse Sadio', 'Abdourahmane Sow', 'Oumar Faye', 'Amadou A Sall', 'Mawlouth Diallo', 'Brenda Benefit', 'Evan Simmons', 'Douglas M Watts', 'Scott C Weaver', 'Kathryn A Hanley'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Background: Novel pathogens can emerge into humans via one-step transmission from a reservoir host, an animal species in which the pathogen is maintained, or a two-step process in which the pathogen is transmitted from the reservoir host into a different amplification host species and thence to humans. Here we use serosurveillance and mathematical modeling to discover whether monkeys serve as reservoir or amplification hosts for mosquito-borne chikungunya virus (CHIKV). CHIKV invaded the Americas in 2013, and our study provides key data for predicting whether and where CHIKV will establish enzootic transmission among animal hosts in the New World. Results: Over three years we captured 219 African green monkeys, 78 patas monkeys, and 440 Guinea baboons, the three  monkey species near Kedougou, Senegal. Monkey age was determined by anthropometry and dentition, and exposure of each animal to CHIKV was determined via detection of neutralizing antibodies. Age and exposure were used to estimate age-specific CHIKV seroprevalence, force of infection (FoI), and basic reproductive number (R0) in each species. CHIKV FoI were extremely high, ranging from 0.13 (95% CI, 0.07-0.22) in patas in 2012 to 1.12 (95% CI, 0.81-2.28) in African greens in 2011. R0 ranged from 1.5 (95% CI, 1.3-1.9) in patas in 2012, to 6.6 (95% CI, 5.1-10.4) in baboons in 2011. Conclusions: These findings demonstrate that monkeys in this region are constantly exposed to CHIKV transmission, even when population seropositivity, and therefore immunity, was too high for monkeys themselves to support continuous CHIKV transmission.  We therefore conclude that monkeys in this system serve as amplification rather than reservoir hosts of CHIKV.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/079046', [], [u'Institute for Disease Modeling;', u'University of Texas Medical Branch;', u'University of Florida;', u'Institut Pasteur de Dakar;', u'New Mexico State University;', u'University of Texas at El Paso']]
[u'Evolving Notch polyQ tracts reveal possible solenoid interference elements', ['Albert J Erives'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Polyglutamine (polyQ) tracts in regulatory proteins are extremely polymorphic. As functional elements under selection for length, triplet repeats are prone to DNA replication slippage and indel mutations. Many polyQ tracts are also embedded within intrinsically disordered domains, which are less constrained, fast evolving, and difficult to characterize. To identify structural principles underlying polyQ tracts in disordered regulatory domains, here I analyze deep evolution of metazoan Notch polyQ tracts, which can generate alleles causing developmental and neurogenic defects. I show that Notch features polyQ tract turnover that is restricted to a discrete number of conserved \u201cpolyQ insertion slots\u201d. Notch polyQ insertion slots are: (i) identifiable by an amphipathic slot leader motif; (ii) conserved as an intact C-terminal array in a 1-to-1 relationship with the N-terminal solenoid-forming ankyrin repeats (ARs); and (iii) enriched in carboxamide residues (Q/N), whose sidechains feature dual hydrogen bond donor and acceptor atoms. Correspondingly, the terminal loop and beta-strand of each AR feature conserved carboxamide residues, which would be susceptible to folding interference by hydrogen bonding with residues outside the ARs. I thus suggest that Notch polyQ insertion slots constitute an array of AR interference elements (ARIEs). Notch ARIEs could dynamically compete with the delicate serial folding induced by adjacent ARs. Huntingtin, which harbors solenoid-forming HEAT repeats, also possesses a similar number of polyQ insertion slots. These results strongly suggest that intrinsically disordered interference arrays featuring carboxamide and polyQ enrichment are coupled proteodynamic modulators of solenoids.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/079038', [], [u'University of Iowa']]
[u'Reduced CREB3L2 expression is associated with resistance to sorafenib and poor prognosis in ER-positive breast cancer', ['Sean Mullarkey', 'Vahid Arabkari', 'Muhammad Mosaraf Hossain', 'SANJEEV GUPTA', 'Ananya Gupta'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Sorafenib is a multikinase inhibitor that acts by inhibiting tumour growth and disrupting tumour microvasculature through anti-proliferative, anti-angiogenic, and pro-apoptotic effects. However, development of resistance to sorafenib often prevents its long-term efficacy. No validated biomarkers currently exist for appropriately selecting patients with cancer for sorafenib treatment. In the present study, we report that CREB3L2 expression in human breast cancer cell lines is a marker of response to sorafenib. Analysis of human breast cancer cell lines using Oncomine database and Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer (GDSC) database revealed an association between reduced expression of CREB3L2 and sensitivity to sorafenib. Wet lab experiment in five human breast cancer cell lines confirmed the association between reduced expression of CREB3L2 and sensitivity to sorafenib. Further, reduced expression of CREB3L2 was associated with poor Reccurence Free Survival in Luminal breast cancer. Our results suggest that CREB3L2 expression is a biomarker of response to sorafenib and outcome in breast cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078949', [], [u'National University of Ireland Galway, Ireland;', u'National university of ireland Galway']]
[u'A unified coarse-grained theory of bacterial physiology explains the relationship between cell size, growth rate and proteome composition under various growth limitations', ['Francois Bertaux', 'Julius Von Kugelgen', 'Samuel Marguerat', 'Vahid Shahrezaei'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Microbial cells are able to reach balanced exponential growth in a variety of environmental conditions. At the single-cell level, this implies coordination between the processes governing cellular growth, cell division and gene expression. A fundamental goal of microbiology is to build a quantitative and predictive understanding of how such coordination is achieved. It is known since long that the size of E. coli cells grown in media of different nutrient quality increases with growth rate. Recent data, however, shows that this relationship is of another nature when growth is modulated by other types of limitations, such as translation inhibition or forced expression of useless proteins. Here, we present a single-cell coarse-grained model of bacterial physiology that unifies previous efforts (i.e. the proteome allocation theory and the structural model of division control) into a simple and low-parametric model. We show that this model quantitatively explains the observed relationship between cell size and growth rate for various types of growth limitations with a single free parameter. In addition, predicted proteome fractions agree with observations, and when noise is included in the model, the recently discovered adder principle of cell size homeostasis is correctly predicted. Thus, our minimalistic coarse-grained model successfully recapitulates the most fundamental aspects of bacterial physiology, and could serve as a guide for the development of more detailed and mechanistic whole-cell models.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078998', [], [u'Imperial College London;', u'MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College, Du Cane Road, London']]
[u'A Hypothesis to Explain Cancers in Confined Colonies of Naked Mole Rats', ['Michael E Hochberg', 'Robert J Noble', 'Stanton Braude'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Naked mole rats (NMRs) are subterranean eusocial mammals, known for their virtual absence of aging in their first 20 to 30 years of life, and their apparent resistance to cancer development. As such, this species has become an important biological model for investigating the physiological and molecular mechanisms behind cancer resistance. Two recent studies have discovered middle and late-aged worker (that is, non-breeding) NMRs in captive populations exhibiting neoplasms, consistent with cancer development, challenging the claim that NMRs are cancer resistant. These cases are possibly artefacts of inbreeding or certain rearing conditions in captivity, but they are also consistent with evolutionary theory.\nWe present field data showing that worker NMRs live on average for 1 to 2 years. This, together with considerable knowledge about the biology of this species, provides the basis for an evolutionary explanation for why debilitating cancers in NMRs should be rare in captive populations and absent in the wild. Whereas workers are important for maintaining tunnels, colony defence, brood care, and foraging, they are highly vulnerable to predation. However, surviving workers either replace dead breeders, or assume other less active functions whilst preparing for possible dispersal. These countervailing forces (selection resulting in aging due to early-life investments in worker function, and selection for breeder longevity) along with the fact that all breeders derive from the worker morph, can explain the low levels of cancer observed by these recent studies in captive colonies. Because workers in the field typically never reach ages where cancer becomes a risk to performance or mortality, those rare observations of neoplastic growth should be confined to the artificial environments where workers survive to ages rarely if ever occurring in the wild. Thus, we predict that the worker phenotype fortuitously benefits from anti-aging and cancer protection in captive populations.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/079012', [], [u'University of Montpellier;', u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'A network of topographic numerosity maps in human association cortex', ['Ben M Harvey', 'Serge O Dumoulin'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Sensory and motor cortices each contain multiple topographic maps with the structure of sensory organs (such as the retina or cochlea) mapped onto the cortical surface. These sensory maps are hierarchically organized. For example, visual field maps contain neurons that represent increasing large parts of visual space with increasingly complex responses. Some visual neurons respond to stimuli with a particular numerosity, the number of objects in a set. We recently discovered a parietal topographic numerosity map where neural numerosity preferences progress gradually across the cortical surface, analogous to sensory maps. Following this analogy, we hypothesised that there may be multiple numerosity maps. Numerosity perception is implicated in many cognitive functions including foraging, multiple object tracking, dividing attention, decision making and mathematics. Here we use ultra-high-field (7T) fMRI and neural model-based analyses to reveal numerosity-selective neural populations organized into six widely separated topographic maps in each hemisphere. Although we describe subtle differences between these maps, their properties are very similar, unlike in sensory map hierarchies. These maps are found in areas implicated in object recognition, motion perception, attention control, decision-making and mathematics. Multiple numerosity maps may allow interactions with these many cognitive systems, suggesting a broad role for quantity processing in supporting many perceptual and cognitive functions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078931', [], [u'Utrecht University']]
[u'I TRIED A BUNCH OF THINGS: THE DANGERS OF UNEXPECTED OVERFITTING IN CLASSIFICATION', ['Michael Skocik', 'John Collins', 'Chloe Callahan-Flintoft', 'Howard Bowman', 'Brad Wyble'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Machine learning is a powerful set of techniques that has enhanced the abilities of neuroscientists to interpret information collected through EEG, fMRI, MEG, and PET data. With these new techniques come new dangers of overfitting that are not well understood by the neuroscience community. In this article, we use Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifiers, and genetic algorithms to demonstrate the ease by which overfitting can occur, despite the use of cross validation. We demonstrate that comparable and non-generalizable results can be obtained on informative and non-informative (i.e. random) data by iteratively modifying hyperparameters in seemingly innocuous ways. We recommend a number of techniques for limiting overfitting, such as lock boxes, blind analyses, and pre-registrations. These techniques, although uncommon in neuroscience applications, are common in many other fields that use machine learning, including computer science and physics. Adopting similar safeguards is critical for ensuring the robustness of machine-learning techniques.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078816', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Manada Technology LLC;', u'Penn State University, USA;', u'University of Kent, UK;', u'Penn State University']]
[u'System-wide automatic extraction of functional signatures in Pseudomonas aeruginosa with eADAGE', ['Jie Tan', 'Georgia Doing', 'Kimberley A Lewis', 'Courtney E Price', 'Kathleen M Chen', 'Kyle C Cady', 'Barret Perchuk', 'Michael T Laub', 'Deborah A Hogan', 'Casey S Greene'], u'October 3, 2016.', u"Abundant public expression data capture gene expression across diverse conditions. These steady state mRNA measurements could reveal the transcriptional consequences of cells' genetic backgrounds or their responses to the environment. However, public data remain relatively untapped, in part because extracting biological signal as opposed to technical noise remains challenging. Here we introduce a procedure, termed eADAGE, that performs unsupervised integration of public expression data using an ensemble of neural networks as well as heuristics that, given a dataset, help users identify an appropriate level of model complexity. This ensemble modeling approach captures biological pathways more clearly than existing methods, enabling analyses that span entire public gene expression compendia such as that for the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. These analyses reveal a previously undiscovered feature of the phosphate starvation response apparent in public data: a sensor kinase, KinB, that is required for full activation of the response to phosphate at intermediate concentrations. Our molecular validation experiments confirm this role of KinB and our screen of a histidine kinase knock out collection confirmed the prediction's specificity. Public data are captured from a broad range of conditions in diverse organism backgrounds and may provide a unique opportunity to identify these subtle and context-specific regulatory interactions. Algorithms that extract biological signal from these data, such as eADAGE, can highlight opportunities to discover mechanisms that are apparent from but unrealized in public data.", u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078659', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth;', u'Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Rapid molecular detection of Zika virus in urine using the recombinase polymerase amplification assay', ['Ahmed Abd El Wahed', 'Sabri S. Sanabani', 'Oumar Faye', 'Rodrigo Pessoa', 'Joao-Veras Patriota', 'Ricardo Rodrigues-Giorgi', 'Pranav Patel', 'Susanne Boehlken-Fascher', 'Olfert Landt', 'Matthias Niedrig', 'Paolo M. de A. Zanotto', 'Claus-Peter Czerny', 'Amadou A. Sall', 'Manfred Weidmann'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Background: Currently detection of Zika virus (ZIKV) in patient samples is done by real-time RT-PCR. Samples collected from rural area are sent to highly equipped laboratories for screening. A rapid point-of-care test is needed to detect the virus, especially at low resource settings. Methodology/Principal Findings: In this report, we describe the development of a reverse transcription isothermal recombinase polymerase amplification (RT-RPA) assay for the identification of ZIKV. RT-RPA assay was portable, sensitive (21 RNA molecules), and rapid (3-15 minutes). No cross-reactivity was detected to other flaviviruses, alphaviruses and arboviruses. Compared to real-time RT-PCR, the diagnostic sensitivity was 92% while the specificity was 100%. Conclusions/Significance: The developed assay is a promising platform for rapid point of need detection of ZIKV in low resource settings and elsewhere (e.g. during mass gathering).', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078501', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Georg-August University Goettingen;', u'Institute of Tropical Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'Institut Pasteur de Dakar, Dakar, Senegal;', u'Municipal Hospital of Tuparetama, Pernambuco, Brazil;', u'University of Santo Amaro, Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'TIB MOLBIOL Syntheselabor GmbH, Berlin, Germany;', u'Georg-August-University, Goettingen, Germany;', u'Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany;', u'Biomedical Sciences Institute, University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'University of Stirling, Stirling, Scotland, United Kingdom']]
[u'Brain activity and connectivity attributable to nociceptive signal block', ['Michael L Meier', 'Sonja Widmayer', 'Nuno M.P. Matos', 'Jetmir Abazi', 'Dominik A Ettlin'], u'October 3, 2016.', u'Converging lines of evidence indicate that the pain experience emerges from distributed cortical nodes that share nociceptive information. While the theory of a single pain center is still not falsifiable by current neuroimaging technology, the validation of distinct brain mechanisms for acute pain and its relief is ongoing and strongly dependent on the employed experimental design. In the current study including a total of 28 subjects, a recently presented, innovative experimental approach was adopted that is able to clearly differentiate painful from non-pain perceptions without changing stimulus strength and while recording brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Namely, we applied a repetitive and purely nociceptive stimulus to the tooth pulp with subsequent suppression of the nociceptive barrage via a regional nerve block. The study aims were 1) to replicate previous findings of acute pain demonstrating a fundamental role of the operculo-insular region and 2) to explore its functional connectivity during pain and subsequent relief. The brain activity reduction in the posterior insula (pINS) due to pain extinction was confirmed. In addition, the posterior S2 region (OP1) showed a similar activity pattern, thus confirming the relevance of the operculo-insular cortex in acute pain processing. Furthermore, the functional connectivity analysis yielded an enhanced positive coupling of the pINS with the cerebellar culmen during pain relief, whereas the OP1 demonstrated a positive coupling with the posterior midcingulate cortex during pain. The current results support the conceptual synthesis of localized specialization of pain processing with interactions across distributed neural targets.', u'/content/early/2016/10/03/078857', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Balgrist University Hospital;', u'Center of Dental Medicine, University of Zurich;', u'Institute for Complementary and Integrative Medicine, University Hospital Zurich']]
[u"Systematic tissue-specific functional annotation of the human genome highlights immune-related DNA elements for late-onset Alzheimer's disease", ['Qiongshi Lu', 'Ryan L Powles', 'Sarah Abdallah', 'Derek Ou', 'Qian Wang', 'Yiming Hu', 'Yisi Lu', 'Wei Liu', 'Shubhabrata Mukherjee', 'Paul K Crane', 'Hongyu Zhao'], u'October 2, 2016.', u"Continuing efforts from large international consortia have made genome-wide epigenomic and transcriptomic annotation data publicly available for a variety of cell and tissue types. However, synthesis of these datasets into effective summary metrics to characterize the functional non-coding genome remains a challenge. Here, we present GenoSkyline-Plus, an extension of our previous work through integration of an expanded set of epigenomic and transcriptomic annotations to produce high-resolution, single tissue annotations. After validating our annotations with a large catalog of known tissue-specific non-coding elements, we apply our method using data from 127 different cell and tissue types to present an atlas of enrichment across 45 different GWAS traits. We show that broader organ system categories (e.g. immune system) increase statistical power in identifying biologically relevant tissue types for complex diseases while annotations of individual cell types (e.g. monocytes or B-cells) provide deeper insights into disease etiology. Additionally, we use our GenoSkyline-Plus annotations in an in-depth case study of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). Our analyses suggest a strong connection between LOAD heritability and genetic variants contained in regions of the genome functional in monocytes. Furthermore, we show that the localization of SNPs to monocyte-functional regions is a pattern of inheritance shared with Parkinson's disease. Overall, we show that integrated genome annotations at the single tissue level may be a valuable tool for understanding the etiology of complex human diseases. Our expanded GenoSkyline-Plus annotations are freely available at http://genocanyon.med.yale.edu/GenoSkyline.", u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078865', [u'Genetics'], [u'Yale University;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Encoding of locomotion kinematics in the mouse cerebellum', ['Tomaso Muzzu', 'Susanna Mitolo', 'Giuseppe Gava', 'Simon Schultz'], u'October 2, 2016.', u'The cerebellum has a well-established role in locomotion control, but how the cerebellar network regulates locomotion behaviour is still not well understood. We therefore characterized the activity of cerebellar neurons in awake mice engaged in a locomotion task, using high-density silicon electrode arrays. We characterized the activity of over 300 neurons in response to locomotion, finding tuning to speed of locomotion, turning, and phase of the step cycle. We found that the cerebellar neurons we recorded mainly encoded information about future locomotor activity. We were able to decode the speed of locomotion with a simple linear algorithm, needing relatively few well-chosen cells to provide an accurate estimate of locomotion speed. Our observation that cerebellar neuronal activity predicts locomotion in the near future, and encodes the required kinematic variables, points to this activity underlying the efference copy signal for vertebrate locomotion.', u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078873', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperia College London;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Combining Multiscale Diffusion Kernels for Learning the Structural and Functional Brain Connectivity', ['Sriniwas Govinda Surampudi', 'Shruti Naik', 'Avinash Shrama', 'Raju Surampudi Bapi', 'Dipanjan Roy'], u'October 2, 2016.', u"The activation of the brain at rest is thought to be at the core of cognitive functions. There have been many attempts at characterizing the functional connectivity at rest from the structure. Recent attempts with diffusion kernel models point to the possibility of a single diffusion kernel that can give a good estimate of the functional connectivity. But our empirical investigations revealed that the hypothesis of a single scale best-fitting kernel across subjects is not tenable. Further, our experiments demonstrate that structure-function relationship across subjects seems to obey a multi-scale diffusion phenomenon. Based on this insight, we propose a multiple diffusion kernel model (MKL) along with a learning framework for estimating the optimal model parameters. We tested our hypothesis on 124 subjects' data from publicly available NKI_Rockland database. The results establish the viability of the proposed model and also demonstrate several promising features as compared to the single kernel approach. One of the key strengths of the proposed approach is that it does not require hand-tuning of model parameters but actually learns them as part of the optimization process. The learned parameters may be suitable  candidates for future investigation of their role in distinguishing health and disease.", u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078766', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CVIT, IIIT-Hyderabad, India;', u'Cognitive Science Lab, IIIT-Hyderabad, India;', u'Cognitive Science Lab, IIIT-Hyderabad, & School of Computer and Info Sci, Univ of Hyderabad, India;', u'International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad']]
[u'Targeted electrical stimulation of active brain sources using reciprocity', ['Jacek P Dmochowski', 'Laurent Koessler', 'Lucas C Parra', 'Marom Bikson', 'Anthony M Norcia'], u'October 2, 2016.', u'The notion of recording neural activity and using it to guide electrical stimulation is a concept that is pervasive across ongoing efforts to modulate brain function.  In particular, electroencephalography (EEG) and transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) are linked by a long-standing reciprocity principle which, despite being known for over a century, has not led to a formalism for rationally performing EEG-TES.  Here we formulate the EEG and TES forward problems as a pair of linear systems with a common transfer matrix.  We employ this dual formulation to derive a least-squares solution to the TES montage that generates an electric field most closely matched to the underlying activation pattern.  We show that this can be performed without explicitly localizing the sources of activity.  Boundary-element model (BEM) simulations using a realistic head model are then used to validate the formulation and to demonstrate that reciprocal TES guides the electric field to the location and orientation of the measured activity.  These results have application to a host of clinical and research applications in which one seeks to modulate the sources of observed neural activity.', u'/content/early/2016/10/02/078758', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'City College of New York;', u'CRAN-Nancy;', u'Stanford University']]
