[u'Recovery of hand function after stroke: separable systems for finger strength and control', ['Jing Xu', 'Naveed Ejaz', 'Benjamin Hertler', 'Meret Branscheidt', 'Mario Widmer', 'Andreia V Faria', 'Michelle Harran', 'Juan C Cortes', 'Nathan Kim', 'Pablo A Celnik', 'Tomoko Kitago', 'Andreas Luft', 'John W Krakauer', 'Jorn Western University Diedrichsen'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Loss of hand function after stroke is a major cause of long-term disability. Hand function can be partitioned into strength and independent control of fingers (individuation). Here we developed a novel paradigm, which independently quantifies these two aspects of hand function, to track hand recovery in 54 patients with hemiparesis over the first year after their stroke. Most recovery of both strength and individuation occurred in the first three months after stroke. Improvement in strength and individuation were tightly correlated up to a strength level of approximately 60% of the unaffected side. Beyond this threshold, further gains in strength were not accompanied by improvements in individuation. Any observed improvements in individuation beyond the 60% threshold were attributable instead to a second independent stable factor. Lesion analysis revealed that damage to the hand area in motor cortex and the corticospinal tract (CST) correlated more with individuation than with strength. CST involvement correlated with individuation even after factoring out the strength-individuation correlation. The most parsimonious explanation for these behavioral and lesion-based findings is that most strength recovery, along with some individuation, can be attributed to descending systems other than the CST, whereas further recovery of individuation is CST dependent.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079269', [], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Western University;', u'University of Zurich;', u'Columbia University;', u'New York Medical College']]
[u'Commentary: BRAIN NETWORKS. Correlated gene expression supports synchronous activity in brain networks. Science 348, 1241-4.', ['Spiro P. Pantazatos', 'Xinyi Li'], u'October 4, 2016.', u"A recent report claims that functional brain networks defined with resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) can be recapitulated with correlated gene expression (i.e. high within-network tissue-tissue strength fraction, SF) (Richiardi et al., 2015). However, the authors do not adequately control for spatial proximity. We replicated their main analysis, performed a more effective adjustment for spatial proximity, and tested whether 'null networks' (i.e. clusters with center coordinates randomly placed throughout cortex) also exhibit high SF.  Removing proximal tissue-tissue correlations by Euclidean distance, as opposed to removing correlations within arbitrary tissue labels as in (Richiardi et al., 2015), reduces within-network SF to no greater than null. Moreover, randomly placed clusters also have significantly high SF, indicating that high within-network SF is entirely attributable to proximity and is unrelated to functional brain networks defined by resting-state fMRI. We discuss why additional validations in the original article are invalid and/or misleading and suggest future directions.", u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079202', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'How Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation over Early Visual Cortex impacts short-term memory precision and guess rate', ['Rosanne Rademaker', 'Vincent G van de Ven', 'Frank Tong', 'Alexander T Sack'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated that activity patterns in early visual areas predict stimulus properties actively maintained in visual short-term memory. Yet, the mechanisms by which such information is represented remain largely unknown. In this study, observers remembered the orientations of 4 briefly presented gratings, one in each quadrant of the visual field. A 10Hz Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) triplet was applied directly at stimulus offset, or midway through a 2-second delay, targeting early visual cortex corresponding retinotopically to a sample item in the lower hemifield. Memory for one of the four gratings was probed at random, and participants reported this orientation via method of adjustment. Replication errors were smaller when the visual field location targeted by TMS overlapped with that of the cued memory item, compared to errors for stimuli probed diagonally to TMS. This implied topographic storage of orientation information, and a memory-enhancing effect at the targeted location. Furthermore, early pulses impaired performance at all four locations, compared to late pulses. Next, response errors were fit empirically using a mixture model analysis to characterize memory precision and guess rates. Memory was more precise for items proximal to the pulse location, irrespective of pulse timing. Guesses were more probable with early TMS pulses, regardless of stimulus location. Thus, whereas TMS administered at the offset of the stimulus array might disrupt early-phase consolidation in a topographically unspecific manner, TMS also boosts the precise representation of an item at its targeted retinotopic location, perhaps by increasing attentional resources or by injecting a beneficial amount of noise.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079178', [], [u'UC San Diego;', u'Maastricht University;', u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'A transcallosal fiber network between left and right homotopic inferior frontal regions for supporting complex linguistic processing', ['Philipp Kellmeyer'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Inferior frontal regions in the left and right hemisphere support different aspects of language processing. In the classic model, left inferior frontal regions are mostly involved in processing based on phonological, syntactic and semantic features of language, whereas the right inferior frontal regions process paralinguistic aspects like affective prosody.\nUsing DTI-based probabilistic fiber tracking in 20 healthy volunteers, we identify a callosal fiber network connecting left and right homotopic inferior frontal regions in the context of linguistic processing of different complexity. Anatomically, we show that the interhemispheric fibers are highly aligned and distributed along a rostral to caudal gradient in the body and genu of the corpus callosum.\nFunctionally, our findings suggest that this transcallosal network of homotopic inferior frontal regions in the uninjured brain supports rapid integration of linguistic features of different complexity independent of emotional valence. Taking data from in-vivo neuroanatomical studies, previous DTI-based tracking studies and clinical case studies into account, we hypothesize that this role of the right inferior frontal cortex in supporting complex linguistic computations may explain patterns of right hemispheric contribution to stroke recovery as well as disorders of prosodic processing. Apart from language, inter-species differences in transcallosal connectivity and fiber density may explain differences in the ability to process complex structures between different species.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079244', [], [u'University of Freiburg, Medical Center']]
[u'Transcriptome from saffron (Crocus sativus) plants in Jammu and Kashmir reveals abundant soybean mosaic virus transcripts and several putative pathogen bacterial and fungal genera', ['Sandeep Chakraborty'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Saffron (Crocus sativus) is a spice with immense economic and medicinal relevance, due to its anticancer and chemopreventive properties. Although the genomic sequence of saffron is not publicly\navailable, the RNA-seq based transcriptome of saffron from Jammu and Kashmir provides several, yet\nexplored, insights into the metagenome of the plant from that region. In the current work, sequence\ndatabases were created in the YeATS suite from the NCBI and Ensembl databases to enable faster comparisons. These were used to determine the metagenome of saffron. Soybean mosaic virus, a potyvirus, was found to be abundantly expressed in all five tissues analyzed. Recent studies have highlighted that issues arising from latent potyvirus infections in saffron is severely underestimated. Bacterial and fungal identification is made complex due to symbiogenesis, especially in the absence of the endogenous genome. Symbiogenesis results in transcripts having significant homology to bacterial genomes and eukaryotic genomes. A stringent criterion based on homology comparison was used to identify bacterial and fungal transcripts, and inferences were constrained to the genus level. Leifsonia, Elizabethkingia and Staphylococcus were some of the identified bacteria, while Mycosphaerella and Pyrenophora were among the fungi detected. Among the bacterial genera, L. xyli is the causal agent for ratoon stunting disease in sugarcane, while E. meningoseptica and S. haemolyticus, having acquired multiresistance against available antimicrobial agents, are important in clinical settings. Mycosphaerella and Pyrenophora incorporate\nseveral pathogenic species. It is shown that a transcript from heat shock protein of the fungi Cladosporium cladosporioides has been erroneously annotated as a saffron gene. The detection of these pathogens should enable proper strategies for ensuring better yields. The functional annotation of proteins in the absence of a genome is subject to errors due to the existence of significantly homologous proteins in\norganisms from different branches of life.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079186', [], [u'Celia Engineers']]
[u'BIDS Apps: Improving ease of use, accessibility and reproducibility of neuroimaging data analysis methods', ['Krzysztof J. Gorgolewski', 'Fidel Alfaro-Almagro', 'Tibor Auer', 'Pierre Bellec', 'Mihai Capota', 'Mallar Chakravarty', 'Nathan W. Churchill', 'R. Cameron Craddock', 'Gabriel Devenyi', 'Anders Eklund', 'Oscar Esteban', 'Guillaume Flandin', 'J. Swaroop Guntupalli', 'Mark Jenkinson', 'Anisha Keshavan', 'Gregory Kiar', 'Pradeep Reddy Raamana', 'David Raffelt', 'Christopher J. Steele', 'Pierre-Olivier Quirion', 'Robert E. Smith', 'Stephen Strother', 'Gael Varoquaux', 'Tal Yarkoni', 'Yida Wang', 'Russell Poldrack'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'In this work, we introduce a framework for creating, testing, versioning and archiving portable applications for analyzing neuroimaging data organized and described in compliance with the Brain Imaging Data Structure (BIDS). The portability of these applications (BIDS Apps) is achieved by using container technologies that encapsulate all binary and other dependencies in one convenient package. BIDS Apps run on all three major operating systems with no need for complex setup and configuration and thanks to the richness of the BIDS standard they require little manual user input. Previous containerized data processing solutions were limited to single user environments and not compatible with most multi tenant High Performance Computing systems. BIDS Apps overcome this limitation by taking advantage of the Singularity container technology. As a proof of concept, this work is accompanied by 18 ready to use BIDS Apps, packaging a diverse set of commonly used neuroimaging algorithms.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079145', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Royal Holloway University of London;', u'Universitaire Geriatrique de Montreal;', u'Intel Corporation;', u'McGill University;', u'St. Michaels Hospital;', u'Nathan S. Kline Institute;', u'Linkoping University;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging;', u'Dartmouth College;', u'UC Berkeley-UCSF Graduate Program in Bioengineering;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Baycrest Health Sciences;', u'Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health;', u'INRIA;', u'University of Texas']]
[u'A molecular portrait of microsatellite instability across multiple cancers', ['Isidro Cortes-Ciriano', 'Sejoon Lee', 'Woong-Yang Park', 'Tae-Min Kim', 'Peter Park'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Microsatellite instability (MSI) refers to the hypermutability of the cancer genome due to impaired DNA mismatch repair. Although MSI has been studied for decades, the large amount of sequencing data now available allows us to examine the molecular fingerprints of MSI in greater detail. Here, we analyze ~8000 exome and ~1000 whole-genome pairs across 23 cancer types. Our pan-cancer analysis reveals that the prevalence of MSI events is highly variable within and across tumor types including some in which MSI is not typically examined. We also identify genes in DNA repair and oncogenic pathways recurrently subject to MSI and uncover non-coding loci that frequently display MSI events. Finally, we propose an exome-based predictive model for the MSI phenotype that achieves high sensitivity and specificity. These results advance our understanding of the genomic drivers and consequences of MSI, and a comprehensive catalog of tumor-type specific MSI loci we have generated enables efficient panel-based MSI testing to identify patients who are likely to benefit from immunotherapy.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079152', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Samsung Medical Center;', u'The Catholic University of Korea']]
[u'Growth-Altering Microbial Interactions Are Highly Sensitive to Environmental Context', ['Angela Liu', 'Anne Archer', 'Matthew B Biggs', 'Jason A Papin'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Microbial interactions are ubiquitous in nature, and equally as relevant to human wellbeing as the identities of the interacting microbes. However, microbial interactions are difficult to measure and characterize. Furthermore, there is growing evidence that they are not fixed, but dependent on environmental context. We present a novel workflow for inferring microbial interactions that integrates semi-automated image analysis with a colony stamping mechanism, with the overall effect of improving throughput and reproducibility of colony interaction assays. We apply our approach to infer interactions among bacterial species associated with the normal lung microbiome, and how those interactions are altered by the presence of benzo[a]pyrene, a carcinogenic compound found in cigarettes. We found that the presence of this single compound changed the interaction network, demonstrating that microbial interactions are indeed highly dynamic and responsive to environmental context.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079251', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Virginia']]
[u'Evidence of cryptic incidence in childhood diseases', ['Christian E Gunning', 'Matthew J Ferrari', 'Erik B Erhardt', 'Helen J Wearing'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Persistence and extinction are key processes in infectious disease dynamics\nthat, due to incomplete reporting, cannot be directly observed.  For\nfully-immunizing diseases, reporting probabilities can be estimated from\ndemographic records and case reports.  Yet reporting probabilities are not\nsufficient to unambiguously reconstruct disease incidence from case reports.\nHere, we focus on disease presence (i.e., non-zero incidence), which provides\nan upper bound on disease extinction.  We examine measles and pertussis in\npre-vaccine era U.S. cities, and describe a conserved scaling relationship\nbetween population size, reporting rate, and observed presence (i.e., non-zero\ncase reports).  Using this relationship, we estimate disease presence given\nperfect reporting, and define cryptic presence as the difference between\nobserved and estimated presence.  We estimate that, in early 20th century\nU.S. cities, pertussis presence was higher than measles presence across a\nrange of population sizes, and that cryptic presence was common in small cities\nwith imperfect reporting.  Our results suggest that unobserved, cryptic\nincidence deserves careful attention, particularly in \u201ccolonizer\u201d diseases\nwith longer infectious periods and lower transmission rates.  Indeed, cryptic\npresence could paradoxically increase in response to control measures such as\nvaccination campaigns.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079194', [u'Ecology'], [u'North Carolina State University;', u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'University of New Mexico']]
[u'Disruption of Hepatocyte Jak2 leads to Spontaneous NASH in Aged Mice and Uncouples Metabolic Liver Disease from Insulin Resistance', ['Camella G. Wilson', 'Jennifer L. Tran', 'Aras N. Mattis', 'Kevin Corbit', 'Ethan J. Weiss'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Growth Hormone (GH) is a master regulator of metabolic homeostasis and longevity.  Whole body GH insensitivity (GHI) augments insulin sensitivity, age-related disease resistance, adiposity, and occurrence of NAFLD.  Conversely, acromegalic patients are prone to diabetes and increased mortality due to constitutive high levels of circulating GH.  However, which tissues control the various metabolic aspects of GH physiology are unknown. Therefore, we determined the role of GH in age-related metabolic dysfunction by inducing hepatocyte- (JAK2L) or adipocyte-specific (JAK2A) GHI individually or combinatorially (JAK2LA) via deletion of Jak2, an obligate transducer of GH signaling.  Aged JAK2L mice were insulin resistant but lean and had significant NASH, hepatic inflammation, and fibrosis. In contrast, JAK2A animals had increased adiposity and were completely resistant to age-associated hepatic steatosis, NASH, and insulin resistance.  Interestingly, while JAK2LA mice retained enhanced whole-body insulin sensitivity, they still developed NASH to an almost identical degree as JAK2L mice but with a substantial reduction in the degree of microvesicular steatosis.  Collectively, loss of adipocyte Jak2 conferred whole body insulin sensitivity even in the face of obesity and NASH. Deletion of hepatocyte Jak2 promoted NASH in aged mice without any dietary or drugs perturbations. The effect appears to be liver autonomous and cannot be overcome by the insulin sensitizing effect of adipocyte Jak2 deletion. Here, we describe the first model of spontaneous NASH that is coupled to augmented insulin sensitivity.  Further, there was an inverse correlation between insulin sensitivity and the degree of microvesicular steatosis. Therefore, GH signaling independently mediates insulin/glucose and lipid homeostasis and directly regulates the development of NASH in aged mice.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079236', [u'Physiology'], [u'UCSF']]
[u'A comparative analysis of Chikungunya and Zika transmission', ['Julien Riou', 'Chiara Poletto', 'Pierre-Yves Boelle'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'The recent global dissemination of Chikungunya and Zika has fostered public health concern worldwide. To better understand the drivers of transmission of these two arboviral diseases, we propose a joint analysis of Chikungunya and Zika epidemics in the same territories, taking into account the common epidemiologic features of the epidemics: transmitted by the same vector, in the same environments, and observed by the same surveillance systems. We analyse eighteen outbreaks in French Polynesia and the French West Indies using a hierarchical time-dependent SIR model accounting for the effect of virus, location and weather on transmission, and based on a disease specific serial interval.\nWe show that Chikungunya and Zika have similar transmission potential in the same territories (transmissibility ratio between Zika and Chikungunya of 1.04  [95% credible interval: 0.97; 1.13]), but that detection and reporting rates were different (around 20% for Zika and 40% for Chikungunya). Temperature variations between 22\xb0C and 29\xb0C did not alter transmission, but increased precipitations showed a dual effect, first reducing transmission after a two-week delay, then increasing it around five weeks later. The present study provides valuable information for risk assessment and introduce a modelling framework for the comparative analysis of arboviral infections that can be extended to other viruses and territories.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/078923', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Univ Paris 06, INSERM']]
[u'Engineering species-like barriers to sexual reproduction', ['Maciej Maselko', 'Stephen C. Heinsch', 'Jeremy Chacon', 'William Harcombe', 'Michael J. Smanski'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'We introduce a novel approach to engineer a genetic barrier to sexual reproduction between otherwise compatible populations. Programmable transcription factors drive lethal gene expression in hybrid offspring following undesired mating events.  As a proof of concept, we target the ACT1 promoter of the model organism Saccharomyces cerevisiae using a dCas9-based transcriptional activator.  Lethal over-expression of actin results from mating this engineered strain with a strain containing the wild-type ACT1 promoter.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079095.1', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Wound induced Ca2+ wave propagates through a simple Release and Diffusion mechanism', ['Naomi Handly', 'Roy Wollman'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Damage associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) are critical mediators of information concerning tissue damage from damaged cells to neighboring healthy cells. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) acts as an effective DAMP when released into extracellular space from damaged cells.  Extracellular ATP receptors monitor tissue damage and activate a Ca2+ wave in the surrounding healthy cells. How the Ca2+ wave propagates through cells following a wound is unclear. Ca2+ wave activation can occur extracellularly via external receptors or intracellularly through GAP junctions. Three potential mechanisms to propagate the Ca2+ wave are: Source and Sink, Amplifying Wave, and Release and Diffusion. Both Source and Sink and Amplifying Wave regulate ATP levels using hydrolysis or secretion, respectively, while Release and Diffusion relies on dilution. Here we systematically test these hypotheses using a microfluidics assay to mechanically wound an epithelial monolayer in combination with direct manipulation of ATP hydrolysis and release. We show that a Release and Diffusion model sufficiently explains Ca2+ wave propagation following an epithelial wound. A Release and Diffusion model combines the benefits of fast activation at length-scales of ~1-5 cell diameters with a self-limiting response to prevent unnecessary inflammatory responses harmful to the organism.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079053', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Computational prediction of the tolerance to amino-acid deletion in green-fluorescent protein', ['Eleisha L Jackson', 'Stephanie J. Spielman', 'Claus O. Wilke'], u'October 4, 2016.', u"Proteins evolve through two primary mechanisms: substitution, where mutations alter a protein's amino-acid sequence, and insertions and deletions (indels), where amino acids are either added to or removed from the sequence. Protein structure has been shown to influence the rate at which substitutions accumulate across sites in proteins, but whether structure similarly constrains the occurrence of indels has not been rigorously studied. Here, we investigate the extent to which structural properties known to covary with protein evolutionary rates might also predict protein tolerance to indels. Specifically, we analyze a publicly available dataset of single-amino-acid deletion mutations in enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) to assess how well the functional effect of deletions can be predicted from protein structure. We find that weighted contact number (WCN), which measures how densely packed a residue is within the protein's three-dimensional structure, provides the best single predictor for whether eGFP will tolerate a given deletion. We additionally find that using protein design to explicitly model deletions results in improved predictions of functional status when combined with other structural predictors. Our work suggests that structure plays fundamental role in constraining deletions at sites in proteins, and further that similar biophysical constraints influence both substitutions and deletions. This study therefore provides a solid foundation for future work to examine how protein structure influences tolerance of more complex indel events, such as insertions or large deletions.", u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079061', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Texas at Austin;', u'Temple University']]
[u'Determining the role of inflammation in the selection of JAK2 mutant cells in myeloproliferative neoplasms', ['Jie Zhang', 'Angela Fleischman', 'Dominik Wodarz', 'Natalia Komarova'], u'October 4, 2016.', u"Myeloproliferative neoplasm (MPN) is a hematologic malignancy characterized by the clonal outgrowth of hematopoietic cells with a somatically acquired mutation most commonly in JAK2 (JAK2V617F). This mutation endows upon myeloid progenitors cytokine independent growth and consequently leads to excessive production of myeloid lineage cells. It has been previously suggested that inflammation may play a role in the clonal evolution of JAK2V617F mutants. In particular, it is possible that one or more cellular kinetic parameters of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are affected by inflammation, such as division or death rates of cells, and the probability of HSC differentiation. This suggests a mechanism that can steer the outcome of the cellular competition in favor of the mutants, initiating the disease. In this paper we create a number of mathematical evolutionary models, from very abstract to more concrete, that describe cellular competition in the context of inflammation. It is possible to build a model axiomatically, where only very general assumptions are imposed on the modeling components and no arbitrary (and generally unknown) functional forms are used, and still generate a set of testable predictions. In particular, we show that, if HSC death is negligible, the evolutionary advantage of mutant cells can only be conferred by an increase in differentiation probability of HSCs in the presence of inflammation, and if death plays a significant role in the dynamics, an additional mechanism may be an increase of HSC's division-to-death ratio in the presence of inflammation. Further, we show that in the presence of inflammation, the wild type cell population is predicted to shrink under inflammation (even in the absence of mutants). Finally, it turns out that \nif only the differentiation probability is affected by the inflammation, then the resulting steady state population of wild type cells will contain a relatively smaller percentage of HSCs under inflammation. If the division-to-death rate is also affected, then the percentage of HSCs under inflammation can either decrease or increase, depending on other parameters.", u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079020', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UCI;', u'University of California Irvine']]
[u'Sequencing of small RNAs of the fern Pleopeltis minima (Polypodiaceae) offers insight into the evolution of the microRNA repertoire in land plants', ['Florencia Berruezo', 'Flavio S J de Souza', 'Pablo I Picca', 'Sergio I Nemirovsky', 'Leandro Martinez-Tosar', 'Mercedes Rivero', 'Alejandro N Mentaberry', 'Alicia M Zelada'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, single stranded RNA molecules that regulate the stability and translation of messenger RNAs in diverse eukaryotic groups. Several miRNA genes are of ancient origin and have been maintained in the genomes of animal and plant taxa for hundreds of millions of years, and functional studies indicate that ancient miRNAs play key roles in development and physiology. In the last decade, genome and small RNA (sRNA) sequencing of several plant species have helped unveil the evolutionary history of land plant miRNAs. Land plants are divided into bryophytes (liverworts, mosses), lycopods (clubmosses and spikemosses), monilophytes (ferns and horsetails), gymnosperms (cycads, conifers and allies) and angiosperms (flowering plants). Among these, the fern group occupies a key phylogenetic position, since it represents the closest extant cousin taxon of seed plants, i.e. gymno- and angiosperms. However, in spite of their evolutionary, economic and ecological importance, no fern genome has been sequenced yet and few genomic resources are available for this group. Here, we sequenced the small RNA fraction of an epiphytic South American fern, Pleopeltis minima (Polypodiaceae), and compared it to plant miRNA databases, allowing for the identification of miRNA families that are shared by all land plants, shared by all vascular plants (tracheophytes) or shared by euphyllophytes (ferns and seed plants) only. Using the recently described transcriptome of another fern, Lygodium japonicum, we also estimated the degree of conservation of fern miRNA targets in relation to other plant groups. Our results pinpoint the origin of several miRNA families in the land plant evolutionary tree with more precision and are a resource for future genomic and functional studies of fern miRNAs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/078907', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'FBMC-FCEN-UBA;', u'INGEBI-CONICET; FBMC-FCEN-UBA;', u'DBBE-FCEN-UBA;', u'Iquibicen, CONICET-UBA; DQB-FCEN-UBA;', u'IBBEA, CONICET-UBA;', u'Instituto de Agrobiotecnologia de Rosario (INDEAR);', u'IBBEA, CONICET-UBA; DFBMC-FCEN-UBA;', u'IBBEA, CONICET-UBA; FBMC-FCEN-UBA']]
[u'Adaptive Somatic Mutations Calls with Deep Learning and Semi-Simulated Data', ['Remi Torracinta', 'Laurent Mesnard', 'Susan Levine', 'Rita Shaknovich', 'Maureen Hanson', 'Fabien Campagne'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'A number of approaches have been developed to call somatic variation in high-throughput sequencing data. Here, we present an adaptive approach to calling somatic variations. Our approach trains a deep feed-forward neural network with semi-simulated data. Semi-simulated datasets are constructed by planting somatic mutations in real datasets where no mutations are expected. Using semi-simulated data makes it possible to train the models with millions of training examples, a usual requirement for successfully training deep learning models. We initially focus on calling variations in RNA-Seq data. We derive semi-simulated datasets from real RNA-Seq data, which offer a good representation of the data the models will be applied to. We test the models on independent semi-simulated data as well as pure simulations. On independent semi-simulated data, models achieve an AUC of 0.973.  When tested on semi-simulated exome DNA datasets, we find that the models trained on RNA-Seq data remain predictive (sens ~0.4 & spec ~0.9 at cutoff of P>=0.9), albeit with lower overall performance (AUC=0.737). Interestingly, while the models generalize across assay, training on RNA-Seq data lowers the confidence for a group of mutations. Haloplex exome specific training was also performed, demonstrating that the approach can produce probabilistic models tuned for specific assays and protocols. We found that the method adapts to the characteristics of experimental protocol. We further illustrate these points by training a model for a trio somatic experimental design when germline DNA of both parents is available in addition to data about the individual. These models are distributed with Goby (http://goby.campagnelab.org).', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/079087', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine;', u'INSERM UMR1155 et Service des Urgences Nephrologiques et Transplantation Renale, APHP, Hopital Tenon;', u'Levine Clinical Practice;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Cornell University']]
[u'Morphological plant modeling: Unleashing geometric and topologic potential within the plant sciences', ['Alexander Bucksch', 'Acheampong Atta-Boateng', 'Akomian Fortune Azihou', 'Mathilde Balduzzi', 'Dorjsuren Battogtokh', 'Aly Baumgartner', 'Brad Binder', 'Siobhan Braybrook', 'Cynthia Chang', 'Viktoriya Coneva', 'Thomas DeWitt', 'Alexander Fletcher', 'Malia Gehan', 'Diego Hernan Diaz Martinez', 'Lilan Hong', 'Anjali Iyer-Pascuzzi', 'Laura Klein', 'Samuel Leiboff', 'Mao Li', 'Jonathan Lynch', 'Alexis Maizel', 'Julin Maloof', 'RJ Cody Markelz', 'Ciera Martinez', 'Laura Miller', 'Washington Mio', 'Wojtek Palubicki', 'Hendrik Poorter', 'Christophe Pradal', 'Charles Price', 'Eetu Puttonen', 'John Reese', 'Ruben Rellan-Alvarez', 'Edgar Spalding', 'Erin Sparks', 'Chris Topp', 'Joseph Williams', 'Daniel Chitwood'], u'October 4, 2016.', u'Plant morphology is inherently mathematical. The geometries of leaves and flowers and intricate topologies of the root have fascinated plant biologists and mathematicians alike. Beyond providing aesthetic inspiration, understanding plant morphology has become pressing in an era of climate change and a growing population. Gaining an understanding of how to modify plant architecture through molecular biology and breeding is critical to improving agriculture, and the monitoring of ecosystems and global vegetation is vital to modeling a future with fewer natural resources. In this white paper, we begin by summarizing the rich history and state of the art in quantifying the form of plants, mathematical models of patterning in plants, and how plant morphology manifests dynamically across disparate scales of biological organization. We then explore the fundamental challenges that remain unanswered concerning plant morphology, from the barriers preventing the prediction of phenotype from genotype to modeling the fluttering of leaves in a light breeze. We end with a discussion concerning the education of plant morphology synthesizing biological and mathematical approaches and ways to facilitate research advances through outreach, cross-disciplinary training, and open science. Never has the need to model plant morphology been more imperative. Unleashing the potential of geometric and topological approaches in the plant sciences promises to transform our understanding of both plants and mathematics.', u'/content/early/2016/10/04/078832', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Georgia;', u'Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies;', u'Laboratory of Applied Ecology, University of Abomey-Calavi;', u'Universite Montpellier;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech;', u'Baylor University;', u'Department of Biochemistry & Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville;', u'Sainsbury Laboratory, University of Cambridge;', u'University of Washington-Bothell;', u'Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Department of Wildlife & Fisheries Sciences, Department of Plant Pathology & Microbiology, Texas A&M;', u'School of Mathematics & Statistics, University of Sheffield;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'Florida State University;', u'Cornell University;', u'Purdue University;', u'Saint Louis University;', u'School of Integrative Plant Science, Cornell University;', u'Department of Plant Science, The Pennsylvania State University;', u'Center for Organismal Studies, Heidelberg University;', u'U.C. Davis;', u'Department of Plant Biology, UC Davis;', u'U.C. Berkeley;', u'University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill;', u'Florida State University, Tallahassee;', u'Juelich;', u'Cirad & Inria;', u'NIMBioS, University of Tennessee, Knoxville;', u'Finnish Geospatial Research Institute at the National Land Survey of Finland;', u'Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville;', u'Unidad de Genomic Avanzada, Langebio, Cinvestav;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Department of Biology, Duke University']]
