[u'Portable and Error-Free DNA-Based Data Storage', ['S. M. Hossein Tabatabaei Yazdi', 'Ryan Gabrys', 'Olgica Milenkovic'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'DNA-based storage is an emerging nonvolatile memory technology of potentially unprecedented density, durability, and replication efficiency. The basic system implementation steps include synthesizing DNA strings that contain user information and subsequently reading them via high-throughput sequencing technologies. All existing architectures enable reading and writing, while some also allow for editing and random access and elementary sequencing error correction. However, none of the current architectures offers error-free and random-access readouts from a portable device. Here we show through experimental and theoretical verification that such a platform may be easily implemented in practice. The gist of the approach is to design an integrated pipeline that encodes arbitrary data so as to avoid costly synthesis and sequencing errors, enables random access through addressing, and leverages efficient portable nanopore sequencing via new anchored iterative alignment techniques and insertion/deletion error-correcting codes. Our work represents the only known random access DNA-based data storage system that uses error-prone MinION sequencers and produces error-free readouts with the highest reported information rate and density.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079442', [], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign']]
[u'Dynamical patterns of coexisting strategies in a hybrid discrete-continuum spatial evolutionary game model', ['Andrew EF Burgess', 'Pieta G Schofield', 'Stephen F Hubbard', 'Mark AJ Chaplain', 'Tommaso Lorenzi'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'We present a novel hybrid modelling framework that takes into account two aspects which have been largely neglected in previous models of spatial evolutionary games: random motion and chemotaxis. A stochastic individual-based model is used to describe the player dynamics, whereas the evolution of the chemoattractant is governed by a reaction-diffusion equation. The two models are coupled by deriving individual movement rules via the discretisation of a taxis-diffusion equation which describes the evolution of the local number of players. In this framework, individuals occupying the same position can engage in a two-player game, and are awarded a payoff, in terms of reproductive fitness, according to their strategy. As an example, we let individuals play the Hawk-Dove game. Numerical simulations illustrate how random motion and chemotactic \nresponse can bring about self-generated dynamical patterns that create favourable conditions for the coexistence of hawks and doves in situations in which the two strategies cannot coexist otherwise. In this sense, our work offers a new perspective of research on spatial evolutionary games, and provides a general formalism to study the dynamics of \nspatially-structured populations in biological and social contexts where individual motion is likely to affect natural selection of behavioural traits.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079434', [], [u'University of Dundee;', u'University of St Andrews']]
[u'Incorporating calibrated functional assay data into the BRCA1 Ex-UV database', ['Bryony A Thompson', 'Russell Bell', 'Bryan E Welm', 'John Burn', 'Sean Tavtigian'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'Driven by massively parallel sequencing and allied technologies, the scale of genetic predisposition testing is on a dramatic uptrend.  While many patients are found to carry clinically actionable pathogenic sequence variants, testing also reveals enormous numbers of Unclassified Variants (UV), or Variants of Uncertain Significance (VUS), most of which are rare missense substitutions.  Following IARC variant classification guidelines, quantitative methods have been developed to integrate multiple data types for clinical UV evaluation in BRCA1/2; results from these analyses are recorded in the BRCA gene Ex-UV database (hci-exlovd.hci.utah.edu).  In variant classification the rate-limiting step is often accumulation of patient observational data.  Recently, functional assays evaluating BRCA1 RING domain and C-terminal substitutions have been calibrated, enabling variant classification through a two-component combination of sequence analysis-based predictions with functional assay results.  This two-component classification was embedded in a decision tree with safeguards to avoid misclassification.  For the two-component analysis, sensitivity is 89.5%, specificity is 100%, and the error rate 0.0%. Classification of UV as likely pathogenic or likely neutral does not require certainty; the probabilistic definitions of the categories imply an error rate.  Combining sequence analysis with functional assay data in two-component analysis added 154 BRCA1 variants to the Ex-UV database.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079418', [], [u'Department of Oncological Sciences, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine;', u'Department of Surgery, Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine;', u'Institute of Genetic Medicine, International Centre for Life, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon T']]
[u'Polyphyletic ancestry of expanding Patagonian Chinook salmon populations', ['Cristian Correa', 'Paul Moran'], u'October 5, 2016.', u"Chinook salmon native to North America are spreading through South America's Patagonia and have become the most widespread anadromous salmon invasion ever documented. To better understand the colonization history and role that genetic diversity might have played in the founding and radiation of these new populations, we characterized ancestry and genetic diversity across latitude (39-48\xb0S). Samples from four distant basins in Chile were genotyped for 13 microsatellite loci, and allocated, through probabilistic mixture models, to 148 potential donor populations in North America representing 46 distinct genetic lineages. Patagonian Chinook salmon clearly had a diverse and heterogeneous ancestry. Lineages from the Lower Columbia River were introduced for salmon open-ocean ranching in the late 1970s and 1980s, and were prevalent south of 43\xb0S. In the north, however, a diverse assembly of lineages was found, associated with net-pen aquaculture during the 1990s. Finally, we showed that possible lineage admixture in the introduced range can confound allocations inferred from mixture models, a caveat previously overlooked in studies of this kind. While we documented high genetic and lineage diversity in expanding Patagonian populations, the degree to which diversity drives adaptive potential remains unclear. Our new understanding of diversity across latitude will guide future research.", u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079459', [], [u'Universidad Austral de Chile;', u'Conservation Biology Division, Northwest Fisheries Science Center']]
[u'Reproducibility and replicability of rodent phenotyping in preclinical studies', ['Neri Kafkafi', 'Joseph Agassi', 'Elissa J Chesler', 'John C Crabbe', 'Wim E Crusio', 'David Eilam', 'Robert Gerlai', 'Ilan Golani', 'Alex Gomez-Marin', 'Ruth Heller', 'Fuad Iraqi', 'Iman Jaljuli', 'Natasha A Karp', 'Hugh Morgan', 'George Nicholson', 'Donald W Pfaff', 'Helene S Richter', 'Philip B Stark', 'Oliver Stiedl', 'Victoria Stodden', 'Lisa M Tarantino', 'Valter Tucci', 'William Valdar', 'Robert W Williams', 'Hanno Wurbel', 'Yoav Benjamini'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'The scientific community is increasingly concerned with cases of published "discoveries" that are not replicated in further studies. The field of mouse phenotyping was one of the first to raise this concern, and to relate it to other complicated methodological issues: the complex interaction between genotype and environment; the definitions of behavioral constructs; and the use of the mouse as a model animal for human health and disease mechanisms. In January 2015, researchers from various disciplines including genetics, behavior genetics, neuroscience, ethology, statistics and bioinformatics gathered in Tel Aviv University to discuss these issues. The general consent presented here was that the issue is prevalent and of concern, and should be addressed at the statistical, methodological and policy levels, but is not so severe as to call into question the validity and the usefulness of the field as a whole. Well-organized community efforts, coupled with improved data and metadata sharing were agreed by all to have a key role to play in view of identifying specific problems, as well as promoting effective solutions. As replicability is related to validity and may also affect generalizability and translation of findings, the implications of the present discussion reach far beyond the issue of replicability of mouse phenotypes but may be highly relevant throughout biomedical research.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079350', [], [u'Tel Aviv University;', u'The Jackson Laboratory;', u'Oregon Health & Science University;', u'INCIA, Universite de Bordeaux and CNRS;', u'University of Toronto;', u'Instituto de Neurociencias CSIC-UMH;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Harwell Research Center;', u'Oxford University;', u'Rockefeller University;', u'University of Muenster;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'VU University Amsterdam;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia;', u'University of Tennessee Health Science Center;', u'University of Bern']]
[u'Extensive Horizontal Gene Transfer in Cheese-Associated Bacteria', ['Kevin S Bonham', 'Benjamin E Wolfe', 'Rachel J Dutton'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'Acquisition of genes through horizontal gene transfer (HGT) allows microbes to rapidly gain new capabilities and adapt to new or changing environments. Identifying widespread HGT regions within multispecies microbiomes can pinpoint the molecular mechanisms that play key roles in microbiome assembly. We sought to identify horizontally transferred genes within a model microbiome, the cheese rind. Comparing 31 newly-sequenced and 134 previously sequenced bacterial isolates from cheese rinds, we identified over 200 putative horizontally transferred genomic regions containing 4,844 protein coding genes. The largest of these regions are enriched for genes involved in siderophore acquisition, and are widely distributed in cheese rinds in both Europe and the US. These results suggest that horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is prevalent in cheese rind microbiomes, and the identification of genes that are frequently transferred in a particular environment may provide insight into the selective forces shaping microbial communities.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079137.1', [], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'Tufts University']]
[u'A dual-strategy expression screen for candidate connectivity labels in the developing thalamus', ['Olivia Bibollet-Bahena', 'Tatsuya Okafuji', 'Karsten Hokamp', 'Kevin J. Mitchell'], u'October 5, 2016.', u"The thalamus or 'inner chamber' of the brain is divided into ~30 discrete nuclei, with highly specific patterns of afferent and efferent connectivity. To identify genes that may direct these patterns of connectivity, we used two strategies. First, we used a bioinformatics pipeline to survey the predicted proteomes of nematode, fruitfly, mouse and human for extracellular proteins containing any of a list of motifs found in known guidance or connectivity molecules. Second, we performed clustering analyses on the Allen Developing Mouse Brain Atlas data to identify genes encoding surface proteins expressed with temporal profiles similar to known guidance or connectivity molecules. In both cases, we then screened the resultant genes for selective expression patterns in the developing thalamus. These approaches identified 82 candidate connectivity labels in the developing thalamus. These molecules include many members of the Ephrin, Eph-receptor, cadherin, protocadherin, semaphorin, plexin, Odz/teneurin, Neto, cerebellin, calsyntenin and Netrin-G families, as well as diverse members of the immunoglobulin (Ig) and leucine-rich receptor (LRR) superfamilies, receptor tyrosine kinases and phosphatases, a variety of growth factors and receptors, and a large number of miscellaneous membrane-associated or secreted proteins not previously implicated in axonal guidance or neuronal connectivity. The diversity of their expression patterns indicates that thalamic nuclei are highly differentiated from each other, with each one displaying a unique repertoire of these molecules, consistent with a combinatorial logic to the specification of thalamic connectivity.", u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079327', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Trinity College Dublin']]
[u'Size-Dependent Accumulation of the Mitotic Activator Cdc25 as a Mechanism of Size Control in Fission Yeast', ['Daniel Keifenheim', 'Xi-Ming Sun', "Edridge D'Souza", 'Makoto Ohira', 'Mira Magner', 'Matthew Mayhew', 'Samuel Marguerat', 'Nicholas Rhind'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'Proper cell size is essential for cellular function.  Nonetheless, despite more than 100 years of work on the subject, the mechanisms that maintain cell size homeostasis are largely mysterious.  Cells in growing populations maintain cell size within a narrow range by coordinating growth and division.  Bacterial and eukaryotic cells both demonstrate homeostatic size control, which maintains population-level variation in cell size within a certain range, and returns the population average to that range if it is perturbed.  Recent progress has revealed two different strategies for size control: budding yeast uses an inhibitor-dilution strategy to regulate size at the G1/S transition, while bacteria appear to use an adder strategy, in which a fixed amount of growth each generation causes cell size to converge on a stable average.  Here we present evidence that cell size in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is regulated by a third strategy: the size dependent accumulation of the mitotic activator Cdc25.  Cdc25 is transcriptionally regulated such that smaller cells accumulate less Cdc25 and larger cells accumulate more Cdc25, creating an increasing concentration of Cdc25 as cell grow and providing a mechanism for cells to trigger cell division when they reach a threshold concentration of Cdc25.  Since regulation of mitotic entry by Cdc25 is well conserved, this mechanism may provide a wide spread solution to the problem of size control in eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/078592', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'UMass Medical School;', u'MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College London;', u'Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory']]
[u'Multi-algorithm particle simulations with Spatiocyte', ['Satya Arjunan', 'Koichi Takahashi'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'As quantitative biologists get more measurements of spatially regulated systems such as cell division and polarization, simulation of reaction and diffusion of proteins using the data is becoming increasingly relevant to uncover the mechanisms underlying the systems. Spatiocyte is a lattice-based stochastic particle simulator for biochemical reaction and diffusion processes. Simulations can be performed at single molecule and compartment spatial scales simultaneously. Molecules can diffuse and react in 1D (filament), 2D (membrane) and 3D (cytosol) compartments. The implications of crowded regions in the cell can be investigated because each diffusing molecule has spatial dimensions. Spatiocyte adopts multi-algorithm and multi-timescale frameworks to simulate models that simultaneously employ deterministic, stochastic and particle reaction-diffusion algorithms. Comparison of light microscopy images to simulation snapshots is supported by Spatiocyte microscopy visualization and molecule tagging features. Spatiocyte is open-source software and is freely available at http://spatiocyte.org.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079293', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'RIKEN Quantitative Biology Center']]
[u'Omics and bioinformatics approaches to target boar taint', ['Rahul Agarwal', 'Jitendra Narayan'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'In livestock species, a rapid growth in high-throughput omics data has accelerated the pace of studies that target to dissect economically important traits to provide better quality animal products to consumers. In pig industries, young boars are generally castrated to remove boar taint, a phenotypic and inheritable trait well-known by an abnormally bad smell and taste in pork meat derived from some uncastrated male pigs. Existence of porcine reference genome made possible to catalogue genome-wide QTLs, candidate genes and biomarkers in associations with boar taint and other industrially significant traits in pigs. The aim of this paper to review the contribution of bioinformatics resources and omics technology in boar taint related studies. This paper also provides concise details about state-of-the-art sequencing technology.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079301', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Animal and Aquacultural Sciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences;', u'University of Namur']]
[u'A Neural Locus for Perceptually-Relevant Saccadic Suppression in Visual-Motor Neurons of the Primate Superior Colliculus', ['Chih-Yang Chen', 'Ziad M. Hafed'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'Saccadic eye movements cause rapid retinal-image shifts that go perceptually unnoticed several times per second. The mechanisms for perceptual saccadic suppression have been controversial, in part due to sparse understanding of neural substrates. Here we uncovered an unexpectedly specific neural locus for saccadic suppression in the primate superior colliculus (SC). We first developed a sensitive behavioral measure of perceptual suppression in two male macaque monkeys (Macaca mulatta), demonstrating known selectivity to low spatial frequencies. We then investigated visual responses in either purely visual SC neurons or anatomically-deeper visual-motor neurons, which are also involved in saccade generation commands. Surprisingly, visual-motor neurons showed the strongest visual suppression, and the suppression was dependent on spatial frequency like in perception. Most importantly, visual-motor neuron suppression selectivity was highly predictive of behavioral suppression effects in each individual animal, with our recorded population explaining up to ~74% of behavioral variance even on completely different experimental sessions. In contrast, purely visual SC neurons only had mild and unselective suppression (only explaining up to ~48% of behavioral variance). These results run contrary to a hypothesized SC mechanism for saccadic suppression, in which a motor command in the visual-motor and motor neurons is relayed to the more superficial purely visual neurons to suppress them, and to then potentially be fed back to cortex. Instead, our results indicate that an extra-retinal modulatory signal mediating perceptual suppression is already established in visual-motor neurons.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079384', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Tuebingen University']]
[u'The non-stationary dynamics of fitness distributions: asexual model with epistasis and standing variation.', ['GUILLAUME MARTIN', 'Lionel Roques'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'Various models describe asexual evolution by mutation, selection and drift. Some focus directly on fitness, typically modelling drift but ignoring or simplifying both epistasis and the distribution of mutation effects (travelling wave models). Others follow the dynamics of quantitative traits determining fitness (Fisher\u2032s geometrical model), imposing a complex but fixed form of mutation effects and epistasis, and often ignoring drift. In all cases, predictions are typically obtained in high or low mutation rate limits and for long-term stationary regimes, thus loosing information on transient behaviors and the effect of initial conditions. Here, we connect fitness-based and trait-based models into a single framework, and seek explicit solutions even away from stationarity. The expected fitness distribution is followed over time via its cumulant generating function, using a deterministic approximation that neglects drift. In several cases, explicit trajectories for the full fitness distribution are obtained, for arbitrary mutation rates and standing variance. For non-epistatic mutation, especially with beneficial mutations, this approximation fails over the long term but captures the early dynamics, thus complementing stationary stochastic predictions. The approximation also handles several diminishing return epistasis models (e.g. with an optimal genotype): it can then apply at and away from equilibrium. General results arise at equilibrium, where fitness distributions display a \u2033phase transition\u2033 with mutation rate. Beyond this phase transition, in Fisher\u2032s geometrical model, the full trajectory of fitness and trait distributions takes simple form, robust to details of the mutant phenotype distribution. Analytical arguments are explored for why and when the deterministic approximation applies.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079368', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CNRS UMR 5554;', u'INRA BioSP']]
[u'Development of a modular automated system for maintenance and differentiation of adherent human pluripotent stem cells.', ['Duncan E Crombie', 'Maciej Daniszewski', 'Helena H Liang', 'Tejal Kulkarni', 'Fan Li', 'Grace E Lidgerwood', 'Alison Conquest', 'Damian Hernandez', 'Sandy S Hung', 'Katherine P Gill', 'Elisabeth De Smit', 'Lisa S Kearns', 'Linda Clarke', 'Valentin M Sluch', 'Xitiz Chamling', 'Donald J Zack', 'Raymond CB Wong', 'Alex Hewitt', 'Alice Pebay'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'Patient-specific induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) have tremendous potential for development of regenerative medicine, disease modelling and drug discovery. However, the processes of reprogramming, maintenance and differentiation are labour intensive and subject to inter-technician variability. To address these issues, we established and optimised protocols to allow for the automated maintenance of reprogrammed somatic cells into iPSCs to enable the large-scale culture and passaging of human pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) using a customized TECAN Freedom EVO. Generation of iPSCs was performed offline by nucleofection followed by selection of TRA-1-60 positive cells using a Miltenyi MultiMACS24 Separator. Pluripotency markers were assessed to confirm pluripotency of the generated iPSCs. Passaging was performed using an enzyme-free dissociation method. Proof of concept of differentiation was obtained by differentiating human PSCs into cells of the retinal lineage. Key advantages of this automated approach are the ability to increase sample size, reduce variability during reprogramming or differentiation, and enable medium to high-throughput analysis of human PSCs and derivatives. These techniques will become increasingly important with the emergence of clinical trials using stem cells.', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/079335', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Centre for Eye Research Australia;', u'University of Tasmania;', u'Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'Predicting off-target effects for end-to-end CRISPR guide design', ['Jennifer Listgarten', 'Michael Weinstein', 'Melih Elibol', 'Luong Hoang', 'John Doench', 'Nicolo Fusi'], u'October 5, 2016.', u'To enable more effective guide design we have developed the first machine learning-based approach to assess CRISPR/Cas9 off-target effects. Our approach consistently and substantially outperformed the state-of the-art over multiple, independent data sets, yielding up to a 6-fold improvement in accuracy. Because of the large computational demands of the task, we also developed a cloud-based service for end-to-end guide design which incorporates our previously reported on-target model, Azimuth, as well as our new off-target model, Elevation (https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/crispr).', u'/content/early/2016/10/05/078253', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Microsoft Research;', u'UCLA;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
