[u'Palmitoylation of the oncogenic RhoGEF TGAT is dispensable for membrane affinity and consequent activation of RhoA', ['Jakobus van Unen', 'Dennis Botman', 'Taofei Yin', 'Yi I. Wu', 'Mark A. Hink', 'Theodorus W.J. Gadella', 'Marten Postma', 'Joachim Goedhart'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Rho guanine exchange factors (RhoGEFs) control many aspects of the cellular cytoskeleton, and thereby influence cell processes such as cell migration, cell adhesion and proliferation. Misregulation of RhoGEF activity is implicated in various aspects of cancer. TGAT is a splice variant of the RhoGEF Trio, with high oncogenic potential. The last 15 amino acids of the C-terminus of TGAT are critical for its oncogenic potential, but the precise molecular origins remain elusive. We find that TGAT is partially located at the Golgi apparatus and that this localization depends on two cysteine residues in the C-terminal tail. Accordingly, TGAT lacking the last 15 amino acids (TGAT\u039415) is localized to the cytoplasm. To examine potential plasma membrane association we developed a novel, highly sensitive image analysis method. The analysis revealed that a fraction of wild-type TGAT and its cysteine mutants co-localized with the plasma membrane. The functional importance of membrane localization was determined by measuring TGAT activity, using single cell RhoA GTP loading and F-actin levels as a read-out. Strikingly, mutants of TGAT devoid of one or more palmitoylation sites in the C-tail retain similar activation characteristics as wild-type TGAT, whereas the activity was clearly abrogated for TGAT\u039415. Synthetic recruitment of TGAT\u039415 to membranes using a rapamycin based heterodimerization system confirmed that TGAT effectively activates RhoA at the plasma membrane. Together, our results show that membrane association of TGAT is critical for its activity, but that palmitoylation is dispensable.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/062729', [], [u'University of Amsterdam;', u'University of Connecticut Health Center']]
[u'Compensation masks trophic cascades in complex food webs', ['Ashkaan K Fahimipour', 'Kurt E Anderson', 'Richard J Williams'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Ecological networks, or food webs, describe the feeding relationships between interacting species within an ecosystem. Understanding how the complexity of these networks influences their response to changing top-down control is a central challenge in ecology. Here, we provide a model-based investigation of trophic cascades - an oft-studied ecological phenomenon that occurs when changes in the biomass of top predators indirectly effect changes in the biomass of primary producers - in complex food webs that are representative of the structure of real ecosystems. Our results reveal that strong cascades occur primarily in small and weakly connected food webs, a result very much in agreement with empirical studies. The primary mechanism underlying weak or absent cascades was a strong compensatory response; in most webs predators induced large population level cascades that were masked by changes in the opposite direction by other species in the same trophic guild. Thus, the search for a general theory of trophic cascades in food webs should focus on uncovering the features of real ecosystems that promote or preclude compensation within functional guilds.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068569', [], [u'University of Oregon;', u'University of California, Riverside;', u'Vibrant Data Inc.']]
[u'Bacterial invasion of the pancreas revealed after analyses of the pancreatic cyst fluids', ['Vilvapathy Narayanan', 'Wesley K Utomo', 'Marco J Bruno', 'Maikel P Peppelenbosch', 'Sergey R Konstantinov'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'The involvement of bacterial translocation (BT) in the promotion of carcinogenesis has gained a considerable attention in the last years. At this point however BT has not been studied in the context of pancreatic cystic lesions and their development into pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. The aim of the study was to analyze if bacteria are present in pancreatic cyst fluid (PCF) collected from patients with suspected pancreatic cysts . Total DNA was isolated from sixty nine PCF. The occurrence of bacteria in PCF was analyzed using bacterial 16S rRNA gene-specific PCR-based method followed by sequence identification and quantitative PCR assay tuned up to different pathogenic and commensal human bacteria. Forty-seven out of sixty-nine samples (68%) were found positive for harboring bacterial 16S rRNA gene. Follow up sequencing analyses of the PCR products revealed that bacterial species related to Fusobacterium spp., Bacteroides spp., and Bacillus spp. were predominating the PCF samples. The results suggest that specific bacteria can translocate to the pancreas and become detectable in the PCF.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/064550', [], [u'Erasmusmc']]
[u'Animals actively use at least half of the genome', ['Warren R Francis', 'Gert Worheide'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'One central goal of genome biology is to understand how the usage of the genome differs between organisms. Our knowledge of genome composition, needed for downstream inferences, is critically dependent on gene annotations, yet problems associated with gene annotation and assembly errors are usually ignored in comparative genomics. Here we analyze the genomes of 68 species across all animal groups and some single-cell eukaryotes for general trends in genome usage and composition, taking into account problems of gene annotation. We show that, regardless of genome size, essentially all animals have comparable amounts of introns and intergenic sequence, with nearly all deviations dominated by increased intergenic sequence. Genomes of model organisms have ratios much closer to 1:1, suggesting that the majority of published genomes of non-model organisms are underannotated and consequently omit substantial numbers of genes, with likely negative impact on evolutionary interpretations. Finally, our results also indicate that most animals transcribe half or more of their genomes arguing against differences in genome usage between animal groups, and also suggesting that the transcribed portion is more dependent on genome size than previously thought.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068627', [], [u'Ludwig-Maximilians Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen']]
[u'Hierarchical Bayesian estimation of metacognitive efficiency from confidence ratings', ['Stephen M Fleming'], u'August 9, 2016.', u"Metacognition refers to the ability to reflect on and monitor one's cognitive processes, such as perception, memory and decision-making. Metacognition is often assessed in the lab by whether an observer's confidence ratings are predictive of objective success, but simple correlations between performance and confidence are susceptible to undesirable influences such as response biases. Recently an alternative approach to measuring metacognition has been developed (Maniscalco & Lau, 2012) that characterises metacognitive sensitivity (meta-d') by assuming a generative model of confidence within the framework of signal detection theory. However, current estimation routines require an abundance of confidence rating data to recover robust parameters, and only provide point estimates of meta-d'. In contrast, hierarchical Bayesian estimation methods provide opportunities to enhance statistical power, incorporate uncertainty in group-level parameter estimates and avoid edge-correction confounds. Here I introduce such a method for estimating meta-d' from confidence ratings and demonstrate its application for assessing group differences. A tutorial is provided on both the meta-d' model and the preparation of behavioural data for model fitting. A hierarchical approach may be particularly useful in situations where limited data are available, such as when quantifying metacognition in patient populations. In addition, the model may be flexibly expanded to estimate parameters encoding other influences on metacognitive efficiency. MATLAB software and documentation for implementing hierarchical meta-d' estimation (HMeta-d) can be downloaded at https://github.com/smfleming/HMM.", u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068601', [], [u'University College London']]
[u'Visualizing the Geography of Genetic Variants', ['Joseph H Marcus', 'John Novembre'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'One of the key characteristics of any genetic variant is its geographic distribution.  The geographic distribution can shed light on where an allele first arose, what populations it has spread to, and in turn on how migration, genetic drift, and natural selection have acted.  The distribution of a genetic variant can also be of great utility for medical/clinical geneticists.  Collectively the geographic distribution of many genetic variants can reveal population structure.  As a result, visual inspection of geographic maps for genetic variants is common practice in genetic studies. Here we develop an interactive visualization tool for rapidly displaying the geographic distribution of genetic variants. Through a REST API and dynamic front-end the Geography of Genetic Variants (GGV) browser (http://popgen.uchicago.edu/ggv/) provides maps of allele frequencies in populations distributed across the globe.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068536', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Development and Application of Equilibrium Thermodynamic Models Describing Coupled Protein Oligomerization and Ligand Binding', ['Martin L Rennie', 'Richard L Kingston'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'The association and dissociation of protein oligomers is frequently coupled to the binding of ligands, facilitating the regulation of many biological processes. Equilibrium thermodynamic models are needed to describe the linkage between ligand binding and homo-oligomerization. These models must be parameterized in a way that makes physical interpretation straightforward, and allows elaborations or simplifications to be readily incorporated. We propose a systematic framework for the equilibrium analysis of ligand-linked oligomerization, treating in detail the case of a homo-oligomer with cyclic point group symmetry, where each subunit binds a ligand at a single site. Exploiting the symmetry of the oligomer, in combination with a nearest-neighbors approximation, we derive a class of site- specific ligand binding models involving only four parameters, irrespective of the size of the oligomer. The model parameters allow direct quantitative assessment of ligand binding cooperativity, and the influence of ligand binding on protein oligomerization, which are the key questions of biological interest. These models, which incorporate multiple types of linkage, are practically applicable, and we show how Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) methods can be used to characterize the agreement of the model with experimental data. Simplifications to the model emerge naturally, as its parameters take on extremal values. The nearest-neighbors approximation underpinning the model is transparent, and the model could be augmented in obvious fashion if the approximation were inadequate. The approach is generalizable, and could be used to treat more complex situations, involving more than a single kind of ligand, or a different protein symmetry.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068577', [], [u'National University of Ireland;', u'University of Auckland']]
[u'Polygenic analysis of schizophrenia and 19 immune diseases reveals modest pleiotropy', ['Jennie G Pouget', 'Buhm Han', 'Emmanuel Mignot', 'Hanna M Ollila', 'Jonathan Barker', 'Sarah Spain', 'Nick Dand', 'Richard Trembath', 'Javier Martin', 'Maureen D Mayes', 'Lara Bossini-Castillo', 'Elena Lopez-Isac', 'Ying Jin', 'Stephanie Santorico', 'Richard A Spritz', 'Soumya Raychaudhuri', 'Jo Knight'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Epidemiological studies have revealed that schizophrenia and autoimmune diseases co-occur in the general population at higher than expected rates. Here, we evaluated whether the epidemiologic correlation between immune diseases and schizophrenia might be explained by shared genetic risk factors. We first evaluated the association of 581 variants previously reported to be associated with 19 different immune diseases at genome-wide significance in a recent genome-wide association study (GWAS) of schizophrenia (N=35,476 cases and 46,839 controls). We identified nine variants with pleiotropic effects, associated with both schizophrenia and autoimmunity. Five of these pleiotropic variants were located outside of the HLA region, and mapped to genes with known roles in calcium signaling. We then evaluated whether polygenic risk scores for immune diseases, which take into account the collective effects of all SNPs (p<1 in association with the immune disease of interest), predicted schizophrenia. Among 14 immune diseases with available genome-wide summary statistics, higher polygenic risk scores for narcolepsy (liability-scale R2=0.02%, p=4.1x10-4), primary biliary cirrhosis (R2=0.04%, p=1.4x10-8), psoriasis (R2=0.02%, p=3.6x10-5), systemic lupus erythematosus (R2=0.04%, p=2.2x10-8), type 1 diabetes (R2=0.03%, p=2.0x10-6), and ulcerative colitis (R2=0.02%, p=4.3x10-4) were significantly associated with schizophrenia. We also observed suggestive evidence of sex-dependent pleiotropy between schizophrenia and multiple sclerosis (interaction p=0.02), with genetic risk scores for multiple sclerosis associated with greater risk of schizophrenia among males but not females. Our findings reveal the presence of modest pleiotropy between schizophrenia and several autoimmune diseases, which in some cases may be sex-dependent.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068684', [], [u'Centre for Addiction and Mental Health;', u'Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA, USA;', u'Division of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Kings College London, UK;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK;', u'Institute of Parasitology and Biomedicine Lopez-Neyra, Granada, Spain;', u'The University of Texas Health Science Center Houston, Houston, TX, USA;', u'University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO, USA;', u'Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Data Science Institute, Lancaster University, Lancaster, UK']]
[u'Oxytocin enhances intrinsic corticostriatal functional connectivity in women', ['Richard Alexander Ingmar Bethlehem', 'Michael V. Lombardo', 'Meng-Chuan Lai', 'Bonnie Auyeung', 'Sarah Crockford', 'Julia Deakin', 'Sentil Soubramanian', 'Akeem Sule', 'Prantik Kundu', 'Valerie Voon', 'Simon Baron-Cohen'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Background: Oxytocin may influence various human behaviors and the connectivity across subcortical and cortical networks. Previous oxytocin studies are male-biased and often constrained by task-based inferences. Here we investigate the impact of oxytocin on resting state connectivity between subcortical and cortical networks women. Methods: We collected resting state fMRI data on 26 typically-developing women following intranasal oxytocin administration using a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design. Independent components analysis (ICA) was applied to examine connectivity between networks. An independent analysis of oxytocin receptor (OXTR) gene expression in human subcortical and cortical areas was carried out to determine plausibility of direct oxytocin effects on OXTR. Results: In women, OXTR was highly expressed in striatal and other subcortical regions, but showed modest expression in cortical areas. Oxytocin increased connectivity between corticostriatal circuitry typically involved in reward, emotion, social-communication, language, and pain processing. This effect was 1.39 standard deviations above the null effect of no difference between oxytocin and placebo. This oxytocin-related effect on corticostriatal connectivity covaried with autistic traits, such that oxytocin-related increase in connectivity was stronger in individuals with higher autistic traits. Discussion: Oxytocin strengthens corticostriatal connectivity in women, particularly with cortical networks that are involved in social-communicative, motivational, and affective processes. This effect may be important for future work on neurological and psychiatric conditions (e.g., autism, chronic pain), particularly through highlighting how oxytocin may operate differently for subsets of individuals.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068585', [], [u'Autism Research Centre, University of Cambridge;', u'University of Cyprus;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto;', u'Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh;', u'Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust (CPFT), Cambridge, UK;', u'Brain Imaging Center, Icahn Institute of Medicine at Mt. Sinai;', u'Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Excitability in the p53 network mediates robust signaling with tunable activation thresholds in single cells', ['Gregor Moenke', 'Elena Christiano', 'Ana Finzel', 'Dhana Friedrich', 'Hanspeter Herzel', 'Martin Falcke', 'Alexander Loewer'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Cellular  signaling  systems  precisely  transmit  information  in  the  presence  of \nmolecular  noise  while  retaining  flexibility  to  accommodate  the  needs  of  individual  cells.  To  understand  design  principles  underlying  such  versatile  signaling,  we  analyzed  the  response  of  the  tumor  suppressor  p53  to  varying  levels  of  DNA  damage  in  hundreds  of  individual  cells  and  observed  a  switch  between distinct signaling modes characterized by isolated pulses and sustained  oscillations  of  p53  accumulation.  Guided  by  dynamic  systems  theory  we  show  that  this  requires  an  excitable  network  structure  comprising  positive  feedback  and provide experimental evidence for its molecular identity. The resulting dataN driven  model  reproduced  all  features  of  measured  signaling  responses  and  explained their heterogeneity in individual cells. We predicted and validated that  heterogeneity  in  the  levels  of  the  feedback  regulator  Wip1  sets  cellNspecific  thresholds for p53 activation, providing means to modulate its response through  interacting  signaling  pathways.  Our  results  demonstrate  how  excitable  signaling  networks  provide  high  specificity,  sensitivity  and  robustness  while  retaining  unique possibilities to adjust their function to the physiology of individual cells.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068668', [], [u'EMBL Heidelberg;', u'Berlin Institute for Medical Systems Biology;', u'Institute for Theoretical Biology, Charite and Humboldt University, Berlin;', u'Max Delbrueck Center in the Helmholtz Association, Berlin;', u'Technical University Darmstadt']]
[u'Remnant American Chestnut (Castanea dentata (Marsh.) Borkh.; Fagaceae) in Upland Forests of Northwestern New York', ['Robert G. Laport'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'The American chestnut (Castanea dentata [Marsh.] Borkh.; Fagaceae) was an historically important hardwood species in eastern deciduous forests of the United States and Canada prior to being nearly eradicated by chestnut blight (Cryphonectria parasitica (Murr.) Barr). Several remnant populations have been identified persisting across fragmented parts of the historical range. The identification and characterization of remnant C. dentata populations is important for breeding and conservation efforts, as they may represent potential genetic sources of local adaptation or blight resistance, but much of the historical range remains unsurveyed. Here, I report the locations, blight infection status, and reproductive status of remnant American chestnut in upland forested areas of western New York, finding several reproductive/potentially reproductive trees.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068544', [], [u'University of Colorado-Boulder']]
[u'Fitness costs of noise in biochemical reaction networks and the evolutionary limits of cellular robustness', ['J. David Van Dyken'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Gene expression is inherently noisy, but little is known about whether noise affects cell function or, if so, how and by how much. Here I present a theoretical framework that quantifies the fitness costs of gene expression noise and identifies the evolutionary and synthetic targets of noise attenuation. I find that gene expression noise reduces fitness by slowing the average rate of nutrient uptake and protein synthesis. This is a direct consequence of the hyperbolic (Michaelis-Menten) kinetics of most biological reactions, which I show cause ???hyperbolic filtering???, a process that diminishes both the average rate and noise propagation of stochastic reactions. Interestingly, I find that transcriptional noise directly slows growth by slowing the average translation rate. Perhaps surprisingly, this is the largest fitness cost of transcriptional noise since translation strongly filters mRNA noise, making protein noise largely independent of transcriptional noise, consistent with empirical data. Translation, not transcription, then, is the primary target of protein noise control. Paradoxically, selection for protein-noise control favors increased ribosome-mRNA binding affinity, even though this increases translational bursting. However, I find that the efficacy of selection to suppress noise decays faster than linearly with increasing cell size. This predicts a stark, cell-size-mediated taxonomic divide in selection pressures for noise control: small unicellular species, including most prokaryotes, face fairly strong selection to suppress gene expression noise, whereas larger unicells, including most eukaryotes, experience extremely weak selection. I suggest that this taxonomic discrepancy in selection efficacy contributed to the evolution of greater gene-regulatory complexity in eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068510', [], [u'University of Miami, United States']]
[u'Common schizophrenia alleles are enriched in mutation-intolerant genes and maintained by background selection', ['Antonio F Pardinas', 'Peter Holmans', 'Andrew J Pocklington', 'Valentina Escott-Price', 'Stephan Ripke', 'Noa Carrera', 'Sophie E Legge', 'Sophie Bishop', 'Darren Cameron', 'Marian L Hamshere', 'Jun Han', 'Leon Hubbard', 'Amy Lynham', 'Kiran Mantripragada', 'Elliott Rees', 'James H MacCabe', 'Steven A McCarroll', 'Bernhard T Baune', 'Gerome Breen', 'Enda M Byrne', 'Udo Dannlowski', 'Thalia C Eley', 'Caroline Hayward', 'Nicholas G Martin', 'Andrew M McIntosh', 'Robert Plomin', 'David J Porteous', 'Naomi R Wray', 'David A Collier', 'Dan Rujescu', 'George Kirov', 'Michael J Owen', "Michael C O'Donovan", 'James T R Walters'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Schizophrenia is a debilitating psychiatric condition often associated with poor quality of life and decreased life expectancy. Lack of progress in improving treatment outcomes has been attributed to limited knowledge of the underlying biology, although large-scale genomic studies have begun to provide such insight. We report the largest single cohort genome-wide association study of schizophrenia (11,260 cases and 24,542 controls) and through meta-analysis with existing data we identify 50 novel GWAS loci. Using gene-wide association statistics we implicate an additional set of 22 novel associations that map onto a single gene. We show for the first time that the common variant association signal is highly enriched among genes that are intolerant to loss of function mutations and that variants in these genes persist in the population despite the low fecundity associated with the disorder through the process of background selection. Associations point to novel areas of biology (e.g. metabotropic GABA-B signalling and acetyl cholinesterase), reinforce those implicated in earlier GWAS studies (e.g. calcium channel function), converge with earlier rare variants studies (e.g. NRXN1, GABAergic signalling), identify novel overlaps with autism (e.g. RBFOX1, FOXP1, FOXG1), and support early controversial candidate gene hypotheses (e.g. ERBB4 implicating neuregulin signalling). We also demonstrate the involvement of six independent central nervous system functional gene sets in schizophrenia pathophysiology. These findings provide novel insights into the biology and genetic architecture of schizophrenia, highlight the importance of mutation intolerant genes and suggest a mechanism by which common risk variants are maintained in the population.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068593', [], [u'MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Cardiff University, UK;', u'Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Charit\xe9, Berlin, Germany;', u"Department of Psychosis Studies, IoPPN, King's College London, UK;", u'Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Discipline of Psychiatry, University of Adelaide, Australia;', u"MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, IoPPN, King's College London, UK;", u'Queensland Brain Institute, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia;', u'Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Muenster, Muenster, Germany;', u'Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK;', u'School of Psychology, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia;', u'Division of Psychiatry, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK;', u'Eli Lilly and Company Ltd, Lilly Research Laboratories, Erl Wood Manor, Surrey, UK;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Halle, Halle, Germany']]
[u'Environmental DNA enables detection of terrestrial mammals from forest pond water', ['Masayuki Ushio', 'Hisato Fukuda', 'Toshiki Inoue', 'Kobayashi Makoto', 'Osamu Kishida', 'Keiichi Sato', 'Koichi Murata', 'Masato Nikaido', 'Tetsuya Sado', 'Yukuto Sato', 'Masamichi Takeshita', 'Wataru Iwasaki', 'Hiroki Yamanaka', 'Michio Kondoh', 'Masaki Miya'], u'August 9, 2016.', u"Terrestrial animals must have frequent contact with water to maintain their lives, implying that environmental DNA (eDNA) originating from terrestrial animals should be detectable from places containing water in terrestrial ecosystems. Aiming to detect the presence of terrestrial mammals using forest water samples, we applied a set of universal PCR primers (MiMammal, a modified version of fish universal primers) for metabarcoding mammal eDNA. After verifying the primers' usefulness in silico and using water samples from zoo cages of animals with known species compositions, we collected five 500-ml water samples from ponds in two cool-temperate forests in Hokkaido, northern Japan. Using eDNA extracted from the water samples, we constructed amplicon libraries using MiMammal primers for Illumina MiSeq sequencing. MiMammal metabarcoding yielded a total of 75,214 reads, which we then subjected to data pre-processing and taxonomic assignment. We thereby detected species of mammals common to the sampling areas, including deer (Cervus nippon), mouse (Mus musculus), vole (Myodes rufocanus), raccoon (Procyon lotor), rat (Rattus norvegicus) and shrew (Sorex unguiculatus). Previous applications of the eDNA metabarcoding approach have mostly been limited to aquatic/semiaquatic systems, but the results presented here show that the approach is also promising even in forest mammal biodiversity surveys.", u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068551', [], [u'Ryukoku University;', u'Department of Environmental Solution Technology, Ryukoku University;', u'Teshio Experimental Forest, Hokkaido University;', u'Tomakomai Experimental Forest, Hokkaido University;', u'Okinawa Churashima Research Center;', u'College of Bioresource Science, Nihon University;', u'School of Life Science and Technology, Tokyo Institute of Technology;', u'Department of Zoology, Natural History Museum and Institute, Chiba;', u'Tohoku Medical Megabank Organization, Tohoku University;', u'Department of Biological Science, The University of Tokyo']]
[u'Improvement of the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) genome using a Hi-C-based Proximity-Guided Assembly method', ['Catherine L. Peichel', 'Shawn T. Sullivan', 'Ivan Liachko', 'Michael A. White'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'Scaffolding genomes into complete chromosome assemblies remains challenging even with the rapidly increasing sequence coverage generated by current next-generation sequence technologies. Even with scaffolding information, many genome assemblies remain incomplete. The genome of the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus), a fish model system in evolutionary genetics and genomics, is not completely assembled despite scaffolding with high-density linkage maps. Here, we first test the ability of a Hi-C based proximity guided assembly to perform a de novo genome assembly from relatively short contigs. Using Hi-C based proximity guided assembly, we generated complete chromosome assemblies from 50 kb contigs. We found that 98.99% of contigs were correctly assigned to linkage groups, with ordering nearly identical to the previous genome assembly. Using available BAC end sequences, we provide evidence that some of the few discrepancies between the Hi-C assembly and the existing assembly are due to structural variation between the populations used for the two assemblies or errors in the existing assembly. This Hi-C assembly also allowed us to improve the existing assembly, assigning over 60% (13.35 Mb) of the previously unassigned (~21.7 Mb) contigs to linkage groups. Together, our results highlight the potential of the Hi-C based proximity guided assembly method to be used in combination with short read data to perform relatively inexpensive de novo genome assemblies. This approach will be particularly useful in organisms in which it is difficult to perform linkage mapping or to obtain high molecular weight DNA required for other scaffolding methods.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068528', [], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Phase Genomics;', u'University of Georgia']]
