[u'A Computational Model of Perceptual and Mnemonic Deficits in Medial Temporal Lobe Amnesia', ['Patrick Sadil', 'Rosemary R. A. Cowell'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'Damage to the Medial Temporal Lobe (MTL) has long been known to impair declarative memory and recent evidence suggests that it also impairs visual perception. A theory termed the representational-hierarchical account explains such impairments by assuming that MTL stores conjunctive representations of items and events, and that individuals with MTL damage must rely upon representations of simple visual features in posterior visual cortex, which are inadequate to support memory and perception under certain circumstances. One recent study of visual discrimination behavior revealed a surprising anti-perceptual learning effect in MTL-damaged individuals: with exposure to a set of visual stimuli, discrimination performance worsened rather than improved (Barense et al., 2012). We extend the representational-hierarchical account to explain this paradox by assuming that difficult visual discriminations are performed using a familiarity-based differencing rule, in which subjects compare the relative familiarity of the two to-be-discriminated items. Exposure to a set of highly similar stimuli entails repeated presentation of simple visual features, eventually rendering all feature representations equally -- maximally -- familiar and hence inutile for solving the task. Discrimination performance in patients with MTL lesions is therefore impaired by stimulus exposure. Because the unique conjunctions represented in MTL do not occur repeatedly, healthy individuals are shielded from this perceptual interference. We simulate this mechanism with a neural network previously used to explain recognition memory, thereby providing a model that accounts for both mnemonic and perceptual deficits caused by MTL damage with a unified architecture and mechanism.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082628', [], [u'University of Massachusetts, Amherst']]
[u'Neuronal responses support a role for orbitofrontal cortex in cognitive set reconfiguration', ['Brianna Sleezer', 'Giuliana Loconte', 'Meghan Castagno', 'Benjamin Hayden'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'We are often faced with the need to abandon no-longer beneficial rules and adopt new ones. This process, known as cognitive set reconfiguration, is a hallmark of executive control. Although cognitive functions like reconfiguration are most often associated with dorsal prefrontal structures, recent evidence suggests that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) may play an important role as well. We recorded activity of OFC neurons while rhesus macaques performed a version of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Task that involved a trial-and-error stage. OFC neurons demonstrated two types of switch-related activity, an early (switch-away) signal and a late (switch-to) signal, when the new task set was established. We also found a pattern of match modulation: a significant change in activity for the stimulus that matched the current rule (and would therefore be selected). These results extend our understanding of the executive functions of the OFC. They also allow us to directly compare OFC with complementary datasets we previously collected in ventral (VS) and dorsal (DS) striatum. Although both effects are observed in all three areas, the timing of responses aligns OFC more closely with DS than with VS.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082610', [], [u'University of Rochester']]
[u'Inference of multiple-wave population admixture by modeling decay of linkage disequilibrium with polynomial functions', ['Ying zhou', 'Kai Yuan', 'Yaoliang Yu', 'Xuming Ni', 'Pengtao Xie', 'Eric P Xing', 'Shuhua Xu'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'To infer the histories of population admixture, one important challenge with methods based on the admixture linkage disequilibrium (ALD) is to get rid of the effect of source LD (SLD) which is directly inherited from source populations. In previous methods, only the decay curve of weighted LD between pairs of sites whose genetic distance were larger than a certain starting distance was fitted by single or multiple exponential functions, for the inference of recent single- or multiple-wave of admixture. However, the effect of SLD has not been well defined and no tool has been developed to estimate the effect of SLD on weighted LD decay. In this study, we defined the SLD in the formularized weighted LD statistic under the two-way admixture model, and proposed polynomial spectrum (p-spectrum) to study the weighted SLD and weighted LD. We also found reference populations could be used to reduce the SLD in weighted LD statistic. We further developed a method, iMAAPs, to infer Multiple-wave Admixture by fitting ALD using Polynomial spectrum. We evaluated the performance of iMAAPs under various admixture models in simulated data and applied iMAAPs into analysis of genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphism data from the Human Genome Diversity Project (HGDP) and the HapMap Project. We showed that iMAAPs is a considerable improvement over other current methods and further facilitates the inference of the histories of complex population admixtures.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082644', [], [u'CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biology, China;', u'Machine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University, China;', u'Department of Mathematics, School of Science, Beijing Jiaotong University, United States']]
[u'Cooperation not competition: bihemispheric tDCS and fMRI show role for ipsilateral hemisphere in motor learning', ['Sheena Waters', 'Tobias Wiestler', 'Joern Diedrichsen'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'What is the role of ipsilateral motor and pre-motor areas in motor learning?  One view supposes that ipsilateral activity suppresses contralateral motor cortex, and thus needs to be inhibited to improve motor learning. Alternatively, the ipsilateral motor cortex may play an active role in the control and learning of unilateral hand movements. We approached this question by applying double-blind bihemispheric transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) over both contralateral and ipsilateral motor cortex in a between-group design during four days of unimanual explicit sequence training. Independently of whether the anode was placed over contralateral or ipsilateral motor cortex, bihemispheric stimulation yielded substantial performance gains relative to unihemispheric or sham stimulation. This performance advantage appeared to be supported by plastic changes in both hemispheres: First, we found that behavioral advantages generalized strongly to the untrained hand, suggesting that tDCS strengthened effector-independent representations. Secondly, functional imaging during speed-matched execution of trained sequences conducted 48 h after training revealed sustained, polarity-independent increases in activity in both motor cortices relative to the sham group. These results suggest a cooperative rather than competitive interaction of the two motor cortices during skill learning and suggest that bihemispheric brain stimulation during unimanual skill learning may be beneficial, because it harnesses plasticity in the ipsilateral hemisphere.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082669', [], [u'University College London;', u'Western University']]
[u'Robust mixture modeling reveals category-free selectivity in reward region neuronal ensembles', ['Tommy C Blanchard', 'Steven T Piantadosi', 'Benjamin Hayden'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'Classification of neurons into clusters based on their response properties is an important tool for gaining insight into neural computations. However, it remains unclear to what extent neurons fall naturally into discrete functional categories. We developed a Bayesian method that models the tuning properties of neural populations as a mixture of multiple types of task-relevant response patterns. We applied this method to data from several cortical and striatal regions in economic choice tasks. In all cases, neurons fell into only two clusters: one mixed-selectivity cluster containing all task-sensitive cells and another of no selectivity (i.e. pure noise) cells. The single cluster of task-sensitive cells argues against robust categorical tuning in these areas. The no selectivity cells were unanticipated; their identification allows for improved measurement of ensemble effects. Our findings provide a valuable tool for analysis of neural data and place strong constraints on neurocomputational models of choice and control.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082636', [], [u'University of Rochester']]
[u'High-risk human papillomavirus in oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma', ['Vinayak Palve', 'Jamir Bagwan', 'Neeraja M Krishnan', 'Manisha Pareek', 'Udita Chandola', 'Amritha Suresh', 'Gangotri Siddappa', 'Bonney L James', 'Vikram Kekatpure', 'Moni A Kuriakose', 'Binay Panda'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a known risk factor for certain head and neck cancers. Tumors of head and neck region are heterogeneous in nature with different incidences, mortalities and prognosis for different subsites. Unlike oropharynx, where data favors inclusion of HPV status in disease management, role of HPV in oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is not well understood. The prevelence of HPV in OSCC, although considered lower than oropharynx, vary greatly based on the choice of HPV assay and patient geography. Additionally, data on HPV +ve OSCC is scarce and there is less agreement on HPV being a good prognostic factor in OSCC. Here with 153 OSCC patients, using multiple analytes and assays, we show that a high prevelence (33-58%) of HPV16/18 DNA did not correlate with an equally high prevelence of transcriptionally active viral genomes (E6/E7 RNA prevelence 15%) in tumors. Only 6% of the tumors showed the presence of both HPV DNA and HPV16/18 E6/E7 RNA and none with both p16 and HPV RNA. Most tumors with relatively high-copy HPV DNA and/or HPV E6/E7 mRMA, but not with HPV DNA alone (irrespective of copy number), were wild type for TP53 and CASP8 genes. In our study, p16 protein, HPV DNA and E6/E7 RNA, either alone or in combinations, did not correlate with patient survival. Using genome-wide methylation data, 9 HPV-associated genes stratified the HPV positive from the HPV negative tumor groups with high confidence (p<0.008) when relatively high-copy number of HPV DNA and/or HPV E6/E7 RNA were considered to define HPV positivity and not HPV DNA alone irrespective of their copy number (p<0.2). Taken together, we conclude that tests measuring HPV DNA alone without viral load and/or viral RNA may not be a true measures of HPV infection in oral cavity tumors and therefore are not informative.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082651', [], [u'Ganit Labs;', u'MSCTR;', u'MSCC']]
[u'Electrophysiological correlates of phosphene perception induced by stimulation of human occipital and parietal cortex', ['Jason Samaha', 'Olivia Gosseries', 'Bradley R. Postle'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'Magnetic stimulation (TMS) of human occipital and posterior parietal cortex can give rise to visual sensations called phosphenes, but neural correlates preceding and succeeding stimulation of both areas are unknown. Using near-threshold TMS with concurrent electroencephalography (EEG) recordings, we uncover oscillatory brain dynamics that covary, on single trials, with the perception of phosphenes following occipital and parietal TMS. Prestimulus power and phase predominantly in the alpha-band (8-13 Hz) predicted occipital TMS phosphenes, whereas higher frequency beta-band (13-20 Hz) power (but not phase) predicted parietal TMS phosphenes. TMS evoked responses related to phosphene perception were similar across stimulation sites and were characterized by an early (200 ms) posterior negativity and a later (>300 ms) parietal positivity in the time domain and an increase in low-frequency (~5-7 Hz) power followed by a broadband decrease in alpha/beta power in the time-frequency domain. These correlates of phosphene perception closely resemble know electrophysiological correlates of conscious perception using near-threshold visual stimuli and speak to the possible early onset of visual consciousness. The differential pattern of prestimulus predictors of phosphene perception suggest that distinct frequencies reflect cortical excitability within different cortical regions, and that the alpha-band rhythm, long thought of as a general index of cortical inhibition, may not reflect excitability of the posterior parietal cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082693', [], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Universite de Liege and University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'Alternating dynamics of segregation and integration in human brain functional networks during working-memory task', ['Antonio Giuliano Zippo', 'Pasquale Anthony Della Rosa', 'Isabella Castiglioni', 'Gabriele Eliseo Mario Biella'], u'October 22, 2016.', u'Brain functional networks show high variability in short time windows but mechanisms governing these transient dynamics still remain unknown. In this work we studied the temporal evolution of functional brain networks involved in a working memory task while recording high-density electroencephalography in human normal subjects. We found that functional brain networks showed an initial phase characterized by an increase of the functional segregation index followed by a second phase where the functional segregation fell down and the functional integration prevailed. Notably, wrong trials were associated with different sequences of the segregation-integration profile and measures of network centrality and modularity were able to catch crucial aspects of the oscillatory network dynamics. Additionally, computational investigations further supported the experimental results. The brain functional organization may respond to the information processing demand of a working memory task following a 2-step atomic scheme wherein segregation and integration alternately dominate the functional configurations.', u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082438', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche;', u'Institute of Molecular Bioimaging and Physiology']]
[u'Methods for detecting co-mutated pathways in cancer samples to inform treatment selection', ['Tingting Jiang', 'Uri Shaham', 'Fabio Parisi', 'Ruth Halaban', 'Anton Safonov', 'Harriet Kluger', 'Sherman Weissman', 'Joseph Chang', 'Yuval Kluger'], u'October 22, 2016.', u"Tumor genomes evolve through a selection of mutations. These mutations may complement each other to promote tumorigenesis. To better understand the functional interactions of different processes in cancer, we studied mutation data of a set of tumors and identified significantly co-mutated pathways. Fisher's exact test is a standard approach that can be used to assess the significance of the joint dysregulation of pathways pairs across a patient population. We developed a robust test to identify co-occurrence using DNA mutations, which overcomes deficiencies of the Fisher's exact test by taking into account the large variability in overall mutation load and sequencing depth. Applying our method to a study of six common cancer types, we identify enrichment of co-mutated signal transduction pathways such as IP3 synthesis and PI3K and pairs of co-mutated pathways involving other processes such as immunity and development. We observed enrichment of clonal co-mutation of the proteasome and apoptosis pathways in colorectal cancer, which suggests potential mechanisms for immune evasion.", u'/content/early/2016/10/22/082552', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Yale University']]
