[u'Testing the neutral hypothesis of phenotypic evolution', ['Wei-Chin Ho', 'Yoshikazu Ohya', 'Jianzhi Zhang'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'It is generally accepted that a large fraction of genomic sequence variations within and between species are neutral or nearly so.  Whether the same is true for phenotypic variations is a central question in biology.  On the one hand, numerous phenotypic adaptations have been documented and even Kimura, the champion of the neutral theory of molecular evolution, believed in widespread adaptive phenotypic evolution.  On the other hand, phenotypic studies are strongly biased toward traits that are likely to be adaptive, contrasting genomic studies that are typically unbiased.  It is thus desirable to test the neutral hypothesis of phenotypic evolution using traits irrespective of their potential involvement in adaptation.  Here we present such a test for 210 morphological traits measured in multiple strains of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and two related species.  Our test is based on the premise that, under neutrality, the rate of phenotypic evolution declines as the trait becomes more important to fitness, analogous to the neutral paradigm that functional genes evolve more slowly than functionless pseudogenes.  Neutrality is rejected in favor of adaptation if important traits evolve faster than less important ones, parallel to the demonstration of molecular adaptation when a functional gene evolves faster than pseudogenes.  After controlling for the mutational size, we find faster evolution of more important morphological traits within and between species.  By contrast, an analysis of 3466 yeast gene expression traits fails to reject neutrality.  Thus, yeast morphological evolution is largely adaptive, but the same may not apply to other classes of phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/089987', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Tokyo']]
[u'HI-C 2.0: AN OPTIMIZED HI-C PROCEDURE FOR HIGH-RESOLUTION GENOME-WIDE MAPPING OF CHROMOSOME CONFORMATION', ['Houda Belaghzal', 'Job Dekker', 'Johan H. Gibcus'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'Chromosome conformation capture-based methods such as Hi-C have become mainstream techniques for the study of the 3D organization of genomes. These methods convert chromatin interactions reflecting topological chromatin structures into digital information (counts of pair-wise interactions).  Here, we describe an updated protocol for Hi-C (Hi-C 2.0) that integrates recent improvements into a single protocol for efficient and high-resolution capture of chromatin interactions. This protocol combines chromatin digestion and frequently cutting enzymes to obtain kilobase (Kb) resolution. It also includes steps to reduce random ligation and the generation of uninformative molecules, such as unligated ends, to improve the amount of valid intra-chromosomal read pairs. This protocol allows for obtaining information on conformational structures such as compartment and TADs, as well as high-resolution conformational features such as DNA loops.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/090001', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Massachusetts Medical School']]
[u'Genome sequencing and analysis of the first spontaneous Nanosilver resistant bacterium Proteus mirabilis strain SCDR1', ['Amr T. M. Saeb', 'Khalid Al-Rubeaan', 'Mohamed Abouelhoda', 'Manojkumar Selvaraju', 'Hamsa T. Tayeb'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'Background: P. mirabilis is a common uropathogenic bacterium that can cause major complications in patients with long-standing indwelling catheters or patients with urinary tract anomalies. In addition, P. mirabilis is a common cause of chronic osteomyelitis in Diabetic foot ulcer (DFU) patients.  We isolated P. mirabilis SCDR1 from a Diabetic ulcer patient.  We examined P. mirabilis SCDR1 levels of resistance against Nano-silver colloids, the commercial Nano-silver and silver containing bandages and commonly used antibiotics. We utilized next generation sequencing techniques (NGS), bioinformatics, phylogenetic analysis and pathogenomics in the characterization of the infectious pathogen.  Results: P. mirabilis SCDR1 is a multi-drug resistant isolate that also showed high levels of resistance against Nano-silver colloids, Nano-silver chitosan composite and the commercially available Nano-silver and silver bandages.  The P. mirabilis -SCDR1 genome size is 3,815,621 bp. with G+C content of 38.44%.  P. mirabilis-SCDR1 genome contains a total of 3,533 genes, 3,414 coding DNA sequence genes, 11, 10, 18 rRNAs (5S, 16S, and 23S), and 76 tRNAs.  Our isolate contains all the required pathogenicity and virulence factors to establish a successful infection.  P. mirabilis SCDR1 isolate is a potential virulent pathogen that despite its original isolation site, wound, it can establish kidney infection and its associated complications. P. mirabilis SCDR1 contains several mechanisms for antibiotics and metals resistance including, biofilm formation, swarming mobility, efflux systems, and enzymatic detoxification. Conclusion:  P. mirabilis SCDR1 is the first reported spontaneous Nanosilver resistant bacterial strain.  P. mirabilis SCDR1 possesses several mechanisms that may lead to the observed Nanosilver resistance.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/089961', [u'Microbiology'], [u'King Saud University;', u'King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center;', u'Saudi Human Genome Project, King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology']]
[u'Electrical Stimulus Artifact Cancellation and Neural Spike Detection on Large Multi-Electrode Arrays', ['Gonzalo E Mena', 'Lauren E Grosberg', 'Pawel Hottowy', 'Alan Litke', 'John Cunningham', 'EJ Chichilnisky', 'Liam Paninski'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'Simultaneous electrical stimulation and recording using multi-electrode arrays can provide a valuable technique for studying circuit connectivity and engineering neural interfaces. However, interpreting these recordings is challenging because the spike sorting process (identifying and segregating action potentials arising from different neurons) is greatly complicated by electrical stimulation artifacts across the array, which can exhibit complex and nonlinear waveforms.  Here we develop a scalable algorithm based on a structured Gaussian Process model to estimate and subtract the artifact.  The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated in both real and simulated 512-electrode recordings in the peripheral primate retina, with single and two-electrode electrical stimulation. This technology may be helpful in the design of future high-resolution sensory prostheses based on tailored stimulation (e.g., retinal prostheses), and for closed-loop neural stimulation at a much larger scale than currently possible.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/089912', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'Stanford University;', u'AGH University of Science and Technology;', u'University of California, Santa Cruz;', u'Columbia Univeristy']]
[u'Knowledge-Guided Prioritization of Genes Determinant of Drug Response using ProGENI', ['Amin Emad', 'Junmei Cairns', 'Krishna R. Kalari', 'Liewei Wang', 'Saurabh Sinha'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'Identification of genes whose basal mRNA expression can predict the sensitivity of tumor cells to treatments can play an important role in individualized cancer medicine. Screening the expression of these genes in the tumor tissue may suggest the best course of chemotherapy or suggest a combination of drugs to overcome chemoresistance. In this study, we developed a computational method called Prioritization of Genes Enhanced with Network Information (ProGENI), to identify such genes by leveraging their basal expressions and prior knowledge in the form of protein-protein and genetic interactions. ProGENI is based on identifying a small set of genes where a combination of their expression and the activity level of the network module surrounding them shows a high correlation with drug response, followed by the ranking of the genes based on their relevance to this set using random walk techniques.\n\nOur analysis on two relatively new and large datasets of cell lines and their response to a large compendium of drugs revealed a significant improvement in predicting drug sensitivity using ProGENI compared to methods that do not consider network information. In addition, we used literature evidence and siRNA knockdown experiments to confirm the effect of highly ranked genes on the sensitivity of three chemotherapy drugs: cisplatin, docetaxel and doxorubicin. Our results confirmed the role of 73% of the genes (33 out of 45) identified using ProGENI in the sensitivity of cell lines to these drugs. These results suggest ProGENI to be a powerful computational technique in identifying genes determining the drug response.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/090027', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Mayo Clinic']]
[u'Retargeting: an unrecognized consideration in endonuclease-based gene drive biology', ['Andrew M Scharenberg', 'Barry L Stoddard', 'Raymond J Monnat', 'Anthony Nolan'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'There is intense interest surrounding the use of gene editing nucleases in gene drive systems to control agricultural insect pests and insect vectors of infectious diseases such as malaria, dengue and Zika virus.  While gene drive systems offer immense promise for the beneficial modification of deleterious insect populations, their unique mechanism of action also raises novel safety concerns and regulatory issues.  A recent US National Academies of Science report provides a list of potential regulatory issues associated with implementation of homologous recombination (HR)-mediated gene drive systems, based on the premise that all such systems would exhibit similar biological behaviors. Here we examine how HR-mediated gene drive systems based on different gene editing nuclease platforms could be affected by mutations that occur during host cell transcription, genome replication, and, in conjunction with gene editing nuclease activity, during HR-mediated gene drive.  Our analysis suggests that the same feature that makes RNA-guided nucleases such attractive research tools - their ease of reprogramming by alterations to their guide RNA components - might also contribute to increased rates of retargeting that could influence the long term behavior of RNA-guided gene drive systems.   Predictability of behavior over time is an issue that should be addressed by in-depth risk assessment before field testing of organisms incorporating nuclease-mediated gene drives.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/089946', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u"University of Washington, Seattle Children's Research Institute;", u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'University of Washington;', u'Imperial College']]
[u'Distinct cAMP signaling modalities mediate behavioral flexibility and consolidation of social status in Drosophila aggression.', ['Nitin Singh Chouhan', 'Krithika Mohan', 'Aurnab Ghose'], u'November 27, 2016.', u'Social rituals, like male-male aggression in Drosophila, are often stereotyped and its component behavioral patterns modular. The likelihood of transition from one behavioral pattern to another is malleable by experience and confers flexibility to the behavioral repertoire. Experiential modification of innate aggressive behavior in flies alters fighting strategies during fights and establishes dominant-subordinate relationships. Dominance hierarchies resulting from agonistic encounters are consolidated to longer lasting social status-dependent behavioral modifications resulting in a robust loser effect. \nWe show that cAMP dynamics regulated by Rut and Dnc but not the neuropeptide Amn, in specific neuronal groups of the mushroom body and central complex, mediate behavioral plasticity necessary to establish dominant-subordinate relationships. rut and dnc mutant flies are unable to alter fighting strategies and establish dominance relationships during agonistic interactions. This real time flexibility during a fight is independent of changes in aggression levels. Longer-term consolidation of social status in the form of a loser effect, however, requires additional Amn neuropeptide mediated inputs to cAMP signaling and involves a circuit-level association between the \u03b1/\u03b2 and \u03b3 neurons of the mushroom body. \nOur findings implicate distinct modalities of cAMP signaling in mediating plasticity of behavioral patterns in aggressive behavior and in the generation of a temporally stable memory trace that manifests as a loser effect.', u'/content/early/2016/11/27/089979', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune;', u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Pune']]
[u'Ecological Interactions and the Netflix Problem', ['Philippe Desjardins-Proulx', 'Idaline Laigle', 'Timothee Poisot', 'Dominique Gravel'], u'November 27, 2016.', u"Species interactions are key components of ecosystems but we generally have an incomplete picture of who-eats-who in a given community. Different techniques have been devised to predict species interactions using theoretical models or abundances. Here, we explore the K nearest neighbour approach, with a special emphasis on recommendation, along with other machine learning techniques. Recommenders are algorithms developed for companies like Netflix to predict if a customer would like a product given the preferences of similar customers. These machine learning techniques are well-suited to ecological interactions, since they focus on positive-only data. We also explore how the K nearest neighbour approach can be used with both positive and negative information, in which case the goal of the algorithm is to fill missing entries from a matrix (imputation). By removing a prey from a predator, we find that recommenders can guess the missing prey around 50% of the times on the first try, with up to 881 possibilities. Traits do not improve significantly the results for the K nearest neighbour, although a simple test with a supervised learning approach (random forests) show we can predict interactions with high accuracy using only three traits per species. These techniques are complementary, addressing different scenarios. Recommenders can predict interactions in the absence of traits, using only information about other species' interactions. Supervised learning algorithms such as random forests base their predictions on traits only, they do not exploit other species' interactions. They are useful when traits are known for the species. This result shows that binary interactions can be predicted without regard to the ecological community given only three variables: body mass and two variables for the species' phylogeny. Further work should focus on developing custom similarity measures specialized to ecology to improve the KNN algorithms and using richer data to capture indirect\nrelationships between species.", u'/content/early/2016/11/26/089771', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u'Universite de Montreal']]
