[u'Learning of speech categories in humans and Zebra finches', ['Dimitrios Botskaris', 'Pralle Kriengwatana', 'Carel ten Cate'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Abstract The survival of organisms depends\nhighly on their ability to adjust their\nbehavior according to proper categorizations\nof various events. More than one strategy\ncan be used in categorization. One is the\nRule-Based (RB) strategy and the other is\nInformation-Integration (II) strategy. In this\nresearch we analyzed the differences\nbetween avian and human cognition. Twelve\nGreek listeners and four Zebra finches were\ntested in speech category learning tasks. In\nparticular, both humans and Zebra finches\nhad to categorize between Dutch vowels that\ndiffer on duration, frequency or both\ndepending on the condition. Feedback was\ngiven for correct and incorrect responses.\nThe results showed that humans and Zebra\nfinches are probably using the same methods\nof learning depending on the categorization\ntasks that they are exposed to. If Zebra\nFinches are actually able to acquire (RB)\nand (II) category structures using the same\nstrategies as humans, the utility of multiple\nsystems of categorization might not be\nrestricted to primates as current literature\nsuggest.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077321', [], [u'Leiden University']]
[u'Flow environment and matrix structure interact to determine spatial competition in Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms', ['Carey Nadell', 'Deirdre Ricaurte', 'Jing Yan', 'Knut Drescher', 'Bonnie Bassler'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Bacteria often live in biofilms, which are dense microbial communities surrounded by a secreted extracellular matrix. Here, we demonstrate that hydrodynamic flow and matrix organization interact to shape competitive dynamics in Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms. Irrespective of initial frequency, in competition with matrix mutants, wild type cells always increase in relative abundance in flat-surfaced, straight-tunnel microfluidic devices under simple flow regimes. By contrast, in microenvironments with complex, irregular flow profiles - which are common in natural environments - wild type matrix-producing and isogenic non-producing strains can coexist. This result stems from local obstruction of flow by wild-type matrix producers, which generates regions of near-zero flow speed that favor occupation by cells that do not invest in matrix secretion. Our findings connect the evolutionary stability of matrix production with the hydrodynamics and spatial structure of the surrounding environment, providing a potential explanation for the variation in biofilm matrix secretion observed among bacteria in natural environments.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077354', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Terrestrial Microbiology;', u'Princeton University']]
[u"Insights into the genetic epidemiology of Crohn's and rare diseases in the Ashkenazi Jewish population", ['Manuel Antonio Rivas', 'Jukka Koskela', 'Hailiang Huang', 'Christine Stevens', 'Brandon E Avila', 'Talin Haritunians', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Mitja Kurki', 'Andrea Ganna', 'Daniel Graham', 'Benjamin Glaser', 'Inga Peter', 'Gil Atzmon', 'Nir Barzilai', 'Adam Levine', 'Elena Schiff', 'Nikolas Pontikos', 'Ben Weisburd', 'Konrad J Karczewski', 'Eric Minikel', 'Britt-Sabina Petersen', 'Laurent Beaugerie', 'Philippe Seksik', 'Jacques Cosnes', 'Stefan Schreiber', 'Bernd Bokemeyer', 'Johannes Bethge', 'Graham Heap', 'Tariq Ahmad', 'Vincent Plagnol', 'Anthony W Segal', 'Stephan Targan', 'Dan Turner', 'Paivi Saavalainen', 'Martti Farkkila', 'Kimmo Kontula', 'Matti Pirinen', 'Aarno Palotie', 'Steven R Brant', 'Richard H Duerr', 'Mark S Silverberg', 'John D Rioux', 'Rinse K Weersma', 'Andre Franke', 'Daniel G MacArthur', 'Chaim Jalas', 'Harry Sokol', 'Ramnik J Xavier', 'Ann Pulver', 'Judy H Cho', 'Dermot P.B. McGovern', 'Mark J. Daly'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'As part of a broader collaborative network of exome sequencing studies, we developed a jointly called data set of 5,685 Ashkenazi Jewish exomes. We make publicly available a resource of site and allele frequencies, which should serve as a reference for medical genetics in the Ashkenazim. We estimate that 30% of protein-coding alleles present in the Ashkenazi Jewish population at frequencies greater than 0.2% are significantly more frequent (mean 7.6-fold) than their maximum frequency observed in other reference populations. Arising via a well-described founder effect, this catalog of enriched alleles can contribute to differences in genetic risk and overall prevalence of diseases between populations. As validation we document 151 AJ enriched protein-altering alleles that overlap with ``pathogenic" ClinVar alleles, including those that account for 10-100 fold differences in prevalence between AJ and non-AJ populations of some rare diseases including Gaucher disease (GBA, p.Asn409Ser, 8-fold enrichment); Canavan disease (ASPA, p.Glu285Ala, 12-fold enrichment); and Tay-Sachs disease (HEXA, c.1421+1G>C, 27-fold enrichment; p.Tyr427IlefsTer5, 12-fold enrichment). We next sought to use this catalog, of well-established relevance to Mendelian disease, to explore Crohn\'s disease, a common disease with an estimated two to four-fold excess prevalence in AJ.  We specifically evaluate whether strong acting rare alleles, enriched by the same founder-effect, contribute excess genetic risk to Crohn\'s disease in AJ, and find that ten rare genetic risk factors in NOD2 and LRRK2 are strongly enriched in AJ, including several novel contributing alleles, show evidence of association to CD. Independently, we find that genomewide common variant risk defined by GWAS shows a strong difference between AJ and non-AJ European control population samples (0.97 s.d. higher, p<10-16).  Taken together, the results suggest coordinated selection in AJ population for higher CD risk alleles in general. The results and approach illustrate the value of exome sequencing data in case-control studies along with reference data sets like ExAC to pinpoint genetic variation that contributes to variable disease predisposition across populations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077180', [u'Genetics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California;', u'Massachusetts general hospital;', u'Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Albert Einstein College of Medicine;', u'University College London;', u'Analytic and Translational Genetics Unit;', u'Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel;', u'Saint-Antoine Hospital;', u'University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein;', u'Gastroenterology Practice;', u'Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Trust;', u'Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry;', u'Cedars-Sinai Medical Center;', u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'Helsinki University Hospital;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine;', u'Mount Sinai Hospital;', u'Montreal Heart Institute;', u'University Medical Center Groningen;', u'Center for Rare Jewish Genetic Disorders;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine']]
[u'Traumatic brain injury causes retention of long introns in metabolic genes via regulation of intronic Histone 3 lysine 36 methylation levels in the sub-acute phase of injury', ['Arko Sen', 'Wen Wu', 'Oluwademi Okikiolu Nuga', 'Jenny Liu', 'Rayanne Burl', 'Katherine Gurdziel', 'Roger Pique-Regi', 'Maik Huttemann', 'Douglas M Ruden'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can cause persistent pathological alteration of neurons. This may lead to cognitive dysfunctions, depression, and even increased susceptibility to life threatening diseases, such as epilepsy and Alzheimer\u2019s Disease. To investigate the underlying genetic and molecular basis of TBI, Wasserman and colleagues developed an inexpensive and reproducible model for simulating TBI in Drosophila melanogaster (Fruit Fly). Using a modified version of this high impact trauma (HIT) device, we subjected w1118 fruit flies to mild closed head trauma. To determine the transcriptomic changes that contribute to survival post TBI, we collected fly heads from the survivors at 2 time points; 4 hours and 24 hours\u2019 post-trauma. Mild TBI had limited impact on the steady state RNA levels but showed large perturbations in alternative splicing (AS) 24 hours\u2019 post-trauma. Classification of these AS changes showed selective retention (RI) of long introns (>81bps), with a mean size of ~3000bps. Some of these RI genes also showed a significant reduction in transcript abundance and were specifically enriched in genes involved in mitochondrial metabolism. The RI are enriched in ACACACA motifs known to bind to Smooth (SM), an hnRNPL class of splicing factor. Mutating SM (sm4/Df) resulted in reversal of RI observed 24 hours\u2019 post-trauma, and in some cases, elimination of basal levels of RI in long introns. This observation suggests that SM is critical regulator of RI and that this process is enhanced by TBI. Interestingly, chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by deep sequencing (ChIP-seq) for histone 3 lysine 36 trimethylation (H3K36me3) revealed increased levels of this histone modification in retained introns post-trauma. Consistent with this observation, mutations in lysine specific demethylase 4A (KDM4A), which de-methylate H3K36me3, increased RI in many of the same long introns affected by TBI. Additionally, higher H3K36me3 levels are observed around intronic SM-binding motifs post-trauma, suggesting interaction between H3K36me3 and SM binding to intronic splicing suppressor sites might be responsible for increasing RI of metabolic genes as a novel mechanism to improve survival after TBI.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077214', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Wayne State University']]
[u'Cassava HapMap: Managing genetic load in a clonal crop species', ['Punna Ramu', 'Williams Esuma', 'Robert Kawuki', 'Ismail Y Rabbi', 'Chiedozie Egesi', 'Jessen V Bredeson', 'Rebecca S S Bart', 'Edward S Buckler', 'Fei Lu'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz) is an important staple food crop in Africa and South America, however, ubiquitous deleterious mutations may severely reduce its fitness. To evaluate these deleterious mutations in the cassava genome, we constructed a cassava haplotype map using deep sequencing from 241 diverse accessions and identified over 30 million segregating variants. While domestication modified starch and ketone metabolism pathways for human consumption, the concomitant bottleneck and clonal propagation resulted in a large proportion of fixed deleterious amino acid changes, raised the number of deleterious mutations by 24%, and shifted the mutational burden towards common variants. Deleterious mutations are ineffectively purged due to limited recombination in cassava genome. Recent breeding efforts maintained the yield by masking the harmful effects of deleterious mutations through shielding the most damaging recessive mutations in the heterozygous state, but unable to purge the load, which should be a key target for future cassava breeding.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077123', [u'Genetics'], [u'Institute of Genomic Diversity, Cornell University;', u'National Crops Resources Research Institute (NaCRRI), Kampala, Uganda;', u'International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), Ibadan, Nigeria;', u'National Root Crops Research Institute (NRCRI), Umudike, Nigeria;', u'Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'US Department of Agriculture, Agriculture Research Service']]
[u'Multidimensional stimulus-response correlation reveals supramodal neural responses to naturalistic stimuli', ['Jacek Dmochowski', 'Jason Ki', 'Paul De Guzman', 'Paul Sajda', 'Lucas C Parra'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'In neuroscience, stimulus-response relationships have traditionally been analyzed using either encoding or decoding models. Here we combined both techniques by decomposing neural activity into multiple components, each representing a portion of the stimulus.  We tested this hybrid approach on encephalographic responses to auditory and audiovisual narratives identically experienced across subjects, as well as uniquely experienced video game play. The highest stimulus-response correlations (SRC) were detected for dynamic visual features. During narratives both auditory and visual SRC were modulated by attention and tracked correlations between subjects. During video game play, SRC was modulated by task difficulty and attentional state.  Importantly, the strongest component extracted for visual and auditory features had nearly identical spatial distributions, suggesting that the predominant encephalographic response to naturalistic stimuli is supramodal. The variety of novel findings demonstrates the utility of measuring multidimensional stimulus-response correlations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077230', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'City College of New York;', u'Neuromatters LLC;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Lessons learned from comparing molecular dynamics engines on the SAMPL5 dataset', ['Michael R. Shirts', 'Christoph Klein', 'Jason M. Swails', 'Jian Yin', 'Michael K. Gilson', 'David L. Mobley', 'David A. Case', 'Ellen D. Zhong'], u'September 25, 2016.', u"We describe our efforts to prepare common starting structures and models for the SAMPL5 blind prediction challenge. We generated the starting input files and single configuration potential energies for the host-guest in the SAMPL5 blind prediction challenge for the GROMACS, AMBER, LAMMPS, DESMOND and CHARMM molecular simulation programs. All conversions were fully automated from the originally prepared AMBER input files using a combination of the ParmEd and InterMol conversion programs.\n\nWe find that the energy calculations for all molecular dynamics engines for this molecular set agree to a better than 0.1% relative absolute energy for all energy components, and in most cases an order of magnitude better, when reasonable choices are made for different cutoff parameters. However, there are some surprising sources of statistically significant differences. Most importantly, different choices of Coulomb's constant between programs are one of the largest sources of discrepancies in energies. We discuss the measures required to get good agreement in the energies for equivalent starting configurations between the simulation programs, and the energy differences that occur when simulations are run with program-specific default simulation parameter values. Finally, we discuss what was required to automate this conversion and comparison.", u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077248', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, Colorado;', u'Department of Chemical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;', u'Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Rutgers University, Rutgers, NJ, USA;', u'Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA;', u'Departments of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chemistry, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA;', u'Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA']]
[u'Stomatal and physiological response of contrasting Z. mauritiana (Lamk.) clones to water stress.', ['Manoj Kulkarni'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Water stress is one of the major limitations to fruit production worldwide. Identifying suitable indicators, screening techniques, and quantifiable traits would facilitate the genetic improvement process for water stress tolerance. In the present study, we evaluated the ability of physiological parameters (Transpiration, E; Fv/Fm; Leaf Water Potential, LWP; leaf temperature, LT; and, leaf relative water content, RWC) to distinguish between contrasting Z. mauritiana clones subjected to a 30-d drought cycle. Four field-grown clones Seb and Gola (tetraploid) and Q 29 and B 5/4 (diploid) were studied. By 30 d after the onset of water stress treatment, the E, Fv/Fm, LWP and RWC of drought-stressed plants had declined significantly in all genotypes compared to values of well-watered treatments. However, the reductions were more severe in leaves of diploid clones. Under drought stress, the Seb and Gola, maintained higher E (31.5%), Fv/Fm (6.28%), LWP (11.2%), and RWC (9.3 %) than Q 29 and B 5/4 clones. In general, LT of drought-stressed plants was higher (around 4 degree Celsius) than that of well-watered plants but the relative increase was greater among later than former ones. Under maximum drought stress, LT of Seb and Gola clones was on average 3.0 degree Celsius lower than that of Q 29 and B 5/4. Former clones yielded 20% more than later ones, mainly reason being (14.8%) less fruit drop as an effect of water stress. The results indicate that presented parameters can be reliable in screening for water stress tolerance ability, with Fv/Fm, LWP, RWC and LT having the added advantage of being easily and quickly assessed.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077297', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'National Research Council']]
[u'RIblast: An ultrafast RNA-RNA interaction prediction system for comprehensive lncRNA interaction analysis', ['Tsukasa Fukunaga', 'Michiaki Hamada'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play important roles in various biological processes. Although more than 58,000 human lncRNA genes have been discovered, most known lncRNAs are still poorly characterised. One approach to understanding the functions of lncRNAs is the detection of the interacting RNA target of each lncRNA. Because experimental detection of comprehensive lncRNA-RNA interactions are difficult, computational prediction of lncRNA-RNA interactions is an indispensable technique. However, the high computational costs of existing RNA-RNA interaction prediction tools prevents their application to large-scale lncRNA datasets. Here, we present RIblast, an ultrafast RNA-RNA interaction prediction method based on the seed-and-extension approach. RIblast discovers seed regions using suffix arrays and subsequently extends seed regions based on an RNA secondary structure energy model. Computational experiments indicate that RIblast achieves a level of prediction accuracy similar to those of existing programs, but at speeds over 63 times faster than existing programs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077271', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Waseda University']]
[u'Error rates, PCR recombination, and sampling depth in HIV-1 Whole Genome Deep Sequencing', ['Fabio Zanini', 'Johanna Brodin', 'Jan Albert', 'Richard Neher'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Deep sequencing is a powerful and cost-effective tool to characterize the genetic diversity and evolution of virus populations. While modern sequencing instruments readily cover viral genomes many thousand fold and very rare variants can in principle be detected, sequencing errors, amplification biases, and other artifacts can limit sensitivity and complicate data interpretation. Here, we describe several control experiments and error correction methods for whole-genome deep sequencing of viral genomes. We developed many of these in the course of a large scale whole genome deep sequencing study of HIV-1 populations. We measured the substitution and indel errors that arose during sequencing and PCR and quantified PCR-mediated recombination. We find that depending on the viral load in the samples, rare mutations down to 0.2% can be reproducibly detected. PCR recombination can be avoided by consistently working at low amplicon concentrations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077313', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Department of Microbiology, Tumor and Cell Biology, Karolinska Institute;', u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology']]
[u'Reproductive biology of three Ziziphus species (Rhamnaceae)', ['Manoj Kulkarni'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'The reproductive biology of three Ziziphus species: Z. jujube, Z. mauritiana and Z. spina-christi, with respect to seasonal growth stages, floral biology, pollen performance, fruit set and seed viability were compared. To elucidate the reasons for variations in reproductive success we also estimated the ploidy levels among the genotypes of these tree species. Four genotypes of Z. mauritiana and Z. jujube each, and two natural selections of Z. spina-christi were grown in the Negev highlands at the Sde Boqer experimental plot. Field observations were conducted to determine seasonal growth stages and floral biology; laboratory studies included florescent microscopy, differential interference contrast microscopy, in vitro pollen germination and histological techniques. Seasonal growth stages were similar in Z. spina-christi and Z. mauritiana but distinct in Z. jujube, which was the earliest species. Flower opening stages were similar in all species and genotypes. Anthesis timing was genotype specific and did not depend on species. Anthesis types were subdivided into early and late morning as well as afternoon. We found a wide range of values for the number of flowers per inflorescence between species and genotypes, but all genotypes set one fruit per inflorescence with the exception of Z. jujube genotype Tamar, which set two fruit per inflorescence. Significant variation in fruit weight was observed between species as well as genotypes. Fruit of Z. mauritiana and Z jujube weighed between 9 to 37 g while fruit weight of Z. spina-christi was between 0.5 to 0.7 g. Flowers of all species and genotypes had two ovules but viable seed set per fruit differed dramatically between species under open pollination. Viable seed set was about 18% for Z. mauritiana and Z jujube, while Z. spina-christi, had the highest viable seed set at about 84%. Histological analysis revealed post fertilization embryo abortion which may be responsible for the relatively low reproductive success in Z. mauritiana and Z. jujube. The results obtained in this study provide an important basis for selecting elite complementary genotypes toward the optimization of Ziziphus fruit production in semi-arid regions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077289', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'National Research Council']]
[u'Identifying Conserved Genomic Elements and Designing Universal Probe Sets To Enrich Them', ['Brant C Faircloth'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Targeted enrichment of conserved genomic regions is a popular method for collecting large amounts of sequence data from non-model taxa for phylogenetic, phylogeographic, and population genetic studies.  Yet, few open-source workflows are available to identify conserved genomic elements shared among divergent taxa and to design enrichment baits targeting these regions.  These shortcomings limit the application of targeted enrichment methods to many organismal groups.  Here, I describe a universal workflow for identifying conserved genomic regions in available genomic data and for designing targeted enrichment baits to collect data from these conserved regions. I demonstrate how this computational approach can be applied to diverse organismal groups by identifying sets of conserved loci and designing enrichment baits targeting thousands of these loci in the understudied arthropod groups Arachnida, Coleoptera, Diptera, Hemiptera, or Lepidoptera. I then use in silico analyses to demonstrate that these conserved loci reconstruct the accepted relationships among genome sequences from the focal arthropod orders, and we perform in vitro validation of the Arachnid probe set as part of a separate manuscript (Starrett et al. Submitted).  All of the documentation, design steps, software code, and probe sets developed here are available under an open-source license for restriction-free testing and use by any research group, and although the examples in this manuscript focus on understudied and exceptionally diverse arthropod groups, the software workflow is applicable to all organismal groups having some form of pre-existing genomic information.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077172', [u'Genomics'], [u'Louisiana State University']]
[u'Time to wake up: Studying neurovascular coupling and brain-wide circuit function in the un-anesthetized animal', ['Yu-Rong Gao', 'Yuncong Ma', 'Qingguang Zhang', 'Aaron T Winder', 'Zhifeng Liang', 'Lilith Antinori', 'Patrick J Drew', 'Nanyin Zhang'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has allowed the noninvasive study of task-based and resting-state brain dynamics in humans by inferring neural activity from blood-oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) signal changes. An accurate interpretation of the hemodynamic changes that underlie fMRI signals depends on the understanding of the quantitative relationship between changes in neural activity and changes in cerebral blood flow, oxygenation and volume. While there has been extensive study of neurovascular coupling in anesthetized animal models, anesthesia causes large disruptions of brain metabolism, neural responsiveness and cardiovascular function. Here, we review work showing that neurovascular coupling and brain circuit function in the awake animal are profoundly different from those in the anesthetized state. We argue that the time is right to study neurovascular coupling and brain circuit function in the awake animal to bridge the physiological mechanisms that underlie animal and human neuroimaging signals, and to interpret them in light of underlying neural mechanisms. Lastly, we discuss recent experimental innovations that have enabled the study of neurovascular coupling and brain-wide circuit function in un-anesthetized and behaving animal models.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077024', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Fixing the stimulus-as-fixed-effect fallacy in task fMRI', ['Jacob Westfall', 'Thomas Nichols', 'Tal Yarkoni'], u'September 25, 2016.', u'Most fMRI experiments record the brain\'s responses to samples of stimulus materials (e.g., faces or words). Yet the statistical modeling approaches used in fMRI research universally fail to model stimulus variability in a manner that affords population generalization--meaning that researchers\' conclusions technically apply only to the precise stimuli used in each study, and cannot be generalized to new stimuli. A direct consequence of this stimulus-as-fixed-effect fallacy is that the majority of published fMRI studies have likely overstated the strength of the statistical evidence they report. Here we develop a Bayesian mixed model (the random stimulus model; RSM) that addresses this problem, and apply it to a range of fMRI datasets. Results demonstrate considerable inflation (50-200% in most of the studied datasets) of test statistics obtained from standard "summary statistics"-based approaches relative to the corresponding RSM models. We demonstrate how RSMs can be used to improve parameter estimates, properly control false positive rates, and test novel research hypotheses about stimulus-level variability in human brain responses.', u'/content/early/2016/09/25/077131', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Enrich2: a statistical framework for analyzing deep mutational scanning data', ['Alan F Rubin', 'Nathan Lucas', 'Sandra M Bajjalieh', 'Anthony T Papenfuss', 'Terence P Speed', 'Douglas M Fowler'], u'September 25, 2016.', u"Measuring the functional consequences of protein variants can reveal how a protein works or help unlock the meaning of an individual's genome. Deep mutational scanning is a widely used method for multiplex measurement of the functional consequences of protein variants. A major limitation of this method has been the lack of a common analysis framework.  We developed a statistical model for estimating variant scores that can be applied to many experimental designs. Our method generates an error estimate for each score that captures both sampling error and consistency between replicates. We apply our model to one novel and five published datasets comprising 243,732 variants and demonstrate its superiority, particularly for removing noisy variants, detecting variants of small effect, and conducting hypothesis testing. We implemented our model in easy-to-use software, Enrich2, that can empower researchers analyzing deep mutational scanning data.", u'/content/early/2016/09/25/075150', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research;', u'University of Washington']]
