[u'Heterologous protection against Asian Zika virus challenge in rhesus macaques', ['Matthew T Aliota', 'Dawn M Dudley', 'Christina M Newman', 'Emma L Mohr', 'Dane D Gellerup', 'Meghan E Breitbach', 'Connor R Buechler', 'Mustafa N Rasheed', 'Mariel S Mohns', 'Andrea M Weiler', 'Gabrielle L Barry', 'Kim L Weisgrau', 'Josh A Eudailey', 'Eva G Rakasz', 'Logan J Vosler', 'Jennifer Post', 'Saverio Capuano', 'Thaddeus G Golos', 'M Anthony Moody', 'Sallie R Permar', 'Jorge E Osorio', 'Thomas C Friedrich', "Shelby L O'Connor", "David H O'Connor"], u'June 17, 2016.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) isolates are genetically diverse, but belong to two recognized lineages, termed "African" and "Asian." Asian ZIKV infection during pregnancy causes fetal abnormalities including microcephaly. Developing an effective preventative Zika virus vaccine that protects pregnant women is essential for minimizing fetal abnor- malities; at least 18 groups are developing ZIKV vaccines (Hayden, 2016). The genetic and antigenic variability of many RNA viruses limits the effectiveness of vaccines, and the degree to which immunity against one ZIKV strain could provide protection against another is unknown. Here we show that rhesus macaques infected with East African ZIKV strain MR766 are completely protected from subsequent infection with heterologous Asian ZIKV. MR766 is more genetically divergent from all known Asian ZIKV strains than Asian ZIKV strains are from one another. Therefore, ZIKV strain selection is unlikely to compromise vaccine effectiveness.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059592', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Prioritizing 2nd and 3rd order interactions via support vector ranking using sensitivity indices on static Wnt measurements - Part A', ['shriprakash sinha'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'It is widely known that the sensitivity analysis plays a major role in computing the strength of the influence of involved factors in any phenomena under investigation. When applied to expression profiles of various intra/extracellular factors that form an integral part of a signaling pathway, the variance and density based analysis yields a range of sensitivity indices for individual as well as various combinations of factors. These combinations denote the higher order interactions among the involved factors. Computation of higher order interactions is often time consuming but they give a chance to explore the various combinations that might be of interest in the working mechanism of the pathway. For example, in a range of fourth order combinations among the various factors of the Wnt pathway, it would be easy to assess the influence of the destruction complex formed by APC, AXIN, CSKI and GSK3 interaction. In this work, after estimating the individual effects of factors for a higher order combination, the individual indices are considered as discriminative features. A combination, then is a multivariate feature set in higher order (>2). With an excessively large number of factors involved in the pathway, it is difficult to search for important combinations in a wide search space over different orders. Exploiting the analogy with the issues of prioritizing webpages using ranking algorithms, for a particular order, a full set of combinations of interactions can then be prioritized based on these features using a powerful ranking algorithm via support vectors. The computational ranking sheds light on unexplored combinations that can further be investigated using hypothesis testing based on wet lab experiments. In this first manuscript we present the basic framework and results obtained on 2nd and 3rd order interactions on a toy example data set. Subsequent manuscripts will examine higher order interactions in detail. Part B of this work deals with the time series data. Code has been made available on Google drive at https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B7Kkv8wlhPU-V1Fkd1dMSTd5ak0&usp=sharing', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059469', [u'Systems Biology'], []]
[u'Auditory Nerve Stochasticity Impedes Category Learning: the Role of Cochlear Nucleus and Inferior Colliculus in Stabilising Auditory Nerve Firing', ['Irina Higgins', 'Simon Stringer', 'Jan Schnupp'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'It is well known that auditory nerve (AN) fibers overcome bandwidth limitations through the "volley principle", a form of multiplexing. What is less well known is that the volley principle introduces a degree of unpredictability into AN neural firing patterns which makes even simple stimulus categorization tasks difficult. We use a physiologically grounded, unsupervised spiking neural network model of the auditory brain with STDP learning to demonstrate that plastic auditory cortex is unable to learn even simple auditory object categories when exposed to the raw AN firing input without subcortical preprocessing. We then demonstrate the importance of non-plastic subcortical preprocessing within the cochlear nucleus (CN) and the inferior colliculus (IC) for stabilising and denoising AN responses. Such preprocessing enables the plastic auditory cortex to learn efficient robust representations of the auditory object categories. The biological realism of our model makes it suitable for generating neurophysiologically testable hypotheses.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059428', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Modulation of global transcriptional regulatory networks as a strategy for increasing kanamycin resistance of EF-G mutants', ['Aalap Mogre', 'Aswin Sai Narain Seshasayee'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'Evolve and resequence experiments have provided us a tool to understand bacterial adaptation to antibiotics by the gain of genomic mutations. In our previous work, we used short term evolution to isolate mutants resistant to the ribosome targeting antibiotic kanamycin. We had reported the gain of resistance to kanamycin via multiple different point mutations in the translation elongation factor G (EF-G). Furthermore, we had shown that the resistance of EF-G mutants could be increased by second site mutations in the genes rpoD / cpxA / topA / cyaA. In this work we expand on our understanding of these second site mutations. Using genetic tools we asked how mutations in the cell envelope stress sensor kinase (CpxAF218Y) and adenylate cyclase (CyaAN600Y) could alter their activities to result in resistance. We found that the mutation in cpxA most likely results in an active Cpx stress response. Further evolution of an EF-G mutant in a higher concentration of kanamycin than what was used in our previous experiments identified the cpxA locus as a primary target for a significant increase in resistance. The mutation in cyaA results in a loss of catalytic activity and probably results in resistance via altered CRP function. Despite a reduction in cAMP levels, the CyaA N600Y mutant has a transcriptome indicative of increased CRP activity, pointing to an unknown non-catalytic role for CyaA in gene expression. From the transcriptomes of double and single mutants we describe the epistasis between EF-G mutant and these second site mutations. We show that the large scale transcriptomic changes in the topoisomerase I (FusAA608E-TopAS180L) mutant likely result in supercoiling changes in the cell. Finally, genes with known roles in aminoglycoside resistance were present among the mis-regulated genes in the mutants.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059501', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research;', u'Tata Institute of Fundamental Research']]
[u'MMinte: An application for predicting metabolic interactions among the microbial species in a community', ['Helena Mendes-Soares', 'Michael Mundy', 'Luis Mendes Soares', 'Nicholas Chia'], u'June 17, 2016.', u"Background. The explosive growth of microbiome research has yielded great quantities of data. These data provide us with many answers, but raise just as many questions. 16S rDNA - the backbone of microbiome analyses - allows us to assess alpha-diversity, beta-diversity, and microbe-microbe associations, which characterize the overall properties of an ecosystem. However, we are still unable to use 16S rDNA data to directly assess the microbe-microbe and microbe-environment interactions that determine that system's broader ecology. Thus, properties such as competition, cooperation, and nutrient conditions remain insufficiently analyzed. Here, we apply predictive community metabolic models of microbes identified with 16S rDNA data to probe the ecology of microbial communities.\nResults. We developed a methodology for the large-scale assessment of microbial metabolic interactions (MMinte) from 16S rDNA data. MMinte assesses the relative growth rates of interacting pairs of organisms within a community metabolic network and whether that interaction has a positive or negative effect. Moreover, MMinte's simulations take into account the nutritional environment, which play a strong role in determining the metabolism of individual microbes. We present two case studies that demonstrate this software's utility. In the first, we show how diet influences the nature of the microbe-microbe interactions. In the second, we use MMinte's modular feature set to better understand how the growth of Desulfovibrio piger is affected by, and affects the growth of, other members in a simplified gut community under metabolic conditions suggested to be determinant for their dynamics. \nConclusion. By applying metabolic models to commonly available sequence data, MMinte grants the user insight into the metabolic relationships between microbes, highlighting important features that may relate to ecological stability, susceptibility, and cross-feeding. These relationships are at the foundation of a wide range of ecological questions that impact our ability to understand problems such as microbially-derived toxicity in colon cancer.", u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059550', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Mayo Clinic;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'The ciliary targeting of membrane proteins by a ternary complex comprising transportin1, Rab8 and the ciliary targeting signal', ['Viswanadh Madugula', 'Lei Lu'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'The sensory functions of cilia are dependent on the enrichment of ciliary resident proteins. While it is known that ciliary targeting signals (CTSs) specifically target ciliary proteins to cilia, it is still unclear how CTSs facilitate the entry and retention of ciliary residents at the molecular level. We found that non-ciliary membrane reporters can passively diffuse to cilia via the lateral transport pathway and the translocation of membrane reporters through the ciliary diffusion barrier is facilitated by importin binding motifs/domains. Screening known CTSs of ciliary membrane residents uncovered that fibrocystin, photoreceptor retinol dehydrogenase, rhodopsin and retinitis pigmentosa 2 interact with transportin1 (TNPO1) via previously identified CTSs. We further discovered that a novel ternary complex, comprising TNPO1, Rab8 and CTS, can assemble or disassemble under the guanine nucleotide exchange of Rab8. Our study suggests a novel mechanism in which TNPO1/Rab8/CTS complex mediates selective entry and retention of cargos within cilia.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059451', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Nanyang Technological Univ']]
[u'DNA methylation plays a role on in vitro culture induced loss of virulence in Botrytis cinerea', ['Jimmy Breen', 'Luis Mur', 'Anushen Sivakumaran', 'Aderemi Akinyemi', 'Mike Wilkinson', 'Carlos Rodriguez Lopez'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'Little is known about the mechanisms causing loss of virulence in pathogenic fungi as a result of protracted culture. We studied the extent to which patterns of DNA methylation varied between virulent and reduced virulence derivative cultures of Botrytis cinerea, and identify the genes/genomic regions affected by these epigenetic modifications.\nB. cinerea was cultured in vitro for eight months involving subculture every four weeks. Fungal conidia were harvested at every four-week subculturing stage and inoculated onto Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 plants for virulence testing. Global epi/genetic changes in B. cinerea during culture were assessed using methylation-sensitive amplified polymorphisms (MSAPs) on mycelium from eight different sub-culture time points and from mycelium recovered after eight months in culture and then inoculated onto A. thaliana. Culture induced epi/allele characterisation was carried out by whole genome sequencing and bisulfite sequencing of gDNA from samples after two and eight months in culture and after 8 months in culture and following inoculation onto an A. thaliana plant.\nVirulence declined with time in culture and recovered after one fungal generation on A. thaliana. MSAP data show that epi/genetic variation followed virulence changes during culture. Whole genome sequencing showed no significant genetic changes during culture. Conversely, bisulfite sequencing showed significant changes both on global and local methylation patterns.\nWe suggest that virulence is a non-essential plastic character regulated by DNA methylation during protracted in vitro culture. We propose DNA methylation as a regulator of the high virulence/low virulence transition in B. cinerea and as a potential mechanism to control pathogenicity.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059477', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Adelaide;', u'Aberystwyth University']]
[u"Genetic variability in both the adaptive and innate immune systems contribute to Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease risk", ['Sarah A Gagliano', 'Jennie G Pouget', 'John Hardy', 'Michael R Barnes', 'Jo Knight', 'Mina Ryten', 'Michael E Weale'], u'June 17, 2016.', u"Neurodegenerative disorders are devastating diseases with a worldwide health-care burden. Studies have demonstrated enrichment of disease-associated genetic variants with functional genomic annotations. Determining associated cell-types is important to understand pathogenicity.\n\nWe obtained GWAS summary statistics from Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), multiple sclerosis (MS), and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). We applied stratified LD score regression to determine if functional categories are enriched for heritability.\n\nThere was little enrichment of brain annotations, but annotations from both the innate and adaptive immune systems were enriched for MS (as expected), AD, and PD, in decreasing order of statistical significance.", u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059519', [u'Genomics'], [u"King's College London;", u'Centre for Addiction and Mental Health;', u'University College London;', u'Queen Mary University of London;', u'Lancaster University']]
[u'Accounting for genetic interactions is necessary for accurate prediction of extreme phenotypic values of quantitative traits in yeast', ['Simon K G Forsberg', 'Joshua S Bloom', 'Meru Sadhu', 'Leonid Kruglyak', 'Orjan Carlborg'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'Experiments in model organisms report abundant genetic interactions underlying biologically important traits, whereas quantitative genetics theory predicts, and data support, that most genetic variance in populations is additive. Here we describe networks of capacitating genetic interactions that contribute to quantitative trait variation in a large yeast intercross population. The additive variance explained by individual loci in a network is highly dependent on the allele frequencies of the interacting loci. Accurate predictions of phenotypes for some multi-locus genotype classes in an epistatic network often require accounting for the interactions. We discuss the implications of these results for attempts to dissect genetic architectures and to predict individual phenotypes and long-term responses to selection.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059485', [u'Genetics'], [u'Uppsala University;', u'UCLA']]
[u'Complement receptor 2 and IL-8 production identifies in adults and neonates naive T cells recently arising from the thymus', ['Marcin Lukasz Pekalski', 'Arcadio Rubio Garcia', 'Ricardo C Ferreira', 'Daniel B Rainbow', 'Deborah J Smyth', 'Meghavi Mashar', 'Jane Brady', 'Natalia Savinykh', 'Xaquin Castro Dopico', 'Sumiyya Mahmood', 'Simon Duley', 'Helen E Stevens', 'Neil M Walker', 'Antony J Cutler', 'Frank Waldron-Lynch', 'David B Dunger', 'Claire Shannon-Lowe', 'Alasdair J Coles', 'Joanne L Jones', 'Chris Wallace', 'John A Todd', 'Linda S Wicker'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'The maintenance of a diverse, naive T cell repertoire arising from the thymus (recent thymic emigrants: RTEs) is critical for health. Recent studies have reported a unique naive CD4+ T cell subset in neonates and early childhood characterized by IL-8 production. Here we demonstrate that IL-8 production is a characteristic feature of RTEs in adults, children and neonates and that a hallmark of these cells is the expression of complement receptor 2 (CR2) and the preferential production of IL-8 after activation. Although decreasing in number with age due to thymic involution and homeostatic expansion of naive CD4+ T cell in humans, CR2+ RTEs persist into old age, have the highest levels of T cell receptor excision circles (TRECs), co-express complement receptor 1 (CR1), TLR1 and produce IL-8 upon TCR stimulation. We have observed these phenotypes in the vast majority of cord blood naive CD4+ T cells and in newly-generated naive T cells appearing during reconstitution of the immune system in adults depleted of T cells through treatment for multiple sclerosis. A memory subset of CR2+ CD4+ T cells expressing high levels of CR1 and producing IL-8 following activation was also discovered, consistent with the hypothesis that RTE-specific gene expression confers a functional competence retained by particular memory T cells possibly because of their complement-dependent reactivity to pathogens. We suggest that assessing CR2 expression on naive CD4+ T cells will give a measure of thymic function during aging of the immune system and in a number of clinical situations including bone marrow transplantation, HIV infection, and immune reconstitution following immune depletion or chemotherapy.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059535', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'The University of Birmingham']]
[u'Fractured tonotopy of functional neural clusters in mouse auditory cortex', ['Isabel Delgado Ruz', 'Simon Schultz'], u'June 17, 2016.', u'The degree of order versus randomness in mammalian cortical circuits has been the subject of much discussion. Previous reports showed that at a large scale there is smooth tonotopy in mouse auditory cortex, while at the single neuron level the representation is the traditional "salt and pepper" configuration attributed to rodent cortex. Here we show that at the micro columnar scale we find a large variety of response profiles, but neurons tend to share similar preference in terms of frequency, bandwidth and latency. However, this smooth representation was fractured and large differences were possible between neighbouring neurons. Despite the tendency of most groups of neurons to operate redundantly, high information gains were achieved between cells that had a high signal correlation. Connectivity between neurons was highly non-random, in agreement with a previous in-vitro report from layer five. Our results suggest the existence of functional clusters, connecting neighbouring mini-columns. This supports the idea of a "salt and pepper" configuration at the level of functional clusters of neurons rather than single units.', u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059493', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'A direct multi-generational estimate of the human mutation rate from autozygous segments seen in thousands of parentally related individuals', ['Vagheesh M Narasimhan', 'Raheleh Rahbari', 'Aylwyn Scally', 'Arthur Wuster', 'Dan Mason', 'Yali Xue', 'John Wright', 'Richard C Trembath', 'Eamonn R Maher', 'David A van Heel', 'Adam Auton', 'Matthew E Hurles', 'Chris Tyler-Smith', 'Richard Durbin'], u'June 17, 2016.', u"Heterozygous mutations within homozygous sequences descended from a recent common ancestor offer a way to ascertain de novo mutations (DNMs) across multiple generations. Using exome sequences from 3,222 British-Pakistani individuals with high parental relatedness, we estimate a mutation rate of 1.45 \xb1 0.05 \xd7 10-8 per base pair per generation in autosomal coding sequence, with a corresponding non-crossover gene conversion rate of 8.75 \xb1 0.05 \xd7 10-6 per base pair per generation. This is at the lower end of exome mutation rates previously estimated in parent-offspring trios, suggesting that post-zygotic mutations contribute little to the human germline mutation rate. We found frequent recurrence of mutations at polymorphic CpG sites, and an increase in C to T mutations in a 5' CCG 3'\u2009\u2192\u20095' CTG 3' context in the Pakistani population compared to Europeans, suggesting that mutational processes have evolved rapidly between human populations.", u'/content/early/2016/06/17/059436', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge;', u'Bradford Institute for Health Research, Bradford Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust;', u"Faculty of Life Sciences and Medicine, King's College London;", u'Department of Medical Genetics, University of Cambridge;', u'Blizard Institute, Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of L;', u'Department of Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine']]
