[u'Profiling adaptive immune repertoires across multiple human tissues by RNA Sequencing', ['Serghei Mangul', 'Igor Mandric', 'Harry Taegyun Yang', 'Nicolas Strauli', 'Dennis Montoya', 'Jeremy Rotman', 'Will Van Der Wey', 'Jiem R. Ronas', 'Benjamin Statz', 'Alex Zelikovsky', 'Roberto Spreafico', 'Sagiv Shifman', 'Noah Zaitlen', 'Maura Rossetti', 'K. Mark Ansel', 'Eleazar Eskin'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Assay-based approaches provide a detailed view of the adaptive immune system by profiling T and B cell receptor repertoires. However, these methods come at a high cost and lack the scale of standard RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). Here we report the development of ImReP, a novel computational method for rapid and accurate profiling of the adaptive immune repertoire from regular RNA-Seq data. We applied it to 8,555 samples across 544 individuals from 53 tissues from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx v6) project. ImReP is able to efficiently extract TCR- and BCR- derived reads from the RNA-Seq data and accurately assemble the complementarity determining regions 3 (CDR3s), the most variable regions of B- and T-cell receptors determining their antigen specificity. Using ImReP, we have created the systematic atlas of immunological sequences for B- and T-cell repertoires across a broad range of tissue types, most of which have not been studied for B and T cell receptor repertoires. We have also examined the compositional similarities of clonal populations between the GTEx tissues to track the flow of T- and B- clonotypes across immune-related tissues, including secondary lymphoid organs and organs encompassing mucosal, exocrine, and endocrine sites. The atlas of T- and B-cell receptor receptors, freely available at https://sergheimangul.wordpress.com/atlas-immune-repertoires/, is the largest collection of CDR3 sequences and tissue types. We anticipate this recourse will enhance future studies in areas such as immunology and advance development of therapies for human diseases. ImReP is freely available at https://sergheimangul.wordpress.com/imrep/ .', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089235', [], [u'UCLA;', u'Georgia State University;', u'UCSF;', u'Department of Genetics, The Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Development of a multivariate clinical prediction model for the diagnosis of mild stroke/TIA in physician first-contact patient settings', ['Maximilian B Bibok', 'Andrew M Penn', 'Mary L Lesperance', 'Kristine Votova', 'Robert Balshaw'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'OBJECTIVE: To develop a clinical prediction model for diagnosing mild stroke/transient ischemic attack (TIA) in first-contact patient settings. DESIGN: Retrospective study design utilizing logistic regression modeling of patient clinical symptoms collected from patient chart histories and referral data. SETTING: Regional fast-track TIA clinic on Vancouver Island, Canada, accepting referrals from emergency departments (ED) and general practice (GP). PARTICIPANTS: Model development: 4187 ED and GP referred patients from 2008-2011 who were assessed at the TIA clinic. Temporal hold-out validation: 1953 ED and GP referred patients from 2012-2013 assessed at the same clinic. OUTCOMES: Diagnosis of mild stroke/TIA by clinic neurologists. RESULTS: 123 candidate predictors were assessed using univariate feature selection for inclusion in the model, and culminated in the selection of 50 clinical features. Post-hoc investigation of the selected predictors revealed 12 clinically relevant interaction terms. Model performance on the temporal hold-out validation set achieved a sensitivity/specificity of 71.8% / 72.8% using the ROC01 cutpoint (\u2265 0.662), and an AUC of 79.9% (95% CI, 77.9%-81.9%). In comparison, the ABCD2 score (\u2265 4) achieved a sensitivity/specificity of 70.4% / 54.5% and an AUC of 67.5% (95% CI, 65.2%-69.9%). The logistic regression model demonstrated good calibration on the hold-out set (\u03b20 = -0.257); \u03b2linear = 1.047). CONCLUSIONS: The developed diagnostic model performs better than the ABCD2 score at diagnosing mild stroke/TIA on the basis of clinical symptoms. The model has the potential to replace the use of the prognostic ABCD2 score in diagnostic medical contexts in which the ABCD2 score is currently used, such as patient triage.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089227', [], [u'Vancouver Island Health Authority, Dept. of Research & Capacity Building;', u'Vancouver Island Health Authority, Stroke Rapid Assessment Unit;', u'University of Victoria, Dept. of Mathematics and Statistics;', u'5.\tBritish Columbia Centre for Disease Control']]
[u'NeuroExpresso: A cross-laboratory database of brain cell-type expression profiles with applications to marker gene identification and bulk brain tissue transcriptome interpretation', ['B. Ogan Mancarci', 'Lilah Toker', 'Shreejoy Tripathy', 'Brenna Li', 'Brad Rocco', 'Etienne Sibille', 'Paul Pavlidis'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'The identification of cell type marker genes, genes highly enriched in specific cell types, plays an important role in the study of the nervous system. In particular, marker genes can be used to identify cell types to enable studies of their properties. Marker genes can also aid the interpretation of bulk tissue expression profiles by revealing cell type specific changes.\nWe assembled a database, NeuroExpresso, of publicly available mouse brain cell type-specific gene expression datasets. We then used stringent criteria to select marker genes highly expressed in individual cell types. We found a substantial number of novel markers previously unknown in the literature and validated a subset of them using in silico analyses and in situ hybridization. We next demonstrate the use of marker genes in analysis of whole tissue data by summarizing their expression into "cell type profiles" that can be thought of as surrogates for the relative abundance of the cell types across the samples studied.\nFurther analysis of our cell type-specific expression database confirms some recent findings about brain cell types along with revealing novel properties, such as Ddc expression in oligodendrocytes. To facilitate further use of this expanding database, we provide a user-friendly web interface for the visualization of expression data.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089219', [], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'Campbell Family Mental Health Research Institute of CAMH']]
[u'A new coactivator complex required for retinoic acid-dependent regulation of embryonic symmetry', ['Goncalo C. Vilhais-Neto', 'Marjorie Fournier', 'Jean-Luc Plassat', 'Mihaela E. Sardiu', 'Anita Saraf', 'Jean-Marie Garnier', 'Mitsuji Maruhashi', 'Laurence Florens', 'Michael P. Washburn', 'Olivier Pourquie'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Bilateral symmetry is a striking feature of the vertebrate body plan organization. Vertebral precursors, called somites, provide one of the best illustrations of embryonic symmetry. Maintenance of somitogenesis symmetry requires Retinoic acid (RA) and its coactivator Rere/Atrophin2. Here, using a proteomic approach we identify a protein complex, containing Wdr5, Hdac1, Hdac2 and Rere (named WHHERE), which regulates RA signalling and controls embryonic symmetry. We demonstrate that Wdr5, Hdac1 and Hdac2 are required for RA signalling in vitro and in vivo. Mouse mutants for Wdr5 and Hdac1 exhibit asymmetrical somite formation characteristic of RA-deficiency. We also identify the Rere-binding histone methyltransferase Ehmt2/G9a, as a RA coactivator controlling somite symmetry. Upon RA treatment, WHHERE and Ehmt2 become enriched at RA target genes to promote RNA Polymerase II recruitment. Our work identifies a novel protein complex linking key epigenetic regulators acting in the molecular control of embryonic bilateral symmetry.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089201', [], [u'Institut de Genetique et de Biologie Moleculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC);', u'Stowers Institute for Medical Research;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Flagellar synchronization is a simple alternative to cell cycle synchronization for ciliary and flagellar studies', ['Soumita Dutta', 'Prachee Avasthi'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'The unicellular green alga, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, is an ideal model organism for studies of ciliary function and assembly. In assays for biological and biochemical effects of various factors on flagellar structure and function, synchronous culture is advantageous for minimizing variability. Here, we have characterized a method in which 100% synchronization is achieved with respect to flagellar length but not with respect to the cell cycle. The method requires inducing flagellar regeneration by amputation of the entire cell population and limiting regeneration time, which results in a maximally homogeneous distribution of flagellar length at three hours post-amputation. We find that time-limiting new protein synthesis during flagellar synchronization limits variability in the unassembled pool of limiting flagellar protein and variability in flagellar length without regulating the cell volume. We also find that long and short flagella mutants that regenerate normally require longer and shorter synchronization times, respectively. By minimizing flagellar length variability using a simple method requiring only hours and no changes in media, flagellar synchronization facilitates the detection of small changes in flagellar length resulting from both chemical and genetic perturbations in Chlamydomonas. This method increases our ability to probe the basic biology of ciliary size regulation and related disease etiologies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089185', [], [u'University of Kansas Medical Center']]
[u'Rooting density differentiates wheat genotypes through Bayesian modeling', ['Anton P Wasson', 'Grace S Chiu', 'Alexander B Zwart', 'Timothy R Binns'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Wheat pre-breeders use soil coring and core-break counts to phenotype root architecture traits, with data collected on rooting density for hundreds of genotypes in small increments of depth. The measured densities are both large datasets and highly variable even within the same genotype, hence, any rigorous, comprehensive statistical analysis of such complex field data would be technically challenging. Traditionally, most attributes of the field data are therefore discarded in favor of simple numerical summary descriptors which retain much of the high variability exhibited by the raw data. This poses practical challenges: although plant scientists have established that root traits do drive resource capture in crops, traits that are more randomly (rather than genetically) determined are difficult to breed for. In this paper we develop a Bayesian hierarchical nonlinear modeling approach that utilizes the complete field data for wheat genotypes to fit an idealized relative intensity function for the root distribution over depth. Our approach was used to determine heritability: how much of the variation between field samples was purely random versus being mechanistically driven by the plant genetics? Based on the genotypic intensity functions, the overall heritability estimate was 0.62 (95% Bayesian confidence interval was 0.52 to 0.71). Despite root count profiles that were statistically very noisy, our Bayesian analysis led to denoised profiles which exhibited rigorously discernible phenotypic traits. The profile-specific traits could be representative of a genotype and thus can be used as a quantitative tool to associate phenotypic traits with specific genotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089078', [], [u'CSIRO Agriculture Flagship;', u'Australian National University;', u'CSIRO Data61;', u'Australian Taxation Office']]
[u'Multiple Confounders Correction with Regularized Linear Mixed Effect Models, with Application in Biological Processes', ['Haohan Wang', 'Jingkang Yang'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'In this paper, we inspect the performance of regularized linear mixed effect models, as an extension of linear mixed effect model, when multiple confounding factors coexist. We first review its parameter estimation algorithms before we introduce three different methods for multiple confounding factors correction, namely concatenation, sequence, and interpolation. Then we investigate the performance on variable selection task and predictive task on three different data sets, synthetic data set, semi-empirical synthetic data set based on genome sequences and brain wave data set connecting to confused mental states. Our results suggest that sequence multiple confounding factors corrections behave the best when different confounders contribute equally to response variables. On the other hand, when various confounders affect the response variable unevenly, results mainly rely on the degree of how the major confounder is corrected.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089052', [], [u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'International School, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications']]
[u'Constructing high-density linkage maps with MapDisto 2.0', ['Christopher Heffelfinger', 'Christopher A Fragoso', 'Mathias Lorieux'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'We present the second major release of MapDisto, a multi-platform, user-friendly computer program for constructing genetic linkage maps of experimental populations. This version includes several new major features: (i) handling of very large genotyping datasets like the ones generated by genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS); (ii) direct importation and conversion of Variant Call Format (VCF) files; (iii) detection of linkage, i.e. construction of linkage groups in case of segregation distortion; (iv) data imputation on VCF files using a new approach, called LB-Impute. These features operate through inclusion of new Java modules that are installed and used transparently by MapDisto; (v) QTL detection via a new R/qtl graphical interface.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089177', [], [u'Yale University, United States;', u'IRD/CIAT, United States']]
[u'Age and sex affect intersubject correlation of EEG throughout development', ['Agustin Petroni', 'Samantha Cohen', 'Nicolas Langer', 'Simon Henin', 'Tamara Vanderwal', 'Michael P Milham', 'Lucas C Parra'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Recent efforts have aimed to characterize clinical pediatric populations by using neurophysiological tests in addition to behavioral assays. Here we report on a data collection effort in which electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded in both juveniles and adults (N=114 participants, ages 6-44 years of age) during various stimulation protocols. The present analysis focuses on how neural responses during passive viewing of naturalistic videos vary with age and sex, and in particular, how similar they are within developmental groups. Similarity of neural responses was measured as the inter-subject correlation of the EEG. Stimulus-evoked neural responses are more similar among children and decrease in similarity with age. Among children, males respond more similarly to each other than females. This was uniformly true for a variety of videos. The decrease in group similarity with age may result from an overall decline in the magnitude of evoked responses, but this cannot explain the sex differences found in the young. We therefore propose that as children mature, neural function may become more variable.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089060', [], [u'City College of New York;', u'City University of New York;', u'Zurich University;', u'Yale University;', u'Child Mind Institute']]
[u'Predator phylogenetic diversity decreases predation rate via antagonistic interactions', ['Andrew A. M. MacDonald', 'Gustavo Q Romero', 'Diane S Srivastava'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Background:  Predator assemblages can differ substantially in their top down effects on community composition and ecosystem function, but few studies have sought to explain this variation in terms of the phylogenetic distance between predators. The effect of a local predator assemblage will depend on three things: which predators tend to co-occur, how similar their prey preferences are, and how they interact with each other and the whole community. Phylogenetic distance between predators may correlate with each of these processes, either because related predators are more likely to share the same traits, and therefore have similar habitat and prey preferences, or because predators are more likely to compete, and therefore diverge in habitat and prey preferences. Therefore, the phylogenetic structure of predator\nassemblages could provide a unifying framework for predicting how predators will impact their prey and therefore any ecosystem functions mediated by their prey.  Methods:  We examined the effects of predators on macroinvertebrate food webs found in bromeliads, combining field observations, laboratory feeding trials and a manipulative experiment. We determined whether the phylogenetic distance between predators could explain: the co-observed occurrence of predator species among bromeliads, overlap in prey preferences under no-choice conditions, and effects of predator composition on prey survival, prey composition and ecosystem processes.  Results:  We found that phylogenetic distance does not predict either the co-occurrence of predator species nor the overlap in their prey preferences. However, our manipulative experiment showed that prey mortality decreased as the phylogenetic distance between predator species increased, reflecting antagonistic interactions among more distant predators. These effects of phylogenetic distance on prey mortality did not translate into effects on ecosystem function, as measured by rates of detrital decomposition and nitrogen cycling.  Discussion:  We conclude that the effects of predator phylogenetic\ndiversity on the bromeliad food web are primarily determined by antagonistic predator-predator interactions, rather than habitat distribution or diet overlap. This study illustrates the potential of a phylogenetic community approach to understanding food webs dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089144', [], [u'Universite Paul Sabatier;', u'Universidade Estadual de Campinas;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Ancient hybridization and strong adaptation to viruses across African vervet monkey populations', ['Hannes Svardal', 'Anna Jasinska', 'Cristian Apetrei', 'Giovanni Coppola', 'Yu Huang', 'Christopher Schmitt', 'Beatrice Jacquelin', 'Michaela Muller-Trutwin', 'George Weinstock', 'Paul Grobler', 'Richard Wilson', 'Trudy Turner', 'Wesley Warren', 'Nelson Freimer', 'Magnus Nordborg'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Vervet monkeys (genus Chlorocebus, also known as African green monkeys), are highly abundant in savannahs and riverine forests throughout sub-Saharan Africa. They are amongst the most widely distributed nonhuman primates, show considerable phenotypic diversity, and have long been an important biomedical model for a variety of human diseases and in vaccine research. They are particularly interesting for HIV/AIDS research as they are the most abundant natural hosts of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), a close relative of HIV. \nHere we present the first genome-wide survey of polymorphism in vervets, using sequencing data from 163 individuals sampled from across Africa and the Caribbean islands where vervets were introduced during the colonial era. We find high diversity, within and between taxa, and clear evidence that taxonomic divergence was reticulate rather than following a simple branching pattern. A scan for diversifying selection across vervet taxa yields gene enrichments much stronger than in similar studies on humans. In particular, we report strong and highly polygenic selection signals affecting viral processes --- in line with recent evidence that proposes a driving role for viruses in protein evolution in mammals. Furthermore, selection scores are highly elevated in genes whose human orthologs interact with HIV, and in genes that show a response to experimental SIV infection in vervet monkeys but not in rhesus macaques, suggesting that part of the signal reflects taxon-specific adaptation to SIV.  Intriguingly, rather than affecting genes with antiviral and inflammatory-related functions, selection in vervets appears to have primarily targeted genes involved in the transcriptional regulation of viruses, and in particular those that are harmful only under immunodeficiency, suggesting adaptation to living with SIV rather than defense against infection.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/088989', [], [u'GMI;', u'UCLA;', u'U Pittsburg;', u'CAS;', u'Boston U;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine;', u'University of the Free State;', u'Washington University;', u'University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee;', u'Gregor Mendel Institute']]
[u'Distinct sources of deterministic and stochastic components of action timing decisions in rodent frontal cortex', ['Masayoshi Murakami', 'Hanan Shteingart', 'Yonatan Loewenstein', 'Zachary F. Mainen'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'The selection and timing of actions are subject to determinate influences such as sensory cues and internal state as well as to effectively stochastic variability. Although stochastic choice mechanisms are assumed by many theoretical models, their origin and mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here we investigated this issue by studying how neural circuits in the frontal cortex determine action timing in rats performing a waiting task. Electrophysiological recordings from two regions necessary for this behavior, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and secondary motor cortex (M2), revealed an unexpected functional dissociation. Both areas encoded deterministic biases in action timing, but only M2 neurons reflected stochastic trial-by-trial fluctuations. This differential coding was reflected in distinct timescales of neural dynamics in the two frontal cortical areas. These results suggest a two-stage model in which stochastic components of action timing decisions are injected by circuits downstream of those carrying deterministic bias signals.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/088963', [], [u'Champalimaud Research, Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown;', u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'The natural selection of metabolism bends body mass evolution in time', ['Lars Witting'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'I predict a metabolic time bending of body mass evolution in the fossil record. I show that self-replication generates population dynamic feed-back selection for a body mass that increases exponentially on the per generation time-scale of natural selection, and that this increase is driven partly, or fully, by unconstrained selection for an exponential increase in mass specific metabolism. The increase in metabolism contracts natural selection time; but, mass specific metabolism evolves also by a mass-rescaling that generates a partial decline, and time dilation, with an increase in mass. The overall contraction or dilation of natural selection time is bending evolution in physical time, and this is described by an allometry dw/dt = w^x for the rate of evolution in mass (w) in physical time (t).\n\nThe bending exponent (x) is shown to evolve from the relative importance of metabolism for the evolution of mass, and from the spatial dimensions of interactive competition (1D, 2D, 3D); a prediction that is shown to hold across four scale dependent bending exponents in the fossil record. The exponents are i) 3/2 for 2D and 5/3 for 3D evolution within a niche; as observed for horses over 57 million years of evolution. ii) 5/4 (2D) and 9/8 (3D) for the evolution of maximum mass across niches; as found in four mammalian clades across 30 to 64 million years of evolution. iii) 3/4 (2D) and 5/6 (3D) for fast body mass evolution; found for the maximum mass of trunked, and all terrestrial, mammals. And iv) 1 for 2D and 3D evolution along a metabolic bound, as observed across 3.5 billion years of evolution of the maximum mass in non-sessile organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/088997', [], [u'Greenland Institute of Natural Resources']]
[u"Raoult's law revisited: accurately predicting equilibrium relative humidity points for humidity control experiments.", ['Michael G Bowler', 'David R Bowler', 'Matthew W Bowler'], u'November 22, 2016.', u"The humidity surrounding a sample is an important variable in scientific experiments. Biological samples in particular require not just a humid atmosphere but often a relative humidity (RH) that is in equilibrium with a stabilizing solution required to maintain the sample in the same state during measurements. The controlled dehydration of macromolecular crystals can lead to significant increases in crystal order, which often leads to higher diffraction quality. Devices that can accurately control the humidity surrounding crystals on a beamline have led to this technique being increasingly adopted, as experiments become easier and more reproducible. Matching the relative humidity to the mother liquor is the first step to allow the stable mounting of a crystal. In previous work, we measured the equilibrium relative humidity for a range of concentrations of the most commonly used precipitants and showed how this related to Raoult's law for the equilibrium vapour pressure of water above a solution. However, a discrepancy between measured values and those predicted by theory could not be explained. Here, we have used a more precise humidity control device to determine equilibrium relative humidity points. The new results are in agreement with Raoult's law. We also present a simple argument in statistical mechanics demonstrating that the saturated vapour pressure of a solvent is proportional to its mole fraction in an ideal solution: Raoult's Law. The same argument can be extended to the case where solvent and solute molecules are of different size, as is the case with polymers. The results provide a framework for the correct maintenance of the RH surrounding samples.", u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089094', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University College London;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory']]
[u'The Impact of Lethal Recessive Alleles on Bottlenecks with Implications for Conservation Genetics', ['R. B. Campbell'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'When a bottleneck occurs, lethal recessive alleles from the ancestral population provide a genetic load.  The purging of lethal recessive mutations may prolong the bottleneck, or even cause the population to become extinct.  But the purging is of short duration, it will be over before near neutral deleterious alleles accumulate. Lethal recessive alleles from the parental population and near neutral deleterious mutations which occur during a bottleneck are temporally separated threats to the survival of a population.  Breeding individuals from a large population into a small endangered population will provide the benefit of viable alleles to replace near neutral deleterious alleles but also the cost of lethal recessive mutations from the large population.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089151', [], [u'University of Northern Iowa, United States']]
[u'Neuronal components of evaluating the human 1 origin of abstract shapes', ['Hagar Goldberg', 'Yuval Hart', 'Avraham Mayo', 'Uri Alon', 'Rafael Malach'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Communication through visual symbols is a key aspect of human culture. However, to what extent can people distinguish between human-origin and artificial symbols, and the neuronal mechanisms underlying this process are not clear. Using fMRI we contrasted brain activity during presentation of human-created abstract shapes and random-algorithm created shapes, both sharing similar low level features. We found that participants correctly identified most shapes as human or random. The lateral occipital complex (LOC) was the main brain region showing preference to human-made shapes, independently of task. Furthermore, LOC activity was parametrically correlated to beauty and familiarity scores of the shapes (rated following the scan). Finally, a model classifier based only on LOC activity showed human level accuracy at discriminating between human-made and randomly-made shapes. Our results highlight the sensitivity of the human brain to social and cultural cues, and point to high-order object areas as central nodes underlying this capacity.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/085902', [], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'In vivo imaging of coral tissue and skeleton with optical coherence tomography', ['Daniel Wangpraseurt', 'Camilla Wentzel', 'Steven L Jacques', 'Michael Wagner', 'Michael Kuhl'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a non-invasive three-dimensional imaging technique with micrometer resolution allowing microstructural characterization of tissues in vivo and in real time. We present the first application of OCT for in vivo imaging of tissue and skeleton structure of intact living corals spanning a variety of morphologies and tissue thickness. OCT visualized different coral tissue layers (e.g. endoderm vs ectoderm), special structures such as mesenterial filaments and skeletal cavities, as well as mucus release from living corals. We also developed a new approach for non-invasive imaging and quantification of chromatophores containing green fluorescent protein (GFP)-like host pigment granules in coral tissue. The chromatophore system is hyper-reflective and can thus be imaged with good optical contrast in OCT, enabling quantification of chromatophore size, distribution and abundance. Because of its rapid imaging speed, OCT can also be used to quantify coral tissue movement showing that maximal linear contraction velocity was ~120 \u03bcm per second upon high light stimulation. Based on OCT imaging of tissue expansion and contraction, we made first estimates of dynamic changes in the coral tissue surface area, which varied by a factor of 2 between the contracted and expanded state of the coral Pocillopora damicornis. We conclude that OCT is an excellent novel tool for in vivo tomographic imaging of corals that can reveal tissue and skeleton organization as well as quantify dynamic changes in tissue structure and coral surface area non-invasively and at high spatio-temporal resolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/088682', [], [u'Marine Biological Section, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen;', u'Deptartment of Biomedical Engineering, Oregon Health & Science University;', u'Engler-Bunte Institute, Chair of Water Chemistry and Water Technology, Karlsruhe Institute of Techn']]
[u'Scalable parameter estimation for genome-scale biochemical reaction networks', ['Fabian Frohlich', 'Barbara Kaltenbacher', 'Fabian J Theis', 'Jan Hasenauer'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Mechanistic mathematical modeling of biochemical reaction networks using ordinary differential equation (ODE) models has improved our understanding of small- and medium-scale biological processes. While the same should in principle hold for large- and genome-scale processes, the computational methods for the analysis of ODE models which describe hundreds or thousands of biochemical species and reactions are missing so far. While individual simulations are feasible, the inference of the model parameters from experimental data is computationally too intensive. In this manuscript, we evaluate adjoint sensitivity analysis for parameter estimation in large scale biochemical reaction networks. We present the approach for time discrete measurement and compare it to state-of-the-art methods used in systems and computational biology. Our comparison reveals a significantly improved computational efficiency and a superior scalability of adjoint sensitivity analysis. The computational complexity is effectively independent of the number of parameters, enabling the analysis of large- and genome scale models. Our study of a comprehensive kinetic model of ErbB signaling shows that parameter estimation using adjoint sensitivity analysis requires a fraction of the computation time of established methods. The proposed method will facilitate mechanistic modeling of genome-scale cellular processes, as required in the age of omics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089086', [], [u'Helmholtz Zentrum M\xfcnchen;', u'University of Klagenfurt']]
[u'Reducing mitochondrial reads in ATAC-seq using CRISPR/Cas9', ['Lindsey Montefiori', 'Liana Gonzales', 'Zijie Zhang', 'Yoav Gilad', 'Carole Ober', 'Gregory Crawford', 'Marcelo Nobrega', 'Noboru Jo Sakabe'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'ATAC-seq is a high-throughput sequencing technique that aims at identifying DNA sequences located in open chromatin. Depending on the cell type, ATAC-seq may yield a high number of mitochondrial sequencing reads (~20-80% of the reads). As the regions of open chromatin of interest are usually located in the nuclear genome, mitochondrial reads are typically discarded from the analysis. To decrease wasted sequencing, we performed targeted cleavage of mitochondrial DNA using CRISPR/Cas9 and 100 mtDNA-specific guide RNAs. We also tested a modified ATAC-seq protocol that does not include detergent in the cell lysis buffer. Both treatments resulted in considerable reduction of mitochondrial reads (1.7 and 3-fold, respectively). The removal of detergent, however, resulted in increased background and fewer peaks identified. The highest number of peaks and highest quality data was obtained by preparing samples with the original ATAC-seq protocol (using detergent) and treating them with anti-mitochondrial guide RNAs and Cas9. This strategy could lead to considerable cost reduction and improved peak calling when performing ATAC-seq on a moderate to large number of samples and in cell types that contain a large amount of mitochondria.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/087890', [], [u'Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago;', u'Department of Pediatrics, Center for Genomic and Computational Biology, Duke University']]
[u'Detecting hierarchical 3-D genome domain reconfiguration with network modularity', ['Heidi K Norton', 'Harvey Huang', 'Daniel J Emerson', 'Jesi Kim', 'Shi Gu', 'Danielle S Bassett', 'Jennifer E Phillips-Cremins'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Mammalian genomes are folded in a hierarchy of topologically associating domains (TADs), subTADs and looping interactions. The nested nature of chromatin domains has rendered it challenging to identify a sensitive and specific metric for detecting subTADs and quantifying their dynamic reconfiguration across cellular states. Here, we apply graph theoretic principles to quantify hierarchical folding patterns in high-resolution chromatin topology maps. We discover that TADs can be accurately detected using a Louvain-like locally greedy algorithm to maximize network modularity. By varying a resolution parameter in the modularity quality function, we accurately partition the mouse genome across length scales into a hierarchical nested structure of network communities exhibiting a wide range of sizes. To distinguish high probability subTADs from the full detected set, we developed and applied a new hierarchical spatial variance minimization method. Moreover, we identified a large number of dynamically altered communities between pluripotent embryonic stem cells and multipotent neural progenitor cells. Cell type specific boundaries correlate with trends in dynamic occupancy of the architectural protein CTCF, thereby validating their biological relevance. Together, these data demonstrate the utility of metrics from network science in quantifying a nested hierarchy of dynamic 3D chromatin communities across length scales. Our findings are significant toward unraveling the link between higher-order genome folding and gene expression during healthy development and the deregulation of molecular pathways linked to disease.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089011', [], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'MYCOPLASMA FAUCIUM AND BREAST CANCER', ['Valentin Mitin', 'Lidia Tumanova', 'Natalia Botnariuc'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Viruses and bacteria are the cause of a large number of different human diseases. It is believed that some of them may even contribute to the development of cancer. The present work is dedicated to the identification of mycoplasmas in patients with breast cancer. Mycoplasmas may participate in the development of several human diseases including chronic fatigue syndrome, acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, atypical pneumonia, etc. Moreover, there is a reason to believe that mycoplasma can participate in the development of cancer, leukemia and lymphoma.\nDNA samples from blood, saliva and tumor tissues of the Oncology Institute of Moldova patients diagnosed with breast cancer were analyzed. Mycoplasma testing was performed using nested PCR method. For Mycoplasma spp. detection, we used primers from the region of the 16S-23S RNA genes. The identification of Mycoplasma faucium, Mycoplasma salivarium and Mycoplasma orale was performed by nested PCR with primers for RNA polymerase beta subunit gene corresponding to mycoplasma. \nM.faucium and M.salivarius was found in saliva at about 100%, and M.orale at a frequency of about 50%. Only M.faucium was found with the frequency of about 60% in the tissue of the patients. Moreover, a fairly high rate of detection of  mycoplasma is observed both in the cases when primers for RNA polymerase gene and primers for 16S-23S RNA were used. \nWe found M.faucium in tumor tissues of patients diagnosed with breast cancer. It is known that mycoplasmas are able to stimulate the synthesis of certain cytokines, which act as mitogenes on the cell. We assume that M.faucium can stimulate the mitogenes synthesis in breast tissues (e.g., cytokines) which, in turn, stimulate cell division and thus participate in the initiation of breast cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089128', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Institute of Genetics, Physiology and Plant Protection;', u'Institute of Oncology of Moldova']]
[u'Predicting gene expression level in E. coli from mRNA sequence information', ['Linlin Zhao', 'Nima Abedpour', 'Christopher Blum', 'Petra Kolkhof', 'Mathias Beller', 'Markus Kollmann', 'Emidio Capriotti'], u'November 22, 2016.', u'Motivation: The accurate characterization of the translational mechanism is crucial for enhancing our understanding of the relationship between genotype and phenotype. In particular, predicting the impact of the genetic variants on gene expression will allow to optimize specific pathways and functions for engineering new biological systems. In this context, the development of accurate methods for predicting translation efficiency from the nucleotide sequence is a key challenge in computational biology.  Methods: In this work we present PGExpress, a binary classifier to discriminate between mRNA sequences with low and high translation efficiency in E. coli. PGExpress algorithm takes as input 12 features corresponding to RNA folding and anti-Shine-Dalgarno hybridization free energies. The method was trained on a set of 1,772 sequence variants (WT-High) of 137 essential E. coli genes. For each gene, we considered 13 sequence variants of the first 33 nucleotides encoding for the same amino acids followed by the superfolder GFP. Each gene variant is represented sequence blocks that include the Ribosome Binding Site (RBS), the first 33 nucleotides of the coding region (C33), the remaining part of the coding region (CC), and their combinations.  Results: Our logistic regression-based tool (PGExpress) was trained using a 20-fold gene-based cross-validation procedure on the WT-High dataset. In this test PGExpress achieved an overall accu-racy of 74%, a Matthews correlation coefficient 0.49 and an Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic Curve (AUC) of 0.81. Tested on 3 sets of sequences with different Ribosome Binding Sites, PGExpress reaches similar AUC. Finally, we validated our method by performing in-house experiments on five newly generated mRNA sequence variants. The predictions of the expression level of the new variants are in agreement with our experimental results in E. coli.', u'/content/early/2016/11/22/089102', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Heinrich-Heine-University Dusseldorf;', u'University of Cologne;', u'University of Bologna']]
[u'Sexually satiated male Drosophila melanogaster uses gustatory-to-neuropeptide integrative circuits to reduce time investment for mating', ['Woo Jae Kim', 'Seung Gee Lee', 'Anne-Christine Auge', 'Lily Yeh Jan', 'Yuh Nung Jan'], u'November 22, 2016.', u"Males haevily rely on a 'time investment strategy' to maximize reproductive success. Here we report a novel behavioral plasticity whereby male fruit flies exhibit a shortened mating duration when sexually satiated, which we named 'Shorter-Mating-Duration (SMD)'. SMD requires the sexually dimorphic Gr5a-positive neurons for detecting female body pheromones. The memory circuitry within the ellipsoid body (EB) and mushroom body (MB) brain regions is crucial for SMD, which depends on the circadian clock genes Clock and cycle, but not timeless or period. SMD also relies on signaling via the neuropeptide sNPF, but not PDF or NPF. Sexual experience modifies the neuronal activity of a subset of sNPF-positive neurons involved in neuropeptide signaling, which modulates SMD. Thus, our study delineates the molecular and cellular basis for SMD - a plastic social behavior that serves as a model system to study how the brain switches the internal states between sexual drive and satiety.", u'/content/early/2016/11/22/088724', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Revisiting the effect of red on competition in humans', ['Laura Fortunato', 'Aaron Clauset'], u'November 21, 2016.', u'Bright red coloration is a signal of male competitive ability in animal species across a range of taxa, including non-human primates. Does the effect of red on competition extend to humans? A landmark study in evolutionary psychology established such an effect through analysis of data for four combat sports at the 2004 Athens Olympics (Hill & Barton 2005). Here we show that the observed pattern reflects instead a structural bias towards wins by red in the outcomes of the competition. Consistently, we find no effect of red in equivalent data for the 2008 Beijing Olympics, which present a structural bias towards wins by blue. These results refute past claims of an effect of red on human competition based on analysis of this system. In turn, this undermines the notion that any effect of red on human behavior is an evolved response shaped by sexual selection.', u'/content/early/2016/11/21/086710', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Colorado']]
