[u'Adaptive and Non-adaptive Responses of Populations to Environmental Change', ['Tim Coulson', 'Bruce E Kendall', 'Julia Barthold', 'Floriane Plard', 'Susanne Schindler', 'Arpat Ozgul', 'Jean-Michel Gaillard'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Understanding how the natural world will be impacted by environmental change is one of the most pressing challenges facing humanity. Addressing this challenge is difficult because environmental change can generate both population level plastic and evolutionary responses, with plastic responses being either adaptive or non-adaptive. We develop an approach that links mechanistic quantitative genetic theory with data-driven structured models to allow prediction of population responses to environmental change via plasticity and adaptive evolution. After introducing general new theory, we construct a number of examples models to demonstrate that evolutionary responses to environmental change will be considerably slower than plastic responses, that adaptive plasticity can accelerate population recovery to environmental change but that it slows the rate of adaptation to the new environment. Parameterization of the models we develop requires information on genetic and phenotypic variation and demography which will not always be available. We consequently develop a method based on the statistical analysis of temporal trends in model parameter values of examining whether the full machinery of the evolutionarily explicit models we develop will be needed to predict responses to environmental change, or whether simpler non-evolutionary models that are now widely constructed may be sufficient.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090894', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of California, Santa Barbara;', u'University of Southern Denmark;', u'Stanford University;', u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Lyon']]
[u'Pervasive Antagonistic Interactions Among Hybrid Incompatibility Loci', ['Rafael F Guerrero', 'Takuya Nakazato', 'Christopher D Muir', 'Sarah Josway', 'Leonie C Moyle'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Species barriers, expressed as hybrid inviability and sterility, are often due to epistatic interactions between divergent loci from two lineages. Theoretical models indicate that the strength, direction, and complexity of these genetic interactions can strongly affect the expression of interspecific reproductive isolation and the rates at which new species evolve. Nonetheless, empirical analyses have not quantified the frequency with which loci are involved in interactions affecting hybrid fitness, and whether these loci predominantly interact synergistically or antagonistically, or preferentially involve loci that have strong individual effects on hybrid fitness. We systematically examined the prevalence of interactions between pairs of short chromosomal regions from one species (Solanum habrochaites) co-introgressed into a heterospecific genetic background (Solanum lycopersicum). We used a diallel crossing design to generate most pairwise combinations of 15 chromosomal segments from S. habrochaites in the background of S. lycopersicum (i.e., 95 double introgression lines). We compared the strength of hybrid incompatibility (either pollen sterility or seed sterility) expressed in each double introgression line to the expected additive effect of its two component single introgressions. We found that: epistasis was common among co-introgressed regions; epistastic effects were overwhelmingly antagonistic (i.e., double hybrids were less unfit than expected from additive single introgression effects); and, epistasis was substantially more prevalent in pollen fertility compared to seed fertility phenotypes. Together, these results indicate that high-order interactions frequently contribute to postzygotic sterility barriers in these species. This pervasive epistasis leads to the decoupling of the patterns of accumulation of isolation loci and isolation phenotypes, and is expected to attenuate the rate of accumulation of hybrid infertility among lineages over time (i.e., giving diminishing returns as more reproductive isolation loci accumulate). This decoupling effect might also explain observed differences between pollen and seed fertility in their fit to theoretical predictions of the accumulation of isolation loci, including the snowball effect.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090886', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indiana University;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Germ granules prevent accumulation of somatic transcripts in the adult C. elegans germline', ['Andrew Kekupaa Knutson', 'Thea A. Egelhofer', 'Andreas Rechtsteiner', 'Susan Strome'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'The germ cells of multicellular organisms protect their developmental potential through specialized mechanisms.  A shared feature of germ cells from worms to humans is the presence of non-membrane-bound ribonucleoprotein organelles called germ granules.  Depletion of germ granules in Caenorhabditis elegans (i.e., P granules) leads to sterility and in some germlines expression of the neuronal transgene unc-119::gfp and the muscle myosin MYO-3.  Thus, P granules are hypothesized to maintain germ cell totipotency by preventing somatic development, although the mechanism by which P granules carry out this function is unknown.  In this study, we performed transcriptome and single molecule RNA-FISH analyses of dissected P-granule-depleted gonads at different developmental stages.  Our results demonstrate that P granules are necessary for adult germ cells to down-regulate spermatogenesis RNAs and to prevent the accumulation of numerous soma-specific RNAs.  P-granule-depleted gonads that express the unc-119::gfp transgene also express many other genes involved in neuronal development and concomitantly lose expression of germ cell fate markers.  Finally, we show that removal of either of two critical P-granule components, PGL-1 or GLH-1, is sufficient to cause germ cells to express UNC-119::GFP and MYO-3 and to display RNA accumulation defects similar to those observed after depletion of P granules.  Our data identify P granules as critical modulators of the germline transcriptome and guardians of germ cell fate.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/089433', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of California, Santa Cruz']]
[u'New genes and functional innovation in mammals', ['Jose Luis Villanueva-Canas', 'Jorge Ruiz-Orera', 'Isabel Agea', 'Maria Gallo', 'David Andreu', 'Mar Alba'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'The birth of genes that encode new proteins is a major source of evolutionary innovation. However, we still understand relatively little about how these genes come into being and which functions they are selected for. Here we address this question by generating a comprehensive list of mammalian-specific gene families originated at different times during mammalian evolution. We combine gene annotations and de novo transcript assemblies from 30 mammalian species, obtaining about 6,000 families with different species composition. We show that the families which arose early in mammalian evolution (basal) are relatively well-characterized. They are enriched in secreted proteins and include milk and skin polypeptides, immune response components and, proteins involved in spermatogenesis. In contrast, there is a severe lack of knowledge about the functions of proteins which have a more recent origin in certain mammalian groups (young), despite the fact that they have extensive proteomics support. Interestingly, we find that both young and basal mammalian-specific gene families show similar gene expression biases, with a marked enrichment in testis. Proteins from both groups tend to be short and depleted in aromatic and negatively charged residues. This indicates shared mechanisms of formation and suggests that the youngest proteins may have been retained for similar kinds of functions as the oldest ones. We identify several previously described cases of genes originated de novo from non-coding genomic regions, supporting the idea that this mechanism frequently underlies the evolution of new protein-coding genes. The catalogue of gene families generated here provides a unique resource for studies on the role of new genes in mammalian-specific adaptations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090860', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Hospital del Mar Research Institute (IMIM);', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'The Bacterial Sequential Markov Coalescent', ['Nicola De Maio', 'Daniel J Wilson'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Bacteria can exchange and acquire new genetic material from other organisms directly and via the environment. \nThis process, known as bacterial recombination, has a strong impact on the evolution of bacteria, for example leading to the spread\nof antibiotic resistance across clades and species, and to the avoidance of clonal interference. \nRecombination hinders phylogenetic and transmission inference because it creates patterns of substitutions that are not consistent with the hypothesis of a single evolutionary tree (homoplasies). \nBacterial recombination is typically modelled as statistically akin to the gene conversion process of eukaryotes, i.e., using the coalescent with gene conversion (CGC).\nHowever, this model can be very computationally demanding as it requires to account for the correlations of evolutionary histories of even distant loci. \nSo, with the increasing popularity of whole genome sequencing, the need has emerged for a new and faster approach to model and simulate bacterial evolution at genomic scales.\nWe present a new model that approximates the coalescent with gene conversion: the bacterial sequential Markov coalescent (BSMC).\nOur approach is based on a similar idea to the the sequential Markov coalescent (SMC), an approximation of the coalescent with recombination.\nHowever, bacterial recombination poses hurdles to a sequential Markov approximation, as it leads to strong correlations and linkage disequilibrium across very distant sites in the genome.\nOur BSMC overcomes these difficulties and shows both a considerable reduction in computational demand compared the exact CGC, and very similar patterns in the simulated data.\nWe use the BSMC within an Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) inference scheme and show that we can correctly recover parameters simulated under the exact CGC, which further showcases the accuracy of our approximation.\nWe also use this ABC approach to infer recombination rate, mutation rate, and recombination tract length from a whole genome alignment of Bacillus cereus.\nLastly, we implemented our BSMC model within a new simulation software FastSimBac. \nIn addition to the decreased computational demand compared to previous bacterial genome evolution simulators, FastSimBac also provides a much more general set of options for evolutionary scenarios,\nallowing population structure with migration, speciations, population size changes, and recombination hotspots.\nFastSimBac is available from https://bitbucket.org/nicofmay/fastsimbac and is distributed as open source under the terms of the GNU General Public Licence.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090845', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford, United Kingdom']]
[u'Identification and quantitative analysis of the major determinants of translation elongation rate variation', ['Khanh Dao Duc', 'Yun S. Song'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Ribosome profiling provides a detailed view into the complex dynamics of translation. Although the precise relation between the observed ribosome footprint densities and the actual translation elongation rates remains elusive, the data clearly suggest that elongation speed is quite heterogeneous along the transcript. Previous studies have shown that elongation is locally regulated by multiple factors, but the observed heterogeneity remains only partially explained. To dissect quantitatively the different determinants of translation speed, we here use probabilistic modeling of the translation dynamics to estimate transcript-specific initiation and local elongation rates from ribosome profiling data. Using this model-based approach, we estimate the fraction of ribosomes (~9%) undetected by the current ribosome profiling protocol. These missing ribosomes come from regions harboring two or more closely-stacked ribosomes, and not accounting for them leads to a substantial underestimation of translation efficiency for highly occupied transcripts. We further quantify the extent of transcript- and position-specific interference between ribosomes on the same transcript, and infer that the movement of ~2.5% of ribosomes is obstructed on average, with substantial variation across different genes. The extent of interference also varies noticeably along the transcript sequence, with a moderately elevated level near the start site and a significantly pronounced amount near the termination site. However, we show that neither ribosomal interference nor the distribution of slow codons is sufficient to explain the observed level of variation in the mean elongation rate across the transcript sequence. Surprisingly, by optimizing the fit of statistical linear models, we find that the hydropathy of the nascent polypeptide segment within the ribosome plays a major role in governing the variation of the mean elongation rate along the transcript. In addition, we find that positively and negatively charged amino acid residues near the beginning and end of the ribosomal exit tunnel, respectively, are important determinants of translation speed, and we argue that this result is consistent with the known biophysical properties of the exit tunnel.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090837', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Discrete mutations in colorectal cancer correlate with defined microbial communities in the tumor microenvironment', ['Michael B Burns', 'Emmanuel Montassier', 'Juan Abrahante', 'Timothy K. Starr', 'Dan Knights', 'Ran Blekhman'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Variation in the gut microbiome has been linked to colorectal cancer (CRC), as well as to host genetics. However, we do not know whether genetic mutations in CRC tumors interact with the structure and composition of the microbial communities surrounding the tumors, and if so, whether changes in the microbiome can be used as a predictor for tumor mutational status. Here, we characterized the association between CRC tumor mutational landscape and its proximal microbial communities by performing whole exome sequencing and microbiome profiling in tumors and normal colorectal tissue samples from the same patient. We find a significant association between loss of function mutations in relevant tumor genes and pathways and shifts in the abundances of specific sets of bacterial taxa. In addition, by constructing a risk index classifier from these sets of microbes, we accurately predict the existence of loss of function mutations in cancer related genes and pathways, including MAPK and Wnt signaling, solely based on the composition of the microbiota. These results can serve as a starting point for understanding the interactions between host genetic alterations and proximal microbial communities in CRC, as well as for the development of individualized microbiota targeted therapies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090795', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Loyola University Chicago;', u'University of Nantes;', u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'High levels of antibiotic tolerance and persistence are induced by the commercial anti-microbial triclosan', ['Corey S Westfall', 'Petra Anne Levin'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Antimicrobial tolerance and bacterial persistence are confounding factors in the treatment of recurrent and chronic infections.  Here we report that the anti-microbial additive triclosan renders Escherichia coli and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus tolerant to a panel of bactericidal antibiotics. Triclosan treatment increased antimicrobial tolerance up to 10,000 fold, amplified persister populations by several orders of magnitude, and in one instance, rendered E. coli refractile to the cell wall active antibiotic, ampicillin.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090829', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Cadm1 regulates airway stem cell growth and differentiation via modulation of Stat3 activity', ['Pooja Seedhar', 'Elizabeth Sage', 'Sabari Vallath', 'Gabrielle Sturges', 'Adam Giangreco'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Airway homeostasis, repair, and regeneration are imperfectly understood processes involving the proliferation and differentiation of endogenous lung stem cells.  Here, we establish that epithelial Cell adhesion molecule 1 (Cadm1) regulates the growth and differentiation of airway basal cells, previously identified as lung stem cells.  Immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis reveals that Cadm1 is broadly expressed throughout the murine tracheobronchial epithelium, exhibits transient downregulation concomitant with airway injury, and is subsequently restored during basal cell differentiation.  Using Cadm1 null (KO) and keratin 14 (K14)-specific Cadm1 overexpressing transgenic mice, we demonstrate that maintaining Cadm1 expression reduces basal stem cell proliferation after tracheal polidocanol injury, whereas Cadm1 deletion causes increased ciliated cell differentiation and sustained downstream Stat3 signalling.  Altogether, this study defines a previously uncharacterised role for Cadm1 in directing airway basal cell homeostasis and repair via modulation of Stat3 activity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090761', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'UCL']]
[u'Finite-sites multiple mutations interference gives rise to wavelet-like oscillations of multilocus linkage disequilibrium', ['Victor Garcia', 'Emily C Glassberg', 'Arbel Harpak', 'Marcus W Feldman'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'The adaptation of asexually reproducing organisms is determined by how they accrue beneficial mutations. In large populations, multiple beneficial mutations may arise simultaneously on different genetic backgrounds and interfere with the fixation trajectories of other competing mutations. Multiple mutations interference (MMI) theory has proven useful for investigating these interference patterns. In MMI, beneficial mutations of equal fitness effect arise on a genome with infinitely many loci. However, assuming infinite sites makes it difficult to precisely predict the fates of individual mutations, complicating the detection of MMI in sequence data. In addition, most short-term within-host adaptation of pathogens such as Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) occurs at a limited number of loci under strong selection. For these reasons, we investigate how MMI shapes the genetic composition of a population with few  sites under selection. Specifically, we explore the dynamics of multilocus linkage disequilibrium (MLD), a measure of multi-way associations between alleles, in a finite-sites MMI model inspired by early HIV infection. In this regime, MLD oscillates over time in a wavelet-like fashion, a consequence of the sequential acquisition of beneficial mutations. We further show that the frequency of these oscillations is proportional to the rate of adaptation. Together, these findings suggest that MLD oscillations could be used as a signature of interference among multiple equally advantageous mutations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090571', [u'Genetics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'BCFtools/csq: Haplotype-aware variant consequences', ['Petr Danecek', 'Shane A McCarthy'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Motivation: Prediction of functional variant consequences is an important part of sequencing pipelines, allowing the categorization and prioritization of genetic variants for follow up analysis. However, current predictors analyze variants as isolated events, which can lead to incorrect predictions when adjacent variants alter the same codon, or when a frame-shifting indel is followed by a frame-restoring indel. Exploiting known haplotype information when making consequence predictions can resolve these issues.\n\nResults: BCFtools/csq is a fast program for haplotype-aware consequence calling which can take into account known phase. Consequence predictions are changed for 2839 of 4934 compound variants found in the 81.7M variants in the 1000 Genomes Project data, with an average of 139 compound variants per haplotype.\nPredictions match existing tools when run in localized mode, but the program is an order of magnitude faster and requires an order of magnitude less memory.\n\nAvailability: The program is freely available for commercial and non-commercial use in the BCFtools package which is available for download from http://samtools.github.io/bcftools', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090811', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Tumor Origin Detection with Tissue-Specific miRNA and DNA methylation Markers', ['Wei Tang', 'Shixiang Wan', 'Quan Zou'], u'December 1, 2016.', u'Motivation: Cancer of unknown primary origin constitutes 3-5% of all human malignancies. Pa-tients with these carcinomas present with metastases without an established primary site, which may not be found even by thorough histological search methods. Patients with cancer of unknown primary origin always have poor prognosis and hardly have efficient treatment since most cancers respond well to specific chemotherapy or hormone drugs. Many studies have proposed classifiers based on miRNAs or mRNAs to predict the tumor origins, but few study focus on high-dimensional DNA methylation profiles.\nResults: We introduced three classifiers with novel feature selection algorithm combined with ran-dom forest to effectively identify highly tissue-specific epigenetics biomarkers such as microRNAs and CpG sites, which can help us predict the origin site of tumors. This algorithm, incorporating differential analysis and descending dimension algorithm, was applied on 14 histological tissues and over 5000 samples based on miRNA expression and DNA methylation profiles to assign given primary tumor to its origin tissue. Our study shows all of these three classifiers have an overall ac-curacy of 87.78% (72.55%-97.54%) based on miRNA datasets and an accuracy of 96.43% (MRMD: 87.85%-99.76%) or 97.06% (PCA: 92.44%-100%) based on DNA methylation datasets on predict-ing the origin of tumors and suggests that the biomarkers we selected can efficiently predict the origin of tumors and allow the clinicians to avoid adjuvant systemic therapy or to choose less ag-gressive therapeutic options. We also developed a user-friendly webserver which enables users to predict the origin site of tumors by uploading the miRNAs expression or DNA methylation profiles of those cancers.\nAvailability: The webserver, data, and code are accessible free of charge at http://server.malab.cn/MMCOP/ \nContact: zouquan@nclab.net\nSupplementary information: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.', u'/content/early/2016/12/01/090746', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tianjin University;', u'School of Computer Science and Technology, Tianjin University']]
