[u'Temporal Stability and Molecular Persistence of the Bone Marrow Plasma Cell Antibody Repertoire', ['Gabriel Wu', 'Nai-Kong Cheung', 'George Georgiou', 'Edward Marcotte', 'Gregory Ippolito'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'Plasma cells in human bone marrow (BM PCs) are thought to be\nintrinsically long-lived and to be responsible for sustaining lifelong\nimmunity through the constitutive secretion of antibody--but the\nunderlying basis for this serological memory remains controversial.\nHere, we analyzed the molecular persistence of serological immunity by\nan examination of BM PC immunoglobulin heavy-chain (IGH) transcripts\nderived from serial bone marrow specimens obtained during a span of\nseveral years.  Using high-throughput sequence analysis of the same\nindividual for 6.5 years, we show that the BM PC repertoire is\nremarkably stable over time. We find that the bias in IGH V, D, and J\nindividual gene usage and also the combinatorial V-D, V-J, D-J, and\nV-D-J usage across time to be nearly static. When compared to a second\ndonor with time points 2 years apart, these overall patterns are\npreserved, and surprisingly, we find high correlation of gene usage\nbetween the two donors.  Lastly, we report the persistence of numerous\nBM PC clonal clusters (~2%) identifiable across 6.5 years at all time\npoints assayed, supporting a model of serological memory based, at least\nin part, upon intrinsic longevity of human PCs. We anticipate that this\nlongitudinal study will facilitate the ability to differentiate between\nhealthy and diseased antibody repertoire states, by serving as a point\nof comparison with future deep-sequencing studies involving immune\nintervention.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066878', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'Negative selection in humans and fruit flies involves synergistic epistasis', ['Mashaal Sohail', 'Olga A Vakhrusheva', 'Jae Hoon Sul', 'Sara Pulit', 'Laurent Francioli', 'Leonard H van den Berg', 'Jan H Veldink', 'Paul de Bakker', 'Georgii A Bazykin', 'Alexey S Kondrashov', 'Shamil Sunyaev'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'Negative selection against deleterious alleles produced by mutation is the most common form of natural selection, which strongly influences within-population variation and interspecific divergence. However, some fundamental properties of negative selection remain obscure. In particular, it is still not known whether deleterious alleles affect fitness independently, so that cumulative fitness loss depends exponentially on the number of deleterious alleles, or synergistically, so that each additional deleterious allele results in a larger decrease in relative fitness. Negative selection with synergistic epistasis must produce negative linkage disequilibrium between deleterious alleles, and therefore, underdispersed distribution of the number of deleterious alleles in the genome. Indeed, we detected underdispersion of the number of rare loss-of-function (LoF) alleles in eight independent datasets from modern human and Drosophila melanogaster populations. Thus, ongoing selection against deleterious alleles is characterized by synergistic epistasis, which can explain how human and fly populations persist despite very high genomic deleterious mutation rates.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066407', [], [u'Systems Biology PhD Program Harvard Medical School Boston MA USA;', u'Institute for Information Transmission Problems of the Russian Academy of Sciences;', u'Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences UCLA Los Angeles CA USA;', u'Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery University Medical Center Utrecht Utrecht the Netherlands;', u'Department of Medical Genetics Center for Molecular Medicine University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of Michigan Ann Arbor MI USA;', u"Division of Genetics Department of Medicine Brigham and Women's Hospital Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'Quantifying climate change impacts emphasises the importance of managing regional threats in an endangered species', ['Thomas Mattern', 'Stefan Meyer', 'Ursula Ellenberg', 'David M Houston', 'John T Darby', 'Melanie J Young', 'Yolanda van Heezik', 'Philip J Seddon'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'As a global issue the effects of climate change are difficult to manage on a region scale. However, more often than not it is only one of many problems that need to be addressed in species conservation. Non-climatic factors - especially those of anthropogenic origins - play equally if not more important roles with regards to population developments of species and often provide much better toeholds for conservation activities. We examined the population trends of the endangered Yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) in New Zealand using monitoring data dating back to the 1980s. We developed a Bayesian population model incorporating various climatic factors to assess the relative influence of climate change on the penguin numbers over the past 30 years. Sea surface temperature (SST) proved to be the dominating factor influencing survival of both adult birds and fledglings. Increasing SST since the mid-1990s went along with a reduction in survival rates and population decline. The population model showed that 33% of the variation in population numbers could be explained by SST alone, significantly increasing pressure on the penguin population. Consequently, the population becomes less resilient to non-climate related impacts, such as fisheries interactions, habitat degradation and human disturbance. But their exact contribution towards population trends is extremely difficult to assess principally due to the absence of quantifiable data. This potentially creates an analysis bias towards climate variables, effectively distracting from non-climate factors that can be managed on a regional scale to ensure the viability of the population.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066696', [], [u'University of Otago;', u'La Trobe University;', u'New Zealand Department of Conservation;', u'Otago Museum, Dunedin, NZ']]
[u'Cohort Specific Effects of Cereal-bar Supplementation in Overweight Patients With or Without Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus', ['Chris Lauber', 'Chieh Jason Chou', 'Anirikh Chakrabarti', 'Jay Siddharth', 'Anne Chalut-Carpentier', 'Zoltan Pataky', 'Alain Golay', 'Scott Parkinson'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'The importance of gut microbes to metabolic health is becoming more evident and nutrition-based therapies to alter the composition of bacterial communities to manage metabolic disease are an attractive avenue to ameliorate some effects of Western diets. While the composition of gut microbial communities can vary significantly across disease states, it is not well known if these communities have common responses to nutritional interventions. To better understand diet-bacterial community interactions, we collected biological parameters and fecal samples of overweight non-diabetic (OND) and diabetic (OD) individuals before and after daily supplementation of 2.8 g \u03b2-glucan on their habitual diet for 30 days. Fecal bacterial communities in an age-matched cohort were measured by sequencing partial 16S rRNA genes and imputed metagenomic content. Unexpectedly, we observed disconnected responses of biological measurements and the bacterial community. Based on average effect size, biological measurements were greater in the OND group while effects on the bacterial community were greatest on the OD cohort, and we suspect these observations are due to the significantly lower alpha diversity in the OD cohort. Our data indicate that responses to cereal-bar supplementation are cohort specific and this should be considered when manipulating the microbiome via diet supplementation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066704', [], [u'Nestle Institute of Health Sciences SA;', u'University Hospitals of Geneva and University of Geneva']]
[u'Genetic diagnosis of Mendelian disorders via RNA sequencing', ['Laura S Kremer', 'Daniel M Bader', 'Christian Mertes', 'Robert Kopajtich', 'Garwin Pichler', 'Arcangela Iuso', 'Tobias B Haack', 'Elisabeth Graf', 'Thomas Schwarzmayr', 'Caterina Terrile', 'Eliska Konafikova', 'Birgit Repp', 'Gabi Kastenmuller', 'Jerzy Adamski', 'Peter Lichtner', 'Christoph Leonhardt', 'Benoit Funalot', 'Alice Donati', 'Valeria Tiranti', 'Anne Lombes', 'Claude Jardel', 'Dieter Glaser', 'Robert W Taylor', 'Daniele Ghezzi', 'Johannes A Mayr', 'Agnes Rotig', 'Peter Freisinger', 'Felix Distelmaier', 'Tim M Strom', 'Thomas Meitinger', 'Julien Gagneur', 'Holger Prokisch'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'Across a large variety of Mendelian disorders, 50 to 75% of undiagnosed patients do not receive a genetic diagnosis by whole exome sequencing indicative of underlying regulatory variants. In contrast, whole genome sequencing allows the discovery of all genetic variants, but their significant number, coupled with a poor understanding of the non-coding genome, makes their prioritization challenging. Here, we demonstrate the power of directly sequencing transcriptomes by providing a genetic diagnosis for 11% (5 of 47) of unsolved mitochondrial disease patients and strong candidates for other patients. We found a median of 1 aberrantly expressed gene, 5 aberrant splicing events, and 6 mono-allelically expressed rare variants in patient-derived fibroblasts and established disease-causing roles for each kind. Private exons often arose from sites that are weakly spliced in other individuals, providing an important clue for future variant prioritization. One such intronic exon-creating variant was found in three unrelated families in the complex I assembly factor TIMMDC1, which we consequently established as a novel disease-associated gene. In conclusion, our study expands the diagnostic tools for detecting non-exonic variants of Mendelian disorders and provides examples of intronic loss-of-function variants with pathological relevance.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066738', [], [u'Institute of Human Genetics, Helmholtz Center Munich, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany;', u'Department of Informatics, Technical University of Munich, 85748 Garching, Germany;', u'Department of Proteomics and Signal Transduction, MPI of Biochemistry, 82152 Martinsried, Germany;', u'Institute of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Helmholtz Center Munich, 85764 Neuherberg,Germany;', u'Institute of Experimental Genetics, Genome Analysis Center, Helmholtz Center Munich, Neuherberg;', u'Neuropaediatrie, Neonatologie, 78050 Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany;', u'INSERM U1163, Universite Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cite, Institut Imagine, 75015 Paris, France;', u"Metabolic Unit, A. Meyer Children's Hospital, Florence, Italy;", u'Unit of Molecular Neurogenetics, Neurological Institute Carlo Besta, Milan, Italy;', u'INSERM UMR 1016, Institut Cochin, Paris, France;', u'Genetikum, Genetic Counseling and Diagnostics, 89231 Neu-Ulm, Germany;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial Research, Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University,UK;', u'Department of Pediatrics, Paracelsus Medical University, A-5020 Salzburg, Austria;', u'Department of Pediatrics, Klinikum Reutlingen, 72764 Reutlingen, Germany;', u'Department of General Pediatrics, Neonatology and Pediatric Cardiology, Duesseldorf, Germany']]
[u'A statistical definition for reproducibility and replicability', ['Prasad Patil', 'Roger D. Peng', 'Jeffrey Leek'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'Everyone agrees that reproducibility and replicability are fundamental characteristics of scientific studies. These topics are attracting increasing attention, scrutiny, and debate both in the popular press and the scientific literature. But there are no formal statistical definitions for these concepts, which leads to confusion since the same words are used for different concepts by different people in different fields. We provide formal and informal definitions of scientific studies, reproducibility, and replicability that can be used to clarify discussions around these concepts in the scientific and popular press.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066803', [], [u'Johns Hopkins Biostatistics;', u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health']]
[u'Independent modes of ganglion cell translocation ensure correct lamination of the zebrafish retina', ['Jaroslav Icha', 'Christiane Grunert', 'Mauricio Rocha-Martins', 'Caren Norden'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'The arrangement of neurons into distinct layers is critical for neuronal connectivity and function of the nervous system. During development, most neurons move from their birthplace to the appropriate layer, where they polarize. However, kinetics and modes of many neuronal translocation events still await exploration. Here, we investigate ganglion cell (RGC) translocation across the embryonic zebrafish retina. After completing their translocation, RGCs establish the most basal retinal layer where they form the optic nerve. Using in toto light sheet microscopy, we show that somal translocation of RGCs is a fast and directed event. It depends on basal process attachment and stabilized microtubules. Interestingly, interference with somal translocation induces a switch to multipolar migration. This multipolar mode is less efficient but still leads to successful RGC layer formation. When both modes are inhibited, RGCs that fail to translocate induce lamination defects, indicating that correct RGC translocation is crucial for subsequent retinal lamination.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066761', [], [u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics;', u'MPI of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics']]
[u'The effect of crack cocaine addiction on the microstructure and morphology of the human striatum and thalamus using novel shape analysis and fast diffusion kurtosis imaging.', ['Eduardo A. Garza-Villarreal', 'M Mallar Chakravarty', 'Brian Hansen', 'Simon F Eskildsen', 'Gabriel A. Devenyi', 'Diana Castillo-Padilla', 'Thania Balducci-Garcia', 'Ernesto Reyes-Zamorano', 'Sune N Jespersen', 'Pamela Perez-Palacios', 'Raihaan Patel', 'Jorge J Gonzalez-Olvera'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'The striatum and thalamus are subcortical structures intimately involved in addiction, and the morphology and microstructure of these has been studied in murine models of cocaine addiction. However, human studies using non-invasive MRI has shown inconsistencies in morphology using volumetric analysis. In our study, we used MRI-based volumetric and novel shape analysis, as well as a novel fast diffusion kurtosis imaging sequence to study the morphology and microstructure of striatum and thalamus in crack cocaine addiction (CA) compared to matched healthy controls (HC). We did not find significant differences in volume and mean kurtosis (MKT) between groups. However, we found significant contraction of nucleus accumbens in CA compared to HC. We also found significant age related changes in volume and MKT of CA in striatum and thalamus that are contrary to those seen in normal brain aging. Our findings suggest that the use of finer methods and sequences is needed to characterize morphological and microstructural changes in cocaine addiction, and that brain changes in cocaine addiction are related to age.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066647', [], [u'CONACYT Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatria;', u'Douglas Mental Health University Institute;', u'University of Aarhus;', u'Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatria;', u'Universidad Anahuac Mexico Sur;', u'Instituto Nacional de Psiquitria']]
[u'Inconsistencies in C. elegans behavioural annotation', ['Balazs Szigeti', 'Thomas Stone', 'Barbara Webb'], u'July 29, 2016.', u"High quality behavioural annotation is a key component to link genes to behaviour, yet relatively little attention has been paid to check the consistency of various automated methods and expert judgement. In this paper we investigate the consistency of annotation for the \u2018Omega turn\u2019 of C. elegans, which is a frequently used behavioural assay for this animal. First the output of four Omega detection algorithms are examined for the same data set, and shown to have relative low consistency, with F-scores around 0.5. Consistency of expert annotation is then analysed, based on an online survey combining two methods: participants judged a fixed set of predetermined clips; and an adaptive psychophysical procedure was used to estimate individual's threshold for Omega turn detection. This survey also revealed a substantial lack of consistency in decisions and thresholds. Such inconsistency makes cross-publication comparison difficult and raises issues of reproducibility.", u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066787', [], [u'Neuroinformatics Doctoral Training Centre, University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Bright photoactivatable fluorophores for single-molecule imaging', ['Luke D Lavis', 'Jonathan B Grimm', 'Brian P English', 'Heejun Choi', 'Anand K Muthusamy', 'Brian P Mehl', 'Peng Dong', 'Timothy A Brown', 'Jennifer Lippincott-Schwartz', 'Zhe Liu', 'Timothee Lionnet'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'Small molecule fluorophores are important tools for advanced imaging experiments. The development of self-labeling protein tags such as the HaloTag and SNAP-tag has expanded the utility of chemical dyes in live-cell microscopy. We recently described a general method for improving the brightness and photostability of small, cell-permeable fluorophores, resulting in the novel azetidine-containing "Janelia Fluor" (JF) dyes. Here, we refine and extend the utility of the JF dyes by synthesizing photoactivatable derivatives that are compatible with live cell labeling strategies. These compounds retain the superior brightness of the JF dyes once activated, but their facile photoactivation also enables improved single-particle tracking and localization microscopy experiments.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066779', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Janelia Research Campus, HHMI']]
[u'Cross-scale dynamics and the evolutionary emergence of infectious diseases', ['Sebastian J. Schreiber', 'Ruian Ke', 'Claude Loverdo', 'Miran Park', 'Priyanna Ahsan', 'James O. Lloyd-Smith'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'When emerging pathogens encounter new host species for which they are poorly adapted, they must evolve to escape extinction. Pathogens experience selection on traits at multiple scales, including replication rates within host individuals and transmissibility between individuals.  We introduce and analyze a stochastic, multi-scale model linking pathogen growth and competition within individuals to transmission between individuals.  Our analysis reveals a new factor that quantifies how quickly mutant strains increase in frequency when they initially appear in the infected host population. This cross-scale quantity combines with viral mutation rates, reproductive numbers, and transmission bottleneck width to determine the likelihood of evolutionary emergence, and whether evolution occurs swiftly or gradually within chains of transmission. Wider transmission bottlenecks facilitate emergence of pathogens with short-term infections, but hinder emergence of pathogens exhibiting cross-scale selective conflict and long-term infections. These results provide a framework for a new generation of evidence-based risk assessment of emergence threats.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066688', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of California, Davis;', u'North Carolina State University;', u'Laboratoire Jean Perrin, UPMC, CNRS;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Examining the occupancy-density relationship for a low density carnivore', ['Daniel W. Linden', 'Angela K. Fuller', 'J. Andrew Royle', 'Matthew P. Hare'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'1. The challenges associated with monitoring low-density carnivores across large landscapes have limited the ability to implement and evaluate conservation and management strategies for such species.  Noninvasive sampling techniques and advanced statistical approaches have alleviated some of these challenges and can even allow for spatially explicit estimates of density, arguably the most valuable wildlife monitoring tool.  \n2. For some species, individual identification comes at no cost when unique attributes (e.g., pelage patterns) can be discerned with remote cameras, while other species require viable genetic material and expensive lab processing for individual assignment.  Prohibitive costs may still force monitoring efforts to use species distribution or occupancy as a surrogate for density, which may not be appropriate under many conditions.  \n3. Here, we used a large-scale monitoring study of fisher Pekania pennanti to evaluate the effectiveness of occupancy as an approximation to density, particularly for informing harvest management decisions.  We used a combination of remote cameras and baited hair snares during 2013-2015 to sample across a 70,096 km2 region of western New York, USA.  We fit occupancy and Royle-Nichols models to species detection-nondetection data collected by cameras, and spatial capture-recapture models to individual encounter data obtained by genotyped hair samples.  \n4.\tWe found a close relationship between grid-cell estimates of fisher state variables from the models using detection-nondetection data and those from the SCR model, likely due to informative spatial covariates across a large landscape extent and a grid cell resolution that worked well with the movement ecology of the species.  Spatially-explicit management recommendations for fisher were similar across models.  We discuss design-based approaches to occupancy studies that can improve approximations to density.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066662', [u'Ecology'], [u'Cornell University;', u'USGS; Cornell University;', u'USGS; Patuxent Wildlife Research Center']]
[u'Optimizing for generalization in the decoding of internally generated activity in the hippocampus', ['Matthijs van der Meer', 'Alyssa A Carey', 'Youki Tanaka'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'The decoding of a sensory or motor variable from neural activity benefits from a known ground truth against which decoding performance can be compared. In contrast, the decoding of covert, cognitive neural activity, such as occurs in memory recall or planning, typically cannot be compared to a known ground truth. As a result, it is unclear how decoders of such internally generated activity should be configured in practice. We suggest that if the true code for covert activity is unknown, decoders should be optimized for generalization performance using cross-validation. Using ensemble recording data from hippocampal place cells, we show that this cross-validation approach results in different decoding error, different optimal decoding parameters, and different distributions of error across the decoded variable space. In addition, we show that a minor modification to the commonly used Bayesian decoding procedure, which enables the use of spike density functions, results in substantially lower decoding errors. These results have implications for the interpretation of covert neural activity, and suggest easy-to-implement changes to commonly used procedures across domains, with applications to hippocampal place cells in particular.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066670', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'Receptive field formation by interacting excitatory and inhibitory synaptic plasticity', ['Claudia Clopath', 'Tim P Vogels', 'Robert C Froemke', 'Henning Sprekeler'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'The stimulus selectivity of synaptic currents in cortical neurons often shows a co-tuning of excitation and inhibition, but the mechanisms that underlie the emergence and plasticity of this co-tuning are not fully understood. Using a computational model, we show that an interaction of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic plasticity reproduces both the developmental and - when combined with a disinhibitory gate - the adult plasticity of excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields in auditory cortex. The co-tuning arises from inhibitory plasticity that balances excitation and inhibition, while excitatory stimulus selectivity can result from two different mechanisms. Inhibitory inputs with a broad stimulus tuning introduce a sliding threshold as in Bienenstock-Cooper-Munro rules, introducing an excitatory stimulus selectivity at the cost of a broader inhibitory receptive field. Alternatively, input asymmetries can be amplified by synaptic competition. The latter leaves any receptive field plasticity transient, a prediction we verify in recordings in auditory cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066589', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Oxford;', u'New York University School of Medicine;', u'Technical University Berlin']]
[u'Posterior parietal cortex guides visual decisions in rats', ['Angela M. Licata', 'Matthew T. Kaufman', 'David Raposo', 'Michael B. Ryan', 'John P. Sheppard', 'Anne K. Churchland'], u'July 29, 2016.', u'Neurons in putative decision-making structures can reflect both sensory and decision signals, making their causal role in decisions unclear. Here, we tested whether rat posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is causal for processing visual sensory signals or instead for accumulating evidence for decision alternatives. We optogenetically disrupted PPC activity during decision-making and compared effects on decisions guided by auditory vs. visual evidence. Deficits were largely restricted to visual decisions. To further test for visual dominance in PPC, we evaluated electrophysiological responses following individual sensory events and observed much larger responses following visual stimuli than auditory stimuli. Finally, we measured spike count variability during stimulus presentation and decision formation. This sharply decreased, suggesting the network is stabilized by inputs, unlike what would be expected if sensory signals were locally accumulated.  Our findings argue that PPC plays a causal role in discriminating visual signals that are accumulated elsewhere.', u'/content/early/2016/07/29/066639', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Champalimaud Neuroscience Programme, Lisboa;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Northwestern University']]
