[u'Verticillium dahliae LysM effectors differentially contribute to virulence on plant hosts', ['Anja Kombrink', 'Hanna Rovenich', 'Xiaoqian Shi-Kunne', 'Eduardo Rojas-Padilla', 'Grardy van den Berg', 'Emmanouil Domazakis', 'Ronnie de Jonge', 'Dirk-Jan Valkenburg', 'Andrea Sanchez-Vallet', 'Michael Seidl', 'Bart Thomma'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'Chitin-binding LysM effectors contribute to virulence of various plant pathogenic fungi that are causal agents of foliar diseases. Here, we report on LysM effectors of the soil-borne fungal vascular wilt pathogen Verticillium dahliae. Comparative genomics revealed three core LysM effectors that are conserved in a collection of V. dahliae strains. Remarkably, and in contrast to the previously studied LysM effectors of other plant pathogens, no expression of core LysM effectors was monitored in planta in a taxonomically diverse panel of host plants. Moreover, targeted deletion of the individual LysM effector genes in V. dahliae strain JR2 did not compromise virulence in infections on Arabidopsis, tomato or Nicotiana benthamiana. Interestingly, an additional lineage-specific LysM effector is encoded in the genome of V. dahliae strain VdLs17 but not in any other V. dahliae strain sequenced to date. Remarkably, this lineage-specific effector is expressed in planta and contributes to virulence of V. dahliae strain VdLs17 on tomato, but not on Arabidopsis or on N. benthamiana. Functional analysis revealed that this LysM effector binds chitin, is able to suppress chitin-induced immune responses, and protects fungal hyphae against hydrolysis by plant hydrolytic enzymes. Thus, in contrast to the core LysM effectors of V. dahliae, this lineage-specific LysM effector of strain VdLs17 contributes to virulence in planta.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085894', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Wageningen University']]
[u'Social ecology of a woodland songbird community: from individual movements to the emergence of population social structure', ['Damien R Farine', 'Ben C Sheldon'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'Social structure can have profound evolutionary and ecological implications for animal populations. Structure can arise and be maintained via social preferences or be indirectly shaped by habitat structure. Quantifying the drivers of social structure is important to understand how social networks can shape evolutionary landscapes. Here, we study a large community of wild birds fitted with uniquely-coded passive integrated transponder (PIT) tags and recorded on a grid of automated feeders fitted with radio frequency identification (RFID) antennae. These data reveal that preferred movement pathways between sites that are consistent between years and not predicted by habitat features alone drive between-year consistent multi-level community structure in the social network. Our study highlights how ecological factors can shape social structure at the population scale, which has widespread implications for understanding eco-evolutionary dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085944', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Ornithology;', u'Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Harnessing the lymphocyte meta-phenotype to optimize adoptive cell therapy', ['Andreas Buttenschoen', 'Asmaa Elkenawi', 'Fadoua El Moustaid', 'Alexander Fletcher', 'Clemens Grassberger', 'Eunjung Kim', 'Andriy Marusyk', 'Harry-Luke McClelland', 'Daria Miroshnychenko', 'Daniel Nichol', 'John Mullinax', "Cliona O'Farrely", 'Jacob Scott'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'There is an urgent need for reliable effective therapy for patients with metastatic sarcoma. Approaches that manipulate the immune system have shown promise for patients with advanced, widely disseminated malignancies. One of these approaches is adoptive cell therapy (ACT), where tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) are isolated from the tumor, expanded ex vivo, and then transferred back to the patient. This approach has shown great promise in melanoma, leading to an objective response in approximately half of treated patients [14]. Standard protocols involve characterization of TIL populations with respect to adaptive CD4+ and CD8+ T-lymphocytes, but neglect the possible role of the innate lymphoid repertoire. Due to toxicity and the high cost associated with ACT, the IFN-\u03b3 release assay is currently used as a proxy to identify suitable TIL isolates for ACT. Efforts in TIL-ACT for sarcoma, which are pre-clinical and pioneered at Moffitt Cancer Center, have shown that only a minority of the TIL cultures show tumor specific activity in ex vivo IFN-\u03b3 assays. Surprisingly, internal melanoma trial data reveal a lack of correlation between IFN-\u03b3 assay and clinical outcomes, highlighting the need for a more reliable proxy. We hypothesize the existence of a predictable TIL meta-phenotype that leads to optimal tumor response. Here, we describe preliminary efforts to integrate prospective and existing patient data with mathematical models to optimize the TIL meta-phenotype prior to re-injection.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085910', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Alberta;', u'Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute;', u'Virginia Tech;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Washington University;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Trinity College Dublin;', u'Cleveland Clinic']]
[u'Large-scale Population Genotyping from Low-coverage Sequencing Data using a Reference Panel', ['Lin Huang', 'Petr Danecek', 'Sivan Bercovici', 'Serafim Batzoglou'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'In recent years, several large-scale whole-genome sequencing projects were completed, including the 1000 Genomes Project, and the UK10K Cohorts Project. These projects aim to provide high-quality genotypes for a large number of whole genomes in a cost-efficient manner, by sequencing each genome at low coverage and subsequently identifying alleles jointly in the entire cohort. The resulting variant data are critical for the characterization of human genome variation within and across populations in the original projects, and for many downstream applications such as genome-wide association studies. The same datasets carry the potential to increase the quality of genotype calling in other low-coverage sequencing data in future sequencing projects, because the existing genotype calls capture the linkage disequilibrium structures of the cohorts they represent. In this paper we present reference-based Reveel (or Ref-Reveel in short), a novel method for large-scale population genotyping. Ref-Reveel is based on our earlier method, Reveel, which has been demonstrated to be an effective tool for variant calling from low-coverage sequencing data. Ref-Reveel leverages genotype calls from a sequenced cohort to boost the genotyping quality of new datasets, while maintaining high computational efficiency. We show that using a reference panel improves the quality of genotype calling via extensive experiments on simulated as well as real whole-genome data. Ref-Reveel is publicly and freely available at http://reveel.stanford.edu.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085936', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Quark enables semi-reference-based compression of RNA-seq data', ['Hirak Sarkar', 'Rob Patro'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'Motivation: The past decade has seen an exponential increase in biological sequencing capacity, and there has been a simultaneous effort to help organize and archive some of the vast quantities of sequencing data that are being generated.  While these developments are tremendous from the perspective of maximizing the scientific utility of available data, they come with heavy costs.  The storage and transmission of such vast amounts of sequencing data is expensive.  Results: We present Quark, a semi reference-based compression tool designed for RNA-seq data.  Quark makes use of a reference sequence when encoding reads, but produces a representation that can be decoded independently, without the need for a reference.  This allows Quark to achieve markedly better compression rates than existing reference-free schemes, while still relieving the burden of assuming a specific, shared reference sequence between the encoder and decoder.  We demonstrate that Quark achieves state-of-the-art compression rates, and that, typically, only a small fraction of the reference sequence must be encoded along with the reads to allow reference-free decompression.  Availability: Quark is implemented in C++11, and is available under a GPLv3 license at www.github.com/COMBINE-lab/quark.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085878', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'Cis-Compound Mutations are Prevalent in Triple Negative Breast Cancer and Can Drive Tumor Progression', ['Nao Hiranuma', 'Jie Liu', 'Chaozhong Song', 'Jacob Goldsmith', 'Michael Dorschner', 'Colin Pritchard', 'Kimberly Burton', 'Elisabeth Mahen', 'Sibel Blau', 'Francis Senecal', 'Wayne Monsky', 'Stephanie Parker', 'Stephen Schmechel', 'Stephen Allison', 'VK Gadi', 'Sofie Salama', 'Amie Radenbaugh', 'Mary Goldman', 'Jill Johnsen', 'Shelly Heimfeld', 'Vitalina Komashko', 'Marissa LaMadrid-Hermannsfeldt', 'Zhijun Duan', 'Steven Benz', 'Patrick Soon-Shiong', 'David Haussler', 'Jingchun Zhu', 'Walter Ruzzo', 'William Noble', 'C. Anthony Blau'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'About 16% of breast cancers fall into a clinically aggressive category designated triple negative (TNBC) due to a lack of ERBB2, estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor expression1-3. The mutational spectrum of TNBC has been characterized as part of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA)4; however, snapshots of primary tumors cannot reveal the mechanisms by which TNBCs progress and spread. To address this limitation we initiated the Intensive Trial of OMics in Cancer (ITOMIC)-001, in which patients with metastatic TNBC undergo multiple biopsies over space and time5. Whole exome sequencing (WES) of 67 samples from 11 patients identified 426 genes containing multiple distinct single nucleotide variants (SNVs) within the same sample, instances we term Multiple SNVs affecting the Same Gene and Sample (MSSGS). We find that >90% of MSSGS result from cis-compound mutations (in which both SNVs affect the same allele), that MSSGS comprised of SNVs affecting adjacent nucleotides arise from single mutational events, and that most other MSSGS result from the sequential acquisition of SNVs. Some MSSGS drive cancer progression, as exemplified by a TNBC driven by FGFR2(S252W;Y375C). MSSGS are more prevalent in TNBC than other breast cancer subtypes and occur at higher-than-expected frequencies across TNBC samples within TCGA. MSSGS may denote genes that play as yet unrecognized roles in cancer progression.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085316', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'Northwest Medical Specialties;', u'University of California Santa Cruz;', u'Bloodworks Northwest;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Trialomics;', u'NantOmics;', u'Nantworks']]
[u'The origin and evolution of a pandemic lineage of the kiwifruit pathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae', ['Honour C McCann', 'Li Li', 'Yifei Liu', 'Dawei Li', 'Pan Hui', 'Canhong Zhong', 'Erik Rikkerink', 'Matthew Templeton', 'Christina Straub', 'Elena Colombi', 'Paul B Rainey', 'Hongwen Huang'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'Recurring epidemics of kiwifruit (Actinidia sp.) bleeding canker disease are caused by Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae (Psa), whose emergence has coincided with domestication of its host.  The most recent pandemic has had a deleterious effect on kiwifruit production worldwide. In order to strengthen understanding of population structure, phylogeography and evolutionary dynamics of Psa, we isolated Psa from cultivated kiwifruit across six provinces in China. No Psa was isolated from wild Actinidia spp. Genome sequencing of fifty isolates and the inclusion of an additional thirty from previous studies show that China is the origin of the recently emerged pandemic lineage. However China harbours only a fraction of global Psa diversity, with greatest diversity found in Korea and Japan. Distinct transmission events were responsible for introduction of the pandemic lineage of Psa into New Zealand, Chile and Europe. Two independent transmission events occurred between China and Korea, and two Japanese isolates from 2014 cluster with New Zealand Psa. Despite high similarity at the level of the core genome and negligible impact of within-lineage recombination, there has been substantial gene gain and loss even within the single clade from which the global pandemic arose.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085613', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study, Massey University;', u'Wuhan Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'South China Botanical Garden, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'New Zealand Institute for Plant and Food Research;', u'Ecole Sup\xe9rieure de Physique et de Chimie Industrielles de la Ville de Paris']]
[u'The Utility of Red Cell Distribution Width as a Parameter for Calculating Indices of Allostatic Load', ['Ghalib A Bello', 'Gerard Dumancas'], u'November 5, 2016.', u"Background:  Allostatic Load is a construct used to quantify the cumulative burden of exposure to stressors that, over the course of an individual's life, exert a toll on the body's physiological functions, increasing risks of various chronic ailments and conditions. Studies attempting to quantify allostatic load have used a variety of clinical biomarkers representing primary and secondary mediators. In this study, we demonstrate the value of including red blood cell distribution width (RDW) among the panel of clinical parameters used to calculate allostatic load.  Methods: We develop a novel formulation of allostatic load using RDW and other standard biomarkers. This index is computed using clinical laboratory data from the NHANES study. The predictive validity of the new index for tertiary outcomes (all-cause mortality and physician-assessed health status) is compared to that of the current formulation using Harrell's C index, ROC analysis and regression-based goodness-of-fit measures.  Results: Inclusion of RDW as an allostatic load biomarker yields a significantly improved index. It demonstrates a superior ability to predict mortality, health status and biological age than the standard formulation currently in use.  Conclusion: RDW has shown strong correlations with mortality and a broad spectrum of diseases. A review of the existing literature on allostatic load reveals its underutilization in this area, despite being a standard component of blood count panels. This study is the first to demonstrate its usefulness as a potential allostatic load biomarker.", u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085373', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Louisiana State University - Alexandria']]
[u'A mathematical approach to correlating objective spectro-temporal features of environmental sounds with their subjective perceptions.', ['Thomas F Burns', 'Ramesh Rajan'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'Many studies on the subjective perception of non-linguistic sounds have focused on only a single percept, e.g. pleasantness,. In the present study, we have examined three different perception-related factors to also allow us to look at any inter-relationships between them that could be related to objective features. Objective features of the NLSs in this database were calculated and subjective perceptions were recorded from participants. These two elements - objective features and subjective perceptions - were then mapped together using various statistical and mathematical techniques. So as to ground our results in a meaningful context, we chose to map a set of objective features to human percepts which had been used in previous studies of NLS perception, but which had not yet been related back to objective features or combinations thereof.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085621', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University']]
[u'Genome-Wide Fitness Analyses of the Foodborne Pathogen Campylobacter jejuni in In Vitro and In Vivo Models', ['Stefan de Vries', 'Srishti Gupta', 'Abiyad Baig', 'Elli Wright', 'Amy Wedley', 'Annette Nygaard Jensen', 'Lizeth LaCharme Lora', 'Suzanne Humphrey', 'Henrik Skovgard', 'Kareen Macleod', 'Elsa Pont', 'Dominika Wolanska', "Joanna L'Heureux", 'Fredrick Mobegi', 'David Smith', 'Paul Everest', 'Aldert Zomer', 'Nicola Williams', 'Paul Wigley', 'Thomas Humphrey', 'Duncan Maskell', 'Andrew Grant'], u'November 5, 2016.', u'Infection by Campylobacter is recognised as the most common cause of foodborne bacterial illness worldwide. Faecal contamination of meat, especially chicken, during processing represents a key route of transmission to humans. There is currently no licenced vaccine and no Campylobacter-resistant chickens. In addition, preventative measures aimed at reducing environmental contamination and exposure of chickens to Campylobacter jejuni (biosecurity) have been ineffective. There is much interest in the factors/mechanisms that drive C. jejuni colonisation and infection of animals, and survival in the environment. It is anticipated that understanding these mechanisms will guide the development of effective intervention strategies to reduce the burden of C. jejuni infection. Here we present a comprehensive analysis of C. jejuni fitness during growth and survival within and outside hosts. A comparative analysis of transposon (Tn) gene inactivation libraries in three C. jejuni strains by Tn-seq demonstrated that a large proportion, 331 genes, of the C. jejuni genome is dedicated to (in vitro) growth. An extensive Tn library in C. jejuni M1cam (~10,000 mutants) was screened for the colonisation of commercial broiler chickens, survival in houseflies and under nutrient-rich and -poor conditions at low temperature, and infection of human gut epithelial cells. We report C. jejuni factors essential throughout its life cycle and we have identified genes that fulfil important roles across multiple conditions, including maf3, fliW, fliD, pflB and capM, as well as novel genes uniquely implicated in survival outside hosts. Taking a comprehensive screening approach has confirmed previous studies, that the flagella are central to the ability of C. jejuni to interact with its hosts. Future efforts should focus on how to exploit this knowledge to effectively control infections caused by C. jejuni.', u'/content/early/2016/11/05/085720', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Liverpool;', u'Technical University of Denmark;', u'University of Aarhus;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'Radboud University Medical Centre;', u'Heriot-Watt University;', u'Utrecht University;', u'Swansea University']]
