[u'Robust nonparametric descriptors for clustering quantification in single-molecule localization microscopy', ['Shenghang Jiang', 'Sai Divya Challapalli', 'Yong Wang'], u'August 24, 2016.', u"We report a robust nonparametric descriptor, J'(r), for quantifying the spatial organization of molecules in single-molecule localization microscopy. J'(r), based on nearest neighbor distribution functions, does not require any parameter as an input for analyzing point patterns. We show that J'(r) displays a valley shape in the presence of clusters of molecules, and the characteristics of the valley reliably report the clustering features in the data. More importantly, the position of the J'(r) valley (rJ'm) depends exclusively on the density of clustering molecules (\u03c1c). Therefore, it is ideal for direct measurements of clustering density of molecules in single-molecule localization microscopy. We demonstrate that the rJ'm-\u03c1c relation is robust against noises at high levels. We exploited this relation to characterize the clustering of H-NS proteins in E. coli bacteria, and measured that density of H-NS clusters increases by 27% upon cold shock.", u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071381', [], [u'University of Arkansas']]
[u'Newborn chicks show inherited variability in early social predispositions for hen-like stimuli', ['Elisabetta Versace', 'Ilaria Fracasso', 'Gabriele Baldan', 'Antonella Dalle Zotte', 'Giorgio Vallortigara'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Predispositions of newborn vertebrates to preferentially attend to living beings and learn about them are pervasive. Their disturbance (e.g. in human neonates at risk for autism), may compromise the proper development of a social brain. The genetic bases of such predispositions are unknown. Here we take advantage of well-known visual preferences exhibited by newly-hatched domestic chicks (Gallus gallus) for the head/neck region of their mother hen, to investigate the presence of segregating variation in the predispositions to approach a stuffed hen vs. a scrambled version of it. We compared the spontaneous preferences of three different breeds that have been maintained genetically isolated for at least eighteen years and identically raised in the same farm. Visually-na&iumlve chicks of all the three tested breeds (Padovana, Polverara and Robusta maculata) showed the same initial preference for the predisposed stimulus, suggesting that the direction of the initial preference might be genetically fixed. A few minutes later though, striking differences emerged between breeds, which could indicate early different strategies of dealing with affiliative objects: while the Polverara breed maintained a constant preference across the entire test, the Padovana and Robusta breeds progressively explored the alternative stimulus more. We argue that exploration of novelty might help chicks to look for responsive parental objects and to form a more structured representation of the mother hen. We hence documented the presence of inherited genetic variability for early social predisposition in interaction with environmental stimuli.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071456', [], [u'Center for Mind/Brain Sciences, University of Trento;', u'Department of Animal Medicine, Production and Health, University of Padova;', u'Istituto Istruzione Superiore Agraria Duca degli Abruzzi, Padova (Italy)']]
[u'Modeling time-series data from microbial communities', ['Benjamin J Ridenhour', 'Sarah L Brooker', 'Janet E Williams', 'James T Van Leuven', 'Aaron W Miller', 'M Denise Dearing', 'Christopher H Remien'], u'August 24, 2016.', u"As sequencing technologies have advanced, the amount of information regarding the composition of bacterial communities from various environments (e.g. skin, soil) has grown exponentially. To date, most work has focused on cataloging taxa present in samples and determining whether the distribution of taxa shifts with exogenous covariates. However, important questions regarding how taxa interact with each other and their environment remain open, thus preventing in-depth ecological understanding of microbiomes. Time-series data from 16S rDNA amplicon sequencing are becoming more common within microbial ecology, but given the `big data' nature of these studies, there are currently no methods capable of utilizing the breadth of the data to infer ecological interactions from these longitudinal data. We address this gap by presenting a method of analysis using Poisson regression fit with an elastic-net penalty that 1) takes advantage of the fact that the data are time series; 2) constrains estimates to allow for the possibility of many more interactions than data; and 3) is scalable enough to handle data consisting of thousands of taxa. We test the method on gut microbiome data from white-throated woodrats (Neotoma albigula) that were fed varying amounts of the plant secondary compound oxalate over a period of 22 days to estimate interactions between OTUs and their environment.", u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071449', [], [u'University of Idaho;', u'University of Utah']]
[u'Numerical Analysis of the Immersed Boundary Method for Cell-Based Simulation', ['Fergus R Cooper', 'Ruth E Baker', 'Alexander George Fletcher'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Mathematical modelling provides a useful framework within which to investigate the organization of biological tissues. With advances in experimental biology leading to increasingly detailed descriptions of cellular behaviour, models that consider cells as individual objects are becoming a common tool to study how processes at the single-cell level affect collective dynamics and determine tissue size, shape and function. However, there often remains no comprehensive account of these models, their method of solution, computational implementation or analysis of parameter scaling, hindering our ability to utilise and accurately compare different models. Here we present an efficient, open-source implementation of the immersed boundary method (IBM), tailored to simulate the dynamics of cell populations. This approach considers the dynamics of elastic membranes, representing cell boundaries, immersed in a viscous Newtonian fluid. The IBM enables complex and emergent cell shape dynamics, spatially heterogeneous cell properties and precise control of growth mechanisms. We solve the model numerically using an established algorithm, based on the fast Fourier transform, providing full details of all technical aspects of our implementation. The implementation is undertaken within Chaste, an open-source C++ library that allows one to easily change constitutive assumptions. Our implementation scales linearly with time step, and subquadratically with mesh spacing and immersed boundary node spacing. We identify the relationship between the immersed boundary node spacing and fluid mesh spacing required to ensure fluid volume conservation within immersed boundaries, and the scaling of cell membrane stiffness and cell-cell interaction strength required when refining the immersed boundary discretization. This study provides a recipe allowing consistent parametrisation of IBM models.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071423', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'Identification of Klebsiella capsule synthesis loci from whole genome data', ['Kelly Wyres', 'Ryan R Wick', 'Claire Gorrie', 'Adam Jenney', 'Rainer Follador', 'Nicholas R Thomson', 'Kathryn E Holt'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Background: Klebsiella pneumoniae and close relatives are a growing cause of healthcare-associated infections for which increasing rates of multi-drug resistance are a major concern. The Klebsiella polysaccharide capsule is a major virulence determinant and epidemiological marker. However, little is known about capsule epidemiology since serological typing is not widely accessible, and many isolates are serologically non-typeable. Molecular methods for capsular typing are needed, but existing methods lack sensitivity and specificity and fail to take advantage of the information available in whole-genome sequence data, which is increasingly being generated for surveillance and investigation of Klebsiella.\n\nMethods: We investigated the diversity of capsule synthesis loci (K loci) among a large, diverse collection of 2503 genome sequences of K. pneumoniae and closely related species. We incorporated analyses of both full-length K locus DNA sequences and clustered protein coding sequences to identify, annotate and compare K locus structures, and we propose a novel method for identifying K loci based on full locus information extracted from whole genome sequences.\n\nResults: A total of 134 distinct K loci were identified, including 31 novel types. Comparative analysis of K locus gene content detected 508 unique protein coding gene clusters that appear to reassort via homologous recombination, generating novel K locus types. Extensive nucleotide diversity was detected among the wzi and wzc genes, both within and between K loci, indicating that current typing schemes based on these genes are inadequate. As a solution, we introduce Kaptive, a novel software tool that automates the process of identifying K loci from large sets of Klebsiella genomes based on full locus information.\n\nConclusions: This work highlights the extensive diversity of Klebsiella K loci and the proteins that they encode. We propose a standardised K locus nomenclature for Klebsiella, present a curated reference database of all known K loci, and introduce a tool for identifying K loci from genome data (https://github.com/katholt/Kaptive). These developments constitute important new resources for the Klebsiella community for use in genomic surveillance and epidemiology.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071415', [], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'The Alfred Hospital;', u'LimmaTech Biologics;', u'Sanger']]
[u'Representational models: A common framework for understanding encoding, pattern-component, and representational-similarity analysis', ['Joern Diedrichsen', 'Nikolaus Kriegeskorte'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Representational models explain how activity patterns in populations of neurons (or, more generally, in multivariate brain activity measurements) relate to sensory stimuli, motor actions, or cognitive processes. In an experimental context, representational models can be defined as probabilistic hypotheses about what activation profiles across experimental conditions are likely to be observed. We describe three methods to test such models - encoding approaches, pattern component modeling (PCM), and representational similarity analysis (RSA). We show that these methods are closely related in that they evaluate the statistical second moment of the activity profile distribution. Using simulated data from three different fMRI experiments, we compare the power of the approaches to adjudicate between competing representational models. PCM implements a likelihood-ratio test and therefore constitutes the most powerful test if its assumptions hold. However, the other two approaches - when conducted appropriately - can perform similarly. In encoding approaches, the linear model needs to be appropriately regularized, which imposes a prior on the activity profiles. Without such a prior, encoding approaches do not test well-defined representational models. In RSA, the unequal variances and dependencies of the distance measures need to be taken into account to enable near-optimal inference. The three techniques render different aspects of the information explicit (e.g. single response tuning in encoding approaches and population representational dissimilarity in RSA) and have specific advantages in terms of computational demands, ease of use, and extensibility. We argue that they constitute complementary parts of the same computational toolkit aimed at understanding neural representations on the basis of multivariate brain-activity data.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071472', [], [u'Western University;', u'Medical Research Council, Cambridge University']]
[u"Unlocked capacity of proteins to attack membranes characteristic of aggregation: the evil for diseases and aging from Pandora's box", ['Liangzhong Lim', 'Yimei Lu', 'Jianxing Song'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Aggregation of specific proteins is characteristic of a large spectrum of human diseases including all neurodegenerative diseases, while aggregation of non-specific proteins has been now identified to be a biomarker for cellular aging down to Escherichia coli. Previously, as facilitated with our discovery in 2005 that completely insoluble proteins could be all solubilized in unsalted water [Song (2009) FEBS Lett. 583: 953], we found that the TDP-43 prion-like domain in fact contains an intrinsic membrane-interacting subdomain [Lim et al. [2016] PLoS Biol. 14, e1002338]. We decrypted that ALS-causing mutations/cofactor-depletion act to render the well-structured folds of cytosolic VAPB-MSP domain and SOD1 into highly disordered states, thus becoming buffer-insoluble. Most surprisingly, this also unlocks the amphiphilic/hydrophobic regions universally exiting in proteins, which thus acquire a novel capacity in abnormally interacting with membranes [Qin et al. (2013) F1000Res 2-221.v2; Lim (2016) BBA-Biomembranes. 1858: 2223]. Here we aimed extend our discovery to address two fundamental questions: 1) why many E. coli proteins become aggregated in aging; and 2) whether aggregation-prone proteins can also acquire a novel capacity in interacting with membranes; by dissecting the 557-residue S1 ribosomal protein into 7 fragments to disrupt its 6 S1 folds, followed by extensive CD and NMR characterizations. The results reveal that we have successfully eliminated all 6 S1 folds and fragment 4 becomes highly disordered and thus buffer-insoluble. Most strikingly, F4 does acquire a capacity in transforming into a helical conformation in membrane environments. Here, for the first time, our study deciphers that like ALS-causing mutants, the disruption of a well-folded E. coli cytosolic protein also unlocks its amphiphilic/hydrophobic regions which are capable of abnormally interacting with membranes. Therefore, proteins, the most important functional players for all forms of life, can transform into membrane-toxic forms triggering diseases and aging, if their hydrophobic/amphiphilic regions are unlocked by genetic, pathological or/and environmental factors, which is characteristic of severe aggregation.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071274', [u'Biophysics'], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Deciphering the tissue specificity of the protein secretory pathway in humans', ['Amir Feizi', 'Francesco Gatto', 'Mathias Uhlen', 'Jens Nielsen'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Proteins that are components of the secretory machinery form a cellular pathway of paramount importance for physiological regulation, development and function of human tissues. Consistently, most secretory pathway components are ubiquitously expressed in all tissues. At the same time, recent studies identified that the largest fraction of tissue-specific proteins consists of secreted and membrane proteins and not intracellular proteins. This suggests that the secretory pathway is distinctively regulated in a tissue-specific fashion. However, a systematic analysis on how the protein secretory pathway is tuned in different tissues is lacking, and it is even largely unexplored if the secretome and membrane proteome differs in, for example, post-translation modifications across tissues. Here, analyzing publically available transcriptome data across 30 human tissues, we discovered the expression level of key components previously categorized as housekeeping proteins were specifically over-expressed in a certain tissue compared with the average expression of their corresponding secretory pathway subsystem (e.g. protein folding). These extreme genes defines an exceptional fine-tuning in specific subnetworks, which neatly differentiated for example the pancreas and liver from 30 other tissues. Moreover, the subnetwork expression tuning correlated with the nature and number of post translational modification sites in the pancreas or liver-specific secretome and membrane proteome. These patterns were recurrently observed also in other tissues, like the blood, the brain and the skeletal muscle. These findings conciliate both the housekeeping and tissue-specific nature of the protein secretory pathway, which we attribute to a fine-tuned regulation of defined subnetworks in order to support the diversity of secreted proteins and their modifications.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/070870', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Chalmers University of Technology;', u'Molecular Biotechnology, KTH']]
[u'Canu: scalable and accurate long-read assembly via adaptive k-mer weighting and repeat separation', ['Sergey Koren', 'Brian P. Walenz', 'Konstantin Berlin', 'Jason R. Miller', 'Adam M. Phillippy'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Long-read single-molecule sequencing has revolutionized de novo genome assembly and enabled the automated reconstruction of reference-quality genomes. However, given the relatively high error rates of such technologies, efficient and accurate assembly of large repeats and closely related haplotypes remains challenging. We address these issues with Canu, a complete reworking of Celera Assembler that is specifically designed for noisy single-molecule sequences. Canu introduces support for nanopore sequencing, halves depth-of-coverage requirements, and improves assembly continuity while simultaneously reducing runtime by an order of magnitude on large genomes. These advances result from new overlapping and assembly algorithms, including an adaptive overlapping strategy based on tf-idf weighted MinHash and a sparse assembly graph construction that avoids collapsing diverged repeats and haplotypes. We demonstrate that Canu can reliably assemble complete microbial genomes and near-complete eukaryotic chromosomes using either PacBio or Oxford Nanopore technologies, and achieves a contig NG50 of greater than 21 Mbp on both human and Drosophila melanogaster PacBio datasets. For assembly structures that cannot be linearly represented, Canu provides graph-based assembly outputs for analysis or integration with complementary phasing and scaffolding techniques. Canu source code and pre-compiled binaries are freely available under a GPLv2 license from https://github.com/marbl/canu.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071282', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Human Genome Research Institute;', u'Invincea Labs;', u'J. Craig Venter Institute']]
[u'Heme concentration-dependently modulates the production of specific antibodies in murine', ['Guofu Li', 'Haiyan Xue', 'Zeng Fan', 'Yun Bai'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Free heme is an endogenous danger signal to provoke innate immunity. Active innate immunity is a precondition of an effective adaptive immune response. However, heme catabolites, CO, biliverdin and bilirubin trigger immunosuppression. Furthermore, free heme induces the expression of heme oxygenase-1 to reinforce the production of CO, biliverdin and bilirubin. As such, free heme can drive two antagonistic mechanisms to affect adaptive immunity. What is the outcome of animal immune response to an antigen in the presence of free heme? The question remains to be explored. Here we report the immunization results by intraperitoneal injection of the formulations containing BSA and heme. When the used heme concentrations were about less than 1\u03bcM, the production of anti-BSA IgG and IgM was unaffected; when the used heme concentrations were about more than 1\u03bcM but less than 5\u03bcM, the production of anti-BSA IgG and IgM was enhanced; when the used heme concentrations were about more than 5\u03bcM, the production of anti-BSA IgG and IgM was suppressed. The results demonstrate that heme can modulate adaptive immunity (at least humoral immunity) by the mode of double concentration-thresholds. If heme concentrations are below the first threshold, there is no effect on adaptive immunity; if between the first and second thresholds, there is promotive effect; if over the second threshold, there is inhibitive effect. A hypothesis is also presented here to explain the mode.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071316', [u'Immunology'], [u'Sun Yat-Sen University']]
[u'Micro-C XL: assaying chromosome conformation at length scales from the nucleosome to the entire genome', ['Tsung-Han Hsieh', 'Geoffrey Fudenberg', 'Anton Goloborodko', 'Oliver Rando'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Structural analysis of chromosome folding in vivo has been revolutionized by Chromosome Conformation Capture (3C) and related methods, which use proximity ligation to identify chromosomal loci in physical contact. We recently described a variant 3C technique, Micro-C, in which chromatin is fragmented to mononucleosomes using micrococcal nuclease, enabling nucleosome-resolution folding maps of the genome. Here, we describe an improved Micro-C protocol using long crosslinkers, termed Micro-C XL, which exhibits greatly increased signal to noise, and provides further insight into the folding of the yeast genome. We also find that signal to noise is much improved in Micro-C XL libraries generated from relatively insoluble chromatin as opposed to soluble material, providing a simple method to physically enrich for bona-fide long-range interactions. Micro-C XL maps of the budding and fission yeast genomes reveal both short-range chromosome fiber features such as chromosomally-interacting domains (CIDs), as well as higher-order features such as clustering of centromeres and telomeres, thereby addressing the primary discrepancy between prior Micro-C data and reported 3C and Hi-C analyses. Interestingly, comparison of chromosome folding maps of S. cerevisiae and S. pombe revealed widespread qualitative similarities, yet quantitative differences, between these distantly-related species. Micro-C XL thus provides a single assay suitable for interrogation of chromosome folding at length scales from the nucleosome to the full genome.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071357', [u'Genomics'], [u'UMMS;', u'MIT;', u'Univ. Mass. Medical School']]
[u'Estimating time to the common ancestor for a beneficial allele', ['Joel Smith', 'Graham Coop', 'Matthew Stephens', 'John Novembre'], u'August 24, 2016.', u"The haplotypes of a beneficial allele carry information about its history that can shed light on its age and putative cause for its increase in frequency.  Specifically, the signature of an allele's age is contained in the pattern of local ancestry that mutation and recombination impose on its haplotypic background. We provide a method to exploit this pattern and infer the time to the common ancestor of a positively selected allele following a rapid increase in frequency. We do so using a hidden Markov model which leverages the length distribution of the shared ancestral haplotype, the accumulation of derived mutations on the ancestral background, and the surrounding background haplotype diversity. Using simulations, we demonstrate how the inclusion of information from both mutation and recombination events increases accuracy relative to approaches that only consider a single type of event. We also show the behavior of the estimator in cases where data do not conform to model assumptions, and provide some diagnostics for assessing and improving inference. Using the method, we analyze population-specific patterns in the 1000 Genomes Project data to provide a global perspective on the timing of adaptation for several variants which show evidence of recent selection and functional relevance to diet, skin pigmentation, and morphology in humans.", u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071241', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'HLA-MA: Simple yet powerful matching of samples using HLA typing results', ['Clemens Messerschmidt', 'Manuel Holtgrewe', 'Dieter Beule'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'We propose the simple method HLA-MA for consistency checking in pipelines operating on human HTS data. The method is based on the HLA typing result of the state-of-the-art method OptiType. Provided that there is sufficient coverage of the HLA loci, comparing HLA types allows for simple, fast, and robust matching of samples from whole genome, exome, and RNA-seq data. This approach is reliable for sample re-identification even for samples with high mutational loads, e.g., caused by microsatellite instability or POLE1 defects.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/066548', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Berlin Institute of Health']]
[u'RNA-DEPENDENT SYNTHESIS OF MAMMALIAN mRNA: IDENTIFICATION OF CHIMERIC INTERMEDIATE AND PUTATIVE END PRODUCT', ['Sophia Rits', 'Bjorn R Olsen', 'Vladmir Volloch'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Our initial understanding of the flow of protein-encoding genetic information, DNA to RNA to protein, a process defined as the central dogma of molecular biology, was eventually amended to account for the information back-flow from RNA to DNA (reverse transcription), and for its side-flow from RNA to RNA (RNA-dependent RNA synthesis, RdRs). These processes, both potentially leading to protein production, were described only in viral systems, and although putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) was shown to be present, and RdRs to occur, in most, if not all, mammalian cells, its function was presumed to be restricted to regulatory. Here we report the occurrence of protein-encoding RNA to RNA information transfer in mammalian cells. We describe below the detection, by next generation sequencing (NGS), of a chimeric double-stranded/pinhead intermediate containing both sense and antisense globin RNA strands covalently joined in a predicted and uniquely defined manner, whose cleavage at the pinhead would result in the generation of an end-product containing the intact coding region of the original mRNA. We also describe the identification of the putative end product of RNA-dependent globin mRNA amplification. It is heavily modified, uniformly truncated at both untranslated regions (UTRs), terminates with the OH group at the 5-prime end, consistent with a cleavage-generated 5-prime terminus, and its massive cellular amount is unprecedented for a conventional mRNA transcription product. It also translates in a cell-free system into polypeptides indistinguishable from the translation product of conventional globin mRNA. The physiological significance of the mammalian mRNA amplification, which might operate during terminal differentiation and in the production of highly abundant rapidly generated proteins such as some collagens or other components of extracellular matrix, with every genome-originated mRNA molecule acting as a potential template, as well as possible implications, including physiologically occurring intracellular PCR process, iPCR, are discussed in the paper.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071266', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute at Childrens Hospital, Boston;', u'Harvard School of Dental Medicine']]
[u'Closing the loop: tracking and perturbing behaviour of individuals in a group in real-time', ['Malte J. Rasch', 'Aobo Shi', 'Zilong Ji'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Quantitative description and selective perturbation of individual animals in a social group is prerequisite for understanding complex social behaviors. Tracking behavioral patterns of individuals in groups is an active research field, however, reliable software tools for long-term or real-time tracking are still scarce. We developed a new open-source platform, called xyTracker, for online tracking and recognition of individual animals in groups. Featuring a convenient Matlab-based interface and a fast multihreading C++ core, we achieved an >30x speed-up over a popular existing tracking method without loss in accuracy. Moreover, since memory usage is low, many hours of high-resolution video files can be tracked in reasonable time, making long-term observation of behavior possible. In a number of exemplary experiments on zebra fish, we show the feasibility of long-term observations and how to use the software to perform closed-loop experiments, where the tracked position of individuals is fed-back in real-time to a stimulus presentation screen installed below the fish-tank. Visual stimulation capabilities is incorporated into xyTracker and can be based on any behavioral features of all members of the group, such as, collective location, speed, or direction of movement, making interesting closed-loop experiments for investigating group behavior in a virtual reality setting possible.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071308', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Key Lab for Cognitve Neurosience & Learning, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'FICD acts bi-functionally to AMPylate and de-AMPylate the endoplasmic reticulum chaperone BiP', ['Steffen Preissler', 'Claudia Rato', 'Luke Perera', 'Vladimir Saudek', 'David Ron'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Protein folding homeostasis in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is defended by an unfolded protein response (UPR) that matches ER chaperone capacity to the burden of unfolded proteins. As levels of unfolded proteins decline, a metazoan-specific FIC-domain containing ER-localized enzyme, FICD/HYPE, rapidly inactivates the major ER chaperone BiP by AMPylating T518. Here it is shown that the single catalytic domain of FICD can also release the attached AMP, restoring functionality to BiP. Consistent with a role for endogenous FICD in de-AMPylating BiP, FICD-/- cells are hypersensitive to introduction of a constitutively AMPylating, de-AMPylation defective mutant FICD. These opposing activities hinge on a regulatory residue, E234, whose default state renders FICD a constitutive de-AMPylase in vitro. The location of E234 on a conserved regulatory helix and the mutually antagonistic activities of FICD in vivo, suggest a mechanism whereby fluctuating unfolded protein load actively switches FICD from a de-AMPylase to an AMPylase.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071332', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Cambridge, Cambridge Institute for Medical Research;', u'University of Cambridge, Institute of Metabolic Science']]
[u'Inference of direction, diversity, and frequency of HIV-1 transmission using approximate Bayesian computation', ['Ethan O Romero-Severson', 'Ingo Bulla', 'Nick Hengartner', 'Ines Bartolo', 'Ana Abecasis', 'Jose M Azevedo-Pereira', 'Nuno Taveira', 'Thomas Leitner'], u'August 24, 2016.', u'Diversity of the founding population of Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type 1 (HIV-1) transmissions raises many important biological, clinical, and epidemiological issues. In up to 40% of sexual infections there is clear evidence for multiple founding variants, which can influence the efficacy of putative prevention methods and the reconstruction of epidemiologic histories. To measure the diversity of the founding population and to compute the probability of alternative transmission scenarios, while explicitly taking phylogenetic uncertainty into account, we created an Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) method based on a set of statistics measuring phylogenetic topology, branch lengths, and genetic diversity. We applied our method to a heterosexual transmission pair showing a complex paraphyletic-polyphyletic donor-recipient phylogenetic topology. We found evidence identifying the donor that was consistent with the known facts of the case (Bayes factor >20). We also found that while the evidence for ongoing transmission between the pair was as good or better than the singular transmission event model, it was only viable when the rate of ongoing transmission was implausibly high (~1/day). We concluded that the singular transmission model, which was able to estimate the diversity of the founding population (mean 7% substitutions/site), was more biologically plausible. Our study provides a formal inference framework to investigate HIV-1 direction, diversity, and frequency of transmission. The ability to measure the diversity of founding populations in both simple and complex transmission situations is essential to understanding the relationship between the phylogeny and epidemiology of HIV-1 as well as in efforts developing new prevention technologies.', u'/content/early/2016/08/24/071050', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Los Alamos National Laboratory, United States;', u'Universidade de Lisboa, United States;', u'Universidade Nova de Lisboa, United States']]
[u'Molecular Counting with Localization Microscopy: A Redundant Labeling Approach', ['Daniel Nino', 'Yong Wang', 'Anton Zilman', 'Joshua N. Milstein'], u'August 23, 2016.', u'Super-resolved localization microscopy (SLM) has the potential to serve as an accurate, single-cell technique for counting the abundance of intracellular molecules.  However, the stochastic blinking of single fluorophores can introduce large uncertainties into the final count.  Here we provide a theoretical foundation for applying SLM  to the problem of molecular counting in such a way as to mitigate errors introduced by stochastic blinking. We show that by redundantly tagging single-molecules with multiple blinking fluorophores, the accuracy of the technique can be enhanced by harnessing the central limit theorem.  The coefficient of variation (CV) then, for the number of molecules M estimated from a given number of blinks B, scales like \u223c 1/\u221aNl, where Nl is the mean number of labels on a target.  As an example, we apply our theory to the challenging problem of quantifying the cell-to-cell variability of plasmid copy number in bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/08/23/071191', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Arkansas']]
