[u'Survival of Captive Chimpanzees: Impact of Location and Transfers', ['Michael Lauer'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'To inform the retirement of NIH owned chimpanzees, we analyzed the outcomes of 764 NIH owned chimpanzees that were located at various points in time in at least one of 4 specific locations.  All chimpanzees considered were alive and at least 10 years of age on January 1, 2005; transfers to a federal sanctuary began a few months later.  During a median follow-up of just over 7 years, there were 314 deaths.  In a Cox proportional hazards model that accounted for age, sex, and location (which was treated as a time dependent covariate), age and sex were strong predictors of mortality, but location was only marginally predictive.  Among 273 chimpanzees who were transferred to the federal sanctuary, we found no material increased risk in mortality in the first 30 days after arrival.  During a median follow up at the sanctuary of 3.5 years, age was strongly predictive of mortality, but other variables, including sex, season of arrival, and ambient temperature on the day of arrival, were not predictive.  We confirmed our regression findings using random survival forests.  In summary, in a large cohort of captive chimpanzees, we find no evidence of materially important associations of location of residence or recent transfer with premature mortality.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068858', [], [u'National Institutes of Health']]
[u'The Powers and Perils of Post-Marketing Data Analysis: Quantification and Mitigation of Biases in the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System', ['Mateusz Maciejewski', 'Eugen Lounkine', 'Steven Whitebread', 'Pierre Farmer', 'Brian K. Shoichet', 'Laszlo Urban'], u'August 10, 2016.', u"The Food and Drug Administration Adverse Event Reporting System (FAERS) is the primary source for postmarketing pharmacovigilance. Though potentially highly useful, the database reflects reporting biases, stimulated reporting, and suffers from lack of standardization and the use of multiple drug synonyms. These biases can suggest adverse drug reactions (ADRs) where none exist, and can obscure others that do exist. To decrease the noise in FAERS, and to reinforce important associations, we mapped over 750,000 drug identifiers in FAERS to the normalized chemical structures of their ingredients. This illuminated associations that would not otherwise be apparent, and also allowed a time-resolved analysis of ADR reporting. It also revealed similarities between drugs and adverse events across therapeutic classes, enabling unbiased classification of adverse events, indications, and drugs with similar clinical profiles. For instance, comparison of two selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, celecoxib and rofecoxib finds distinctive FAERS profiles after time-resolved analysis. We also investigated key idiosyncrasies, such as confusion between drug indications and drug ADRs, which can tar a drug treating a life-threatening disease, like thalidomide's use against myeloma, with a deadly ADR that is likely the result of the disease itself, multiplications of the same report, which unjustifiably increases its apparent importance, and the correlation of reported ADRs with public events, regulatory announcements, and with publications. Comparing the pharmacological, pharmacokinetic, and clinical ADR profiles of methylphenidate, aripiprazole and risperidone, and of kinase drugs targeting the VEGF receptor (VEGF-R2), demonstrates how underlying molecular mechanisms can emerge from ADR co-analysis. The precautions and methods we describe may enable investigators to avoid confounding chemistry-based associations and reporting biases in FAERS, and illustrates how comparative analysis of ADRs can reveal underlaying mechanisms.", u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068692', [], [u'Pfizer, Inc.;', u'Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research;', u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Bartender: an ultrafast and accurate clustering algorithm to count barcode and amplicon reads', ['Lu Zhao', 'Zhimin Liu', 'Sasha F. Levy', 'Song Wu'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'Barcode sequencing (bar-seq) is a high-throughput, and cost effective method to assay large numbers of lineages or genotypes in complex cell pools. Because of its advantages, applications for bar-seq are quickly growing -- from using neutral random barcodes to study the evolution of microbes or cancer, to using pseudo-barcodes, such as shRNAs, sgRNAs, or transposon insertion libraries, to simultaneously screen large numbers of cell perturbations. However, the computational pipelines for bar-seq have not been well developed. Available methods, which use prior information and/or simple brute-force comparisons, are slow and often result in over-clustering artifacts that group distinct barcodes together. Here, we developed Bartender: an ultrafast and accurate clustering algorithm to detect barcodes and their abundances from raw next-generation sequencing data. To improve speed and reduce unnecessary pairwise comparisons, Bartender employs a divide-and-conquer strategy that intelligently sorts barcode reads into distinct bins before performing comparisons. To improve accuracy and reduce over-clustering artifacts, Bartender employs a modified two-sample proportion test that uses information on both the cluster sequence distances and cluster sizes to make merging decisions. Additionally, Bartender includes a "multiple time point" mode, which matches barcode clusters between different clustering runs for seamless handling of time course data. For both simulated and real data, Bartender clusters millions of unique barcodes in a few minutes at high accuracy (>99.9%), and is ~100-fold faster than previous methods. Bartender is a set of simple-to-use command line tools that can be performed on a laptop.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068916', [], [u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'Modeling the multiple facets of speciation-with-gene-flow towards improving divergence history inference of a recent fish adaptive radiation.', ['Clement Rougeux', 'Louis Bernatchez', 'Pierre-Alexandre Gagnaire'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'The parallel occurrence of replicated species-pairs in similar environmental contrasts may arise through a variety of evolutionary mechanisms. In particular, whether parallelism reflects a common history of divergence or repeated parallel divergence driven by divergent selection needs to be ascertained. Reconstructing historical gene flow is therefore of fundamental interest to understand how demography and selection jointly shape the genomic landscape of species divergence. Here, we extend the current modeling framework to explore the multiple facets of speciation-with-gene-flow using demo-genetic divergence models that capture both temporal and chromosomal variation in migration rate and effective population size. We implement this approach to investigate the divergence history of a young adaptive radiation involving five sympatric Lake Whitefish limnetic (dwarf) and benthic (normal) species pairs (Coregonus clupeaformis) characterized by variable degrees of ecological divergence and reproductive isolation. Genome-wide SNPs obtained by RAD-sequencing were used to document the extent of genetic differentiation and of allele sharing among species pairs. Using a composite likelihood approach, we then compared the predictions of 26 divergence models to the unfolded joint allele frequency spectrum of each species-pair. We found strong evidence indicating that a recent (circa 3000-4000 generations) asymmetrical secondary contact between expanding post-glacial populations has accompanied independent Whitefish diversification. Our results suggest that heterogeneous genomic differentiation patterns have emerged through the combined effects of linked selection generating variable rates of lineage sorting across the genome during the allopatric phase, and heterogeneous introgression eroding divergence at different rates across the genome upon secondary contact. This study provides a new retrospective insight into the historical demographic and selective processes that shaped a continuum of divergence associated with ecological speciation. This study also illustrates the efficiency of the newly developed models towards improving the understanding of historical events in the process of adaptive evolution and speciation in any other species complex.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068932', [], [u'Universite Laval;', u'Departement de biologie, Institut de Biologie Integrative et des Systemes (IBIS), Universite Laval;', u'Institut des Sciences de Evolution de Montpellier, Universite Montpellier 2 - CNRS, UMR 5554, SMEL']]
[u'The frequency spectrum of chromatin accessibility in Yorubans points toward a significant role of random genetic drift in shaping the chromatin landscape', ['Mariah Weavil-Abueg', 'Joshua G Schraiber'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'The function of non-coding variation in the human genome is hotly debated. While much of the genome appears to be involved in some kind of molecular activity, a relatively small portion of the genome appears to be conserved across mammalian species. To try to understand part of this seeming paradox, we examined chromatin accessibility as a model molecular phenotype. We modeled chromatin state as either open or closed as looked at the frequency of open chromatin across 70 Yoruban cell lines. We saw that most regions of chromatin accessibility occurred in only a small number of individuals, although there are a number of regions that are accessible across the entire panel. To delve further into understanding the evolutionary mechanisms, we examined nucleotide diversity in and around accessible regions. We found that in the open chromatin access, low frequency regions had decreased nucleotide diversity, however, they were situated within regions of elevated nucleotide diversity. These results point toward a role of random mutation and genetic drift shaping the distribution of accessible regions in the human genome.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068718.1', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'Temple University']]
[u'Contextual Fear Conditioning in Zebrafish', ['Justin W Kenney', 'Ian C Scott', 'Sheena A Josselyn', 'Paul W Frankland'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'Zebrafish are a genetically tractable vertebrate that hold considerable promise for elucidating the molecular basis of behavior. Although numerous recent advances have been made in the ability to precisely manipulate the zebrafish genome, much less is known about many aspects learning and memory in adult fish. Here, we develop a contextual fear conditioning paradigm using an electric shock as the aversive stimulus. We find that contextual fear conditioning is modulated by shock intensity, prevented by inhibition of (N-methyl-D-aspartate) NMDA receptors, lasts at least 14 days, and exhibits extinction. Furthermore, fish of various background strains (AB, Tu, and TL) are able to acquire fear conditioning, but differ in fear extinction rates. Taken together, we find that contextual fear conditioning in zebrafish shares many similarities with the widely used contextual fear conditioning paradigm in rodents. Combined with the amenability of genetic manipulation in zebrafish, we anticipate that our paradigm will prove to be a useful complementary system in which to examine the molecular basis of vertebrate learning and memory.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068833', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'Scale-Free Exponents of Resting State are Biomarkers of Neuro-Typical and Atypical Brain Activity', ['Stephen Jose Hanson', 'Dana Mastrovito', 'Catherine Hanson', 'Joe Ramsey', 'Clark Glymour'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'Scale-free networks (SFN) arise from simple growth processes, which can encourage efficient, centralized and fault tolerant communication (1).     Recently its been shown that stable network hub structure is governed by a phase transition at exponents (>2.0) causing a dramatic change in  network structure  including a  loss of global connectivity,  an increasing minimum dominating node set, and a  shift towards increasing connectivity growth compared to node growth.   Is this SFN shift identifiable in atypical brain activity?  The  Pareto Distribution (P(D)~D^-\u03b2) on the hub Degree (D) is a signature of scale-free networks.  During resting-state, we assess Degree exponents across a large range of neurotypical and atypical subjects. We use graph complexity theory to provide a predictive theory of the brain network structure.  Results. We show that neurotypical resting-state fMRI brain activity possess scale-free Pareto exponents  (1.8 se .01) in a single individual scanned over 66 days as well as in 60 different individuals (1.8 se .02).   We  also show that 60 individuals with Autistic Spectrum Disorder, and 60 individuals with Schizophrenia  have significantly higher  (>2.0) scale-free exponents ( 2.4 se .03, 2.3 se .04),  indicating more fractionated and less controllable dynamics in  the  brain networks revealed in resting state.  Finally we show that the exponent values vary with phenotypic measures of atypical disease severity indicating  that the global topology of the network itself can provide specific diagnostic biomarkers for atypical brain activity.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068841', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Rutgers Unversity;', u'CMU']]
[u'Using approximate Bayesian computation to quantify cell-cell adhesion parameters in a cell migratory process', ['Robert Ross', 'Ruth Baker', 'Matthew Ford', 'Richard Mort', 'Christian Yates'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'In this work we implement approximate Bayesian computational methods to improve the design of a wound-healing assay used to quantify cell-cell interactions.  This is important as cell-cell interactions, such as adhesion and repulsion, have been shown to play an important role in cell migration. \nInitially, we demonstrate with a model of an ideal experiment that we are able to identify model parameters for agent motility and adhesion, given we choose appropriate summary statistics.  \nFollowing this, we replace our model of an ideal experiment with a model representative of a practically realisable experiment. We demonstrate that, given the current (and commonly used) experimental set-up, model parameters cannot be accurately identified using approximate Bayesian computation methods.  We compare new experimental designs through simulation, and show more accurate identification of model parameters is possible by expanding the size of the domain upon which the experiment is performed, as opposed to increasing the number of experimental repeats. The results presented in this work therefore describe time and cost-saving alterations for a commonly performed experiment for identifying cell motility parameters.  Moreover, the results presented in this work will be of interest to those concerned with performing experiments that allow for the accurate identification of parameters governing cell migratory processes, especially cell migratory processes in which cell-cell adhesion or repulsion are known to play a significant role.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068791', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Bath']]
[u'Evaluating the genetic diagnostic power of exome sequencing: Identifying missing data.', ['Pascual Lorente-Arencibia', 'Deyan Guacaran', 'Antonio Tugores'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'A hurdle of exome sequencing is its limited capacity to represent the entire exome.  To ascertain the diagnostic power of this approach we determined the extent of coverage per individual sample.  Using alignment data (BAM files) from 15 exome samples, sequences of any length that were below a determined sequencing depth coverage (DP) were detected and annotated with the Ensembl exon database using MIST, a novel software tool.  Samples sequenced at 50X mean coverage had, on average, up to 50% of the Ensembl annotated exons with at least one nucleotide (L=1) with a DP<20, improving to 35% at 100X mean coverage.  In addition, almost 15% of annotated exons were never sequenced (L=50, DP<1) at 50x mean coverage, reaching down to 5% at 100x.  The diagnostic utility of this approach was tested for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a genetically heterogeneous disease, where exome sequencing covered as much as 80% of all candidate genes exons at DP\u226520.  This report stresses the value of identifying, precisely, which sequences are below a specific depth in an individual exome and provides a useful tool to assess the potential and pitfalls of exome sequencing in a diagnostic or gene discovery setting.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068825', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Complejo Hospitalario Universitario Insular Materno Infantil']]
[u'CIDR: Ultrafast and accurate clustering through imputation for single cell RNA-Seq data', ['Peijie Lin', 'Michael Troup', 'Joshua W. K. Ho'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'Most existing dimensionality reduction and clustering packages for single cell RNA-Seq (scRNASeq) data deal with dropouts by heavy modelling and computational machinery. Here we introduce CIDR (Clustering through Imputation and Dimensionality Reduction), an ultrafast algorithm which uses a novel yet very simple "implicit imputation" approach to alleviate the impact of dropouts in scRNA-Seq data in a principled manner. Using a range of simulated and real data, we have shown that CIDR outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, namely t-SNE, ZIFA and RaceID, by at least 50% in terms of clustering accuracy, and typically completes within seconds for processing a dataset of hundreds of cells.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068775', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute']]
[u'A complete tool set for molecular QTL discovery and analysis', ['Olivier Delaneau', 'Halit Ongen', 'Andrew Anand Brown', 'Alexandre Fort', 'Nikolaos Panousis', 'Emmanouil Dermitzakis'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'Population scale studies combining genetic information with molecular phenotypes (e.g. gene expression) become a standard to dissect the effects of genetic variants onto organismal phenotypes. This kind of datasets requires powerful, fast and versatile methods able to discover molecular Quantitative Trait Loci (molQTL). Here we propose such a solution, QTLtools, a modular framework that contains multiple methods to prepare the data, to discover proximal and distal molQTLs and to finally integrate them with GWAS variants and functional annotations of the genome. We demonstrate its utility by performing a complete expression QTL study in a few and easy-to-perform steps. QTLtools is open source and available at https://qtltools.github.io/qtltools/.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068635', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Geneva']]
[u'A comparison of Species Distribution Modeling approaches for an under-sampled parasite of public health importance, Echinococcus multilocularis.', ['Heather M Williams', 'Brian Egan', 'Katharina Dittmar'], u'August 10, 2016.', u'Background: Species distribution models (SDMs) have an important role in predicting the range of emerging and understudied pathogens and parasites. Their use, however, is often limited by the lack of high-resolution unbiased occurrence records. Echinococcus multilocularis is a parasitic cestode of public health importance which is widely distributed throughout Eurasia and is considered an emerging threat in North America. In common with many parasite species, available data for E. multilocularis occurrence are spatially biased and often poorly geo-referenced. \n\nResults: Here we produce three separate SDMs using MaxEnt for E. multilocularis using varying complexities of sampling schemes and environmental predictors, designed to make the best possible use of non-ideal occurrence data. The most realistic model utilized both derived and basic climatic predictors; an occurrence sampling scheme which relied primarily on high resolution occurrences from the literature and a bias grid to compensate for an apparently uneven research effort. All models predicted extensive regions of high suitability for E. multilocularis in North America, where the parasite is poorly studied and not currently under coordinated surveillance. \n\nConclusions: Through a pragmatic approach to non-ideal occurrence data we were able to produce a statistically well supported SDM for an under-studied species of public health importance. Although the final model was only trained on data from Eurasia, the global model projection encompassed all known occurrences in the United States. The approach defined here may be applicable to many other such species and could provide useful information to direct resources for future field based surveillance programs for E. multilocularis in North America.', u'/content/early/2016/08/10/068734', [u'Ecology'], [u'State University of New York at Buffalo;', u'University at Buffalo']]
[u'Analytic framework for stochastic binary biological switches', ['Guilherme Innocentini', 'Sarah Guiziou', 'Jerome Bonnet', 'Ovidiu Radulescu'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'We propose an analytic solution for the stochastic dynamics of a binary biological switch, defined as a DNA unit with two mutually exclusive configurations, each one triggering the expression of a different gene. Such a device could be used as a memory unit for biological computing systems designed to operate in noisy environments. We discuss a recent implementation of an exclusive switch in living cells, the recombinase addressable data (RAD) module. In order to understand the behavior of a RAD module we compute the exact time dependent distributions of the two expressed genes starting in one state and evolving to another asymptotic state. We consider two operating regimes of the RAD module: fast and slow stochastic switching. The fast regime is \u201caggregative\u201d and produces unimodal distributions, whereas the slow regime is \u201cseparative\u201d and produces bimodal distributions. Both regimes can serve to prepare pure memory states when all cells are expressing the same gene. The slow regime can also separate mixed states by producing two sub-populations each one expressing a different gene. Our model provides a simplified, general phenomenological framework for studying biological memory devices and our analytic solution can be further used to clarify theoretical concepts in bio-computation and for optimal design in synthetic biology.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068759', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'IME - USP;', u'CBS - Montpellier - France;', u'Universite de Montpellier']]
[u'RNase H enables efficient repair of R-loop induced DNA damage', ['Jeremy D. Amon', 'Douglas Koshland'], u'August 9, 2016.', u'R-loops, three-stranded structures that form when transcripts hybridize to chromosomal DNA, are potent agents of genome instability. This instability has been explained by the ability of R-loops to induce DNA damage. Here, we show that persistent R-loops also compromise DNA repair. Depleting endogenous RNase H activity impairs R-loop removal in budding yeast, causing DNA damage that occurs preferentially in the repetitive ribosomal DNA locus (rDNA). We analyzed the repair kinetics of this damage and identified mutants that modulate repair. Our results indicate that persistent R-loops in the rDNA induce damage that is slowly repaired by break-induced replication (BIR). Furthermore, R-loop induced BIR at the rDNA leads to lethal repair intermediates when RNA polymerase I elongation is compromised. We present a model to explain how removal of R-loops by RNase H is critical in ensuring the efficient repair of R-loop induced DNA damage by pathways other than BIR.', u'/content/early/2016/08/09/068742', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley']]
