[u'QTL mapping reveals complex genetic architecture of quantitative virulence in the wheat pathogen Zymoseptoria tritici.', ['Ethan L. Stewart', 'Daniel Croll', 'Mark H. Lendenmann', 'Andrea Sanchez-Vallet', 'Fanny E. Hartmann', 'Javier Palma-Guerrero', 'Xin Ma', 'Bruce McDonald'], u'May 1, 2016.', u'We conducted a comprehensive analysis of virulence in the fungal wheat pathogen Zymoseptoria tritici using QTL mapping. High throughput phenotyping based on automated image analysis allowed measurement of pathogen virulence on a scale and with a precision that was not previously possible. Across two mapping populations encompassing more than 520 progeny, 540,710 pycnidia were counted and their sizes and grey values were measured, yielding over 1.6 million phenotypes associated with pathogen reproduction.  Large pycnidia were shown to produce more numerous and larger spores than small pycnidia. Precise measures of percent leaf area covered by lesions provided a quantitative measure of host damage. Combining these large and accurate phenotype datasets with a dense panel of RADseq genetic markers enabled us to genetically dissect pathogen virulence into components related to host damage and components related to pathogen reproduction. We show that different components of virulence can be under separate genetic control. Large- and small-effect QTLs were identified for all traits, with some QTLs specific to mapping populations, cultivars and traits and other QTLs shared among traits within the same mapping population. We associated the presence or absence of accessory chromosomes with several virulence traits, providing the first evidence for an important function associated with accessory chromosomes in this organism. A large-effect QTL involved in host specialization was identified on chromosome 7, leading to identification of candidate genes having a large effect on virulence.', u'/content/early/2016/05/01/051169', [], [u'Plant Pathology Group, ETH Z\xfcrich, Universitatstrasse 2, 8092, Z\xfcrich, Switzerland;', u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'Higher fungal diversity in dead wood is correlated with lower CO2 emissions in a natural forest', ['Yahan Yang', 'Douglas A. Schaefer', 'Weijie Liu', 'Viorel D. Popescu', 'Chenxue Yang', 'Xiaoyang Wang', 'Chunying Wu', 'Douglas W. Yu'], u'May 1, 2016.', u"Wood decomposition releases almost as much CO2 to the atmosphere as does fossil-fuel combustion, so the factors regulating wood decomposition can affect global carbon cycling. We used metabarcoding to estimate the fungal species diversities of naturally colonized decomposing wood in subtropical China and, for the first time, compared them to concurrent measures of CO2 emissions. Wood hosting more diverse fungal communities emitted less CO2, with Shannon diversity explaining 26 to 44% of emissions variation. Community analysis supports a 'pure diversity' effect of fungi on decomposition rates and thus suggests that interference competition is an underlying mechanism. Our results are consistent with the theory of interference competition and with the results of published experiments using low-diversity, laboratory-inoculated wood, and we extend those results to a high-diversity, natural system for the first time. High levels of saprotrophic fungal biodiversity might be providing globally important ecosystem services by maintaining dead-wood habitats and by slowing atmospheric contribution of CO2 from the world's stock of decomposing wood.", u'/content/early/2016/05/01/051235', [], [u'Kunming Institute of Zoology;', u'Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden']]
[u'Genomics of primary chemoresistance and remission induction failure in pediatric and adult acute myeloid leukemia', ['Fiona C Brown', 'Paolo Cifani', 'Esther Drill', 'Jie He', 'Eric Still', 'Shan Zhong', 'Sohail Balasubramanian', 'Dean Pavlick', 'Bahar Yilmazel', 'Kristina M Knapp', 'Todd A Alonzo', 'Soheil Meshinchi', 'Richard M Stone', 'Steven M Kornblau', 'Guido Marcucci', 'Alan S Gamis', 'John C Byrd', 'Mithat Gonen', 'Ross L Levine', 'Alex Kentsis'], u'April 30, 2016.', u'Despite intense efforts, the cure rates of children and adults with AML remain unsatisfactory in large part due to resistance to chemotherapy. Whilst cytogenetic risk stratification proved valuable in identifying causes of therapy failure and disease relapse, cytogenetically normal AML remains the most prevalent disease type, with significant heterogeneity of clinical outcomes, including primary chemoresistance. Using targeted sequencing of 670 genes recurrently mutated in hematologic malignancies, we investigated the genetic basis of primary chemotherapy resistance and remission induction failure of 107 primary cases obtained at diagnosis from children and adults with cytogenetically normal AML. Comparative analysis revealed mutations of SETBP1, ASXL1 and RELN to be significantly enriched at diagnosis in primary induction failure as compared to remission cases. In addition, this analysis revealed novel genomic alterations not previously described in AML, as well as distinct genes that are significantly overexpressed in therapy resistant AML. However, identified gene mutations were sufficient to explain only a minority of cases of primary induction failure. Thus, additional genetic or molecular mechanisms must cause primary chemoresistance in pediatric and adult acute myeloid leukemias.', u'/content/early/2016/04/30/051177', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'MSKCC;', u'Foundation Medicine;', u"Children's Oncology Group;", u'DFCI;', u'MDACC;', u'City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center;', u'Ohio State University']]
[u'Large-scale analysis of post-translational modifications in E. coli under glucose-limiting conditions', ['Colin W. Brown', 'Viswanadham Sridhara', 'Daniel R. Boutz', 'Maria D. Person', 'Edward M. Marcotte', 'Jeffrey E. Barrick', 'Claus Wilke'], u'April 30, 2016.', u'Post-translational modification (PTM) of proteins is central to many cellular processes across all domains of life, but despite decades of study and a wealth of genomic and proteomic data the biological function of many PTMs remains unknown.  This is especially true for prokaryotic PTM systems, many of which have only recently been recognized and studied in depth.  It is increasingly apparent that a deep sampling of abundance across a wide range of environmental stresses, growth conditions, and PTM types, rather than simply cataloging targets for a handful of modifications, is critical to understanding the complex pathways that govern PTM deposition and downstream effects. To this end, we utilized a deeply-sampled dataset of MS/MS proteomic analysis covering 9 timepoints spanning the Escherichia coli growth cycle and an unbiased PTM search strategy to construct a temporal map of abundance for all PTMs within a 400 Da window of mass shifts. Using this map, we are able to identify novel targets and temporal patterns for a number of PTMs, including N-terminal N\u03b1 acetylation, C-terminal glutamylation, asparagine deamidation, and oxidation of tryptophan and methionine.  Furthermore, we identify a possible relationship between N-terminal N\u03b1 acetylation and regulation of protein degradation in stationary phase, pointing to a previously unrecognized biological function for this poorly-understood PTM.', u'/content/early/2016/04/30/051185', [u'Microbiology'], [u'The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'A plastic vegetative growth threshold governs reproductive capacity in Aspergillus nidulans', ['Luke M Noble', 'Linda M Holland', 'Alisha J McLachlan', 'Alex Andrianopoulos'], u'April 30, 2016.', u'Threshold-delimited ontogenic phases separating somatic growth from reproduction are a common feature of cellular life. Long recognized for flowering plants and animals, this life\u2212history component may also be prevalent among multicellular fungi. We establish the environmental and genetic basis of developmental competence, the capacity to respond to induction of asexual development, in the model filamentous saprotroph Aspergillus nidulans. Density and pH are critical parameters for competence timing, and we identify five genes with heterochronic effects through genetic screens and candidate mutagenesis, including the conserved GTPase RasB and ambient pH sensor PalH. Transcriptional profiling over competence acquisition demonstrates substantial activity in metabolic and signaling networks, highly concordant across species, and a wave of gene expression around centromeres indicative of chromatin remodeling. Competence, likely determined by species\u2212specific endogenous hormones and metabolic capacity, governs much of biology associated with the mature fungal form \u2212 asexual and sexual reproduction, secondary metabolism, and, in some species, pathogenesis \u2212 and provides a new model for nutrient-limited life-history phases and their elaboration from unicellular origins.', u'/content/early/2016/04/30/050054', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'NYU Center for Genomics and Systems Biology;', u'School of Biomolecular and Biomedical Science, Conway Institute, University College Dublin, Belfield;', u'Genetics, Genomics & Development, School of BioSciences, University of Melbourne, Victoria 3010, Aus']]
[u'Wheat blast disease caused by Pyricularia graminis-tritici sp. nov.', ['V.L. Castroagudin', 'S.I. Moreira', 'D.A.S. Pereira', 'S.S. Moreira', 'P.C. Brunner', 'J.L.N. Maciel', 'P.W. Crous', 'Bruce McDonald', 'E. Alves', 'P.C. Ceresini'], u'April 30, 2016.', u'Pyricularia oryzae is a species complex that causes blast disease on more than 50 species of poaceous plants. Pyricularia oryzae has a worldwide distribution as a rice (Oryza) pathogen and in the last century emerged as an important wheat (Triticum) pathogen in southern Brazil. Presently, P. oryzae pathotype Oryza is considered the rice blast pathogen, whereas P. oryzae pathotype Triticum is the wheat blast pathogen. In this study we investigated whether the Oryza and Triticum pathotypes of P. oryzae were distinct at the species level. We also describe a new Pyricularia species causing blast on several other poaceous hosts in Brazil, including wheat. We conducted phylogenetic analyses using 10 housekeeping loci from an extensive sample (N = 128) of sympatric populations of P. oryzae adapted to rice, wheat and other poaceous hosts found in or near wheat fields. The Bayesian phylogenetic analysis grouped the isolates into two major monophyletic clusters (I and II) with high Bayesian probabilities (P = 0.99). Cluster I contained isolates obtained from wheat as well as other Poaceae hosts (P = 0.98). Cluster II was divided into three host-associated clades (Clades 1, 2 and 3; P > 0.75). Clade 1 contained isolates obtained from wheat and other poaceous hosts, Clade 2 contained exclusively wheat-derived isolates, and Clade 3 comprised isolates associated only with rice. Our interpretation was that cluster I and cluster II correspond to two distinct species: Pyricularia graminis-tritici sp. nov. (Pgt), newly described in this study, and Pyricularia oryzae (Po). The host-associated clades found in P.  oryzae Cluster II correspond to P. oryzae pathotype Triticum (PoT; Clades 1 and 2), and P. oryzae pathotype Oryza (PoO; Clade 3). No morphological or cultural differences were observed among these species, but a distinctive pathogenicity spectrum was observed. Pgt and PoT were pathogenic and highly aggressive on Triticum aestivum (wheat), Hordeum vulgare (barley), Urochloa brizantha (signal grass) and Avena sativa (oats). PoO was highly virulent on the original rice host (Oryza sativa), and also on wheat, barley, and oats, but not on signal grass. We concluded that blast disease on wheat and its associated Poaceae hosts in Brazil is caused by multiple Pyricularia species: the newly described Pyricularia graminis-tritici sp. nov., and the known P. oryzae pathotypes Triticum and Oryza. To our knowledge, P. graminis-tritici sp. nov. is still restricted to Brazil, but obviously represents a serious threat to wheat cultivation globally.', u'/content/early/2016/04/30/051151', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Phytopathology, Rural Engineering, and Soil Science (DEFERS), University of Sao Paulo;', u'Department of Phytopathology, Federal University of Lavras, Lavras, Minas Gerais, Brazil.;', u'Plant Pathology Group, Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Z\xfcrich, Z\xfcrich, Switzerland;', u'Brazilian Agriculture Research Corporation-Wheat (EMBRAPA-Trigo), Passo Fundo, Rio Grande do Sul, Br;', u'CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre, Uppsalalaan 8, 3584 CT Utrecht, The Netherlands.;', u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'On the validity and errors of the pseudo-first-order kinetics in ligand-receptor binding', ['Wylie Stroberg', 'Santiago Schnell'], u'April 30, 2016.', u'The simple bimolecular ligand-receptor binding interaction is often linearized by assuming pseudo-first-order kinetics when one species is present in excess. Here, a phase-plane analysis allows the derivation of a new condition for the validity of pseudo-first-order kinetics that is independent of the initial receptor concentration. The validity of the derived condition is analyzed from two viewpoints. In the first, time courses of the exact and approximate solutions to the ligand--receptor rate equations are compared when all rate constants are known. The second viewpoint assess the validity through the error induced when the approximate equation is used to estimate kinetic constants from data. Although these two interpretations of validity are often assumed to coincide, we show that they are distinct, and that large errors are possible in estimated kinetic constants, even when the linearized and exact rate equations provide nearly identical solutions.', u'/content/early/2016/04/30/051136', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Michigan Medical School']]
[u'Genomic positional conservation identifies topological anchor point (tap)RNAs linked to developmental loci', ['Paulo P Amaral', 'Tommaso Leonardi', 'Namshik Han', 'Emmanuelle Vire', 'Dennis K Gascoigne', 'Raul Arias-Carrasco', 'Magdalena Buscher', 'Anda Zhang', 'Stefano Pluchino', 'Vinicius Maracaja-Coutinho', 'Helder I Nakaya', 'Martin Hemberg', 'Ramin Shiekhattar', 'Anton J Enright', 'Tony Kouzarides'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'The mammalian genome is transcribed into large numbers of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), but the definition of functional lncRNA groups has proven difficult, partly due to their low sequence conservation and lack of identified shared properties. Here we consider positional conservation across mammalian genomes as an indicator of functional commonality. We identify 665 conserved lncRNA promoters in mouse and human genomes that are preserved in genomic position relative to orthologous coding genes. The identified positionally conserved lncRNA genes are primarily associated with developmental transcription factor loci with which they are co-expressed in a tissue-specific manner. Strikingly, over half of all positionally conserved RNAs in this set are linked to distinct chromatin organization structures, overlapping the binding sites for the CTCF chromatin organizer and located at chromatin loop anchor points and borders of topologically associating domains (TADs). These topological anchor point (tap)RNAs possess conserved sequence domains that are enriched in potential recognition motifs for Zinc Finger proteins. Characterization of these non-coding RNAs and their associated coding genes shows that they are functionally connected: they regulate each other\t\u2032s expression and influence the metastatic phenotype of cancer cells in vitro in a similar fashion. Thus, interrogation of positionally conserved lncRNAs identifies a new subset of tapRNAs with shared functional properties. These results provide a large dataset of lncRNAs that conform to the \u2033extended gene\u2033 model, in which conserved developmental genes are genomically and functionally linked to regulatory lncRNA loci across mammalian evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051052', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'The Gurdon Institute, University of Cambridge;', u'EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Centro de Genomica y Bioinformatica, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Mayor;', u'University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center;', u'Wellcome Trust-Medical Research Council Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge;', u'School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Sao Paulo;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Homeostatic responses regulate selfish mitochondrial genome dynamics in C. elegans', ['Bryan L Gitschlag', 'Cait S Kirby', 'David C Samuels', 'Rama D Gangula', 'Simon A Mallal', 'Maulik R Patel'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Selfish genetic elements have profound biological and evolutionary consequences. Mutant mitochondrial genomes (mtDNA) can be viewed as selfish genetic elements that persist in a state of heteroplasmy despite having potentially deleterious consequences to the organism. We sought to investigate mechanisms that allow selfish mtDNA to achieve and sustain high levels. Here, we establish a large 3.1kb deletion bearing mtDNA variant uaDf5 as a bona fide selfish genome in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Next, using droplet digital PCR to quantify mtDNA copy number, we show that uaDf5 mutant mtDNA replicates in addition to, not at the expense of, wildtype mtDNA. These data suggest existence of homeostatic copy number control for wildtype mtDNA that is exploited by uaDf5 to hitchhike to high frequency. We also observe activation of the mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPRmt) in animals with uaDf5. Loss of UPRmt results in a decrease in uaDf5 frequency whereas constitutive activation of UPRmt increases uaDf5 levels. These data suggest that UPRmt allows uaDf5 levels to increase. Interestingly, the decreased uaDf5 levels in absence of UPRmt recover in parkin mutants lacking mitophagy, suggesting that UPRmt protects uaDf5 from mitophagy. We propose that cells activate two homeostatic responses, mtDNA copy number control and UPRmt, in uaDf5 heteroplasmic animals. Inadvertently, these homeostatic responses allow uaDf5 levels to be higher than they would be otherwise. In conclusion, our data suggest that homeostatic stress response mechanisms play an important role in regulating selfish mitochondrial genome dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/050930', [u'Genetics'], [u'Vanderbilt University']]
