[u'Recombination-driven genome evolution and stability of bacterial species', ['Purushottam D Dixit', 'Tin Y Pang', 'Sergei Maslov'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'While bacteria divide clonally, occasional homologous recombination is known to be an important contributor to their evolution. However, the details of how the competition between clonal inheritance and recombination shapes genome diversification, population structure, and species stability remains poorly understood. Using a computational model, we propose two evolutionary regimes and identify two composite  parameters that dictate the fate of bacterial species. In the divergent regime, characterized by either a low recombination frequency or strict barriers to recombination, cohesion due to recombination is not sufficient to overcome the mutational drift. As a consequence, the divergence between any pair of  genomes in the population steadily increases in the course of evolution.  The species as a whole lacks coherence at the population level with sub-populations continuously formed and dissolved.  In contrast, in the metastable regime, characterized by a high recombination frequency combined with low barriers to recombination, genomes continuously recombine with the rest of the population.  The population remains genetically cohesive and stable over time. We demonstrate that the transition between these two regimes can be affected by relatively small changes in evolutionary parameters. Using the data from Multi Locus Sequence Typing (MLST) analysis we classify a number of well-studied bacterial species to be either the divergent or the metastable type. Mechanisms that allow bacterial species to transition from one regime to another are discussed. Generalizations of the framework to understand adaptive populations, horizontal gene transfer of non-homologous regions, and spatial correlations in diversity along the chromosome are also discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067942', [], [u'Columbia University;', u'Heinrich-Heine-Universit\xe4t;', u'University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Community structure follows simple assembly rules in microbial microcosms', ['Jonathan Friedman', 'Logan M Higgins', 'Jeff Gore'], u'August 4, 2016.', u"Microbes typically form diverse communities of interacting species, whose activities have tremendous impact on the plants, animals, and humans they associate with, as well as on the biogeochemistry of the entire planet. The ability to predict the structure of these complex communities is crucial to understanding, managing, and utilizing them. Here, we propose a simple, qualitative assembly rule that predicts community structure from the outcomes of competitions between small sets of species, and experimentally assess its predictive power using synthetic microbial communities. The rule's accuracy was evaluated by competing combinations of up to eight soil bacterial species, and comparing the experimentally observed outcomes to the predicted ones. Nearly all competitions resulted in a unique, stable community, whose composition was independent of the initial species fractions. Survival in three-species competitions was predicted by the pairwise outcomes with an accuracy of ~90%. Obtaining a similar level of accuracy in competitions between sets of seven or all eight species required incorporating additional information regarding the outcomes of the three-species competitions. Our results demonstrate experimentally the ability of a simple bottom-up approach to predict community structure. Such an approach is key for anticipating the response of communities to changing environments, designing interventions to steer existing communities to more desirable states, and, ultimately, rationally designing communities de novo.", u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067926', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Comprehensive population-based genome sequencing provides insight into hematopoietic regulatory mechanisms', ['Michael Guo', 'Satish K Nandakumar', 'Jacob C Ulirsch', 'Seyedeh Maryam Zekavat', 'Jason D Buenrostro', 'Pradeep Natarajan', 'Rany Salem', 'Roberto Chiarle', 'Mario Mitt', 'Mart Kals', 'Kalle Parn', 'Krista Fischer', 'Lili Milani', 'Reedik Magi', 'Priit Palta', 'Stacey B Gabriel', 'Andres Metspalu', 'Eric S Lander', 'Sekar Kathiresan', 'Joel N Hirschhorn', 'Tonu Esko', 'Vijay G Sankaran'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Genetic variants affecting hematopoiesis can influence commonly measured blood cell traits. To identify factors that affect hematopoiesis, we performed association studies for blood cell traits in the population-based Estonian Biobank using high coverage whole genome sequencing (WGS) in 2,284 samples and SNP genotyping in an additional ~17,000 samples. Our analyses identified 17 associations across 14 blood cell traits. Integration of WGS-based fine-mapping and complementary epigenomic data sets provided evidence for causal mechanisms at several loci, including at a novel basophil count-associated locus near the master hematopoietic transcription factor CEBPA. The fine-mapped variant at this basophil count association near CEBPA overlapped an enhancer active in common myeloid progenitors and influenced its activity. In situ perturbation of this enhancer by CRISPR/Cas9 mutagenesis in hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells demonstrated that it is necessary for and specifically regulates CEBPA expression during basophil differentiation. We additionally identified basophil count-associated variation at another more pleiotropic myeloid enhancer near GATA2, highlighting regulatory mechanisms for ordered expression of master hematopoietic regulators during lineage specification. Our study illustrates how population-based genetic studies can provide key insights into poorly understood cell differentiation processes of considerable physiologic relevance.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067934', [], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u"Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School;", u'Estonian Genome Center of the University of Tartu']]
[u'Insights into mortality patterns and causes of death through a process point of view', ['James Anderson', 'Ting Li', 'David J Sharrow'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Process point of view models of mortality such as the Strehler-Mildvan-Gompertz and stochastic vitality models, represent death in terms of abstract loss of survival capacity through challenges and dissipation.  Drawing on hallmarks of aging, we link these abstract concepts to candidate biological mechanisms through a framework that partitions causes of death into distal and proximal components. Hypothesizing that the immune system is a mortality nexus, we define distal components for juvenile immune system development and adult immunosenescence. Immune system disruption by proximal components defines three cause-of-death classes: juvenile extrinsic mortality and adult extrinsic mortality result from extrinsic disease and stress challenges to the juvenile and adult stages of the immune system, and adult intrinsic mortality results from the exhaustion of the adult immune system by immunosenescence. Patterns of model parameters, generated from Swedish mortality data (1751-2010), exhibit biologically meaningful correspondences to economic, health and cause-of-death patterns. The 20th century epidemiological transition in mortality is characterized by the proximal component shifting from infectious disease challenges to physical exertion challenges. The distal component change, involving slow improvements in immune system function, was of secondary importance. Extensions and limitations of a distal/proximal framework for characterizing more explicit causes of death, e.g. the young adult mortality hump or cancer in old age are discussed. Finally, our intent is to demonstrate that new insights into historical and future patterns of mortality can be gained through a process point of view.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067967', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'Remnin University']]
[u'Fast and accurate spike sorting in vitro and in vivo for up to thousands of electrodes', ['Pierre Yger', 'Giulia L. B. Spampinato', 'Elric Esposito', 'Baptiste Lefebvre', 'Stephane Deny', 'Christophe Gardella', 'Marcel Stimberg', 'Florian Jetter', 'Guenther Zeck', 'Serge Picaud', 'Jens Duebel', 'Olivier Marre'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Understanding how assemblies of neurons encode information requires recording large populations of cells in the brain. In recent years, multi-electrode arrays and large silicon probes have been developed to record simultaneously from hundreds or thousands of electrodes packed with a high density. However, these new devices challenge the classical way to do spike sorting. Here we developed a new method to solve these issues, based on a highly automated algorithm to extract spikes from extracellular data, and show that this algorithm reached near optimal performance both in vitro and in vivo. The algorithm is composed of two main steps: 1) a "template-finding" phase to extract the cell templates, i.e. the pattern of activity evoked over many electrodes when one neuron fires an action potential; 2) a "template-matching" phase where the templates were matched to the raw data to find the location of the spikes. The manual intervention by the user was reduced to the minimal, and the time spent on manual curation did not scale with the number of electrodes. \nWe tested our algorithm with large-scale data from in vitro and in vivo recordings, from 32 to 4225 electrodes. We performed simultaneous extracellular and patch recordings to obtain "ground truth" data, i.e. cases where the solution to the sorting problem is at least partially known. The performance of our algorithm was always close to the best expected performance. We thus provide a general solution to sort spikes from large-scale extracellular recordings.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067843', [], [u'Institut de la Vision;', u'NMI, Neurophysics Group, Reutligen']]
[u'Single Cell Transcriptome Conservation in Cryopreserved Cells and Tissues', ['Amy Guillaumet-Adkins', 'Gustavo Rodriguez-Esteban', 'Elisabetta Mereu', 'Alberto Villanueva', 'August Vidal', 'Marta Gut', 'Ivo Gut', 'Holger Heyn'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'A variety of single cell RNA preparation procedures have been described. So far these protocols require fresh starting material, hindering complex study designs. We describe a sample preservation method that maintains transcripts in viable single cells and so allows to disconnect time and place of sampling from subsequent processing steps. To demonstrate the potential, we sequenced single cell transcriptomes from >1,000 fresh and conserved cells. Our results confirmed that the conservation process did not alter transcriptional profiles. This substantially broadens the scope of applications in single cell transcriptomics and could lead to a paradigm shift in future study designs.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067884', [], [u'CNAG-CRG;', u'IDIBELL']]
[u'Beyond the Hypercube: Evolutionary Accessibility of Fitness Landscapes with Realistic Mutational Networks', ['Marcin Zagorski', 'Zdzislaw Burda', 'Bartlomiej Waclaw'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Evolutionary pathways describe trajectories of biological evolution in the space of different variants of organisms (genotypes). The probability of existence and the number of evolutionary pathways that lead from a given genotype to a better-adapted genotype are important measures of accessibility of local fitness optima and the reproducibility of evolution. Both quantities have been studied in simple mathematical models where genotypes are represented as binary sequences of two types of basic units, and the network of permitted mutations between the genotypes is a hypercube graph. However, it is unclear how these results translate to the biologically relevant case in which genotypes are represented by sequences of more than two units, for example four nucleotides (DNA) or 20 aminoacids (proteins), and the mutational graph is not the hypercube. Here we investigate accessibility of the best-adapted genotype in the general case of K>2 units. Using computer generated and experimental fitness landscapes we show that accessibility of the global fitness maximum increases with K and can be much higher than for binary sequences. The increase in accessibility comes from the increase in the number of indirect trajectories exploited by evolution for higher K. As one of the consequences, the fraction of genotypes that are accessible increases by three orders of magnitude when the number of units K increases from 2 to 16 for landscapes of size N~106 genotypes. This suggests that evolution can follow many different trajectories on such landscapes and the reconstruction of evolutionary pathways from experimental data might be an extremely difficult task.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067819', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institute of Science and Technology (IST) Austria;', u'Faculty of Physics and Applied Computer Science, AGH University of Science and Technology, Poland;', u'The University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Genetic Diversity, Population Structure and Species Delimitation of Trialeurodes vaporariorum (Greenhouse whitefly)', ['James M Wainaina', 'Paul De Barro', 'Laura Kubatko', 'Monica A Kehoe', 'Jagger Harvey', 'David Karanja', 'Laura Boykin'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Genetic diversity within Trialeurodes vaporariorum (Westwood, 1856) remains largely unexplored, particularly within regions of Sub-Saharan Africa. In this study, T. vaporariorum samples were obtained from three locations in Kenya: Katumani, Kiambu and Kajiado counties. DNA extraction, PCR and Sanger sequencing were carried out on ~750 bp fragment of the mitochondria cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) gene from individual whiteflies. In addition, global populations were assessed and 19 haplotypes were identified, with three main haplotypes (Hp_19, Hp_10, Hp_011) circulating within Kenya. Measures of genetic diversity among T. vaporariorum populations resulted in haplotype diversity of 0.411, nucleotide diversity 0.00096, and Tajimas D -0. 30315, (P>0.10). Analysis of population structure across global sequences using Structurama indicated one population globally, with posterior probability of 0.72. Bayesian and maximum likelihood phylogenetic analysis gave support for two clades (Clade I = an admixed global population and Clade II = subset of Kenyan and 1 Greek sequence). Species delimitation between the two clades was assessed by four parameters; posterior probability, Kimura two parameter (K2P), Rodrigos P (Randomly distinct) and Rosenbergs reciprocal monophyly (P(AB). The two clades within the phylogenetic tree showed evidence of distinctness based on; Kimura two parameters (K2P) (p = -1.21E-01), Rodrigos P (RD) (p =0.05) and Rosenbergs P(AB) (p = 2.3E -13). Overall, low genetic diversity within the Kenyan samples is a likely indicator of recent population expansion and colonization with this region and plausible signs of species complex formation in Sub-Saharan Africa.\nKey Words: Trialeurodes vaporariorum, Population Structure, Phylogenetics, Species Delimitation, Genetic Diversity, Kenya', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067769', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The University of Western Australia;', u'CSIRO;', u'The Ohio State University;', u'Departments of Agriculture and Food Western Australia;', u'Biosciences eastern and central Africa (BecA/ILRI Hub) International Livestock Research Institute;', u'Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organization;', u'The University of Western Australia, Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence in PEB']]
[u'Accelerated cell divisions drive the outgrowth of the regenerating spinal cord in axolotls', ['Fabian Rost', 'Aida Rodrigo Albors', 'Vladimir Mazurov', 'Lutz Brusch', 'Andreas Deutsch', 'Elly M Tanaka', 'Osvaldo Chara'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Axolotls are unique in their ability to regenerate the spinal cord. However, the mechanisms that underlie this phenomenon remain poorly understood. Previously, we showed that resting stem cells in the axolotl spinal cord revert to a molecular state resembling embryonic neuroepithelial cells and functionally acquire rapid proliferative divisions during regeneration. Here we refine in space and time this increase in cell proliferation during regeneration, and identify a dynamic high-proliferation zone in the regenerating spinal cord. By tracking sparsely-labeled cells, we quantify cell influx into the regenerate. Taking a mathematical modelling approach, we integrate these quantitative biological datasets across cellular and tissue level to provide a mechanistic and quantitative understanding of regenerative spinal cord outgrowth. We find that the acceleration of the cell cycle is necessary and sufficient to drive the outgrowth of the regenerating spinal cord in axolotls.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067785', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Center for Information Services and High Performance Computing, Technical University of Dresden;', u'Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, Center for Regenerative Therapies Dresden']]
[u'Modeling Hsp70/Hsp40 interaction by multi-scale molecular simulations and co-evolutionary sequence analysis', ['Duccio Malinverni', 'Alfredo Jost Lopez', 'Paolo De Los Rios', 'Gerhard Hummer', 'Alessandro Barducci'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'The interaction between the Heat Shock Proteins 70 and 40 is at the core of the ATPase regulation of the chaperone machinery that maintains protein homeostasis. However, the structural details of this fundamental interaction are still elusive and contrasting models have been proposed for the transient Hsp70/Hsp40 complexes. Here we combine molecular simulations based on both coarse-grained and atomistic models with co-evolutionary sequence analysis to shed light on this problem by focusing on the bacterial DnaK/DnaJ system. \nThe integration of these complementary approaches resulted into a novel structural model that rationalizes previous experimental observations. We identify an evolutionary-conserved interaction surface formed by helix II of the DnaJ J-domain and a groove on lobe IIA of the DnaK nucleotide binding domain, involving the inter-domain linker.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067421', [u'Biophysics'], [u'\xc9cole Polytechnique F\xe9d\xe9rale de Lausanne;', u'Max Planck Institute of Biophysics, Max-von-Laue-Str. 3, D-60438 Frankfurt am Main, Germany;', u'\xc9cole Polytechnique F\xe9d\xe9rale de Lausanne, Switzerland;', u'Universit\xe9 de Montpellier, CNRS, Centre de Biochimie Structurale, Montpellier, France']]
[u'Evolution trajectories of snake genes and genomes revealed by comparative analyses of five-pacer viper', ['Wei Yin', 'Zongji Wang', 'Qiye Li', 'Jinmin Lian', 'Yang Zhou', 'Bingzheng Lu', 'Lijun Jin', 'Pengxin Qiu', 'Pei Zhang', 'Wenbo Zhu', 'Bo Wen', 'Yijun Huang', 'Zhilong Lin', 'Bitao Qiu', 'Xingwen Su', 'Huanming Yang', 'Guojie Zhang', 'Guangmei Yan', 'Qi Zhou'], u'August 4, 2016.', u"Snakes have numerous features distinctive from other tetrapods and a rich history of genome evolution that is still obscure. Here, we report the genome of the five-pacer viper, Deinagkistrodon acutus, and comparative analyses with species from other major snake and lizard lineages. We map the evolutionary trajectories of transposable elements (TEs), developmental genes and sex chromosomes onto the snake phylogeny. TEs exhibit dynamic lineage-specific expansion; in the viper, many TEs may have been rewired into the regulatory network of brain genes. We detect signatures of adaptive evolution in olfactory, venom and thermal-sensing genes, and also functional degeneration of genes associated with vision and hearing. Many Hox and Tbx limb-patterning genes show evidence of relaxed selective constraints, and their phylogenetic distribution supports fossil evidence for a successive loss of forelimbs then hindlimbs during snake evolution. Finally, we infer that the Z and W sex chromosomes had undergone at least three recombination suppression events in the ancestor of advanced snakes, with the W chromosomes showing a gradient of degeneration from basal to advanced snakes. These results forge a framework for our deep understanding into snakes' history of molecular evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067538', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Sun Yat-sen University;', u'Zhejiang University;', u'China National Genebank, BGI-Shenzhen;', u'BGI-Shenzhen']]
[u'An RNA-binding tropomyosin recruits kinesin-1 dynamically to oskar mRNPs', ['Imre Gaspar', 'Vasily Sysoev', 'Artem Komissarov', 'Anne Ephrussi'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Localization and local translation of oskar mRNA at the posterior pole of the Drosophila oocyte directs abdominal patterning and germline formation in the embryo. The process requires precise recruitment and regulation of motor proteins to form transport-competent mRNPs. Using high- and super-resolution imaging, we determine the steps in motor recruitment to oskar mRNPs. We show that the posterior-targeting kinesin-1 is recruited upon nuclear export of oskar mRNPs, prior to their dynein-dependent transport from the nurse cells into the oocyte. We demonstrate that DmTropomyosin1-I/C is an atypical RNA-binding, nucleocytoplasmic shuttling Tropomyosin1 isoform that binds the oskar 3\u2032UTR through recognition of a supramolecular RNA motif created upon dimerization of oskar molecules. Our data show that, in the oocyte, kinesin-1 is recruited by DmTropomyosin1-I/C to a dynamically changing, small subset of oskar mRNPs and is activated by the functionalized spliced oskar  RNA localization element, revealing an ergonomic, coordinated mechanism of cargo transport.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067876', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory']]
[u'Adverse effects of culture media on human pluripotent stem cells', ['Megha Prakash Bangalore', 'Syama Adhikarla', 'Odity Mukherjee', 'Mitradas.M Panicker'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Culture conditions play an important role in regulating the genomic integrity of HPSCs. We report that HPSCs cultured in Essential 8 (E8) and mTeSR, two widely used media for off-feeder culturing of HPSCs, had many fold higher levels of ROS and higher mitochondrial potential than cells cultured in KSR containing media. HPSCs also exhibited increased levels of 8-hydroxyguanosine, phospho-histone-H2A.X and p53, as well as increased sensitivity to \u03b3-irradiation in these two media. HPSCs in E8 and mTeSR had increased incidence of alterations in their DNA sequence, reflecting genotoxic stress, in addition to changes in nucleolar morphology and number. Supplementing E8 and mTeSR with antioxidants provided only a partial rescue. Our results suggest that it is essential to determine cellular ROS levels in designing culture media as it affects the genomic integrity of HPSCs and will limit their use in studying development and in regenerative medicine.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067868', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine']]
[u'An Atlas of Human Kinase Regulation', ['David Ochoa', 'Mindaugas Jonikas', 'Robert T Lawrence', 'Bachir El Debs', 'Joel Selkrig', 'Athanasios Typas', 'Judit Villen', 'Silvia Santos', 'Pedro Beltrao'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'The coordinated regulation of protein kinases is a rapid mechanism that integrates diverse cues and swiftly determines appropriate cellular responses. However, our understanding of cellular decision-making has been limited by the small number of simultaneously monitored phospho-regulatory events. Here, we have estimated changes in activity in 215 human kinases in 399 conditions from a compilation of nearly 3 million phosphopeptide quantifications. This atlas identifies commonly regulated kinases as those that are central in the signaling network and defines the logic relationships between kinase pairs. Co-regulation along the conditions predicts kinase-complex and kinase-substrate associations. Additionally, the kinase regulation profile acts as a molecular fingerprint to identify related and opposing signaling states. Using this atlas, we identified essential mediators of stem cell differentiation, modulators of Salmonella infection and new targets of AKT1. This provides a global view of human phosphorylation-based signaling and the necessary context to better understand kinase driven decision-making.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067900', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College London;', u'Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL), Genome Biology Unit;', u'EMBL-EBI']]
[u'Direct correlation between motile behavior and protein abundance in single cells', ['Yann S Dufour', 'Sebastien Gillet', 'Nicholas W Frankel', 'Douglas B Weibel', 'Thierry Emonet'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Understanding how stochastic molecular fluctuations affect cell behavior requires the quantification of both behavior and protein numbers in the same cells. Here, we combine automated microscopy with in situ hydrogel polymerization to measure single-cell protein expression after tracking swimming behavior. We characterized the distribution of non-genetic phenotypic diversity in Escherichia coli motility, which affects single-cell exploration. By expressing fluorescently tagged chemotaxis proteins (CheR and CheB) at different levels, we quantitatively mapped motile phenotype (tumble bias) to protein numbers using thousands of single-cell measurements. Our results disagreed with established models until we incorporated the role of CheB in receptor deamidation and the slow fluctuations in receptor methylation. Beyond refining models, our central finding is that changes in numbers of CheR and CheB affect the population mean tumble bias and its variance independently. Therefore, it is possible to adjust the degree of phenotypic diversity of a population by adjusting the global level of expression of CheR and CheB while keeping their ratio constant, which, as shown in previous studies, confers functional robustness to the system. Since genetic control of protein expression is heritable, our results suggest that non-genetic diversity in motile behavior is selectable, supporting earlier hypotheses that such diversity confers a selective advantage.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067918', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Yale University (current: Michigan State University);', u'Yale University;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'The genealogical decomposition of a matrix population model with applications to the aggregation of stages', ['Francois Bienvenu', 'Erol Akcay', 'Stephane Legendre', 'David McCandlish'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Matrix projection models are a central tool in many areas of population biology. In most applications, one starts from the projection matrix to quantify the asymptotic growth rate of the population (the dominant eigenvalue), the stable stage distribution, and the reproductive values (the dominant right and left eigenvectors, respectively). Any primitive projection matrix also has an associated ergodic Markov chain that contains information about the genealogy of the population. In this paper, we show that these facts can be used to specify any matrix population model as a triple consisting of the ergodic Markov matrix, the dominant eigenvalue and one of the corresponding eigenvectors. This decomposition of the projection matrix separates properties associated with lineages from those associated with individuals. It also clarifies the relationships between many quantities commonly used to describe such models, including the relationship between eigenvalue sensitivities and elasticities. We illustrate the utility of such a decomposition by introducing a new method for aggregating classes in a matrix population models to produce a simpler model with a smaller number of classes. Unlike the standard method, our method has the advantage of preserving reproductive values and elasticities. It also has conceptually satisfying properties such as commuting with changes of units.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067793', [u'Ecology'], [u'Coll\xe8ge de France;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Ecole Normale Sup\xe9rieure']]
[u"Late Onset Alzheimer's disease risk variants in cognitive decline: The PATH Through Life Study", ['Shea J Andrews', 'Debjani Das', 'Kaarin J Anstey', 'Simon Easteal'], u'August 4, 2016.', u"Recent genome wide association studies have identified a number of single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with late onset Alzheimer's disease. Here we examine the associations of 24 LOAD risk loci, individually and collectively as a genetic risk score, with cognitive function. We used data from 1,626 non-demented older Australians of European ancestry who were examined up to four times over 12 years on tests assessing episodic memory, working memory, vocabulary and information processing speed. Linear mixed models were generated to examine associations between genetic factors and cognitive performance. Twelve SNPs were significantly associated with baseline cognitive performance (ABCA7, MS4A4E, SORL1), linear rate of change (APOE, ABCA7, INPP5D, ZCWPW1, CELF1) or quadratic rate of change (APOE, CLU, EPHA1, HLA, INPP5D, FERMT2). In addition, a weighted GRS was associated with linear rate of change in episodic memory and information processing speed. Our results suggest that a minority of AD related SNPs may be associated with non-clinical cognitive decline. Further research is required to verify these results and to examine the effect of preclinical AD in genetic association studies of cognitive decline. The identification of LOAD risk loci associated with non-clinical cognitive performance may help in screening for individuals at greater risk of cognitive decline.", u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067694', [u'Genetics'], [u'John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian National University;', u'Centre for Research on Ageing, Health and Wellbeing, Australian National University']]
[u'BayesFM: a software program to fine-map multiple causative variants in GWAS identified risk loci.', ['Ming Fang', 'Michel Georges'], u'August 4, 2016.', u"We herein describe a new method to fine-map GWAS-identified risk loci based on the Bayesian Least Absolute Shrinkage Selection Operator (LASSO) combined with a Monte Carlo Markov Chain (MCMC) approach, and corresponding software package (BayesFM). We characterize the performances of BayesFM using simulated data, showing that it outperforms standard forward selection both in terms of sensitivity and specificity. We apply the method to the NOD2 locus, a well-established risk locus for Crohn's disease, in which we identify 13 putative independent signals.", u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067801', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Life Science College, Heilongjiang Bayi Argriculture University;', u'Unit of Animal Genomics, GIGA-R & Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, ULG']]
[u'GTSE1 tunes microtubule dynamics for chromosome alignment and segregation through MCAK inhibition', ['Shweta Bendre', 'Arnaud Rondelet', 'Conrad Hall', 'Nadine Woestehoff', 'Yu-Chih Lin', 'Gary Brouhard', 'Alexander Bird'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'The dynamic regulation of microtubules during mitosis is critical for accurate chromosome segregation and genome stability. Cancer cell lines with hyperstabilized kinetochore microtubules have increased segregation errors and elevated chromosomal instability (CIN), but the genetic defects responsible remain largely unknown. The microtubule depolymerase MCAK can influence CIN through its impact on microtubule stability, but how its potent activity is controlled in cells remains unclear. Here we show that GTSE1, a protein found overexpressed in aneuploid cancer cell lines and tumours, regulates microtubule stability during mitosis by inhibiting MCAK microtubule depolymerase activity. Cells lacking GTSE1 have defects in chromosome alignment and spindle positioning due to microtubule instability caused by excess MCAK activity. Reducing GTSE1 levels in CIN cancer cell lines reduces chromosome missegregation defects, while artificially inducing GTSE1 levels in chromosomally stable cells elevates chromosome missegregation and CIN. Thus, GTSE1 overexpression leading to hyperstabilization of kinetochore microtubules via MCAK inhibition defines a new potential mechanism driving CIN.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067827', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Physiology;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Ultraslow water-mediated transmembrane interactions regulate the activation of A2A adenosine receptor', ['Yoonji Lee', 'Songmi Kim', 'Sun Choi', 'Changbong Hyeon'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Water molecules inside G-protein coupled receptor have recently been spotlighted in a series of crystal structures. To decipher the dynamics and functional roles of internal waters in GPCR activity, we studied A2A adenosine receptor using \xb5sec-molecular dynamics simulations. Our study finds that the amount of water flux across the transmembrane (TM) domain varies depending on the receptor state, and that the water molecules of the TM channel in the active state flow three times slower than those in the inactive state. Depending on the location in solvent-protein interface as well as the receptor state, the average residence time of water in each residue varies from O(102) psec to ~ O(102) nsec. Especially, water molecules, exhibiting ultraslow relaxation (O(102) nsec) in the active state, are found around the microswitch residues that are considered activity hotspots for GPCR function. A continuous allosteric network spanning the TM domain, arising from water-mediated contacts, is unique in the active state, underscoring the importance of slow waters in the GPCR activation.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067751', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Ewha Womans University;', u'Korea Institute for Advanced Study']]
[u'Experimental Reconstitution of Chronic ER Stress in the Liver Reveals Feedback Suppression of Bip mRNA Expression', ['Javier A. Gomez', 'D. Thomas Rutkowski'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'ER stress is implicated in many chronic diseases, but very little is known about how the unfolded protein response (UPR) responds to persistent ER stress in vivo. Here, we experimentally reconstituted chronic ER stress in the mouse liver, using repeated injection of a low dose of the ER stressor tunicamycin. Paradoxically, this treatment led to feedback-mediated suppression of a select group of mRNAs, including those encoding the ER chaperones BiP and GRP94. This suppression was due to both silencing of the ATF6\u03b1 pathway of UPR-dependent transcription and enhancement of mRNA degradation, most likely via regulated IRE1-dependent decay (RIDD). The suppression of Bip mRNA was phenocopied by ectopic overexpression of BiP protein, and was also observed in obese mice. Our findings suggest that persistent cycles of UPR activation and deactivation create an altered, quasi-stable setpoint for UPR-dependent transcriptional regulation--an outcome that could be relevant to conditions such as metabolic syndrome.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067744', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Iowa;', u'University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine']]
[u'Low activity microstates during sleep', ['Hiroyuki Miyawaki', 'Yazan Billeh', 'Kamran Diba'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'To better understand sleep requires evaluating the distinct activity patterns of the brain during sleep. We performed extracellular recordings of large populations of hippocampal region CA1 neurons in freely moving rats across sleep and waking states. Throughout non-REM (non-rapid eye movement) sleep, we observed periods of diminished oscillatory and population spiking activity lasting on the order of seconds, distinct from characterized DOWN states, which we refer to as \u2033LOW\u2033 activity sleep states. LOW states lasted longer than characterized DOWN states and were distinguished by a subset of \u2033LOW-active\u2033 cells. LOW activity sleep was preceded and followed by increased sharp-wave ripple (SWR) activity. We also observed decreased slow-wave activity (SWA) and sleep spindles in the hippocampus local-field potential (LFP) and neocortical electroencephalogram (EEG) upon LOW onset, but only a partial rebound immediately after LOW. LOW states demonstrated LFP, EEG, and electromyogram (EMG) patterns consistent with sleep, but otherwise resembled previously described small-amplitude irregular activity (SIA) during quiet waking. Their likelihood increased over the course of sleep, particularly following REM sleep. To confirm that LOW is a brain-wide phenomenon, we analyzed data from the entorhinal cortex of rats, medial prefrontal cortex, and anterior thalamus of mice, obtained from crcns.org and confirmed that LOW states corresponded to markedly diminished activity simultaneously in all of these regions. We propose that LOW states are an important microstate within non-REM sleep that provide respite from high-activity sleep, and prepare the brain for a transition to waking.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067892', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Wisconsin - Milwaukee;', u'California Institute of Technology;', u'University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee']]
[u'Signatures of human European Paleolithic expansion shown by resequencing of non-recombining X-chromosome segments', ['Pierpaolo Maisano Delser', 'Rita Neumann', 'Stephane Ballereau', 'Pille Hallast', 'Chiara Batini', 'Daniel Zadik', 'Mark Jobling'], u'August 4, 2016.', u'Human genetic diversity in Europe has been extensively studied using uniparentally-inherited sequences (mitochondrial DNA [mtDNA] and the Y chromosome), which reveal very different patterns indicating sex-specific demographic histories. The X chromosome, haploid in males and inherited twice as often from mothers as from fathers, could provide insights into past female behaviours, but has not been extensively investigated. Here, we use HapMap SNP data to identify segments of the X chromosome in which recombination is historically absent and mutations are likely to be the only source of genetic variation, referring to these as Phylogeographically informative Haplotypes on Autosomes and X chromosome (PHAXs). Three such sequences spanning a total of ~49 kb were resequenced in 240 males from Europe, the Middle East and Africa at an average coverage of 181x. PHAXs were confirmed to be essentially non\u2010recombining across European samples. All three loci show highly homogeneous patterns across Europe and are highly differentiated from the African sample. Star-like structures of European-specific haplotypes in median-joining networks indicate past population expansions. Bayesian skyline plots and time-to-most-recent-common-ancestor estimates suggest expansions pre-dating the Neolithic transition, a finding that is more compatible with data on mtDNA than the Y chromosome, and with the female bias of X-chromosomal inheritance. This study demonstrates the potential of the use of X-chromosomal haplotype blocks, and the utility of the accurate ascertainment of rare variants for inferring human demographic history.', u'/content/early/2016/08/04/067835', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Leicester;', u'Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute;', u'University of Tartu']]
