[u'Assessing Pathogens for Natural versus Laboratory Origins Using Genomic Data and Machine Learning', ['Tonia Korves', 'Christopher D Garay', 'Heather A Carleton', 'Ashley Sabol', 'Eija Trees', 'Matthew W Peterson'], u'October 6, 2016.', u'Pathogen genomic data is increasingly important in investigations of infectious disease outbreaks. The objective of this study is to develop methods for using large-scale genomic data to determine the type of the environment an outbreak pathogen came from. Specifically, this study focuses on assessing whether an outbreak strain came from a natural environment or experienced substantial laboratory culturing. The approach uses phylogenetic analyses and machine learning to identify DNA changes that are characteristic of laboratory culturing. The analysis methods include parallelized sequence read alignment, variant identification, phylogenetic tree construction, ancestral state reconstruction, semi-supervised classification, and random forests. These methods were applied to 902 Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium genomes from the NCBI Sequence Read Archive database. The analyses identified candidate signatures of laboratory culturing that are highly consistent with genes identified in published laboratory passage studies. In particular, the analysis identified mutations in rpoS, hfq, rfb genes, acrB, and rbsR as strong signatures of laboratory culturing. In leave-one-out cross-validation, the classifier had an area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve of 0.89 for strains from two laboratory reference sets collected in the 1940s and 1980s.  The classifier was also used to assess laboratory culturing in foodborne and laboratory acquired outbreak strains closely related to laboratory reference strain serovar Typhimurium 14028.  The classifier detected some evidence of laboratory culturing on the phylogeny branch leading to this clade, suggesting all of these strains may have a common ancestor that experienced laboratory culturing. Together, these results suggest that phylogenetic analysis and machine learning could be used to assess whether pathogens collected from patients are naturally occurring or have been extensively cultured in laboratories. The data analysis methods can be applied to any bacterial pathogen species, and could be adapted to assess viral pathogens and other types of source environments.', u'/content/early/2016/10/06/079541', [], [u'The MITRE Corporation;', u'Centers for Disease Control and Prevention']]
[u'Categorizing Ideas about Systematics: Alternative Trees of Trees, and Related Representations', ['Janos Podani', 'David A. Morrison'], u'October 6, 2016.', u"This study is an attempt to expand a previous survey by Fisler and Lecointre (FL) for systematizing ideas on the use of the tree metaphor in classification, as expressed by various historically important figures in their writings. FL used a cladistic approach to analyze their data, as employed in biological classification. We supplement this analysis here using several methods of multivariate data exploration, producing a UPGMA dendrogram, a minimum spanning tree, a neighbor joining additive tree, a plexus graph, a phylogenetic network, and two multidimensional scaling ordinations of the same data used by FL. We confirm the validity of many of FL's smaller clusters of writings, and revealed a new 3-group categorization undetected by the previous study. These three groups largely correspond to Classifiers, who did not consider evolution for historical reasons or on purpose, Non-analytical evolutionists, who recognized evolution but with a more or less naive attitude towards the temporal change of life, and Modelers, with more explicit views on evolutionary processes, often applying objective mathematical tools for exploring the past and present of organismal diversity. Some scientists were difficult to assign to any group unambiguously, including J.W. von Goethe, who takes a unique position in the history of biology, and, to a lesser extent, E. Mayr and G.G. Simpson, the leaders of the gradist school of systematics. We argue that cladistic methods are insufficient by themselves, notably in situations where there are no obvious ancestor-descendant relationships underlying the development of the objects being analyzed.", u'/content/early/2016/10/06/079483', [], [u'Eotvos University;', u'Evolutionary Biology Center, Uppsala University']]
[u'A Saposin deficiency model in Drosophila: lysosomal storage, progressive neurodegeneration, sensory physiological decline and defective calcium homeostasis', ['Samantha J Hindle', 'Sarita Hebbar', 'Dominik Schwudke', 'Christopher J Elliott', 'Sean T Sweeney'], u'October 6, 2016.', u'Saposin deficiency is a childhood neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder (LSD) that can cause premature death within three months of life. Saposins are activator proteins that promote the function of lysosomal hydrolases in the degradation of sphingolipids. There are four saposin proteins in humans, which are encoded by the prosaposin gene. Mutations causing an absence of individual saposins or the whole prosaposin gene lead to distinct LSDs due to the storage of different classes of sphingolipids. The pathological events leading to neuronal dysfunction induced by lysosomal storage of sphingolipids are as yet poorly defined. We have generated and characterised a Drosophila model of saposin deficiency that shows striking similarities to the human diseases. Drosophila saposin-related (dSap-r) mutants show a reduced longevity, progressive neurodegeneration, lysosomal storage, dramatic swelling of neuronal soma, perturbations in sphingolipid catabolism, and sensory physiological deterioration. We have also revealed a genetic interaction with a calcium exchanger (CalX), suggesting that calcium homeostasis may be altered in saposin deficiency. Together these findings support the use of dSap-r mutants in advancing our understanding of the cellular pathology implicated in saposin deficiency and related LSDs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/06/078725', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Biology, University of York, York, YO10 5DD, U.K.;', u'National Centre for Biological Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bangalore, India']]
[u'Two novel genes discovered in human mitochondrial DNA using PacBio full-length transcriptome data', ['Gao Shan', 'Xiaoxuan Tian', 'Yu Sun', 'Zhenfeng Wu', 'Zhi Cheng', 'Pengzhi Dong', 'Bingjun He', 'Jishou Ruan', 'Wenjun Bu'], u'October 6, 2016.', u'In this study, we introduced a general framework to use PacBio full-length transcriptome sequencing for the investigation of the fundamental problems in mitochondrial biology, e.g. genome arrangement, heteroplasmy, RNA processing and the regulation of transcription or replication. As a result, we produced the first full-length human mitochondrial transcriptome from the MCF7 cell line based on the PacBio platform and characterized the human mitochondrial transcriptome with more comprehensive and accurate information. The most important finding is two novel genes hsa-MDL1 and hsa-MDL1AS, which are encoded by the mitochondrial D-loop regions. We propose hsa-MDL1 and hsa-MDL1AS, as the precursors of transcription initiation RNAs (tiRNAs), belong to a novel class of long non-coding RNAs (lnRNAs), which is named as long tiRNAs (ltiRNAs). Based on the mitochondrial RNA processing model, the primary tiRNAs, precursors and mature tiRNAs could be discovered to completely reveal tiRNAs from their origins to functions. The ltiRNA/tiRNA system and their regulation mechanisms could exist ubiquitously in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. These findings will enrich the basic concepts in the field of mitochondrial biology, lnRNA functions and regulation of gene expression.', u'/content/early/2016/10/06/079517', [u'Genomics'], [u'Nankai University;', u'Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine']]
[u'From Typical Sequences to Typical Genotypes', ['Omri Tal', 'Tat Dat Tran', 'Jacobus Portegies'], u'October 6, 2016.', u'We demonstrate an application of a core notion of information theory, that of typical sequences and their related properties, to analysis of population genetic data. Based on the asymptotic equipartition property (AEP) for non-stationary discrete time\nsources producing independent symbols, we introduce the concepts of typical genotypes and population entropy rate and cross-entropy rate. We analyze three perspectives on typical genotypes: a set perspective on the interplay of typical sets of genotypes from two populations, a geometric perspective on their structure in high dimensional space, and a statistical learning perspective on the prospects of constructing typical-set based classifiers. In particular, we show that such classifiers have a surprising resilience to noise originating from small population samples, and\nhighlight the potential for further links between inference and communication.', u'/content/early/2016/10/06/079491', [u'Genetics'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Mathematics in the Sciences']]
[u'Representations of Subjective Effort Cost', ['Patrick S Hogan', 'Cary D Frydman', 'Joseph K Galaro', 'Vikram S Chib'], u'October 6, 2016.', u'How effortful an action feels critically shapes everyday decisions. Despite the importance of perceptions of effortfulness for making choices, the behavioral and neural representations of the subjective cost of physical effort are not well understood. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to monitor brain activity while participants engaged in risky choices for prospective physical effort independent of reward. Behaviorally we found that participants exhibited increasing sensitivity to changes in subjective effort as objective effort levels increased. Moreover, the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) encoded the subjective cost of prospective effort options and integrated these representations to facilitate decisions regarding effort expenditure. These results provide insight into human decision-making by showing how neural representations of feelings of effortfulness engender choices about exertion.', u'/content/early/2016/10/06/079467', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of Southern California']]
[u'SCORPIUS improves trajectory inference and identifies novel modules in dendritic cell development', ['Robrecht Cannoodt', 'Wouter Saelens', 'Dorine Sichien', 'Simon Tavernier', 'Sophie Janssens', 'Martin Guilliams', 'Bart N Lambrecht', 'Katleen De Preter', 'Yvan Saeys'], u'October 6, 2016.', u'Recent advances in RNA sequencing enable the generation of genome-wide expression data at the single-cell level, opening up new avenues for transcriptomics and systems biology. A new application of single-cell whole-transcriptomics is the unbiased ordering of cells according to their progression along a dynamic process of interest. We introduce SCORPIUS, a method which can effectively reconstruct an ordering of individual cells without any prior information about the dynamic process. Comprehensive evaluation using ten scRNA-seq datasets shows that SCORPIUS consistently outperforms state-of-the-art techniques. We used SCORPIUS to generate novel hypotheses regarding dendritic cell development, which were subsequently validated in vivo. This work enables data-driven investigation and characterization of dynamic processes and lays the foundation for objective benchmarking of future trajectory inference methods.', u'/content/early/2016/10/06/079509', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Ghent University']]
