[u'Do Dams Also Stop Frogs? Assessing Population Connectivity of Coastal Tailed Frogs (Ascaphus truei) in the North Cascades National Park Service Complex', ['Jared A. Grummer', 'Adam D. Leache'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'We investigated the effects of three hydroelectric dams and their associated lakes on the population structure and connectivity of the coastal tailed frog, Ascaphus truei, in the North Cascades National Park Service Complex. Three dams were erected on the Skagit River in northern-central Washington state between 1924 and 1953 and subsequently changed the natural shape and movement of the Skagit River and its tributaries. We collected 183 individuals from 13 tributaries and generated a dataset of >2,500 loci (unlinked SNPs) using double digestion restriction site-associated DNA sequencing (ddRADseq). An analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) identified ~99% of the genetic variation within groups, and the remaining variation among groups separated by dams, or the Skagit River. All populations exhibited low FST values with a maximum of 0.03474. A "de novo" discriminant analysis of principal components revealed two populations with no geographic cohesiveness. However, testing groups that were partitioned a priori by the dams revealed distinctiveness of populations down-river of the lowest dam. Coalescent-based analyses of recent migration suggest that up to 17.3% of each population is composed of migrants from other populations, and an estimation of effective migration rates revealed high levels of migration heterogeneity and population connectivity in this area. Our results suggest that although the populations down-river from the lowest dam are distinguishable, a high level of A. truei population connectivity exists throughout the North Cascades National Park Service Complex.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062844', [], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Schizophrenia hiPSC neurons display expression changes that are enriched for disease risk variants and a blunted activity-dependent response', ['Panos Roussos', 'Boris Guennewig', 'Dominik Kaczorowski', 'Guy Barry', 'Kristen J Brennand'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'IMPORTANCE: Schizophrenia (SCZ) is a common illness with complex genetic architecture where both common genetic variation and rare mutations have been implicated. SCZ candidate genes participate in common molecular pathways that are regulated by activity-dependent changes in neurons, including the signaling network that modulates synaptic strength and the network of genes that are targets of fragile X mental retardation protein. One important next step is to further our understanding on the role of activity-dependent changes of genes expression in the etiopathogenesis of SCZ. OBJECTIVE: To examine whether neuronal activity-dependent changes of gene expression is dysregulated in SCZ. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Neurons differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) derived from 4 cases with SCZ and 4 unaffected controls were depolarized using potassium chloride. RNA was extracted followed by genome-wide profiling of the transcriptome. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: We performed differential expression analysis and gene co-expression analysis to identify activity-dependent or disease-specific changes of the transcriptome. Further, we used gene set analyses to identify co-expressed modules that are enriched for SCZ risk genes. RESULTS: We identified 1,669 genes that are significantly different in SCZ-associated vs. control hiPSC-derived neurons and 1,199 genes that are altered in these cells in response to depolarization. We show that the effect of activity-dependent changes of gene expression in SCZ-associated neurons is attenuated compared to controls. Furthermore, these differentially expressed genes are co-expressed in modules that are highly enriched for genes affected by genetic risk variants in SCZ and other neurodevelopmental disorders. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Our results show that SCZ candidate genes converge to gene networks that are associated with a blunted effect of activity-dependent changes of gene expression in SCZ-associated neurons. Overall, these findings show that hiPSC neurons demonstrate activity-dependent transcriptional changes that can be utilized to examine underlying mechanisms and therapeutic interventions related to SCZ.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062885', [], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Garvan Institute of Medical Research;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute']]
[u'Three-dimensional definition of two prominent deep brain stimulation targets based on a multimodal high-definition MNI template', ['Siobhan Ewert', 'Andreas Horn'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Three-dimensional atlases of subcortical brain structures are valuable tools to reference anatomy in neuroscience and neurology. In the special case of deep brain stimulation (DBS), the two most prominent targets are the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the internal part of the pallidum (GPi). With the help of atlases that define their position and shape within a well-defined stereotactic space, their spatial relationship to implanted deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrodes may be analyzed on a single-subject level and in group studies. One standard approach to define such atlases is to manually segment structures on MR data of large cohorts and coregister them to a standard anatomy template. Other approaches include using histological stacks that are again co-registered to the template. However, most of the atlases derived in this fashion show a substantial descripancy to the anatomy that is defined by the template itself. Here, an algorithm that automatically segments the template itself by simultaneously using its T1, T2, proton density and T2 relaxometry modalities is introduced. Based on a low number of manually placed point fiducials within each structure, this three-level algorithm was able to robustly segment subcortical anatomical structures. The first level consisted of a multimodal region-growing algorithm that intended to increase the number of sample points for robustness reasons. The second level computed Mahalanobis distances from each voxel in the brain to the multimodal intensity distribution of first level points set and thus assigned target structure similarity values to each voxel. Finally, the third level assigned each super-threshold voxel to one of the subcortical structures in a winner- takes-all fashion based on second level probability maps. The algorithm was able to segment the STN, the pallidum and the red nucleus directly on the MNI template. The algorithm was not able to automatically segment the internal and external parts of the pallidum. However, given the practical importance of the GPi, a second version of the atlas was defined in high resolution by manual segmentation. To maintain a maximally possible observer-independence, this process was largely informed by automatically generated probability maps described above. We argue that the resulting atlas is a valuable tool to define DBS target structures within standard anatomical space. Furthermore, the atlas may additionally be used as an anchor-point to co-register more detailed (e.g. histological) atlases into standard space. Both the automated and manual versions of the atlas will be made publicly available under an open license.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062851', [], [u'Charit\xe9 University Medicine (Berlin, Germany);', u'Harvard Medical School, BIDMC, Neurology Department, Berenson Allen Center (Boston, MA, USA)']]
[u'Modeling the dynamics of mouse iron body distribution: hepcidin is necessary but not sufficient', ['Jignesh H. Parmar', 'Grey Davis', 'Hope Shevchuk', 'Pedro Mendes'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Background: Iron is an essential element of most living organisms but is a dangerous substance  when poorly liganded in solution, as it can catalyze the generation of hydroxyl radical and strong evidence supports its involvement, combined with reactive oxygen species, in a wide range of diseases. The hormone hepcidin regulates the export of iron from tissues to the plasma contributing to iron homeostasis and also restricting its availability to infectious agents. Disruption of iron regulation in mammals leads to disorders such as anemia and hemochromatosis, and contributes to the etiology of several other diseases such as cancer and neurodegenerative diseases. \n\nResults: Here we develop a dynamic model of mouse iron distribution including regulation by hepcidin and use it to fit existing data from different diets. The model is able to fit data for adequate and low iron diets but has considerable deviations from the data for a rich iron diet. Namely the model predicts more iron in red blood cells and less iron in the liver than what was observed in experiments. \n\nConclusions: The implication of these results is that hepcidin alone is not sufficient to regulate iron homeostasis in high iron conditions and that other factors are important. The model was able to simulate anemia when hepcidin was increased but was unable to simulate hemochromatosis when hepcidin was suppressed, supporting the view that in high iron conditions additional regulatory interactions are important.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062901', [], [u'University of Connecticut School of Medicine']]
[u'Coding translational rates: the hidden genetic code', ['Luis Diambra'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'In this paper  we propose that translational rate is modulated by pairs of consecutive \ncodons or bicodons. By a statistical analysis of coding sequences, associated with low \nor with high abundant proteins, we found some bicodons with significant preference usage \nfor either of these sets. These usage preferences cannot be explained by the frequency \nusage of the single codons. We compute a pause propensity measure of all bicodons in nine \norganisms, which reveals that \nin many cases bicodon preference is shared between related organisms. We found that \nbicodons associated with sequences encoding low abundant proteins are involved in \ntranslational attenuation reported in SufI protein in E. coli. Furthermore, we \nobserve that the misfolding in the drug-transport protein, encoded by MDR1 gene, is \nbetter explained by a big change in the pause propensity due to the synonymous bicodon \nvariant, rather than by a relatively small change in the codon usage. These \nfindings suggest that bicodon usage can be a more powerful framework to understand \ntranslational speed, protein folding efficiency, and to improve protocols to \noptimize heterologous gene expression.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062935', [], [u'UNLP']]
[u'Batch effects and the effective design of single-cell gene expression studies', ['Po-Yuan Tung', 'John D Blischak', 'Chiaowen Hsiao', 'David A Knowles', 'Jonathan E Burnett', 'Jonathan K Pritchard', 'Yoav Gilad'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) can be used to characterize variation in gene expression levels at high resolution. However, the sources of experimental noise in scRNA-seq are not yet well understood. We investigated the technical variation associated with sample processing using the single cell Fluidigm C1 platform. To do so, we processed three C1 replicates from three human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) lines. We added unique molecular identifiers (UMIs) to all samples, to account for amplification bias. We found that the major source of variation in the gene expression data was driven by genotype, but we also observed substantial variation between the technical replicates. We observed that the conversion of reads to molecules using the UMIs was impacted by both biological and technical variation, indicating that UMI counts are not an unbiased estimator of gene expression levels. Based on our results, we suggest a framework for effective scRNA-seq studies.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062919', [], [u'University of Chicago;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'VarMatch: robust matching of small variant datasets using flexible scoring schemes', ['Chen Sun', 'Paul Medvedev'], u'July 8, 2016.', u"Small variant calling is an important component of many analyses, and, in many instances, it is important to determine the set of variants which appear in multiple callsets. Variant matching is complicated by variants that have multiple equivalent representations. Normalization and decomposition algorithms have been proposed, but are not robust to different representation of complex variants. Variant matching is also usually done to maximize the number of matches, as opposed to other optimization criteria. \nWe present the VarMatch algorithm for the variant matching problem. Our algorithm is based on a theoretical result which allows us to partition the input into smaller subproblems without sacrificing accuracy. VarMatch is robust to different representation of complex variants and is particularly effective in low complexity regions or those dense in variants. It also implements different optimization criteria, such as edit distance, that can lead to different results and affect conclusions about algorithm performance. Finally, the VarMatch software provides summary statistics, annotations, and visualizations that are useful for understanding callers' performance.\nAvailability: VarMatch is freely available at:\nhttps://github.com/medvedevgroup/varmatch", u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062943', [], [u'The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Signal Transduction Through a DNA-Based T Cell Receptor', ['Marcus J Taylor', 'Kabir Husain', 'Zev J Gartner', 'Satyajit Mayor', 'Ron D Vale'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'T cells mount an immune response based upon the strength of the interaction between its T cell receptor (TCR) and peptide-loaded MHCs (pMHC) on an antigen-presenting cell. How T cells become activated by some pMHCs, but not others with slightly shorter bound times, remains an unanswered question. Here, we developed a finely tunable synthetic receptor-ligand system in which the extracellular domains of the TCR and pMHC were replaced with two short hybridizing strands of DNA.  Remarkably, the T cell signaling response can discriminate between DNA ligands differing by a single base pair. Single molecule imaging reveals that ligated receptors with longer bound times promote the binding of more ligands nearby to create clusters; stable clusters of 2-4 ligated receptors then trigger receptor phosphorylation and signaling.  These results reveal how T cells convert the bound time of an extracellular receptor-ligand interaction into a physical reorganization of molecules in the membrane and intracellular signaling.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062877', [], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'University of California San Francisco']]
[u'Coral life history differences determine the refugium potential of a remote Caribbean reef', ['Sarah Davies', 'Marie E Strader', 'Johnathan T Kool', 'Carly D Kenkel', 'Mikhail V Matz'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Remote populations can influence connectivity and may serve as refugia from climate change. Here, we investigated two reef-building corals (Pseudodiploria strigosa and Orbicella franksi) from the Flower Garden Banks (FGB), the most isolated, high-latitude Caribbean reef system that retains high coral cover. We characterized coral size frequency distributions, quantified larval mortality rates and onset of competence, estimated larval production, and created detailed biophysical models incorporating these parameters to evaluate source-sink dynamics from 2009 to 2012. Mortality rates were similar across species but competency differed dramatically: P. strigosa was capable of metamorphosis within 2.5 days post fertilization (dpf), while O. franksi were not competent until >20dpf and remained competent up to 120dpf. Despite these differences, models demonstrated that larvae of both types were similarly successful in reseeding the FGB. Nevertheless, corals with shorter pelagic larval durations (PLD), such as P. strigosa, were highly isolated from the rest of the Caribbean, while long PLD corals, such as O. franksi, could export larvae to distant northern Caribbean reefs. These results suggest that FGB coral populations are self-sustaining and highlight the potential of long PLD corals, such as endangered Orbicella, to act as larval sources for other degraded Caribbean reefs.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062869', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'Geoscience Australia']]
[u'Foxc1 Controls Cell Fate Decisions During Transforming Growth Factor \u03b2 Induced Epithelial to Mesenchymal Transition Through the Regulation of Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 1 Expression.', ['Alexander Hopkins', 'Mackenzie L Coatham', 'Fred B Berry'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) is an important physiological process that drives tissue formation during development but also contributes to disease pathogenesis including fibrosis and cancer metastasis.  The forkhead box transcription factor gene FOXC1 is an important developmental regulator in the generation of mesenchymal cells necessary in the formation of the anterior segment of the eye, the craniofacial skeleton and the meninges. Recently elevated expression of FOXC1 has been detected in several metastatic cancers that have undergone EMT events.  We sought to determine the role of FOXC1 in the initiation of EMT events using NMuMG cells treated with TFG\u03b21.  We found that although Foxc1 expression was increased following TFG\u03b21 induced EMT, Foxc1 was not required for this induction.  Instead we propose that Foxc1 is required for the specification of the mesenchyme cell type, promoting an activated fibroblast phenotype over a myofibroblast phenotype following the initiation of EMT. This cells type specification was achieved through the regulation of Fibroblast growth factor (Fgfr) 1 expression.  Using an RNA sequencing approach, we determined that levels of Fgfr1 normally activated upon TFG\u03b21 treatment were reduced in Foxc1-knockdown cells.  Through chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments we determined that FOXC1 could bind to an Fgfr1 upstream regulatory region. Furthermore, expression of the myofibroblast marker \u03b1-smooth muscle actin (\u03b1SMA) was elevated in Foxc1 knockdown cells.  Finally we determined that FGF2 mediated three dimensional migratory ability was greatly impaired in Foxc1-knockdown cells.  Together these results define a role for Foxc1 in specifying a mesenchymal cell type following TFG\u03b21 mediated EMT events.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062836', [], [u'University of Alberta']]
[u'Rett syndrome - biological pathways leading from MECP2 to disorder phenotypes', ['Friederike Ehrhart', 'Susan LM Coort', 'Elisa Cirillo', 'Eric Smeets', 'Chris T Evelo', 'Leopold M Curfs'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Rett syndrome (RTT) is a rare disease but still one of the most abundant causes for intellectual disability in females. Typical symptoms are onset at month 6-18 after normal pre- and postnatal development, loss of acquired skills and severe intellectual disability. The type and severity of symptoms are individually highly different. A single mutation in one gene, coding for methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2), is responsible for the disease. The most important action of MECP2 is regulating epigenetic imprinting and chromatin condensation, but MECP2 influences many different biological pathways on multiple levels. In this review the known changes in metabolite levels, gene expression and biological pathways in RTT are summarized. It is discussed how they are leading to some characteristic RTT phenotypes and identifies the gaps of knowledge, namely which phenotypes have currently no mechanistic explanation leading back to MECP2 related pathways. As a result of this review the visualization of the biologic pathways showing MECP2 up- and downstream regulation was developed and published on WikiPathways.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062786', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Bioinformatics - BiGCat, Maastricht University;', u'Governor Kremers Centre - Rett Expertise Centre, Maastricht University Medical Center']]
[u'Possible Protective effect of Unani formulation against Isoproterenol induced toxicity in SVEC cells', ['Abdul M Kareem'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Main objective of the present study is to screen the protective efficiency of Khamira Gaozaban Ambari Jadwar Ood Saleeb Wala (KGAJOSW) a Unani formulation by using an experimentally induced toxicity model. Study mainly focused on the protective efficacy of the Unani formulation KGAJOSW with special emphasis to Isoproterenol (ISO) induced toxicity. This formulation has been referred as a cardio tonic, both in ancient (Uddin Mk, 1967) and recent literatures (Ahmad et al, 2010) of Unanipathy. The outcome of this study will deliver the protective and non-toxic nature of the KGAJOSW. This will enhance the medicinal properties of other Unani formulation and making them non-toxic. \n\nExisting medicines and therapeutic procedures are target specific and have several post therapeutic complications like hypertension, Obesity, etc. Recent studies demonstrate that non-invasive treatment is the better way to treat and control development of chronic diseases like atherosclerosis. Due to these undesirable effects of synthetic drugs, the world population is turning towards medicines derived from locally available native extracts of edible plant parts and plants products, like Unani and Ayurveda.\n\nIn this context it is proposed to investigate the following objectives, which emphasis the lethality, ROS scavenging and expression of SOD-2 protein by KGAJOSW. The outcome of this study will focus on the mode of action and brief mechanisms operative at the cardio tonic level as affirmed for KGAJOSW in Unani pharmacopeia', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062802', [u'Pharmacology'], [u'Indira Gandhi National Open University']]
[u'Inbreeding parents should invest more resources in fewer offspring', ['Alexander Bradley Duthie', 'Aline M Lee', 'Jane M Reid'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Inbreeding increases parent-offspring relatedness and commonly reduces offspring viability, potentially affecting selection on reproductive interactions involving relatives and associated parental investment. Separate bodies of theory predict selection for inbreeding versus inbreeding avoidance, and selection for optimal parental investment. We unify inbreeding and parental investment theory, demonstrating that these separate bodies can be interpreted as special cases within a broader inclusive fitness framework. We show that optimal investment per offspring increases when parents inbreed and hence produce inbred offspring with lower viability. Offspring viability is buffered by parental investment, but the total number of offspring that a parent produces is reduced due to an intrinsic trade-off between parental investment and offspring production. Optimal parental investment does not depend on whether a focal female is herself inbred. However, inbreeding causes optimal parental investment to increase even further given strict monogamy and associated biparental investment as opposed to female-only investment. Our model implies that understanding the evolutionary dynamics of inbreeding strategy, inbreeding depression, and parental investment requires joint measurement and understanding of the expression of each in relation to the other, and we demonstrate an intrinsic link between inbreeding and parental investment that may widely affect the evolution of behaviour and intra-familial conflict.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062794', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Aberdeen']]
[u'Rare copy number variants in NRXN1 and CNTN6 increase risk for Tourette syndrome', ['Alden Y Huang', 'Dongmei Yu', 'Lea K Davis', 'Jae-Hoon Sul', 'Fotis Tsetsos', 'Vasily Ramensky', 'Ivette Zelaya', 'Eliana Marisa Ramos', 'Lisa Osiecki', 'Jason A Chen', 'Lauren M McGrath', 'Cornelia Illmann', 'Paul Sandor', 'Cathy L Barr', 'Marco Grados', 'Harvey S Singer', 'Markus M Noethen', 'Johannes Hebebrand', 'Robert A King', 'Yves Dion', 'Guy Rouleau', 'Cathy L Budman', 'Christel Depienne', 'Yulia Worbe', 'Andreas Hartmann', 'Kirsten R Muller-Vahl', 'Manfred Stuhrmann', 'Harald Aschauer', 'Mara Stamenkovic', 'Monika Schloegelhofer', 'Anastasios Konstantinidis', 'Gholson L Lyon', 'William M McMahon', 'Csaba Barta', 'Zsanett Tarnok', 'Peter Nagy', 'James R Batterson', 'Renata Rizzo', 'Danielle C Cath', 'Tomasz Wolanczyk', 'Cheston Berlin', 'Irene A Malaty', 'Michael S Okun', 'Douglas W Woods', 'Elliott Rees', 'Carlos N Pato', 'Michele T Pato', 'James A Knowles', 'Danielle Posthuma', 'David L Pauls', 'Nancy J Cox', 'Benjamin M Neale', 'Nelson B Freimer', 'Peristera Paschou', 'Carol A Mathews', 'Jeremiah M Scharf', 'Giovanni Coppola'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Tourette syndrome (TS) is highly heritable, although identification of its underlying genetic cause(s) has remained elusive. We examined a European ancestry sample composed of 2,435 TS cases and 4,100 controls for copy-number variants (CNVs) using SNP microarrays and identified two genome-wide significant loci that confer a substantial increase in risk for TS (NRXN1, OR=20.3, 95%CI [2.6-156.2], p=6.0 \xd7 10-6; CNTN6, OR=10.1, 95% CI [2.3-45.4], p=3.7 \xd7 10-5). Approximately 1% of TS cases carried one of these CNVs, indicating that rare structural variation contributes significantly to the genetic architecture of TS.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062471', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California, USA;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA;', u'Division of Genetic Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA;', u'Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Democritus University of Thrace, Greece;', u'Department of Psychology, University of Denver, Denver, Colorado, USA;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA;', u'Department of Genomics, Life & Brain Center, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany;', u'University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany;', u'Yale Child Study Center, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA;', u'University of Montreal, Montreal, Canada;', u'Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada;', u'Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine, Hempstead, New York, USA;', u'IGBMC, CNRS UMR 7104/INSERM U964/Universite de Strasbourg, 67400 Illkirch, France;', u'Brain and Spine Institute, UPMC/INSERM UMR_S1127, Paris, France;', u'Clinic of Psychiatry, Social Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Hannover Medical School, Germany;', u'Institute of Human Genetics, Medical School, Hannover, Germany;', u'Medical University Vienna, Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Vienna, Austria;', u'Biopsychosocial Corporation, Vienna, Austria;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Utah, Utah, USA;', u'Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary;', u'Vadaskert Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Hospital, Budapest, Hungary;', u"Children's Mercy Kansas City, Kansas City, Kansas, USA;", u"Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Sperimentale, Universita' di Catania, Catania, Italy;", u'Utrecht University, Utrecht, the Netherlands;', u'Department of Child Psychiatry, Medical University of Warsaw, Poland;', u'Penn State University College of Medicine, Hershey, Pennsylvania, USA;', u'University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA;', u'Marquette University, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA;', u'Cardiff University, Cardiff, Wales, United Kingdom;', u'SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York, USA;', u'University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA;', u'Department of Complex Trait Genetics, VU University Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA;', u'University of California Los Angeles']]
[u'Estimates of local biodiversity change over time stand up to scrutiny', ['Mark Vellend', 'Maria Dornelas', 'Lander Baeten', 'Robin Beausejour', 'Carissa Brown', 'Pieter De Frenne', 'Sarah Elmendorf', 'Nicholas Gotelli', 'Faye Moyes', 'Isla Myers-Smith', 'Anne Magurran', 'Brian McGill', 'Hideyasu Shimadzu', 'Caya Sievers'], u'July 8, 2016.', u"Two recent meta-analyses of local-scale biodiversity change over time, by the authors of the present paper, have been subject to a harsh critique.  Here we use new data and analyses to respond to the main points of this critique.  First, a central argument of the critique was that short-term time series lead to biased estimates of long-term biodiversity change.  However, we show here that this conclusion was based entirely on two fundamental mistakes in the simulations used to support it.  Second, we show that the critic's conclusion that there are negative relationships between temporal biodiversity change and study duration is entirely dependent on: (i) the unrealistic assumption that biodiversity change can be positive when study duration = 0; (ii) the use of only a subset of the available data; (iii) inclusion of a single outlier data point in a single study (out of 100 in this case); and/or (iv) a choice to use log ratios rather than slopes (when available) as the metric of temporal biodiversity change.  In short, the evidence does not support the conclusion that studies of longer duration tend to find local diversity decline.  Finally, the critique highlighted the obviously true fact that studies in the ecological literature represent a geographically biased sample of locations on Earth; this issue was noted in both original papers, and is relevant for all ecological data syntheses.  This fact was used by the critics to cast doubt on our conclusion that, outside of areas converted to croplands or asphalt, the distribution of temporal biodiversity trends is centered on zero.  As a scientific rule, future studies based on more or different data may cause us to modify our conclusion, but at present, alternative conclusions based on the geographic-bias argument rely entirely on speculation.  In sum, the critique raises points of uncertainty typical of all ecological studies, but it falls far short of providing an evidence-based alternative interpretation for our results, which are now supported by syntheses of hundreds of individual data sets of temporal biodiversity change.", u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062133', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u'University of St. Andrews;', u'Ghent University;', u'Memorial University of Newfoundland;', u'National Ecological Observatory Network;', u'University of Vermont;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Maine;', u'Loughborough University']]
[u'Manipulating virulence factor availability can have complex consequences for infections', ['Michael Weigert', 'Adin Ross-Gillespie', 'Anne Leinweber', 'Gabriella Pessi', 'Sam P. Brown', 'Rolf Kummerli'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Given the rise of bacterial resistance against antibiotics, we urgently need alternative strategies to fight infections. Some propose we should disarm rather than kill bacteria, through targeted disruption of their virulence factors. It is assumed that this approach (i) induces weak selection for resistance because it should only minimally impact bacterial fitness, and (ii) is specific, only interfering with the virulence factor in question. Given that pathogenicity emerges from complex interactions between pathogens, hosts, and their environment, such assumptions may be unrealistic. To address this issue in a test case, we conducted experiments with the opportunistic human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, where we manipulated the availability of a virulence factor, the iron-scavenging pyoverdine, within the insect host Galleria mellonella. We observed that pyoverdine availability was not stringently predictive of virulence, and affected bacterial fitness in non-linear ways. We show that this complexity could partly arise because pyoverdine availability affects host responses and alters the expression of regulatorily linked virulence factors. Our results reveal that virulence-factor manipulation feeds back on pathogen and host behavior, which in turn affects virulence. Our findings highlight that realizing effective and evolutionarily robust anti-virulence therapies will ultimately require deeper engagement with the intrinsic complexity of host-pathogen systems.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062570', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Zuerich;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'An RNA editing/binding-independent gene regulatory mechanism of ADARs and its clinical implication in cancer', ['Lihua Qi', 'Yangyang Song', 'Tim Hon Man Chan', 'Henry Yang', 'Chi Ho Lin', 'Daryl Jin Tai Tay', 'HuiQi Hong', 'Jaymie Siqi Lin', 'Vanessa Hui En Ng', 'Julien Jean Pierre Maury', 'Daniel G Tenen', 'Leilei   (Polly) Chen'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) editing, catalysed by Adenosine DeAminases acting on double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) (ADAR), occurs predominantly in the 3\u2032 untranslated regions (3\u2032UTRs). Here we uncover an unanticipated link between ADARs (ADAR1 and ADAR2) and the expression of target genes undergoing extensive 3\u2032UTR editing. Using METTL7A (Methyltransferase Like 7A), a novel tumor suppressor as an exemplary target gene, we demonstrate that its expression could be repressed by ADARs beyond their RNA editing and dsRNA binding functions. ADARs interact with Dicer to augment the processing of pre-miR-27a to mature miR-27a. Consequently, mature miR-27a targets the METTL7A 3\u2032UTR to repress its expression level. In sum, our study unveils that the extensive 3\u2032UTR editing is merely a footprint of ADAR binding, and is dispensable for the regulation of at least a subset of target genes. Instead, ADARs contribute to cancer progression by regulating cancer-related gene expression through their non-canonical functions independent of RNA editing and dsRNA binding. The functional significance of ADARs is much more diverse than previously appreciated and this gene regulatory function of ADARs is most likely to be of higher importance than the best-studied editing function. This novel non-editing side of ADARs opens another door to target cancer. This study is timely and represents a major break-through in the field of ADAR gene regulation and cancer biology.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062778', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National University of Singapore, Singapore;', u'Centre for Genomic Sciences, The University of Hong Kong;', u'Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, A*STAR, Singapore;', u'Cancer Science Institute o Singapore']]
[u'Animals in the Zika virus life cycle: what to expect from megadiverse Latin American countries.', ['Marina Galvao Bueno', 'Nadia Martinez', 'Livia Abdala', 'Claudia Nunes Duarte dos Santos', 'Marcia Chame'], u'July 8, 2016.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) was first isolated in 1947 in primates in Uganda, West Africa. The virus remained confined to the equatorial regions of Africa and Asia, cycling between infecting monkeys, arboreal mosquitoes, and occasional humans. The ZIKV Asiatic strain was probably introduced into Brazil in 2013. In the current critical human epidemic in the Americas, ZIKV is transmitted primarily by Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, especially where the human population density is combined with poor sanitation. Presently, ZIKV is in contact with the rich biodiversity in all Brazilian biomes, bordering on other Latin American countries. Infections in Brazilian primates have been reported recently, but the overall impact of this virus on wildlife in the Americas is still unknown. The current epidemic in the Americas requires knowledge on the role of mammals, especially non-human primates, in ZIKV transmission to humans. The article discusses the available data on ZIKV in host animals, besides issues of biodiversity, rapid environmental change, and impact on human health in megadiverse Latin American countries. The authors reviewed scientific articles and recent news stories on ZIKV in animals, showing that 47 animal species from three orders (mammals, reptiles, and birds) have been investigated for the potential to establish a sylvatic cycle. The review aims to contribute to epidemiological studies and the knowledge on the natural history of ZIKV. The article concludes with questions that require urgent attention in epidemiological studies involving wildlife in order to understand their role as ZIKV hosts and to effectively control the epidemic.', u'/content/early/2016/07/08/062034', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Funda\xe7\xe3o Oswaldo Cruz - Fiocruz']]
