[u'Highly-efficient Cpf1-mediated gene targeting in mice following high concentration pronuclear injection', ['Dawn E Watkins-Chow', 'Gaurav  K. K Varshney', 'Lisa Garrett', 'Zelin Chen', 'Erin Jimenez', 'Cecilia Rivas', 'Kevin Bishop', 'Raman Sood', 'Ursula Harper', 'William Pavan', 'Shawn M Burgess'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Cpf1 has emerged as an alternative to the Cas9 RNA-guided nuclease. Here we show that gene targeting rates in mice using Cpf1 can meet or even surpass Cas9 targeting rates (approaching 100% targeting) but require higher concentrations of mRNA and guide. We also demonstrate that co-injecting two guides with close targeting sites can result in synergistic genomic cutting, even if one of the guides has minimal cutting activity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097220', [], [u'NIH;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute']]
[u'DNA damage in 3D constricted migration or after lamin-A depletion in 2D: shared mechanisms of repair factor mis-localization under nuclear stress', ['Yuntao Xia', 'Jerome Irianto', 'Charlotte Pfeifer', 'Jiazheng Ji', 'Irena Ivanovska', 'Manu Tewari', 'Rachel Bennett', 'Shane Harding', 'Andrea Liu', 'Roger Greenberg', 'Dennis Discher'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Cells that migrate through small, rigid pores and that have normal levels of the nuclear structure protein lamin-A exhibit an increase in DNA damage, which is also observed with lamin-A depletion in diseases such as cancer and with many lamin-A mutations. Here we show nuclear envelope rupture is a shared feature that increases in standard culture after lamin-A knockdown, which causes nuclear loss of multiple DNA repair factors and increased DNA damage. Some repair factors are merely mis-localized to cytoplasm whereas others are partially depleted unless rescued by lamin-A expression. Compared to standard cultures on rigid glass coverslips, the growth of lamin-A low cells on soft matrix relaxes cytoskeletal stress on the nucleus, suppresses the mis-localization of DNA repair factors, and minimizes DNA damage nearly to wildtype levels. Conversely, constricted migration of the lamin-A low cells causes abnormally high levels of DNA damage, consistent with sustained loss of repair factors. The findings add insight into why monogenic progeroid syndromes that often associate with increased DNA damage and predominantly impact cells in stiff tissues result from mutations only in lamin-A or DNA repair factors.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097162', [], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Analysis of copy number variants on chromosome 21 in Down syndrome-associated congenital heart defects', ['Benjamin L. Rambo-Martin', 'Jennifer G. Mulle', 'David J. Cutler', 'Lora J.H. Bean', 'Tracie C. Rosser', 'Kenneth J. Dooley', 'Clifford Cua', 'George Capone', 'Cheryl L. Maslen', 'Roger H. Reeves', 'Stephanie L. Sherman', 'Michael E. Zwick'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'One in five people with Down syndrome (DS) are born with an atrioventricular septal defect (AVSD), an incidence 2,000 times higher than in the euploid population. The genetic loci that contribute to this risk are poorly understood. In this study, we tested two hypotheses: 1) individuals with DS carrying chromosome 21 copy number variants (CNVs) that interrupt exons may be protected from AVSD, because these CNVs return AVSD susceptibility loci back to disomy, and 2) individuals with DS carrying chromosome 21 genes spanned by microduplications are at greater risk for AVSD because these microduplications boost the dosage of AVSD susceptibility loci beyond a tolerable threshold. We tested 198 case individuals with DS+AVSD and 211 control individuals with DS and a normal heart using a custom microarray with dense probes tiled on chromosome 21 for array CGH. We found that neither an individual chromosome 21 CNV nor any individual gene intersected by a CNV was associated with AVSD in DS. Burden analyses revealed that African American controls had more bases covered by rare deletions than did African American cases. Inversely, we found that Caucasian cases had more genes intersected by rare duplications than did Caucasian controls. Pathway analyses indicated copy number perturbations of genes involved in protein heterotrimerization and histone methylating proteins. Finally, we showed that previously DS+AVSD-associated common CNVs on chromosome 21 are likely false positives. This research adds to the swell of evidence indicating that DS-associated AVSD is similarly heterogeneous, as is AVSD in the euploid population.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/093583', [], [u'Emory University;', u"Children's Healthcare of Atlanta;", u"Nationwide Children's Hospital;", u'Kennedy Krieger Institute;', u'Oregon Health and Science University;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Delivery of BACE1 siRNA mediated by TARBP-BTP fusion protein reduces \u03b2-amyloid deposits in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimers disease', ['Mohamed M Haroon', 'Kamal Saba', 'Venkata H Boddeda', 'Jerald M Kumar', 'Anant Bahadur Patel', 'Vijaya Gopal'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Systemic delivery of nucleic acids to the central nervous system (CNS) is a major challenge for the development of RNA interference-based therapeutics due to absence of stability, target specificity, non-permeability to the blood-brain barrier (BBB), and mainly due to lack of suitable carriers. Using a designed bi-functional fusion protein TARBP-BTP, very recently we demonstrated knockdown of target genes in the brain of both A\u03b2PP-PS1 (Alzheimer\u2032s disease, AD) and wildtype mice upon systemic delivery of a single dose of siRNA. In this report, we further substantiate this hypothesis through an extended study in  A\u03b2PP-PS1 mice, which upon treatment with seven doses of \u03b2-secretase APP cleaving Enzyme 1 (BACE1) siRNA, led to target-specific effects in the mouse brain. Concomitant gene silencing and consequent reduction in plaque load in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus (>60%) in mice treated with TARBP-BTP: siRNA complex further led to improvement in spatial learning and memory, which was assessed and verified through Morris Water Maze test that revealed significant improvement in cognitive function. Moreover, the treatment did not induce any adverse effects as revealed by the histopathology of different organs. The work validates the efficiency of TARBP-BTP fusion protein as an efficient mediator of RNAi giving considerable scope for future intervention of neurodegenerative disorders of the CNS through the use of short nucleic acids as gene specific inhibitors.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097121', [], [u'CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology']]
[u'The hippocampus as a predictive map', ['Kimberly Lauren Stachenfeld', 'Matthew M Botvinick', 'Samuel J Gershman'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'A cognitive map has long been the dominant metaphor for hippocampal function, embracing the idea that place cells encode a geometric representation of space. However, evidence for predictive coding, reward sensitivity, and policy dependence in place cells suggests that the representation is not purely spatial. We approach this puzzle from a reinforcement learning perspective: what kind of spatial representation is most useful for maximizing future reward? We show that the answer takes the form of a predictive representation. This representation captures many aspects of place cell responses that fall outside the traditional view of a cognitive map. Furthermore, we argue that entorhinal grid cells encode a low-dimensional basis set for the predictive representation, useful for suppressing noise in predictions and extracting multiscale structure for hierarchical planning.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097170', [], [u'DeepMind;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Identification of the maize Mediator CDK8 module, and Dissociation insertional mutagenesis of ZmMed12a', ['Tania Nunez-Rios', 'Kevin R. Ahern', 'Ana Laura Alonso-Nieves', 'Daniel Lepe-Soltero', 'Carol Martinez-Camacho', 'Marcelina Garcia-Aguilar', 'Thomas P. Brutnell', 'C. Stewart Gillmor', 'Ruairidh James Hay Sawers'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Mediator is a conserved transcriptional co-activator that links transcription factors bound at enhancer elements to RNA Polymerase II. Mediator-RNA Polymerase II interactions can be sterically hindered by the Cyclin Dependent Kinase 8 (CDK8) module, a submodule of Mediator that acts to repress transcription in response to discrete cellular and environmental cues. The CDK8 module is conserved in all eukaryotes and consists of 4 proteins: CDK8, CYCLIN C (CYCC), MED12, and MED13. In this study, we have characterized the CDK8 module of Mediator in maize. The maize genome contains single copy genes for Cdk8, CycC, and Med13, and two genes for Med12. Analysis of expression data for the CDK8 module demonstrated that all five genes are broadly expressed in maize tissues, with ZmMed12a, ZmMed12b, and ZmMed13 exhibiting similar expression patterns. We performed a Dissociation (Ds) insertional mutagenesis, recovering two independent insertions in the ZmMed12a gene. One of these Ds insertions results in a truncation of the ZmMed12a transcript. Our molecular characterization of the maize CDK8 module, as well as transposon tagging of ZmMed12a, establish the basis for molecular and functional studies of these important transcriptional regulators in Zea mays.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097204', [], [u'Langebio-CINVESTAV;', u'Boyce Thompson Institute;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'CINVESTAV']]
[u'A Data Citation Roadmap for Scholarly Data Repositories', ['Martin Fenner', 'Merce Crosas', 'Jeffrey Grethe', 'David Kennedy', 'Henning Hermjakob', 'Philippe Rocca-Serra', 'Robin Berjon', 'Sebastian Karcher', 'Maryann Martone', 'Timothy Clark'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'This article presents a practical roadmap for scholarly data repositories to implement data citation in accordance with the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles (Data Citation Synthesis Group, 2014), a synopsis and harmonization of the recommendations of major science policy bodies. The roadmap was developed by the Repositories Early Adopters Expert Group,  part of the Data Citation Implementation Pilot (DCIP) project (FORCE11, 2015), an initiative of FORCE11.org and the NIH BioCADDIE (2016) program. The roadmap makes 11 specific recommendations, grouped into three phases of implementation: a) required steps needed to support the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles, b) recommended steps that facilitate article/data publication workflows, and c) optional steps that further improve data citation support provided by data repositories.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097196', [], [u'DataCite;', u'Institute for Quantitative Social Science, Harvard University;', u'Center for Research in Biological Systems (CRBS), University of California, San Diego;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Wellcome Trust;', u'Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford;', u'Standard Analytics;', u'Qualitative Data Repository, Syracuse University;', u'Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Bio.Ontology - Python tools for enrichment analysis and visualization of ontologies', ['Kamil Koziara', 'Julia Herman-Izycka', 'Bartek Wilczynski'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Motivation: Functional annotation and enrichment analysis based on ontologies has become one of the standard methods of analysis of experimental results. Over the past decade, many methods have been proposed for statistical quantification of enrichment of different functional terms and many implementations of these methods are available. As the popularity of these methods grows, the need for tools facilitating their automation increases.  Results: We present a complete Python library for statistical enrichment analysis of gene sets and gene rankings compatible with most available biological ontologies. It allows the user to perform all necessary steps: reading the ontologies and gene annotations in multiple formats; performing enrichment analysis using various methods and visualizing the results as readable reports. Importantly, our library includes methods for correcting for multiple hypotheses testing including computation of False Discovery Rates.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097139', [], [u'University of Warsaw']]
[u'CpG traffic lights are markers of regulatory regions in humans', ['Abdullah M. Khamis', 'Anna V. Lioznova', 'Artem V Artemov', 'Vasily Ramensky', 'Vladimir B. Bajic', 'Yulia A. Medvedeva'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'DNA methylation is involved in regulation of gene expression. Although modern methods profile DNA methylation at single CpG sites, methylation levels are usually averaged over  genomic regions in the downstream analyses. In this study we demonstrate that single CpG methylation can serve as a more accurate predictor of gene expression compared to average promoter / gene body methylation. CpG positions with significant correlation between methylation and expression of a gene nearby (called CpG traffic lights) are evolutionary conserved and enriched for exact TSS positions and active enhancers. Among all promoter types, CpG traffic lights are especially enriched in poised promoters. Genes that harbor CpG traffic lights are associated with development and signal transduction. Methylation levels of individual CpG traffic lights vary between cell types dramatically with the increased frequency of intermediate methylation levels, indicating cell population heterogeneity in CpG methylation levels Being in line with the concept of the inherited stochastic epigenetic variation, methylation of such CpG positions might contribute to transcriptional regulation. Alternatively, one can hypothesize that traffic lights are markers of absent gene expression resulting from inactivation of their regulatory elements. In any case, CpG traffic light mechanism provide a promising insight into enhancer activity and gene expression, important from both fundamental and practical points of view.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/095968', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST);', u'Institute of Bioengineering, Research Center of Biotechnology, Russian Academy of Sciences;', u'Moscow State University;', u'University of California Los Angeles']]
[u'Label-free high-resolution 3-D imaging of gold nanoparticles inside live cells using optical diffraction tomography', ['Doyeon Kim', 'Nuri Oh', 'Kyoohyun Kim', 'SangYun Lee', 'Jiho Park', 'YongKeun Park'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Delivery of gold nanoparticles (GNPs) into live cells has high potentials, ranging from molecular-specific imaging, photodiagnostics, to photothermal therapy. However, studying the long-term dynamics of cells with GNPs using conventional fluorescence techniques suffer from phototoxicity and photobeaching. Here, we present a method for 3-D imaging of GNPs inside live cells exploiting refractive index (RI) as imaging contrast. Employing optical diffraction tomography, 3-D RI tomograms of live cells with GNPs are precisely measured for an extended period of time with sub-micrometre resolution. The locations and contents of GNPs in live cells are precisely addressed and quantified due to their distinctly high RI values, which was validated by confocal fluorescence imaging of fluorescent dye conjugated GNPs. We present segmentations of GNPs from cytosols and perform quantitative analysis of the volume distribution of aggregated GNPs as well as the temporal evolution of GNPs contents in HeLa and 4T1 cells.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097113', [u'Biophysics'], [u'KAIST']]
[u'Hnf4a mediates microbial control of intestinal gene expression and inflammation', ['James M Davison', 'Colin R Lickwar', 'Lingyun Song', 'Ghislain Breton', 'Gregory E Crawford', 'John F Rawls'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Microbiota influence diverse aspects of intestinal epithelial physiology and disease in part by controlling tissue-specific transcription of host genes. However, host genomic mechanisms mediating microbial control of host gene expression are poorly understood. Using an unbiased screening strategy, we found that the zebrafish Hepatic nuclear factor 4 alpha (Hnf4a) transcription factor specifically binds and activates a microbiota-suppressed intestinal epithelial transcriptional enhancer. Genetic analysis disclosed that zebrafish hnf4a activates nearly half of the genes that are suppressed by microbiota, suggesting microbiota negatively regulate Hnf4a. In support, analysis of genomic architecture in mouse intestinal epithelial cells revealed that microbiota colonization leads to activation or inactivation of hundreds of enhancers along with drastic genome-wide reduction of Hnf4a and Hnf4g occupancy. Interspecies meta-analysis suggests Hnf4a may mediate microbial contributions to inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis.  These results indicate Hnf4a plays a critical conserved role in maintaining intestinal homeostasis in response to microbiota and inflammation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097055', [u'Genomics'], [u'Duke University;', u'McGovern Medical School']]
[u'HILAQ: A Novel Strategy for Newly Synthesized Protein Quantification', ['Yuanhui Ma', 'Daniel B. McClatchy', 'Salim Barkallah', 'William W. Wood', 'John R. Yates'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Here we describe a new strategy, HILAQ (Heavy Isotope Labeled Azidohomoalanine Quantification), to rapidly quantify the molecular vulnerability profile to oxytosis. HILAQ quantified more than 1,900 Newly Synthesized Proteins (NSP) after 1h pulse labeling in HEK293T cell line. Compared with the previous published QuaNCAT protocol, the HILAQ strategy simplifies newly synthesized proteome analysis and achieves higher sensitivity', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/096925', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u'Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc.']]
[u'Dynamics of Cortical Dendritic Membrane Potential and Spikes in Freely Behaving Rats', ['Jason J Moore', 'Pascal Ravassard', 'David Ho', 'Lavanya Acharya', 'Ashley Kees', 'Cliff Vuong', 'Mayank R Mehta'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Neural activity in vivo is primarily measured using extracellular somatic spikes, which provide limited information about neural computation. Hence, it is necessary to record from neuronal dendrites, which generate dendritic action potentials (DAP) and profoundly influence neural computation and plasticity. We measured neocortical sub- and supra-threshold dendritic membrane potential (DMP) from putative distal-most dendrites using tetrodes in freely behaving rats over multiple days with a high degree of stability and sub-millisecond temporal resolution. DAP firing rates were several fold larger than somatic rates. DAP rates were modulated by subthreshold DMP fluctuations which were far larger than DAP amplitude, indicting hybrid, analog-digital coding in the dendrites.  Parietal DAP and DMP exhibited egocentric spatial maps comparable to pyramidal neurons. These results have important implications for neural coding and plasticity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/096941', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCLA;', u'UCLa']]
[u'ECL 2.0: Exhaustively Identifying Cross-Linked Peptides with a Linear Computational Complexity', ['Fengchao Yu', 'Ning Li', 'Weichuan Yu'], u'December 28, 2016.', u"Chemical cross-linking coupled with mass spectrometry is a powerful tool to study protein-protein interactions and protein conformations. Two linked peptides were ionized and fragmented to produce a tandem mass spectrum. In such an experiment, a tandem mass spectrum contains ions from two peptides. The peptide identification problem becomes a peptide pair identification problem. Most tools, however, don't search all possible pairs due to the long computational time. Consequently, a significant proportion of all linked peptides are missed. In our earlier work, we developed a tool named ECL to search all pairs of peptides exhaustively. However, compared to tools only pairing a small number of peptides, ECL is still too slow when the database is large.\n\nHere, we propose an advanced version of ECL, named ECL 2.0. It achieves linear time and space complexity by taking advantage of the additive property of a score function. It can exhaustively search tens of thousands of spectra against a database containing thousands of proteins in a few hours. Among another four state-of-the-art tools, ECL 2.0 is much faster than pLink, StavroX, and ProteinProspector, but slower than Kojak which, however, only searches the smallest proportion of all peptide-peptide pairs among the five tools.", u'/content/early/2016/12/28/097089', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Ecological speciation within the Phytophthora group', ['Maria F Mideros', 'David A Turissini', 'Natalia Guayazan', 'Giovanna Danies', 'Martha Cardenas', 'Kevin Myers', 'Javier Tabima', 'Erica M Goss', 'Adriana Bernal', 'Luz E Lagos', 'Alejandro Grajales', 'Laura N Gonzalez', 'David E.L Cooke', 'William E Fry', 'Niklaus Grunwald', 'Daniel R Matute', 'Silvia Restrepo'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Over the past few years, symptoms akin to late blight disease have been reported on a variety of crop plants in South America. Despite the economic importance of these crops, the causal agents of the diseases belonging to the genus Phytophthora have not been completely characterized. In this study, we used an integrative approach that leveraged morphological, ecological, and genetic approaches to explore cryptic speciation within P. infestans sensu lato. We described a new Phytophthora species collected in Colombia from tree tomato (Solanum betaceum), a semi-domesticated fruit. All morphological traits and population genetic analyses, using microsatellite data and a reduced representation of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data, support the description of the new species, Phytophthora betacei sp. nov. We have demonstrated that ecological differences are important in the persistence of P. infestans and P. betacei as genetically isolated units across an overlapping area in the northern Andes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/28/096842', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Universidad de Los Andes, Bogota, Colombia;', u'Biology Department, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA;', u'School of Integrative Plant Science, Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology, Cornell University;', u'USDA ARS, Horticultural Crops Research Laboratory;', u'Department of Plant Pathology and Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville;', u'Biology Department, Universidad de Narino, Pasto, Colombia;', u'Cell and Molecular Sciences, The James Hutton Institute, Invergowrie, Dundee, DD2 5DA Scotland, UK;', u'Cornell University, School of Integrative Plant Science, Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Biology Department']]
[u'Criticality in Cell Differentiation', ['Indrani Bose', 'Mainak Pal'], u'December 28, 2016.', u'Cell differentiation is an important process in living organisms. Differentiation is mostly based on binary decisions with the progenitor cells choosing between two specific lineages. The differentiation dynamics have both deterministic and stochastic components. Several theoretical studies suggest that cell differentiation is a bifurcation phenomenon, well-known in dynamical systems theory. The bifurcation point has the character of a critical point with the system dynamics exhibiting specific features in its vicinity. These include the critical slowing down, rising variance and lag-1 autocorrelation function, strong correlations between the fluctuations of key variables and non-Gaussianity in the distribution of fluctuations. Recent experimental studies provide considerable support to the idea of criticality in cell differentiation and in other biological processes like the development of the fruit fly embryo. In this Review, an elementary introduction is given to the concept of criticality in cell differentiation. The correspondence between the signatures of criticality and experimental observations on blood cell differentiation in mice is further highlighted.', u'/content/early/2016/12/27/096818', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Bose Institute']]
