[u'Codon usage is a stochastic process across genetic codes of the kingdoms of life', ['Bohdan B. Khomtchouk', 'Claes Wahlestedt', 'Wolfgang Nonner'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'DNA encodes protein primary structure using 64 different codons to specify 20 different amino acids and a stop signal. To uncover rules of codon use, ranked codon frequencies have previously been analyzed in terms of empirical or statistical relations for a small number of genomes. These descriptions fail on most genomes reported in the Codon Usage Tabulated from GenBank (CUTG) database. Here we model codon usage as a random variable.  This stochastic model provides accurate, one-parameter characterizations of 2210 nuclear and mitochondrial genomes represented with >104 codons/genome in CUTG.  We show that ranked codon frequencies are well characterized by a truncated normal (Gaussian) distribution.  Most genomes use codons in a near-uniform manner. Lopsided usages are also widely distributed across genomes but less frequent. Our model provides a universal framework for investigating determinants of codon use.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066381', [], [u'University of Miami Miller School of Medicine']]
[u'Transient protein-protein interactions perturb E.coli metabolome and cause gene dosage toxicity', ['Sanchari Bhattacharyya', 'Shimon Bershtein', 'Jin Yan', 'Tijda Argun', 'Amy Gilson', 'Sunia Trauger', 'Eugene Shakhnovich'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Several genes exhibit gene dosage toxicity yet its molecular underpinnings remain unknown. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of DHFR in E. coli causes toxic metabolic imbalance triggered by interactions with several enzymes involved in 1-carbon metabolism, in particular GlyA and PurH. DHFR overexpression partially inhibits activity of these enzymes, but at physiological concentrations, PurH-DHFR interaction enhances catalytic efficiency of DHFR, implying a functional interaction in vivo. Surprisingly, overexpression of orthologous DHFRs from other bacterial species caused minimal metabolic and fitness perturbations, despite pulling out more interacting partners than overexpressed endogenous DHFR. Orthologous DHFRs were less potent in inhibiting E. coli GlyA and PurH, or gaining a catalytic improvement upon interaction with PurH, indicating a partial loss of interaction specificity due to evolutionary divergence. This study shows how protein overexpression perturbs a dynamic network of weak yet potentially functional PPI with consequences for the metabolic state of cells and their fitness.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066373', [], [u'Harvard University;', u'Ben Guirion University of the Negev']]
[u'Genome-wide methylation data mirror ancestry information', ['Elior Rahmani', 'Liat Shenhav', 'Regev Schweiger', 'Paul Yousefi', 'Karen Huen', 'Brenda Eskenazi', 'Celeste Eng', 'Scott Huntsman', 'Donglei Hu', 'Joshua Galanter', 'Sam Oh', 'Melanie Waldenberger', 'Konstantin Strauch', 'Harald Grallert', 'Thomas Meitinger', 'Christian Gieger', 'Nina Holland', 'Esteban Burchard', 'Noah Zaitlen', 'Eran Halperin'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Genetic data are known to harbor information about human demographics, and genotyping data are commonly used for capturing ancestry information by leveraging genome-wide differences between populations. In contrast, it is not clear to what extent population structure is captured by whole-genome DNA methylation data. We demonstrate, using three large cohort 450K methylation array data sets, that ancestry information signal is mirrored in genome-wide DNA methylation data, and that it can be further isolated more effectively by leveraging the correlation structure of CpGs with cis-located SNPs. Based on these insights, we propose a method, Epistructure, for the inference of ancestry from methylation data, without the need for genotype data. Epistructure can be used to correct epigenome-wide association studies (EWAS) for confounding due to population structure.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066340', [], [u'Tel Aviv University;', u'University of California Berkeley;', u'University of California San Francisco;', u'Helmholtz Center Munich Research Center for Environmental Health;', u'Helmholtz Center Munich']]
[u'Drosophila Mutants that Are Motile but Respond Poorly to All Stimuli Tested', ['Lar L Vang', 'Julius Adler'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Adult Drosophila melanogaster fruit flies were placed into one end of a tube near to repellents (benzaldehyde and heat) and away from the other end containing attractants (light and a favored temperature).  They escaped from the repellents and went to the attractants.  Five motile mutants that failed to do that were isolated.  They did not respond to any external attractants tested or external repellents tested.  In addition, they did not respond well to internal sensory stimuli like hunger, thirst, and sleep.  The mutants failed at both 34 degrees C and at room temperature.  Some of the mutants have been mapped.  It is proposed that the information from the different sensory receptors comes together at an intermediate, called inbetween (Inbet), that brings about a behavioral response.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066423', [], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'ADRes: a computational pipeline for detecting molecular markers of Anti-malarial Drug Resistance, from Sanger sequencing data', ['Setor Amuzu', 'Anita Ghansah'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Background: Malaria control efforts are stifled by the emergence and dispersal of parasite strains resistant to available anti-malarials. Amino acid changes in specific positions of proteins encoded by Plasmodium falciparum genes pfcrt, dhps, dhfr, and pfmdr1 are used as molecular markers of resistance to antimalarials such as chloroquine, sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine, as well as artemisinin derivatives. However, a challenge to the detection of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in codons responsible for these amino acid changes, in several samples, is the scarcity of automated computational pipelines for molecular biologists to; rapidly analyze ABI (Applied Biosystems) Sanger sequencing data spanning the codons of interest in order to characterize these codons and detect these molecular markers of drug resistance.  The pipeline described here is an attempt to address this need. \nMethod: This pipeline is a combination of existing tools, notably SAMtools and Burrows Wheeler Aligner (BWA), as well as custom Python and BASH scripts. It is designed to run on the UNIX shell, a command line interpreter. To characterize the codons associated with anti-malarial drug resistance (ADR) in a particular gene using this pipeline, the following options are required; a path to reference coding sequence of the gene in FASTA format, gene symbol (pfcrt, pfmdr1, dhps or dhfr), and a path to the directory of ABI sequencing trace files for the samples. With these inputs, the pipeline performs base calling and trimming, sequence alignment, and alignment parsing. \nResults: The output of the pipeline is a CSV (Comma-separated values) file of sample names, codons and their corresponding encoded amino acids.  The data generated can be readily analyzed using widely available statistical or spreadsheet software, to determine the frequency of molecular markers of resistance to anti-malarials such as chloroquine, sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine and artemisinin derivatives.\nConclusions: ADRes is a quick and effective pipeline for detecting common molecular markers of anti-malarial drug resistance, and could be a useful tool for surveillance. The code, description, and instructions for using this pipeline are publicly available at http://setfelix.github.io/ADRes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066183', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research']]
[u'Genetic Regulation of Phenotypic Plasticity and Canalisation in Yeast Growth', ['Anupama Yadav', 'Kaustubh Dhole', 'Himanshu Sinha'], u'July 27, 2016.', u"The ability of a genotype to show diverse phenotypes in different environments is called phenotypic plasticity. Phenotypic plasticity helps populations to evade extinctions in novel environments, facilitates adaptation and fuels evolution. However, most studies focus on understanding the genetic basis of phenotypic regulation in specific environments. As a result, while it's evolutionary relevance is well established, genetic mechanisms regulating phenotypic plasticity and their overlap with the environment specific regulators is not well understood. Saccharomyces cerevisiae is highly sensitive to the environment, which acts as not just external stimulus but also as signalling cue for this unicellular, sessile organism. We used a previously published dataset of a biparental yeast population grown in 34 diverse environments and mapped genetic loci regulating variation in phenotypic plasticity, plasticity QTL, and compared them with environment-specific QTL. Plasticity QTL is one whose one allele exhibits high plasticity whereas the other shows a relatively canalised behaviour. We mapped phenotypic plasticity using two parameters - environmental variance, an environmental order-independent parameter and reaction norm (slope), an environmental order-dependent parameter. Our results show a partial overlap between pleiotropic QTL and plasticity QTL such that while some plasticity QTL are also pleiotropic, others have a significant effect on phenotypic plasticity without being significant in any environment independently. Furthermore, while some plasticity QTL are revealed only in specific environmental orders, we identify large effect plasticity QTL, which are order-independent such that whatever the order of the environments, one allele is always plastic and the other is canalised. Finally, we show that the environments can be divided into two categories based on the phenotypic diversity of the population within them and the two categories have differential regulators of phenotypic plasticity. Our results highlight the importance of identifying genetic regulators of phenotypic plasticity to comprehensively understand the genotype-phenotype map.", u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066175', [u'Genetics'], [u'Tata Institution of Fundamental Research;', u'Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai; Indian Institute of Technology Madras, Chennai']]
[u'Origin and phylogenetic status of the local Ashanti Dwarf pig (ADP) of Ghana based 1 on evidence from mtDNA analysis, MC1R, and Y-chromosome haplotypes', ['Richard Osei-Amponsah', 'Benjamin M Skinner', 'Dennis Adjei', 'Julien Bauer', 'Greger Larson', 'Nabeel Affara', 'Carole A Sargent'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'The Ashanti Dwarf Pig (ADP) of Ghana is an endangered pig breed with hardy and disease resistant traits. Characterisation of animal genetic resources provides relevant data for their conservation and sustainable use for food security and economic development. We investigated the origin and phylogenetic status of the local ADP of Ghana and their crosses with modern commercial breeds based on mtDNA, MC1R and Y-chromosome sequence polymorphisms, as well as genome-wide SNP genotyping. \n\nThe study involved 164 local pigs sampled from the three agro-ecological zones of Ghana. Analyses of the mitochondrial D-loop region and Y-chromosome sequences revealed both European and Asian genetic signatures, with differences between the geographical zones. Black coat colour is the most predominant within the breed, with dominant black MC1R alleles of both Asian and European origin contributing. European alleles for spotting are present at a low frequency in the sample set, and may account for the occurrence of spotted piglets in some APD litters.  PCA analysis of SNP data revealed a strong location and breed effect on clustering of local Ghanaian pigs. On a global level, Ghanaian local pigs cluster closely with European pigs of commercial origin, such as the Large White. \n\n The presence of both European and Asian contributions, with differences between geographical zones probably reflects trading and colonial influences.. Understanding the effects of admixture on important adaptive and economic traits of the ADP and other local breeds in Africa is critical for developing sustainable conservation programmes to prevent the decline of these genetic resources.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066209', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Ghana, Legon;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Sequence based prediction of novel domains in the cellulosome of Ruminiclostridium thermocellum', ['Zarrin Basharat', 'Azra Yasmin'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Ruminiclostridium thermocellum strain ATCC 27405 is valuable with reference to the next generation biofuel production being a degrader of crystalline cellulose. The completion of its genome sequence has revealed that this organism carries 3,376 genes with more than hundred genes encoding for enzymes involved in cellulysis. Novel protein domain discovery in the cellulose degrading enzyme complex of this strain has been attempted to understand this organism at molecular level. Streamlined automated methods were employed to generate possibly unreported or new domains. A set of 12 novel Pfam-B domains was developed after detailed analysis. This finding will enhance our understanding of this bacterium and its molecular processes involved in the degradation of cellulose. This approach of in silico analysis prior to experimentation facilitates in lab study. Previously uncorrelated data has been utilized for rapid generation of new biological information in this study.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066357', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Fatima Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi 46000, Pakistan;', u'Fatima Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi 46000, Pakistan.']]
[u'Case Report: Aggressive Tibial Pseudarthrosis as Primary Symptom in Infant with Neurofibromatosis', ['Mary Alice Reid', 'Madeline Zupan', 'Nicole Sevison', 'Barbara Calhoun', 'Kasturi Haldar'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Neurofibromatosis (NF1) is a rare genetic neurological disorder with over 30 distinct\nclinical manifestations, the top 3 of which include cafe-au-lait spotting, benign tumors\nand abnormal freckling. Pseudarthrosis (PA), also known as a false joint, is a rare\nsubset of NF1 symptomology, characterized by bone fractures and nonunion caused by\nsevere bowing of long bones. To date, it is invariably reported as secondary to NF1,\ncommonly at 24 months of age. Here we describe a 4-month old infant who presented\nwith PA as primary symptom, and in absence of an NF1 first-degree relative. Initial\nmanifestation was guarding of the leg and increased irritability upon palpation of the\nknee, subsequent to light playful jostling. Physician examination revealed gross\nanterolateral bowing of the left leg. Radiography confirmed tibia-fibula bowing and\npathologic transverse fracture at tibia diaphysis, characteristic of PA. Cafe-au-lait spots\ndeveloped at 6 months subsequent to PA, but with number and size well below the\nNational Institutes of Health criteria for NF1 diagnosis. At 14 months, exome sequencing\nestablished definitive NF1 diagnosis. Treatment involved PA takedown surgery.\nAlthough healing was seen after 2 months, complications emerged by 6 months. This\ncase suggests that for primary PA without clear etiology, first-contact and consulting\nphysicians should pay careful attention and be vigilant to timing of clinical onset and\nseverity. Early, severe primary PA warrants accelerated NF1 exome sequencing,\nsuggesting expansion of existing federal guidelines may be necessary to improve\ndetection and prognosis of this rare, debilitating but readily managed condition.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066316', [u'Genetics'], [u'Beacon Health System, Bristol Street Pediatrics;', u'University of Notre Dame, Boler-Parseghian Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases;', u'Memorial Hospital South Bend']]
[u'Structure, interaction and post-translational modification study of arsenic reduction system in Bifidobacterium longum', ['Zarrin Basharat', 'Azra Yasmin'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Microbial metabolism contributes to degradation of organoarsenicals, where arsenic reductases (glutaredoxins) play pivotal role in bacterial resistance to arsenic. Ars operon studies have revealed reduction of arsenate As(V) to arsenite As(III) by respiratory-chain-linked reductase enzyme complexes. Although structure of some bacterial arsenate reductases has been solved but not attempted for Bifidobacterium longum DJO10A colonizing the human gastrointestinal tract. Here it has been endeavoured to analyze and understand the structure, properties, interaction, evolution and action mechanism of this enzyme (arsC1) and its accessory interactors (arsB1, arsB2 and arsR). A systematic bioinformatic based analysis was carried out using a battery of tools and web servers for this purpose. Arsenic resistance gene cluster of gram-positive Bifidobacterium obtained from STRING database illustrated contiguous arsC and arsB genes and absence of arsA gene. ArsC1 was determined to be a cytoplasmic small-molecular-mass protein (~15 kDa) related to a class of tyrosine phosphatases mediating the reduction of As(V) to As(III). ArsC1 was found to be involved in dephosphorylation of arsR, arsB1 and arsB2, indicating its role in post translational modification (PTM) of interacting proteins. 3D structure analysis revealed that it was composed of 1 sheet,1 beta alpha beta unit, 4 strands, 5 helices, 3 helix-helix interacs, 13 beta turns and 1 gamma turn. All proteins in the cluster exhibited hydrophobic interactions. Explicit protein-protein hydrogen, ionic, aromatic and cation-pi interactions in arsenate reducing operon of Bifidobacterium longum DJO10A further aided structural understanding of arsenate reduction process.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066324', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Fatima Jinnah Women University, Rawalpindi 46000, Pakistan']]
[u'RSAT matrix-clustering: dynamic exploration and redundancy reduction of transcription factor binding motif collections', ['Jaime Castro-Mondragon', 'Sebastien Jaeger', 'Denis Thieffry', 'Morgane Thomas-Chollier', 'Jacques van Helden'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Transcription Factor Binding Motifs (TFBMs) databases contain many similar motifs, from which non-redundant collections are derived by manual curation. However, the numbers of motifs and collections are exploding. Meta-databases merging these collections do not offer non-redundant versions,because automatically regrouping similar motifs into clusters cannot be easily achieved with available tools. Motif discovery from genome-scale data sets (e.g. ChIP-seq peaks) also produces redundant motifs, hampering the interpretation of results. We present matrix-clustering, a versatile tool that clusters similar TFBMs into multiple trees, and automatically creates non-redundant collections of motifs. A feature unique to matrix-clustering is its dynamic visualisation of aligned TFBMs, facilitating and accelerating the analysis of motif collections. It can simultaneously cluster multiple collections\nfrom various sources. We demonstrate how matrix-clustering considerably simplifies the interpretation of combined results from multiple motif discovery tools. It facilitates the comparison of ChIP-seq datasets, and highlights biologically relevant variations of similar motifs. By clustering 18 entire\ndatabases (>5000 motifs), we show that matrix-clustering correctly groups motifs belonging to the same TF families, and can drastically reduce motif redundancy. It is integrated within the RSAT suite (http://rsat.eu/), accessible through a user-friendly web interface or command-line for its integration in pipelines.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/065565', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Aix Marseille Univ, Inserm, TAGC, Technological Advances for Genomics and Clinics, Marseille, France;', u'Aix Marseille Univ, CNRS, INSERM, CIML, Marseille, France;', u"Computational Systems Biology, Institut de Biologie de l'Ecole Normale Superieure (IBENS)"]]
[u'DEPOT MEDROXYPROGESTERONE ACETATE USE IS ASSOCIATED WITH INCREASED MEDIAN PERIPHERAL BLOOD CD 3 AND CD 4 T LYMPHOCYTE COUNTS AMONG ANTIRETROVIRAL THERAPY NAIVE HIV POSITIVE WOMEN', ['Edwin Walong', 'Anne Barasa', 'Christopher Gontier'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Abstract\nIntroduction\nEstablishment of peripheral blood CD 3 and CD 4 lymphocyte counts is useful for immunological monitoring and staging of HIV. This forms the basis of management.  This study evaluates total T lymphocyte and CD4 lymphocyte counts among women on DMPA and compares this to matched controls that were not on hormonal contraception.\nMaterials and Methods\nThis case control study was conducted in the western Kenya city of Kisumu. Participants were WHO stage I and II ART naive HIV-positive women.  The cases were enrolled in the institutional family planning clinic and must have had an intramuscular injection of DMPA within a three month period. We used a standard provider initiated questionnaire to collect social and demographic information. Peripheral blood CD 3 and CD 4 lymphocyte counts were determined using BDFacs count. Data was entered and analysed using SPSS Version 17.\nResults\nA total of 138 participants were recruited into the study, 66 controls and 54 cases.  The median ages were 26 and 28 respectively. The median CD 3 lymphocyte counts among controls and cases were 1628 and (p=0.004) while median CD4 lymphocyte counts are 649 (p=0.02).\nConclusion\nUse of the progestin DMPA is associated with an increase in median in CD3 and CD 4 l lymphocyte counts. Although the clinical benefits of this increase is unclear, DMPA is safe for use among women living with HIV.\nKeywords: DMPA, CD 4, CD 3, T lymphocytes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066225', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Nairobi']]
[u'Metabolite exchange within the microbiome produces compounds that influence Drosophila behavior', ['Caleb N Fischer', 'Eric P Trautman', 'Jason M Crawford', 'Eric V Stabb', 'Nichole A Broderick', 'Jo Handelsman'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Animals host multi-species microbial communities (microbiomes) whose properties may result from inter-species interactions; however current understanding of host-microbiome interactions is derived mostly from studies in which is it is difficult to elucidate microbe-microbe interactions. In exploring how Drosophila melanogaster acquires its microbiome, we found that a microbial community influences Drosophila olfactory and egg-laying behaviors differently than individual members. Drosophila prefers a Saccharomyces-Acetobacter co-culture to the same microorganisms grown individually and then mixed, a response mainly due to the conserved olfactory receptor, Or42b. Acetobacter metabolism of Saccharomyces-derived ethanol was necessary, and acetate and its metabolic derivatives were sufficient, for co-culture preference. Preference correlated with three emergent co-culture properties: ethanol catabolism, a distinct volatile emission profile, and yeast population decline. We describe a molecular mechanism by which a microbial community affects animal behavior. Our results support a model whereby emergent metabolites signal Drosophila to acquire its preferred multispecies microbiome.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066035', [u'Ecology'], [u'Yale University;', u'University of Georgia;', u'University of Connecticut']]
[u'Background-dependent effects of selection on subclonal heterogeneity', ['Ignacio Vazquez-Garcia', 'Francisco Salinas', 'Jing Li', 'Andrej Fischer', 'Benjamin Barre', 'Johan Hallin', 'Anders Bergstrom', 'Elisa Alonso-Perez', 'Jonas Warringer', 'Ville Mustonen', 'Gianni Liti'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'The contribution of pre-existing and de novo genetic variation towards clonal adaptation is poorly understood, but essential to design successful antibiotic or cancer therapies. To address this, we evolved genetically diverse populations of budding yeast, S. cerevisiae, consisting of \u223c107 diploid cells with unique haplotype combinations. We studied the asexual evolution of these populations under selective inhibition of DNA replication and cell metabolism by time-resolved whole-genome sequencing and phenotyping. All populations underwent clonal expansions driven by de novo mutations, but remained genetically and phenotypically diverse. Despite the genetic diversity of the founder cells, we observed recurrent adaptive mutations. However, the founding fitness variance limited the scope for adaptive mutations to expand. The clones exhibited continued evolution by widespread genome instability, rendering recessive de novo mutations homozygous and refining pre-existing variation. Our results show that three intertwined processes dominate the adaptive response: exploiting genetic backgrounds, de novo mutations and genome instability.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/039859', [u'Genetics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Institute for Research on Cancer and Ageing of Nice, CNRS UMR 7284, INSERM U1081, Nice, France;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden']]
[u'Evaluating approaches to find exon chains corresponding to long reads', ['Anna Kuosmanen', 'Veli Makinen'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Transcript prediction can be modelled as a graph problem where exons are modelled as nodes and reads spanning two or more exons are modelled as exon chains. PacBio third-generation sequencing technology produces significantly longer reads than earlier second-generation sequencing technologies, which gives valuable information about longer exon chains in a graph. However, with the high error rates of third-generation sequencing, aligning long reads correctly around the splice sites is a challenging task. Incorrect alignments lead to spurious nodes and arcs in the graph, which in turn lead to incorrect transcript predictions.\n\nWe survey several approaches to find the exon chains corresponding to long reads in a splicing graph, and experimentally study the performance of these methods using simulated data to allow for sensitivity / precision analysis. Our experiments show that short reads from second-generation sequencing can be used to significantly improve exon chain correctness either by error-correcting the long reads before splicing graph creation, or by using them to create a splicing graph on which the long read alignments are then projected. We also study the memory and time consumption of various modules, and show that accurate exon chains lead to significantly increased transcript prediction accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066241', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'Axonal transcriptome of human stem cell derived neurons', ['Rebecca L Bigler', 'Joyce W Kamande', 'Raluca Dumitru', 'Mark Niedringhaus', 'Anne Marion Taylor'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'The identification of axonal mRNAs in model organisms has led to the discovery of multiple proteins synthesized within axons that are required for axon guidance and injury response. The extent to which these axonal mRNAs are conserved in humans is unknown. Here we report on the axonal transcriptome of glutamatergic neurons derived from human embryonic stem cells (hESC-neurons) grown in axon isolating microfluidic chambers. We identified mRNAs proportionally enriched in axons, representing a functionally unique local transcriptome as compared to the transcriptome of whole neurons inclusive of somata, dendrites, and axons. Additionally, we found that the most abundant axonal mRNAs in hESC-neurons functionally resemble the most abundant mRNAs in rat cortical neurons. The main functional categories of transcripts common to both datasets being translational elongation, intracellular and synapse. Pairwise comparison of our list of abundant human axonal transcripts to five similar previously published datasets generated from rat and mouse axons revealed hundreds of conserved axonal mRNAs. This new evaluation of mRNA within human axons provides an important resource for studying local mRNA translation in human neurons and has the potential to reveal both conserved and unique axonal mechanisms across species and neuronal types.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066142', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Effect of sampling media and culture conditions on dendritic cell generation: ion depleted plasma negatively influences the survival of monocyte-derived dendritic cells', ['Zuzana Parackova', 'Jana Kayserova', 'Anna Sediva'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Autologous serum or plasma are often used as a supplementation in culture media for autoimmune disease studies. They contain many biologically and immunologically active molecules that might be involved in the development of these diseases. We examined the effect of different cultivating media supplemented with autologous serum and two types of plasma obtained from heparin and EDTA coated tubes on monocyte-derived dendritic cells viability. Our results show that medium with plasma from EDTA coated tubes is unsuitable for cultivation of myeloid cells due to the absence of bivalent ions and that the type of sampling tubes used for blood collection might be critical for successful experiment.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066233', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Department of Immunology, Charles University, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital Motol, Pr']]
[u'fMRI Dependent Components Analysis Reveals Dynamic Relations Between Functional Large Scale Cortical Networks', ['Uri Hertz', 'Daniel Zoran', 'Yair Weiss', 'Amir Amedi'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'One of the major advantages of whole brain fMRI is the detection of large scale cortical networks. Dependent Components Analysis (DCA) is a novel approach designed to extract both cortical networks and their dependency structure. DCA is fundamentally different from prevalent data driven approaches, i.e. spatial ICA, in that instead of maximizing the independence of components it optimizes their dependency (in a tree graph structure, tDCA) depicting cortical areas as part of multiple cortical networks. Here tDCA was shown to reliably detect large scale functional networks in single subjects and in group analysis, by clustering non-noisy components on one branch of the tree structure. We used tDCA in three fMRI experiments in which identical auditory and visual stimuli were presented, but novelty information and task relevance were modified. tDCA components tended to include two anticorrelated networks, which were detected in two separate ICA components, or belonged in one component in seed functional connectivity. Although sensory components remained the same across experiments, other components changed as a function of the experimental conditions.  These changes were either within component, where it encompassed other cortical areas, or between components, where the pattern of anticorrelated networks and their statistical dependency changed. Thus tDCA may prove to be a useful, robust tool that provides a rich description of the statistical structure underlying brain activity and its relationships to changes in experimental conditions. This tool may prove effective in detection and description of mental states, neural disorders and their dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066282', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'Deep Mind;', u'Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'A common perceptual inference for cross-modally induced illusions of body schema', ['Zane Zheng', 'Kevin Munhall', 'Ingrid Johnsrude'], u'July 27, 2016.', u"Body-schema, or the multimodal representation of one's own body attributes, has been demonstrated previously to be malleable. In the rubber-hand illusion (Botvinick and Cohen, 1998), synchronous visual and tactile stimulation cause a fake hand to be perceived as one's own. Similarly, if a stranger's voice is heard synchronously with one's own vocal production, that voice comes to be attributed to oneself (Zheng et al., 2011). Multimodal illusions like these involve distorting body schema based on correlated input, yet the degree to which different instances of distortion are perceived within the same individuals has never been examined. Here we show that participants embraced the ownership of a fake hand and a stranger's voice to a similar degree, controlling both for individual suggestibility and for general susceptibility to illusion of body schema. Our findings suggest that the perceptual inference that leads to the distortion of body schema is a stable trait.", u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066159', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Lasell College;', u"Queen's University;", u'Western University']]
[u'In vivo mapping of tissue- and subcellular-specific proteomes in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Aaron W Reinke', 'Raymond Mak', 'Emily R Troemel', 'Eric J Bennett'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Multicellular organisms are composed of tissues that have distinct functions requiring specialized proteomes. To define the proteome of a live animal with tissue and subcellular resolution, we adapted a localized proteomics technology for use in the multicellular model organism Caenorhabditis elegans. This approach couples tissue- and location-specific expression of the enzyme ascorbate peroxidase (APX), which facilitates proximity-based protein labeling in vivo, and quantitative proteomics to identify tissue- and subcellular-restricted proteomes. We identified and localized over 3000 proteins from strains of C. elegans expressing APX in either the nucleus or cytoplasm of the intestine, epidermis, body wall muscle, or pharyngeal muscle. We also identified several hundred proteins that were specifically localized to one of the four tissues analyzed or specifically localized to the cytoplasm or the nucleus. This approach resulted in the identification of both previously characterized and unknown nuclear and cytoplasmic proteins. Further, we confirmed the tissue- and subcellular-specific localization of a subset of identified proteins using GFP-tagging and fluorescence microscopy, validating our in vivo proximity-based proteomics technique. Together, these results demonstrate a new approach that enables the tissue- and subcellular-specific identification and quantification of proteins within a live animal.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066134', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'UCSD']]
[u'Mind over matter: A perceptual decision bias toward filled-in stimuli in the blind spot', ['Benedikt V Ehinger', 'Katja Hausser', 'Jose Ossandon', 'Peter Konig'], u'July 27, 2016.', u'Although there are no photoreceptors corresponding to the physiological blind spots, we experience visual content there as if it were veridical, when it is in fact only "filled in" based on the surroundings. Given that we have at least implicit knowledge that a stimulus is being filled in, could this knowledge bias our behavior? We asked subjects to choose between a stimulus partially presented in the blind spot that elicits filling in and another at the same eccentricity outside of the blind spot. Subjects displayed a bias toward the blind spot stimulus, where the filled-in part could have actually concealed a non-target (15.01%, CDI95: 8.49%-21.08%). Two control experiments confirmed this finding. The preference for inferred versus veridical content suggests that the locally inferred percept is favored due to reduced external noise in concordance with predictive coding models of visual processing.', u'/content/early/2016/07/27/066217', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Osnabr\xfcck University;', u'University Osnabr\xfcck;', u'University of Osnabr\xfcck']]
