[u'Robust extraction of spatio-temporal patterns from resting state fMRI', ['Katharina Glomb', 'Adrian Ponce-Alvarez', 'Matthieu Gilson', 'Petra Ritter', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'It is well-established that patterns of functional connectivity (FC) - measures of correlated activity between pairs of voxels or regions observed in the human brain using neuroimaging - are robustly expressed in spontaneous activity during rest. These patterns are not static, but exhibit complex spatio-temporal dynamics. In this study, we use a whole-brain approach combining data analysis and modelling of FC dynamics between 66 ROIs covering the entire cortex. We simultaneously utilize temporal and spatial information by creating tensors that are subsequently decomposed into sets of brain regions ("communities") that share similar temporal dynamics, and their associated time courses. The tensors contain pairwise FC computed inside of overlapping sliding windows. Communities are discovered by clustering features obtained from 24 healthy subjects, thereby ensuring that they generalize across subjects. First, we determine that at this resolution, four communities that resemble known RSNs can be clearly discerned in the empirical data: DMN, visual network, control networks, and sensorimotor network. Second, we use a noise-driven stationary mean field model which possesses simple node dynamics and realistic anatomical connectivity derived from DTI and fiber tracking. It has been shown to explain resting state FC as averaged over time and multiple subjects, however, this average FC summarizes the spatial distribution of correlations while hiding their temporal dynamics. Thus, it is unclear whether the same type of model can reproduce FC at different points in time. We find that this is the case for all four networks using the spatio-temporal information revealed by tensor decomposition if nodes in the simulation are connected according to model-based effective connectivity. Furthermore, we find that these results require only a small part of the FC values, namely the highest values that occur across time and ROI pair. Our findings suggest that in resting state fMRI, FC patterns that occur over time are mostly derived from the average FC, are shaped by underlying structural connectivity, and that the activation of these patterns is limited to brief periods in time. We provide an innovative method that does not make strong assumptions about the underlying data and is generally applicable to resting state or task data from different subject populations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089516', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'Charite University Medicine']]
[u'The Semantics of Adjective Noun Phrases in the Human Brain', ['Alona Fyshe', 'Gustavo Sudre', 'Leila Wehbe', 'Nicole Rafidi', 'Tom M Mitchell'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'As a person reads, the brain performs complex operations to create higher order semantic representations from individual words. While these steps are effortless for competent readers, we are only beginning to understand how the brain performs these actions. Here, we explore semantic composition using magnetoencephalography (MEG) recordings of people reading adjective-noun phrases presented one word at a time. We track the neural representation of semantic information over time, through different brain regions. Our results reveal several novel findings: 1) the neural representation of adjective semantics observed during adjective reading is reactivated after phrase reading, with remarkable consistency, 2) a neural representation of the adjective is also present during noun presentation, but this neural representation is the reverse of that observed during adjective presentation 3) the neural representation of adjective semantics are oscillatory and entrained to alpha band frequencies. We also introduce a new method for analyzing brain image time series called Time Generalized Averaging. Taken together, these results paint a picture of information flow in the brain as phrases are read and understood.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089615', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Victoria;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health;', u'Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley;', u'Machine Learning Department, Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'Graph regularized, semi-supervised learning improves annotation of de novo transcriptomes', ['Laraib I Malik', 'Shravya Thatipally', 'Nikhil Junneti', 'Rob Patro'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'We present a new method, GRASS, for improving an initial annotation of de novo transcriptomes. GRASS makes the shared-sequence relationships between assembled contigs explicit in the form of a graph, and applies an algorithm that performs label propagation to transfer annotations between related contigs and modifies the graph topology iteratively. We demonstrate that GRASS increases the completeness and accuracy of the initial annotation, allows for improved differential analysis, and is very efficient, typically taking 10s of minutes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089417', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'Coordinate Based Random Effect Size meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies', ['Christopher Tench', 'Radu Tanasescu', 'William Cottam', 'Cris Constantinescu', 'Dorothee Auer'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Low power in neuroimaging studies can make them difficult to interpret, and Coordinate based metaanalysis (CBMA) may go some way to mitigating this issue. CBMA has been used in many analyses to detect where published functional MRI or voxel-based morphometry studies testing similar hypotheses report significant summary results (coordinates) consistently. Only the reported coordinates and possibly t statistics are analysed, and statistical significance of clusters is determined by coordinate density. Here a method of performing coordinate based random effect size meta-analysis and meta regression is introduced. The algorithm (ClusterZ) analyses both coordinates and reported t statistic or Z score, standardised by the number of subjects. Statistical significance is determined not by coordinate density, but by a random effects meta-analyses of reported effects performed cluster-wise using standard statistical methods and taking account of censoring inherent in the published summary results. Type 1 error control is achieved using the false cluster discovery rate (FCDR), which is based on the false discovery rate. This controls both the family wise error rate under the null hypothesis that coordinates are randomly drawn from a standard stereotaxic space, and the proportion of significant clusters that are expected under the null. Such control is vital to avoid propagating and even amplifying the very issues motivating the meta-analysis in the first place. ClusterZ is demonstrated on both numerically simulated data and on real data from reports of grey matter loss in multiple sclerosis (MS) and syndromes   suggestive of MS, and of painful stimulus in healthy controls. The software implementation is available to download and use freely.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089565', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'A genetic risk score to guide age-specific, personalized prostate cancer screening', ['Tyler M. Seibert', 'Chun Chieh Fan', 'Yunpeng Wang', 'Verena Zuber', 'Roshan Karunamuni', 'J. Kellogg Parsons', 'Rosalind A. Eeles', 'Douglas F. Easton', 'Zsofia Kote-Jarai', 'Ali Amin Al Olama', 'Sara Benlloch Garcia', 'Kenneth Muir', 'Henrik Gronberg', 'Fredrik Wiklund', 'Markus Aly', 'Johanna Schleutker', 'Csilla Sipeky', 'Teuvo LJ Tammela', 'Brge G. Nordestgaard', 'Sune F. Nielsen', 'Maren Weischer', 'Rasmus Bisbjerg', 'M. Andreas Rder', 'Peter Iversen', 'Tim J. Key', 'Ruth C. Travis', 'David E. Neal', 'Jenny L. Donovan', 'Freddie C. Hamdy', 'Paul Pharoah', 'Nora Pashayan', 'Kay-Tee Khaw', 'Christiane Maier', 'Walther Vogel', 'Manuel Luedeke', 'Kathleen Herkommer', 'Adam S. Kibel', 'Cezary Cybulski', 'Dominika Wokolorczyk', 'Wojciech Kluzniak', 'Lisa Cannon-Albright', 'Hermann Brenner', 'Katarina Cuk', 'Kai-Uwe Saum', 'Jong Y. Park', 'Thomas A. Sellers', 'Chavdar Slavov', 'Radka Kaneva', 'Vanio Mitev', 'Jyotsna Batra', 'Judith A. Clements', 'Amanda Spurdle', 'Manuel R. Teixeira', 'Paula Paulo', 'Sofia Maia', 'Hardev Pandha', 'Agnieszka Michael', 'Andrzej Kierzek', 'David S. Karow', 'Ian G. Mills', 'Ole A. Andreassen', 'Anders M. Dale'], u'November 25, 2016.', u"Background: Prostate-specific-antigen (PSA) screening resulted in reduced prostate cancer (PCa) mortality in a large clinical trial, but due to a high false-positive rate, among other concerns, many guidelines do not endorse universal screening and instead recommend an individualized decision based on each patient's risk. Genetic risk may provide key information to guide the decisions of whether and at what age to screen an individual man for PCa.  Methods: Genotype, PCa status, and age from 34,444 men of European ancestry from the PRACTICAL consortium database were analyzed to select single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with prostate cancer diagnosis. These SNPs were then incorporated into a survival analysis to estimate their effects on age at PCa diagnosis. The resulting polygenic hazard score (PHS) is an assessment of individual genetic risk. The final model was validated in an independent dataset comprised of 6,417 men with screening PSA and genotype data. PHS was calculated for these men to test for prediction of PCa-free survival. PHS was also combined with age-specific PCa incidence data from the U.S. population to generate a PCa-Risk (PCaR) age that relates a given man's risk to that of the population average. PHS and PCaR age were evaluated for prediction of positive predictive value (PPV) of PSA screening.  Findings: PHS calculated from 54 SNPs was very highly predictive of age at PCa diagnosis for men in the validation set (p=10^-53). PPV of PSA screening varied from 0.18 to 0.52 for men with low and high genetic risk, respectively. PHS modulates PCa-free survival curves by an estimated 20 years between men in the 1st or 99th percentiles of genetic risk.  Interpretation: Polygenic hazard scores give personalized genetic risk estimates and can inform the decisions of whether and at what age to screen a man for PCa.", u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089383', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California, San Diego, USA;', u'University of Oslo, Norway;', u'The Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK;', u'University of Cambridge, UK;', u'University of Manchester, UK;', u'Karolinska Institutet, Sweden;', u'University of Turku, Finland;', u'University of Tampere, Finland;', u'University of Copenhagen, Denmark;', u'Copenhagen University Hospital, Denmark;', u'University of Oxford, UK;', u'University of Bristol, UK;', u'University College London, UK;', u'University Hospital of Ulm, Germany;', u'Klinikum rechts der Isar der Technischen Universitaet Muenchen, Germany;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, USA;", u'Pomeranian Medical University, Poland;', u'University of Utah, USA;', u'German Cancer Research Center, Germany;', u'Moffitt Cancer Center, USA;', u'Medical University, Bulgaria;', u'Queensland University of Technology, Australia;', u'Portuguese Oncology Institute, Porto, Portugal;', u'The University of Surrey, Guildford, UK;', u'University of San Diego, USA']]
[u'DNA sequence+shape kernel enables alignment-free modeling of transcription factor binding', ['Wenxiu Ma', 'Lin Yang', 'Remo Rohs', 'William S Noble'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Motivation: Transcription factors (TFs) bind to specific DNA sequence motifs. Several lines of evidence suggest that TF-DNA binding is mediated in part by properties of the local DNA shape: the width of the minor groove, the relative orientations of adjacent base pairs, etc. Several methods have been developed to jointly account for DNA sequence and shape properties in predicting TF binding affinity. However, a limitation of these methods is that they typically require a training set of aligned TF binding sites.  Results: We describe a sequence+shape kernel that leverages DNA sequence and shape information to better understand protein-DNA binding preference and affinity. This kernel extends an existing class of k-mer based sequence kernels, based on the recently described di-mismatch kernel. Using three in vitro benchmark datasets, derived from universal protein binding microarrays (uPBMs), genomic context PBMs (gcPBMs) and SELEX-seq data, we demonstrate that incorporating DNA shape information improves our ability to predict protein-DNA binding affinity. In particular, we observe that (1) the k-spectrum+shape model performs better than the classical k-spectrum kernel, particularly for small k values; (2) the di- mismatch kernel performs better than the k-mer kernel, for larger k; and (3) the di-mismatch+shape kernel performs better than the di-mismatch kernel for intermediate k values.  Availability: The software is available at https://bitbucket.org/wenxiu/sequence-shape.git', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089441', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California Riverside;', u'University of Southern California;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Relationships between chromosomal aberration breakpoints and chromosomal contacts: biophysical modeling study', ['Yuri Eidelman', 'Alina Aleshchenko', 'Sergey Andreev'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Radiation-induced chromosomal exchange aberrations (CAs) are formed presumably at contacts of damaged chromosomal loci. For sparsely ionizing radiation, distribution of aberrations along the chromosome should depend on distribution of contacts, i.e. on 3D organization of the chromosome. The progress in experimental techniques for study of chromosomal contacts and for precise localization of aberration breakpoints allows to verify contacts-based mechanisms of CA formation experimentally. In the present work, the polymer model of mouse interphase chromosome 18 is developed. On this basis the experimental data on contacts and aberrations are jointly analyzed. We demonstrate high correlation between chromosomal contacts and aberrations breakpoint distributions. Possible factors and alternative mechanisms which could modify breakpoint distributions are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089508', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Institute of Biochemical Physics (Russian Academy of Sciences);', u'Institute of Biochemical Physics (Russian Academy of Sciences); National Research Nuclear University']]
[u'Genome-Wide Association Study Reveals First Locus for Anorexia Nervosa and Metabolic Correlations', ['Laramie Duncan', 'Zeynep Yilmaz', 'Raymond Walters', 'Jackie Goldstein', 'Verneri Antilla', 'Brendan Bulik-Sullivan', 'Stephan Ripke', 'Roger Adan', 'Lars Alfredsson', 'Tetsuya Ando', 'Ole Andreassen', 'Harald Aschauer', 'Jessica Baker', 'Jeffrey Barrett', 'Vladimir Bencko', 'Andrew Bergen', 'Wade Berrettini', 'Andreas Birgegard', 'Claudette Boni', 'Vesna Boraska Perica', 'Harry Brandt', 'Roland Bughardt', 'Laura Carlberg', 'Matteo Cassina', 'Carolyn Cesta', 'Sven Cichon', 'Maurizio Clementi', 'Sarah Cohen-Woods', 'Joni Coleman', 'Roger Cone', 'Philippe Courtet', 'Steven Crawford', 'Scott Crow', 'Jim Crowley', 'Unna Danner', 'Oliver Davis', 'Martia de Zaan', 'George Dedoussis', 'Daniela Degortes', 'Janiece DeSocio', 'Danielle Dick', 'Dimitris Dikeos', 'Christian Dina', 'Bo Ding', 'Monika Dmitrzak-Weglarz', 'Elisa Docampo', 'Karin Egberts', 'Stefan Ehrlich', 'Georgia Escaramis', 'Tonu Esko', 'Thomas Espeseth', 'Xavier Estivill', 'Angela Favaro', 'Fernando Fernandez-Aranda', 'Manfred Fichter', 'Chris Finan', 'Krista Fischer', 'James Floyd', 'Manuel Focker', 'Lenka Foretova', 'Monica Forzan', 'Caroline Fox', 'Christopher Franklin', 'Valerie Bagorieau', 'Steven Gallinger', 'Giovanni Gambaro', 'Helena Gaspar', 'Ina Giegling', 'Fragiskos Gonidakis', 'Philip Gorwood', 'Monica Gratacos', 'Sebastien Guillaume', 'Yiran Guo', 'Hakon Hakonarson', 'Katherine Halmi', 'Rebecca Harrison', 'Konstantinos Hatzikotoulas', 'Hoanna Hauser', 'Johannes Hebebrand', 'Sietske Helder', 'Judith Hendriks', 'Stefan Herms', 'Beate Herpertz-Dahlmann', 'Wolfgang Herzog', 'Christopher Hilliard', 'Laura Huckins', 'James Hudson', 'Julia Huemer', 'Hartmut Imgart', 'Hidetoshi Inoko', 'Sigrid Jall', 'Vladimir Janout', 'Susana Jimenez-Murcia', 'Susana Jimenez-Murcia', 'Jenny Jordan', 'Antonio Julia', 'Anders Jureus', 'Gursharan Kalsi', 'Allan Kaplan', 'Allan Kaplan', 'Leila Karhunen', 'Andreas Karwautz', 'Martien Kas', 'Walter Kaye', 'Martin Kennedy', 'James Kennedy', 'Anna Keski-Rahkonen', 'Kirsty Kiezebrink', 'Youl-Ri Kim', 'Lars Klareskog', 'Kelly Klump', 'Gun Peggy Knudsen', 'Bobby Koeleman', 'Doris Koubek', 'Maria La Via', 'Mikael Landen', 'Stephanie Le Hellard', 'Robert Levitan', 'Dong Li', 'Paul Lichtenstein', 'Lisa Lilenfeld', 'Jolanta Lissowska', 'Astri Lundervold', 'Pierre Magistretti', 'Mario Maj', 'Katrin Mannik', 'Katrin Mannik', 'Debora Kaminska', 'Nicholas Martin', 'Morten Mattingsdal', 'Sara McDevitt', 'Peter McGuffin', 'Elisabeth Merl', 'Andres Metspalu', 'Ingrid Meulenbelt', 'Nadia Micali', 'James Mitchell', 'Karen Mitchell', 'Palmiero Monteleone', 'Alessio Maria Monteleone', 'Grant Montgomery', 'Preben Mortensen', 'Melissa Munn-Chernoff', 'Timo Muller', 'Benedetta Nacmias', 'Marie Navratilova', 'Ida Nilsson', 'Claes Norring', 'Ioanna Ntalla', 'Roel Ophoff', "Julie O'Toole", 'Aarno Palotie', 'Jacques Pantel', 'Hana Papezova', 'Richard Parker', 'Dalila Pinto', 'Raquel Rabionet', 'Anu Raevuori', 'Andrzej Rajewski', 'Nicolas Ramoz', 'N. William Rayner', 'Ted Reichborn-Kjennerud', 'Valdo Ricca', 'Samuli Ripatti', 'Franziska Ritschel', 'Marion Roberts', 'Alessandro Rotondo', 'Dan Rujescu', 'Filip Rybakowski', 'Paolo Santonastaso', 'Andre Scherag', 'Stephen Scherer', 'Ulrike Schmidt', 'Nicholas Schork', 'Alexandra Schosser', 'Jochen Seitz', 'Lenka Slachtova', 'Robert Sladek', 'P. Eline Slagboom', "Margarita Slof-Op 't Landt", 'Agnieszka Slopien', 'Agnieszka Slopien', 'Nicole Soranzo', 'Sandro Sorbi', 'Lorraine Southam', 'Vidar Steen', 'Vidar Steen', 'Michael Strober', 'Jin Szatkiewicz', 'Neonila Szeszenia-Dabrowska', 'Ioanna Tachmazidou', 'Elena Tenconi', 'Alfonso Tortorella', 'Federica Tozzi', 'Janet Treasure', 'Matthias Tschop', 'Artemis Tsitsika', 'Konstantinos Tziouvas', 'Annemarie van Elburg', 'Eric van Furth', 'Tracey Wade', 'Gudrun Wagner', 'Esther Walton', 'Hunna Watson', 'H-Erich Wichmann', 'Elisabeth Widen', 'D. Blake Woodside', 'Jack Yanovski', 'Shuyang Yao', 'Stephanie Zerwas', 'Stephan Zipfel', 'Laura Thornton', 'Anke Hinney', 'Mark Daly', 'Patrick Sullivan', 'Eleftheria Zeggini', 'Gerome Breen', 'Cynthia Bulik'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a serious eating disorder characterized by restriction of energy intake relative to requirements, resulting in abnormally low body weight. It has a lifetime prevalence of approximately 1%, disproportionately affects females(1,2), and has no well replicated evidence of effective pharmacological or psychological treatments despite high morbidity and mortality(2). Twin studies support a genetic basis for the observed aggregation of AN in families(3), with heritability estimates of 48%-74%(4). Although initial genome-wide association studies (GWASs) were underpowered(5,6), evidence suggested that signals for AN would be detected with increased power(5). We present a GWAS of 3,495 AN cases and 10,982 controls with one genome-wide significant locus (index variant rs4622308, p=4.3x10-9) in a region (chr12:56,372,585-56,482,185) which includes six genes. The SNP-chip heritability (h_SNP^2) of AN from these data is 0.20 (SE=0.02), suggesting that a substantial fraction of the twin-based heritability stems from common genetic variation. Using these GWAS results, we also find significant positive genetic correlations with schizophrenia, neuroticism, educational attainment, and HDL cholesterol, and significant negative genetic correlations with body mass, insulin, glucose, and lipid phenotypes. Our results support the reconceptualization of AN as a disorder with both psychiatric and metabolic components.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/088815', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Stanford UnivMassachusetts General Hospital;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Charite Universtatsmedizin Berlin;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht, Altrecht Eating Disorders Rintveld;', u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'National Institute of Mental Health;', u'University of Oslo, Oslo University Hospital;', u'Biopsychosocial Corporation;', u'Sanger Institute;', u'Charles University, First Faculty of Medicine, Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology;', u'Biorealm Research, Culver City, CA;', u'Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania;', u'Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm Health Care Services;', u'Centre of Psychiatry and Neuroscience;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, University of Split School of Medicine;', u'The Center for Eating Disorders at Sheppard Pratt, Baltimore;', u'Klinikum Frankfurt/Oder;', u'Medical University of Vienna;', u'University of Padova;', u'University Hospital Basel;', u'Finders University;', u'Kings College London;', u'Vanderbilt University School of Medicine;', u'CHRU Montpellier, University of Montpellier;', u'The Center for Eating Disorders at Sheppard Pratt;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Karolinska Institutet;', u'Altrecht Eating Disorders Rintveld;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Hannover Medical School;', u'Harokopio University;', u'Seattle University College of Nursing;', u'Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'Athens University Medical School;', u'University of Nantes;', u'University of California at San Diego;', u'Poznan University of Medical Sciences;', u'The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, CIBER Epidemiologia;', u'University Hospital of Wurzburg;', u'Division of Psychological and Social Medicine and Developmental Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine;', u'The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Centro de Investigacio;', u'University of Tartu, Broad Institute;', u'Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology;', u'University Hospital of Bellvitge-IDIBELL, University of Barcelona;', u'Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Schon Klinik Roseneck;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Tartu;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genomics PLC;', u'Dept of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen;', u'Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute;', u'University Hospital of Padova;', u'National Heart Lung and Blood Institute;', u'International Agency for Research on Cancer;', u'University of Toronto;', u'Columbus-Gemelli University Hospital;', u'Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg;', u'National and Kapodistrian University of Athens;', u'INSERM U984, Sainte-Anne Hospital, University of Paris-Descartes;', u'The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology;', u'Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia;', u'Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Zorg op Orde, Kings College London;', u'University Utrecht;', u'University of Basel;', u'RWTH Aachen;', u'Heidelberg University;', u'Icahn School of Medicine, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'McLean Hospital/Harvard Medical School;', u'Parkland-Klinik;', u'Tokai University School of Medicine;', u'Helmholtz Centre Munich - German Research Center for Environmental Healt;', u'Ostrava University;', u'University of Otago, Canterbury District Health Board;', u'Vall dHebron Hospital Research Institute;', u'Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden;', u'University of Eastern Finland;', u'University of Groningen, University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'University of Otago;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'University of Aberdeen;', u'Inje University;', u'Michigan State University;', u'Norwegian Institute of Public Health;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Karolinska Institutet, Gothenburg University;', u'University of Bergen, Haukeland University Hospital;', u'American School of Professional Psychology at Argosy University, Washington DC;', u'M. Sklodowska-Curie Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology;', u'University of Bergen, K. G. Jebsen Center for Neuropsychiatric Disorders;', u'Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, Center for Psychiatric Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry - CHUV/UNI;', u'University of Tartu, University of Lausanne;', u'Charles University;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute;', u'Oslo University;', u'University College Cork, Health Service Executive South;', u'Leiden University Medical Centre;', u'Icahn School of Medicine, University College London;', u'University of North Dakota School of Medicine and Health Sciences;', u'VA Boston Healthcare System, Boston University School of Medicine;', u'University of Salerno, University of Naples SUN;', u'University of Naples SUN;', u'University of Queensland;', u'Aarhus University;', u'Helmholtz Centre Munich - German Research Center for Environmental Health;', u'University of Florence;', u'Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, Center for Molecular Medicine;', u'University of California Los Angeles, University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Kartini Clinic;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Institute for Molecular Medicine;', u'Centre de Psychiatrie et Neurosciences - Inserm U894;', u'Icahn School of Medicine;', u'University of Helsinki, Helsinki University Central Hospital, University of Turku;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism;', u'Norwegian Institute of Public Health, University of Oslo;', u'University of Pisa;', u'Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich;', u'Institute of Psychiatry and Neurology, University of Social Sciences and Humanities;', u'Jena University Hospital;', u'The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto;', u'J. Craig Venter Institute;', u'McGill University, Genome Quebec Innovation Centre;', u'Rivierduinen Eating Disorders Ursula, Leiden University Medical Centre;', u'Uniwersytet Medyczny im. Karola Marcinkowskiego;', u'Human Genetics,  Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Genome Campus, Hinxton, CB10 1HH;', u'University of Florence, IRCSS Fondazione Don Gnocchi;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine, Department of Environmental Epidemiology;', u'University of Naples SUN, University of Perugia;', u'University of Cyprus;', u'University of Athens P. & A. Kyriakou Childrens Hospital;', u'P. & A. Kyriakou Childrens Hospital, PICU;', u'Center for Eating Disorders Rintveld, University of Utrecht;', u'Rivierduinen Eating Disorders Ursula, Leiden University Medical Center;', u'Flinders University;', u'Division of Psychological and Social Medicine and Developmental Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine,;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill; School of Paediatrics and Child Health, Faculty of Medi;', u'Institute for Molecular Medicine;', u'University of Toronto, Toronto General Hospital;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Karolinksa Institutet;', u'University Medical Hospital Tuebingen;', u'Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Ess']]
[u'Statistical Quality Scale 6 (SQS-6)', ['Jose F de Morais', 'Gilmar F do Prado', 'Gecilmar P Borges'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Context. The statistical analysis is an important part of the process of assessing the quality of randomized controlled trials, unfortunately it tends to be underestimated or even omitted by editors, in this sense, scales that cover this gap becomes necessary.Objective.  To build a definition and a scale for assessing the quality of statistical analysis in randomized controlled trials.  Methods.  A content analysis on 16 biostatistics texts was considered in the building of the definition and of the scale. The indicators of quality were based on the description and presentation of results of articles.Results. We identify 32 quality indicators grouping in six dimensions: randomization and management of lost; sample size computation; use of mean and median; statistical test; use and interpretation of confidence interval and P-values. The scale range from 0 to 6 and score greater than three identify article with appropriate statistical analysis. Conclusions. The scale presented three dimensions linked to quality of description and three linked to quality of used strategy. \nKeywords: quality; scale; statistical analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089649', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Universidade Federal de Uberlandia;', u'Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo']]
[u'Prestimulus alpha-band power biases visual discrimination confidence, but not accuracy', ['Jason Samaha', 'Luca Iemi', 'Bradley Postle'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Oscillations in the alpha-band (8-13 Hz) of human electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings are thought to reflect cortical excitability. As such, the magnitude of alpha power prior to the onset of a near threshold visual stimulus has been shown to predict stimulus detectability. Mechanistically, however, non-specific increases in visual-cortical excitability should result in amplified signal as well as amplified noise, leaving actual discriminability unchanged. Using a two-choice orientation discrimination task with equally probable stimuli, we found that discrimination accuracy was unaffected by fluctuations in prestimulus alpha-band power. Decision confidence, on the other hand, was strongly negatively correlated with prestimulus alpha power. This finding constitutes a clear dissociation between objective and subjective measures of visual perception as a function of prestimulus cortical excitability. This dissociation is predicted by models of perceptual confidence under which the balance of evidence in favor of each choice drives objective performance but only the magnitude of evidence in favor of the chosen stimulus drives subjective reports, suggesting that human perceptual confidence can be suboptimal.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089425', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Berlin School of Mind and Brain, Humboldt-Universitat zu Berlin, Germany']]
[u'Kinetics of multi-substrate in Beauveria bassiana JUCHE22', ['Sarangam Majumdar', 'Subhoshmita Mondal'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'The pattern of the biomass specific growth rate is an important focus for many biotechnological applications. Several control strategies have been employed to describe version of the exponential phase of growth of microorganisms. Moreover, in some bioprocesses there is more than one feeding substrates required for the specific growth. Hence, the problem of estimating multiple substrate consumption rates together with the specific growth rate of the microorganism becomes applicable. In this context, the dynamics behaviour of fed-batch process with multiple substrates (dextrose and peptone) and kinetics is further investigated in Beauveria bassiana. Different features of the proposed model are assessed by numerical simulation in different scenarios.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089599', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Universitat Hamburg, Bundesstrae, 55 20146 Hamburg;', u'Department of Chemical Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India']]
[u'Tracing the biogeographical origin of South Asian populations using DNA SatNav', ['Ranajit Das', 'Priyanka Upadhyai'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'The Indian subcontinent includes India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, and Sri Lanka that collectively share common anthropological and cultural roots. Given the enigmatic population structure, complex history and genetic heterogeneity of populations from this region, their biogeographical origin and history remain a fascinating question. In this study we carried out an in-depth genetic comparison of the five South Asian populations available in the 1000 Genomes Project, namely Gujarati Indians from Houston, Texas (GIH), Punjabis from Lahore (PJL), Indian Telugus from UK (ITU), Sri Lankan Tamils from UK (STU) and Bengalis from Bangladesh (BEB), tracing their putative biogeographical origin using a DNA SatNav algorithm - Geographical Population Structure (GPS). GPS positioned >70% of GIH and PJL genomes in North India and >80% of ITU and STU samples in South India. All South Asian genomes appeared to be assigned with reasonable accuracy, along trade routes that thrived in the ancient Mauryan Empire, which had played a significant role in unifying the Indian subcontinent and in the process brought the ancient North and South Indian populations in close proximity, promoting admixture between them, ~2300 years before present (YBP). Our findings suggest that the genetic admixture between ancient North and South Indian populations likely first occurred along the Godavari and Krishna river basin in Central-South India. Finally our biogeographical analyses provide critical insights into the population history and sociocultural forces driving migration patterns that may have been instrumental in shaping the population structure of the Indian subcontinent.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089466', [u'Genomics'], [u'Manipal University;', u'Kasturba Medical College, Manipal']]
[u'Physical models of spatial genome organization', ['Svetlana Slanina', 'Alina Aleshchenko', 'Yuri Eidelman', 'Sergey Andreev'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Remodeling of nuclear organization occurs during normal cell development, differentiation and cancer. One of the biggest gaps of knowledge remains how to link the information on chromatin and chromosome structural organization with genes activity. In this paper we introduce some physical ideas and a general computational method demonstrating how genome 3D architecture and its remodeling can be quantitatively modeled. We study a hypothetical scenario of alterations of chromosome territories positioning in the course of cell proliferation. On this basis we obtain quantitative information about chromosomal contacts in the nucleus. We predict changes of radial distributions of contacts between chromosomal megabase domains during proliferation. The proposed modeling approach may be helpful in integrating experimental data on nuclear reorganization associated with normal development and with various diseases. This predictive modeling may find applications in genome research of normal and cancer cells, stem cell biology, biology of aging, etc.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089755', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Institute of Biochemical Physics (Russian Academy of Sciences);', u'Institute of Biochemical Physics (Russian Academy of Sciences); National Research Nuclear University']]
[u'Biased evolutionary inferences from bulk tumor samples', ['Joao M Alves', 'Tamara Prieto', 'David Posada'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'It is generally agreed that tumors are composed of multiple cell clones defined by different somatic mutations. Characterizing the evolutionary mechanisms driving this intratumor genetic heterogeneity (ITH) is crucial to improve both cancer diagnosis and therapeutic strategies. For that purpose, recent ITH studies have focused on qualitative comparisons of mutational profiles derived from bulk sequencing of multiple tumor samples extracted from the same patient. Here, we show some examples where the naive use of bulk data in multiregional studies may lead to erroneous inferences of the evolutionary trajectories that underlie tumor progression, including biased timing of somatic mutations, spurious parallel mutation events, and/or incorrect chronological ordering of metastatic events. In addition, we analyze three real datasets to highlight how the use of bulk mutational profiles instead of inferred clones can lead to different conclusions about mutational recurrence and population structure.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089680', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Vigo']]
[u'INFERENCE OF CELL TYPE COMPOSITION FROM HUMAN BRAIN TRANSCRIPTOMIC DATASETS ILLUMINATES THE EFFECTS OF AGE, MANNER OF DEATH, DISSECTION, AND PSYCHIATRIC DIAGNOSIS', ['Megan Hastings Hagenauer', 'Jun Z Li', 'David M Walsh', 'Marquis P Vawter', 'Robert C Thompson', 'Cortney A Turner', 'William E Bunney', 'Richard M. Myers', 'Jack D. Barchas', 'Alan F. Schatzberg', 'Stanley J. Watson', 'Huda Akil'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Most neuroscientists would agree that psychiatric illness is unlikely to arise from pathological changes that occur uniformly across all cells in a given brain region. Despite this fact, the majority of transcriptomic analyses of the human brain to date are conducted using macro-dissected tissue due to the difficulty of conducting single-cell level analyses on donated post-mortem brains. To address this issue statistically, we compiled a database of several thousand transcripts that were specifically-enriched in one of 10 primary brain cell types identified in published single cell type transcriptomic experiments. Using this database, we predicted the relative cell type composition for 157 human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex samples using Affymetrix microarray data collected by the Pritzker Neuropsychiatric Consortium, as well as for 841 samples spanning 160 brain regions included in an Agilent microarray dataset collected by the Allen Brain Atlas. These predictions were generated by averaging normalized expression levels across the transcripts specific to each primary cell type to create a "cell type index". Using this method, we determined that the expression of cell type specific transcripts identified by different experiments, methodologies, and species clustered into three main cell type groups: neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes/support cells. Overall, the principal components of variation in the data were largely explained by the neuron to glia ratio of the samples. When comparing across brain regions, we were able to statistically identify canonical cell type signatures - increased endothelial cells and vasculature in the choroid plexus, oligodendrocytes in the corpus callosum, astrocytes in the central glial substance, neurons and immature cells in the dentate gyrus, and oligodendrocytes and interneurons in the globus pallidus. The relative balance of these cell types was influenced by a variety of demographic, pre- and post-mortem variables. Age and prolonged hypoxia around the time of death were associated with decreased neuronal content and increased astrocytic and endothelial content in the tissue, replicating the known higher vulnerability of neurons to adverse conditions and illustrating the proliferation of vasculature in a hypoxic environment. We also found that the red blood cell content was reduced in individuals who died in a manner that involved systemic blood loss. Finally, statistically accounting for cell type improved both the sensitivity and interpretability of diagnosis effects within the data. We were able to observe a decrease in astrocytic content in subjects with Major Depressive Disorder, mirroring what had been previously observed morphometrically. By including a set of "cell type indices" in a larger model examining the relationship between gene expression and neuropsychiatric illness, we were able to successfully detect almost twice as many genes with previously-identified relationships to bipolar disorder and schizophrenia than using more traditional analysis methods.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089391', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of California-Irvine;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Can paid reviews promote scientific quality and offer novel career perspectives for young scientists?', ['Christian Wurzbacher', 'Hans-Peter Grossart', 'Erik Kristiansson', 'Henrik R Nilsson', 'Martin Unterseher'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'We exemplify how community driven paid reviews could work in conjunction with a feed-back loop to young scientists. This would remove pressure from the conventional peer-review system and promote the integration of reviews into an academic career. This concept may eventually revive the community based journal type.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089490', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'University of Gothenburg;', u'Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries;', u'Chalmers University of Technology;', u'Ernst-Moritz-Arndt University Greifswald']]
[u'Towards new cholera prophylactics and treatment: Crystal structures of bacterial enterotoxins in complex with GM1 mimics', ['Julie E Heggelund', 'Alasdair Mackenzie', 'Tobias Martinsen', 'Pavel Cheshev', 'Anna Bernardi', 'Ute Krengel'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'Cholera is a life-threatening disease in many countries, and new drugs are clearly needed. C-glycosidic antagonists may serve such a purpose. Atomic resolution crystal structures of these compounds in complexes with the cholera toxin give unprecedented atomic details of the molecular interactions, and show how the inhibitors efficiently block the GM1 binding site. These molecules are well suited for development into low-cost prophylactic drugs, due to their relatively easy syntheses and their resistance to glycolytic enzymes. One of the compounds links two toxin B-pentamers in the crystal structure, which may yield improved inhibition through the formation of toxin aggregates. These structures can spark the improved design of GM1 mimics, either alone or as multivalent inhibitors connecting multiple GM1-binding sites. Future developments may further include compounds that link the primary and secondary binding sites. Serving as decoys, receptor mimics may lessen symptoms while avoiding the use of antibiotics.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089607', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Oslo;', u'Alere Technologies AS;', u'Universita degli Studi di Milano']]
[u'Gluten-Free Beer via Hydrodynamic Cavitation Assisted Brewing of Barley Malts', ['Lorenzo Albanese', 'Rosaria Ciriminna', 'Francesco Meneguzzo', 'Mario Pagliaro'], u'November 25, 2016.', u'We provide evidence that novel brewing technology based on controlled hydrodynamic cavitation greatly reduces gluten concentration in wort and finished beer. We advance the hypothesis that the degradation of proline, the most recalcitrant among gluten constituents, leads to gluten concentration reduction in the unfermented as well as in the fermenting wort and later during maturation. These findings are significant as the new cavitation assisted technology could provide coeliac patients and gluten intolerant people with gluten-free beer of high quality, offering an alternative to existing methods to lower the gluten concentration, which are detrimental to flavor and taste.', u'/content/early/2016/11/25/089482', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'CNR, IBIMET;', u'CNR, ISMN;', u'CNR']]
[u'The Image Data Resource: A Scalable Platform for Biological Image Data Access, Integration, and Dissemination', ['Eleanor Williams', 'Josh Moore', 'Simon W Li', 'Gabriella Rustici', 'Aleksandra Tarkowska', 'Anatole Chessel', 'Simone Leo', 'Balint Antal', 'Richard K Ferguson', 'Ugis Sarkans', 'Alvis Brazma', 'Rafael E Carazo-Salas', 'Jason Swedlow'], u'November 24, 2016.', u'Access to primary research data is vital for the advancement of the scientific enterprise. It facilitates the validation of existing observations and provides the raw materials to build new hypotheses and make new discoveries. In the life sciences, research communities have repeatedly collaborated to build resources that allow for submission, archiving and access to gene sequences, macromolecular structures, and data from functional genomics experiments. Added value databases build on these archives by harmonising and integrating different datasets to enable simple queries and to unravel underlying biology. To extend the range of data types supported by community repositories, we have built a prototype Image Data Resource (IDR) that collects and integrates imaging data acquired using many different imaging modalities including high-content screening, super-resolution microscopy, time-lapse imaging and digital pathology, and links them in a single resource. IDR links experimental perturbations to public genetic or chemical databases, and cell and tissue phenotypes to controlled vocabularies expressed as ontologies. By integrating the phenotypic and genetic metadata from multiple studies, IDR makes it possible to reveal novel functional networks of genetic interactions linked to specific cell phenotypes. To enhance the access to IDR\u2032s integrated datasets, we have built a computational resource based on IPython notebooks that allows remote access to the full complement of IDR data. IDR is built as a platform that others can use to publish their own image data, and to enhance and extend the sharing and re-analysis of scientific image data.', u'/content/early/2016/11/24/089359', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'EMBL-EBI']]
