[u'ABySS 2.0: Resource-Efficient Assembly of Large Genomes using a Bloom Filter', ['Shaun D Jackman', 'Benjamin P Vandervalk', 'Hamid Mohamadi', 'Justin Chu', 'Sarah Yeo', 'S Austin Hammond', 'Golnaz Jahesh', 'Hamza Khan', 'Lauren Coombe', 'Rene L Warren', 'Inanc Birol'], u'August 7, 2016.', u'The assembly of DNA sequences de novo is fundamental to genomics research. It is the first of many steps towards elucidating and characterizing whole genomes. Downstream applications, including analysis of genomic variation between species, between or within individuals critically depends on robustly assembled sequences.\nIn the span of a single decade, the sequence throughput of leading DNA sequencing instruments has increased drastically, and coupled with established and planned large-scale, personalized medicine initiatives to sequence genomes in the thousands and even millions, the development of efficient, scalable and accurate bioinformatics tools for producing high-quality reference draft genomes is timely.\nWith ABySS 1.0, we originally showed that assembling the human genome using short 50 bp sequencing reads was possible by aggregating the half terabyte of compute memory needed over several computers using a standardized message-passing system (MPI). We present here its re-design, which departs from MPI and instead implements algorithms that employ a Bloom filter, a probabilistic\ndata structure, to represent a de Bruijn graph and reduce memory requirements. We present assembly benchmarks of human Genome in a Bottle 250 bp Illumina paired-end and 6 kbp mate-pair libraries from a single individual, yielding a NG50 (NGA50) scaffold contiguity of 3.5 (3.0) Mbp using less than 35 GB of RAM, a modest memory requirement by today\u2019s standard that is often available\non a single computer. We also investigate the use of BioNano Genomics and 10x Genomics\u2019 Chromium data to further improve the scaffold contiguity of this assembly to 42 (15) Mbp.', u'/content/early/2016/08/07/068338', [], [u'BC Cancer Agency Genome Sciences Centre']]
[u'Genome Integration and Reactivation of the Virophage Mavirus In the Marine Protozoan Cafeteria roenbergensis', ['Matthias G Fischer', 'Thomas Hackl'], u'August 7, 2016.', u'Endogenous viral elements are increasingly found in eukaryotic genomes, yet little is known about their origins, dynamics, or function. Here, we provide a compelling example of a DNA virus that readily integrates into a eukaryotic genome where it acts as an inducible antiviral defense system. We found that the virophage mavirus, a parasite of the giant virus CroV, integrates at multiple sites within the nuclear genome of the marine heterotrophic nanoflagellate Cafeteria roenbergensis. The endogenous mavirus is structurally and genetically similar to the eukaryotic Maverick/Polinton DNA transposons. Provirophage genes are activated by superinfection with CroV, which leads to the production of infectious mavirus particles. While provirophage-carrying cells are not directly protected from lysis by CroV, release of reactivated virophage particles promotes survival of other host populations. Our results corroborate the connection between mavirus and Maverick/Polinton elements and suggest that provirophages can defend natural protist populations against infection by giant viruses.', u'/content/early/2016/08/07/068312', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Medical Research']]
[u'Human inferences about sequences: A minimal transition probability model', ['Florent Meyniel', 'Maxime Maheu', 'Stanislas Dehaene'], u'August 7, 2016.', u'The brain constantly infers the causes of the inputs it receives and uses these inferences to generate statistical expectations about future observations. Experimental evidence for these expectations and their violations include explicit reports, sequential effects on reaction times, and mismatch or surprise signals recorded in electrophysiology and functional MRI. Here, we explore the hypothesis that the brain acts as a near-optimal inference device that constantly attempts to infer the time-varying matrix of transition probabilities between the stimuli it receives, even when those stimuli are in fact fully unpredictable. This parsimonious Bayesian model, with a single free parameter, accounts for a broad range of findings on surprise signals, sequential effects and the perception of randomness. Notably, it explains the pervasive asymmetry between repetitions and alternations encountered in those studies. Our analysis suggests that a neural machinery for inferring transition probabilities lies at the core of human sequence knowledge.', u'/content/early/2016/08/07/068346', [], [u'CEA']]
[u'Fundamental principles governing sporulation efficiency: A network theory approach', ['Camellia Sarkar', 'Saumya Gupta', 'Himanshu Sinha', 'Sarika Jalan'], u'August 7, 2016.', u'Using network theory on an integrated time-resolved genome-wide gene expression data, we investigated the intricate dynamic regulatory relationships of transcription factors and target genes to unravel signatures that contribute to extreme phenotypic differences in yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We performed a comparative analysis of the gene expression profiles of two yeast strains SK1 and S288c which are known for high and low sporulation efficiency, respectively. The results based on various structural attributes of the networks, such as clustering coefficient, degree-degree correlations, and betweenness centrality suggested that a delay in crosstalk between functional modules can be construed as one of the prime reasons behind low sporulation efficiency of S288c strain. A more hierarchical structure in the late phase of sporulation in S288c indicated an attempt of this low sporulating strain to obtain modularity, which is a feature of early sporulation phase. Further, the weak ties analysis revealed that mostly meiosis-associated genes were the end nodes of the weak ties for the high sporulating SK1 strain, while for the low sporulating S288c strain these nodes were mitotic genes. This again was a clear indication of the delay in regulatory activities in the S288c strain, which are essential to initiate sporulation. Our results demonstrate the potential of this framework in identifying candidate nodes contributing to phenotypic diversity in natural populations with application prospects in drug target discovery and personalized health.', u'/content/early/2016/08/07/068270', [], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Indore;', u'Tata Institute of Fundamental Research;', u'Indian Institute of Technology Madras']]
[u'Contextual connectivity: A framework for understanding the intrinsic dynamic architecture of large-scale functional brain networks', ['Rastko Ciric', 'Jason Nomi', 'Lucina Uddin', 'Ajay Satpute'], u'August 7, 2016.', u"Investigations of the human brain's connectomic architecture have produced two alternative models: one describes the brain's spatial structure in terms of localized networks, and the other describes the brain's temporal structure in terms of whole-brain states. Here, we used tools from connectivity dynamics to develop a synthesis that bridges these models. Using task-free fMRI data, we investigated the assumptions undergirding current models of the connectome. Consistent with state-based models, our results suggest that localized networks are superordinate approximations of underlying dynamic states. Furthermore, each of these localized, moment-to-moment connectivity states is associated with global changes in the whole-brain functional connectome. By nesting localized connectivity states within their whole-brain contexts, we demonstrate the relative temporal independence of brain networks. Our assay for functional autonomy of coordinated neural systems is broadly applicable across populations, and our findings provide evidence of structure in temporal dynamics that complements the well-described spatial organization of the brain.", u'/content/early/2016/08/07/068320', [], [u'Pomona College;', u'University of Miami']]
[u'Dynamics of lineage commitment revealed by single-cell transcriptomics of differentiating embryonic stem cells', ['Stefan Semrau', 'Johanna Goldmann', 'Magali Soumillon', 'Tarjei S. Mikkelsen', 'Rudolf Jaenisch', 'Alexander van Oudenaarden'], u'August 7, 2016.', u'Gene expression heterogeneity in the pluripotent state of mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) has been increasingly well-characterized. In contrast, exit from pluripotency and lineage commitment have not been studied systematically at the single-cell level. Here we measured the gene expression dynamics of retinoic acid driven mESC differentiation using an unbiased single-cell transcriptomics approach. We found that the exit from pluripotency marks the start of a lineage bifurcation as well as a transient phase of susceptibility to lineage specifying signals. Our study revealed several transcriptional signatures of this phase, including a sharp increase of gene expression variability.  Importantly, we observed a handover between two classes of transcription factors. The early-expressed class has potential roles in lineage biasing, the late-expressed class in lineage commitment. In summary, we provide a comprehensive analysis of lineage commitment at the single cell level, a potential stepping stone to improved lineage control through timing of differentiation cues.', u'/content/early/2016/08/07/068288', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands;', u'Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, USA;', u'Broad Institute, Cambridge, USA;', u'Hubrecht Institute, Utrecht, The Netherlands']]
