[u'Cryptic genetic differentiation of the sex-determining chromosome in the mosquito Aedes aegypti', ['Albin Fontaine', 'Igor Filipovic', 'Thanyalak Fansiri', 'Ary Anthony Hoffmann', 'Gordana Rasic', 'Louis Lambrechts'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'The evolution of genetic sex determination in eukaryotes is often accompanied by the morphological and genetic differentiation (heteromorphy) of sex chromosomes. Sex determination systems are of particular interest in insect vectors of human pathogens like mosquitoes, for which novel control strategies aim to convert pathogen-transmitting females into non-biting males, or rely on accurate sexing for the release of sterile males. In the major arbovirus vector, the mosquito Aedes aegypti, sex determination is thought to be governed by a dominant male-determining locus (M-locus) spanning only a small portion of an otherwise homomorphic chromosome 1. Here, we provide evidence that the Ae. aegypti sex-determining chromosome is differentiated between males and females over a region considerably larger than the M\u2011locus, showing the features of an XY chromosomal system despite the apparent homomorphy. In laboratory F2 intercrosses, we could not detect recombination events in F1 males along at least 28% of the physical length of chromosome 1, corresponding to 62% of its cytogenetic length. Sex-specific distortions from the expected genotype ratios in the F2 progeny were consistent with the XY system and were not found on distal parts of chromosome 1 or on the other two chromosomes. The same chromosomal region showed substantial genetic differentiation between males and females in unrelated wild populations from Australia and Brazil, pointing to the commonality of these chromosomal features in Ae. aegypti. Our discovery of cryptic sex-chromosome differentiation in Ae. aegypti has important implications for linkage mapping studies, for analyses of population structure, and for the crossing practices to randomize the genetic background of populations in mosquito control strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/06/21/060061', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Insect-Virus Interactions Group, Department of Genomes and Genetics, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France;', u'Pest and Environmental Adaptation Research Group, School of BioSciences, The University of Melbourne;', u'Department of Entomology, Armed Forces Research Institute of Medical Sciences, Bangkok, Thailand']]
[u'Meta-aligner: Long-read alignment based on genome statistics', ['Damoun Nashta-ali', 'Ali Aliyari', 'Mohammad Amin Edrisi', 'Ahmad Ahmadian Moghadam', 'Seyed Abolfazl Motahari', 'Babak Hossein Khalaj'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'Fast and accurate alignment of long-reads plays an important role in reducing the overall cost of long-read sequencing. In this paper, we propose Meta-aligner, an efficient and accurate long-read aligner that exploits the statistics of reference genome to improve performance in terms of reducing time complexity and achieving significantly higher recall for very noisy and long reads. The first step of algorithm adopts well-known short-read aligners in order to rapidly align a large fraction of reads through a progressive process of aligning read fragments to the reference genome. In the second phase, the remaining reads are handled by simultaneous alignment of all read fragments and a decision making process which exploits the overall information provided by the corresponding mapped fragments. By using this procedure, significant performance improvement is attained in comparison with traditional schemes in the case of PacBio long-reads.', u'/content/early/2016/06/21/060129', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Sharif University of Technology']]
[u'Tradict enables high fidelity reconstruction of the eukaryotic transcriptome from 100 marker genes', ['Surojit Biswas', 'Konstantin Kerner', 'Paulo Jose Pereira Lima Teixeira', 'Jeffery L Dangl', 'Vladimir Jojic', 'Philip A. Wigge'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'Transcript levels are a critical determinant of the proteome and hence cellular function. Because the transcriptome is an outcome of the interactions between genes and their products, we reasoned it might be accurately represented by a subset of transcript abundances. We develop a method, Tradict (transcriptome predict), capable of learning and using the expression measurements of a small subset of 100 marker genes to reconstruct entire transcriptomes. By analyzing over 23,000 publicly available RNA-Seq datasets, we show that Tradict is robust to noise and accurate, especially for predicting the expression of a comprehensive, but interpretable list of transcriptional programs that represent the major biological processes and cellular pathways. Coupled with targeted RNA sequencing, Tradict may therefore enable simultaneous transcriptome-wide screening and mechanistic investigation at large scales. Thus, whether for performing forward genetic, chemogenomic, or agricultural screens or for profiling single-cells, Tradict promises to help accelerate genetic dissection and drug discovery.', u'/content/early/2016/06/21/060111', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard University;', u'University of Cologne;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'Sainsbury Laboratory Cambridge University']]
[u'Epigenetic divergence is sufficient to trigger heterosis in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Kathrin Lauss', 'Rene Wardenaar', 'Marieke H.A. van Hulten', 'Victor Guryev', 'Joost J.B Keurentjes', 'Maike Stam', 'Frank Johannes'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'Despite the importance and wide exploitation of heterosis in commercial crop breeding, the molecular mechanisms behind this phenomenon are not well understood. Interestingly, there is growing evidence that beside genetic also epigenetic factors contribute to heterosis. Here we used near-isogenic but epigenetically divergent parents to create epigenetic F1 hybrids (epiHybrids) in Arabidopsis, allowing us to quantify the contribution of epigenetics to heterosis. We measured traits such as leaf area (LA), growth rate (GR), flowering time (FT), main stem branching (MSB), rosette branching (RB) and final plant height (HT) and observed several strong positive and negative heterotic phenotypes among the epiHybrids. For LA and HT mainly positive heterosis was observed, while FT and MSB mostly displayed negative heterosis. Heterosis for FT, LA and HT could be associated with several heritable, differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in the parental genomes. These DMRs contain 35 (FT and LA) and 14 (HT) genes, which may underlie the heterotic phenotypes observed. In conclusion, our study indicates that epigenetic divergence can be sufficient to cause heterosis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/21/059980', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Amsterdam;', u'University of Groningen;', u'University Medical Centre Groningen and University of Groningen;', u'University of Wageningen;', u'Technical University Munich']]
[u'Perceptual integration without conscious access', ['Johannes Jacobus Fahrenfort', 'Jonathan van Leeuwen', 'Chris N.L. Olivers', 'Hinze Hogendoorn'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'The visual system has the remarkable ability to integrate fragmentary and degraded visual input into a perceptually organized collection of surfaces, shapes and objects. Here we test the long-standing maxim that such integrative functions must be attributed to attentional selection and conscious access. Employing a full-factorial design of masking and the attentional blink, we show that behaviorally, both masking and the withdrawal of attention affect perceptual decisions about the presence of integrated surface structure from fragmented input. However, when using a multivariate classifier on electroencephalogram data, we are able to decode the presence of integrated percepts equally well regardless of the availability of attention. In contrast, masking destroys any evidence for integrated percepts, while leaving feedforward processing intact. Thus, there is a fundamental difference in the way masking and attention impact perceptual integration, despite having a similar impact on behavioral decisions. Whereas masking disrupts perceptual integration, the brain is able to organize fragmented visual input into perceptually meaningful wholes in the absence of conscious access.', u'/content/early/2016/06/21/060079', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'Utrecht University']]
[u'The formation of extinction memory requires the accumulation of N6-methyl-2-deoxyadenosine in DNA', ['Xiang Li', 'Quan Li', 'Christophe Magnan', 'Michael Emami', 'Luis Wearick da Silva', 'Thiago Viola', 'Paul Marshall', 'Rodrigo Grassi-Oliveira', 'Sarah Nainar', 'Cathrine Broberg Vagbo', 'Magnar Bjoras', 'Pierre Baldi', 'Robert Spitale', 'Timothy William Bredy'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'We have discovered that the recently identified mammalian DNA modification N6-methyl-2-deoxyadenosine (m6dA) drives activity-induced gene expression in the adult brain and is associated with the formation of fear extinction memory in C57/Bl6 mice. In activated primary cortical neurons, m6dA accumulates within the P4 promoter of the gene encoding brain-derived neurotrophic factor (bdnf), which is associated with an active chromatin state, as well as the recruitment of the activating transcription factor Yin-Yang 1 and RNA polymerase II, thereby promoting bdnf exon IV mRNA expression. Lentiviral-mediated knockdown of a potential adenine methyltransferase, N6amt1, blocks the effect of neuronal activation on m6dA and its related chromatin and transcriptional machinery in vitro. These effects are recapitulated in the adult brain, where the extinction learning-induced N6amt1-mediated accumulation of m6dA in the infralimbic prefrontal cortex also enhances the expression of bdnf exon IV and is necessary for the formation of fear extinction memory.', u'/content/early/2016/06/20/059972', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California Irvine;', u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul;', u'Norwegian University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Factors affecting intra-island genetic connectivity and diversity of an abundant and widespread island endemic, the San Clemente Island night lizard.', ['Stephen E Rice', 'Rulon W Clark'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'Habitat fragmentation and loss are fundamental conservation concerns. Because protected areas are often habitat islands isolated by human development, studies of physical islands which document genetic patterns associated with natural versus anthropogenic fragmentation may provide insight into the management of anthropogenic habitat islands. The San Clemente Island night lizard, Xantusia riversiana reticulata, is a highly abundant endemic to two California Channel Islands (San Clemente and Santa Barbara Islands), each with a history of anthropogenic disturbance, and was recently delisted from the Endangered Species Act. We genotyped 917 individuals at 23 microsatellite loci to estimate genetic divergence between collection sites and identify natural and anthropogenic landscape features correlated with genetic divergence for X. r. reticulata throughout its range. Genepool delineation resulted in each well-sampled collection site acting as a distinct population, pairwise Fst values were small but significant, and STRUCTURE detected 2 populations on San Clemente Island and 4 populations on Santa Barbara Island. Active sand dunes on San Clemente Island acted as a barrier whereas cholla phase maritime desert scrub, secondary roadways, and canyons > 500ft in length acted as resistant surfaces. Resistant surfaces on Santa Barbara Island were woolly seablite, crystalline iceplant, barren ground, and herbaceous vegetation. Conductance models included California boxthorn and prickly pear cactus on both islands with additional minor features unique to each island. We recommend the application of conductance and resistance models within habitat islands to better inform management for species persistence when the intervening habitat between reserves cannot be improved.', u'/content/early/2016/06/20/060038', [u'Ecology'], [u'San Diego State University']]
[u'PASP - a whole-transcriptome poly(A) tail length determination assay for the Illumina platform', ['Botond Sipos', 'Adrian M Stutz', 'Greg Slodkowicz', 'Tim Massingham', 'Jan Korbel', 'Nick Goldman'], u'June 21, 2016.', u"The poly(A) tail, co-transcriptionally added to most eukaryotic RNAs, plays an important role in post-transcriptional regulation through modulating mRNA stability and translational efficiency. The length of the poly(A) tail is dynamic, decreasing or increasing in response to various stimuli through the action of enzymatic complexes, and changes in tail length are exploited in regulatory pathways implicated in various biological processes.\nTo date, assessment of poly(A) tail length has mostly relied on protocols targeting only a few transcripts. We present PASP ('poly(A) tail sequencing protocol'), a whole-transcriptome approach to measure\ntail lengths - including a computational pipeline implementing all necessary analyses. PASP uses direct Illumina sequencing of cDNA fragments obtained through G-tailing of poly(A)-selected mRNA followed by fragmentation and reverse transcription.\nAnalysis of reads corresponding to spike-in poly(A) tracts of known length indicated that mean tail lengths can be confidently measured, given sufficient coverage. We further explored the utility of our approach by comparing tail lengths estimated from wild type and \u0394ccr4-1/pan2 mutant yeasts. The yeast whole-transcriptome tail length distributions showed high consistency between biological replicates, and the expected upward shift in tail lengths in the mutant samples was detected. This suggests that PASP is suitable for the assessment of global polyadenylation status in yeast.\nThe correlation of per-transcript mean tail lengths between biological and technical replicates was low (higher between mutant samples). Both, however, reached high values after filtering for transcripts with greater coverage. We also compare our results with those of other methods. We identify a number of improvements that could be used in future PASP experiments and, based on our results, believe that direct sequencing of poly(A) tails can become the method of choice for studying polyadenylation using the Illumina platform.", u'/content/early/2016/06/20/060004', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory-European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory-Genome Biology Unit;', u'EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'Architecture of fully occupied GluA2 AMPA receptor - TARP complex elucidated by single particle cryo-electron microscopy', ['Yan Zhao', 'Shanshuang Chen', 'Craig Yoshioka', 'Isabelle Baconguis', 'Eric Gouaux'], u'June 21, 2016.', u"Fast excitatory neurotransmission in the mammalian central nervous system is largely carried out by AMPA-sensitive ionotropic glutamate receptors. Localized within the postsynaptic density of glutamatergic spines, AMPA receptors are composed of heterotetrameric receptor assemblies associated with auxiliary subunits, the most common of which are transmembrane AMPA-receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs). The association of TARPs with AMPA receptors modulates the kinetics of receptor gating and pharmacology, as well as trafficking. Here we report the cryo-EM structure of the homomeric GluA2 AMPA receptor saturated with TARP gamma 2 subunits, showing how the TARPs are arranged with four-fold symmetry around the ion channel domain, making extensive interactions with the M1, M2 and M4 TM helices. Poised like partially opened 'hands' underneath the two-fold symmetric ligand binding domain (LBD) 'clamshells', one pair of TARPs are juxtaposed near the LBD dimer interface, while the other pair are near the LBD dimer-dimer interface. The extracellular 'domains' of TARP are positioned to not only modulate LBD 'clamshell' closure, but also to affect conformational rearrangements of the LBD layer associated with receptor activation and desensitization, while the TARP transmembrane (TM) domains buttress the ion channel pore.", u'/content/early/2016/06/20/060046', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Vollum Institute, Oregon Health & Science University;', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Oregon Health and Science University;', u'Vollum Institute, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Oregon Health & Science University']]
[u'Mechanistic Modeling and Analysis of the Mammalian Unfolded Protein Response', ['Anirikh Chakrabarti', 'Lina Aboulmouna', 'Jeffrey D Varner'], u'June 21, 2016.', u'Cells monitor protein folding by an inbuilt quality-control system in which incorrectly or misfolded folded proteins are tagged for degradation or sent back through a refolding cycle. However, continued accumulation of incorrectly folded proteins triggers the Unfolded Protein Response (UPR), which attempts to re-establish folding homeostasis or commits the cell to apoptosis. In this study, we developed a family of mechanistic models of the mammalian UPR system. An ensemble of models parameters was estimated by minimizing the difference between simulations and experimental measurements using multiobjective optimization. The ensemble of model parameters was validated using cross-validation. Analysis of the model ensemble suggested the three branches of UPR fired simultaneously. However, the importance of each brach was ranked ordered in time; PERK and IRE1 were more important early, while ATF6 was important later in the response. The activity of all three branches as coordinated by the molecular chaperone BiP. Model analysis suggested that BiP feedback was critical to the overall robustness of the system. Removal of any one branch of BiP feedback, destabilized the other branches. On the other hand, removal of all nodes of BiP feedback increased the overall robustness of the system. Thus, while BiP feedback is crucial to allowing the cell to adapt to small perturbations, it also makes the system fragile and susceptible to manipulation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/20/060020', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Cornell University;', u'Purdue University']]
