[u'Investigation of the sexual reproduction strategy of the Perigord black truffle (Tuber melanosporum Vittad.) revealed trioecy', ['Herminia De la Varga', 'Francois Le Tacon', 'Melanie Lagoguet', 'Flora Todesco', 'Torda Varga', 'Igor Miquel', 'Dominique Barry-Etienne', 'Christophe Robin', 'Fabien Halkett', 'Francis Martin', 'Claude Murat'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Fungi display a rich variety of sexual reproduction systems and are therefore good models to investigate sex evolution. Moreover, understanding the investment in sexual reproduction of edible fungi is a critical challenge for improving their cultivation. The Perigord black truffle (Tuber melanosporum Vittad.) is a heterothallic ascomycete associated with trees through ectomycorrhizas and forming highly prized ascocarps. The aim of this study was to unravel the sexual reproduction strategy (hermaphroditic versus male/female specialization) of T. melanosporum in a truffle orchard by disentangling the contribution of female and male genotypes to the formation of ascocarps in a five-year investigation. Few genotypes were hermaphrodites, co-occurring with numerous genotypes behaving only as female or male, revealing trioecy. The genetic diversity of the male genotypes was higher than female diversity, suggesting for male elements a higher recruitment from ascospores. Most of the female and male genotypes were transitory (present only one year), whereas some genotypes persisted for several years: female-fertile genotypes as mycorrhizas, and male-fertile genotypes as soil free-living mycelium. Contrary to other ascomycetes, a high number of female-fertile only genotypes was found. We hypothesized that the mycorrhizal life style favours female-fertile strains and therefore that the life strategy influences fungal sexual strategy.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073650', [], [u'INRA;', u'Hungarian Academy of Sciences;', u'ALCINA']]
[u'High-throughput detection of RNA processing in bacteria', ['Erin E Gill', 'Luisa S Chan', 'Geoffrey L Winsor', 'Neil Dobson', 'Raymond Lo', 'Shannan J Ho Sui', 'Bhavjinder K Dhillon', 'Patrick K Taylor', 'Raunak Shrestha', 'Cory Spencer', 'Robert E W Hancock', 'Peter J Unrau', 'Fiona S L Brinkman'], u'September 6, 2016.', u"Background: Understanding the RNA processing of an organism's transcriptome is an essential but challenging step in understanding its biology. Here we investigate with unprecedented detail the transcriptome of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, a medically important and innately multi-drug resistant bacterium. We systematically mapped RNA cleavage and dephosphorylation sites that result in 5'-monophosphate terminated RNA using a new high-throughput methodology called monophosphate RNA-Seq (pRNA-Seq). Transcriptional start sites (TSS) were also mapped using differential RNA-Seq (dRNA-Seq) and both datasets were compared to conventional RNA-Seq performed in a variety of growth conditions.  Results: The pRNA-Seq transcript library revealed known tRNA, rRNA and tmRNA processing sites, together with previously uncharacterized RNA cleavage events that were found disproportionately near the 5' ends of transcripts associated with basic bacterial functions such as oxidative phosphorylation and purine metabolism. The majority (97%) of the processed mRNAs were cleaved at precise codon positions within defined sequence motifs indicative of distinct endonucleolytic activities. The most abundant of these motifs corresponded closely to an E. coli RNase E site previously established in vitro. Using the dRNA-Seq library, we performed an operon analysis and predicted 3,159 potential TSS. A correlation analysis uncovered 105 antiparallel pairs of TSS that were separated by 18 bp from each other and that were centered on a palindromic TAT(A/T)ATA motif, suggesting that such sites may provide a novel form of transcriptional regulation. TSS and RNA-Seq analysis allowed us to confirm expression of small non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), many of which are differentially expressed in swarming and biofilm formation conditions.  Conclusions: This study introduces pRNA-Seq methodology, which provides the first comprehensive, genome-wide survey of RNA processing in any organism. As a proof of concept, we have employed this technique to study the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa and have discovered extensive transcript processing not previously appreciated. We have also gained novel insight into RNA maturation and turnover as well as a potential novel form of transcription regulation.", u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073791', [], [u'Simon Fraser University;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'A living vector field reveals constraints on galactose network induction in yeast', ['Sarah R. Stockwell', 'Scott A. Rifkin'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'When a cell encounters a new environment, its transcriptional response can be constrained by its history. For example, yeast cells in galactose induce GAL genes with a speed and unanimity that depends on previous nutrient conditions. To investigate how cell-level gene expression dynamics produce population-level phenotypes, we built living vector fields from thousands of single-cell timecourses of the inducers Gal3p and Gal1p as cells switched to galactose from various nutrient histories. We show that, after sustained glucose exposure, the lack of GAL inducers leads to induction delays that are long but also variable; that cellular resources constrain induction; and that bimodally distributed expression levels arise from lineage selection - a subpopulation of cells induces more quickly and outcompetes the rest. Our results illuminate cellular memory in this important model system and illustrate how resources and randomness interact to shape the response of a population to a new environment.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073817', [], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'UCSD']]
[u'Interplay between periodic stimulation and GABAergic inhibition in striatal network oscillations', ['Jovana Belic', 'Arvind Kumar', 'Jeanette Hellgren Kotaleski'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'The network oscillations are ubiquitous across many brain regions. In the basal ganglia, oscillations are also present at many levels and a wide range of characteristic frequencies have been reported to occur during both health and disease.The striatum is the input nucleus of the basal ganglia that receives massive glutamatergic inputs from the cortex and is highly susceptible to cortical oscillations. However, there is limited knowledge about the exact nature of this routing process and therefore, it is of key importance to understand how time-dependent, periodic external stimuli propagate through the striatal circuitry. Using a large-scale network model of the striatum and corticostriatal projections, here we try to elucidate the importance of specific GABAergic neurons and their interactions in shaping striatal oscillatory activity. Our results show that fast-spiking interneurons, despite their uncorrelated firing, might have a crucial role in the emergence of high-frequency oscillations in the medium spiny neuron population, even if their activity is kept low. Rather, what matters is the firing time relative to just a few other neurons within an oscillation cycle. Finally, we show how the state of ongoing activity, the strengths of different types of inhibitions, the density of outgoing projections, and the overall activity of striatal cells influence network activity. These results suggest that the propagation of oscillatory inputs into the medium spiny neuron population is efficient, if indirect, through fast-spiking interneurons. Therefore, pharmaceuticals that target fast-spiking interneurons may provide a novel treatment for regaining the spectral characteristics of striatal activity that correspond to the healthy state.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073874', [], [u'Royal Institute of Technology']]
[u'Volumetric Two-photon Imaging of Neurons Using Stereoscopy (vTwINS)', ['Alexander Song', 'Adam S. Charles', 'Sue Ann Koay', 'Jeff L. Gauthier', 'Stephan Y. Thiberge', 'Jonathan W. Pillow', 'David W. Tank'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Two-photon laser scanning microscopy of calcium dynamics using fluorescent indicators is a widely used imaging method for large scale recording of neural activity in vivo. Here we introduce volumetric Two-photon Imaging of Neurons using Stereoscopy (vTwINS), a volumetric calcium imaging method that employs an elongated, V-shaped point spread function to image a 3D brain volume. Single neurons project to spatially displaced "image pairs" in the resulting 2D image, and the separation distance between images is proportional to depth in the volume. To demix the fluorescence time series of individual neurons, we introduce a novel orthogonal matching pursuit algorithm that also infers source locations within the 3D volume. We illustrate vTwINS by imaging neural population activity in mouse primary visual cortex and hippocampus. Our results demonstrate that vTwINS provides an effective method for volumetric two-photon calcium imaging that increases the number of neurons recorded while maintaining a high frame-rate.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073742', [], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'The impact of recent population history on the deleterious mutation load in humans and close evolutionary relatives', ['Yuval B Simons', 'Guy Sella'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Over the past decade, there has been both great interest and confusion about whether recent demographic events - notably the Out-of-Africa-bottleneck and recent population growth - have led to differences in mutation load among human populations. The confusion can be traced to the use of different summary statistics to measure load, which lead to apparently conflicting results. We argue, however, that when statistics more directly related to load are used, the results of different studies and data sets consistently reveal little or no difference in the load of non-synonymous mutations among human populations. Theory helps to understand why no such differences are seen, as well as to predict in what settings they are to be expected. In particular, as predicted by modeling, there is evidence for changes in the load of recessive loss of function mutations in founder and inbred human populations. Also as predicted, eastern subspecies of gorilla, Neanderthals and Denisovans, who are thought to have undergone reductions in population sizes that exceed the human Out-of-Africa bottleneck in duration and severity, show evidence for increased load of non-synonymous mutations (relative to western subspecies of gorillas and modern humans, respectively). A coherent picture is thus starting to emerge about the effects of demographic history on the mutation load in populations of humans and close evolutionary relatives.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073635', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Discovering DNA motifs and genomic variants associated with DNA methylation', ['Haoyang Zeng', 'David K. Gifford'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'DNA methylation plays a crucial role in establishing tissue-specific gene expression. However, our incomplete understanding of the cis elements that regulate DNA methylation prevents us from interpreting the functional effects of non-coding variants. We present CpGenie (http://cpgenie.csail.mit.edu), a deep convolutional neural network that learns a regulatory sequence code of DNA methylation and enables allele-specific DNA methylation prediction with single-nucleotide sensitivity. Variant annotations from CpGenie accurately identify methylation quantitative trait loci (meQTL) and contribute to the prioritization of functional non-coding variants including expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) and disease-associated mutations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073809', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'De novo extraction of microbial strains from metagenomes reveals intra-species niche partitioning', ['Christopher Quince', 'Stephanie Connelly', 'Sebastien Raguideau', 'Johannes Alneberg', 'Seung Gu Shin', 'Gavin Collins', 'A. Murat Eren'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Background: We introduce DESMAN for De novo Extraction of Strains from MetAgeNomes. Metagenome sequencing generates short reads from throughout the genomes of a microbial community. Increasingly large, multi-sample metagenomes, stratified in space and time are being generated from communities with thousands of species. Repeats result in fragmentary co-assemblies with potentially millions of contigs. Contigs can be binned into metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) but strain level variation will remain. DESMAN identifies variants on core genes, then uses co-occurrence across samples to link variants into strain sequences and abundance profiles. These strain profiles are then searched for on non-core genes to determine the accessory genes present in each strain.\n\nResults: We validated DESMAN on a synthetic twenty genome \ncommunity with 64 samples. We could resolve the five E. coli strains present with 99.58% accuracy across core gene variable sites and their gene complement with 95.7% accuracy. Similarly, on real fecal metagenomes from the 2011 E. coli (STEC) O104:H4 outbreak, the outbreak strain was reconstructed with 99.8% core sequence accuracy. Application to an anaerobic digester metagenome time series reveals that strain level variation is endemic with 16 out of 26 MAGs (61.5%) examined exhibiting two strains. In almost all cases the strain \nproportions were not statistically different between replicate \nreactors, suggesting intra-species niche partitioning. The only exception being when the two strains had almost identical gene complement and, hence, functional capability. \n\nConclusions: DESMAN will provide a provide a powerful tool for de novo resolution of fine-scale variation in microbial communities. It is available as open source software from https://github.com/chrisquince/DESMAN.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073825', [], [u'University of Warwick;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'French National Institute for Agricultural Research, Mathematiques et Informatique Appliques;', u'KTH Royal Institute of Technology;', u'Pohang University of Science and Technology;', u'National University of Ireland, Galway;', u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Pairwise graphical model for brain-state identification: application to decoding of spatial representations from hippocampal CA1 and CA3 recordings', ['Lorenzo Posani', 'Simona Cocco', 'Karel Jezek', 'Remi Monasson'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Hippocampus can store spatial representations, or maps, which are recalled each time a subject is placed in the corresponding environment. We consider the problem of decoding the recalled maps as a function of time from multi-cellular recordings. We introduce a graphical model-based decoder, which accounts for the pairwise correlations between the spiking activities of neurons and does not require any positional information, i.e. any knowledge about place fields. We first show, on recordings of hippocampal activity in constant environmental conditions, that our decoder efficiently decodes maps in CA3 and outperfoms existing methods in CA1, where maps are much less orthogonal. Our decoder is then applied to data from teleportation experiments, in which instantaneous switches between environmental conditions trigger the recall of the corresponding maps. We test the sensitivity of our approach on the transition dynamics between the respective memory states (maps). We find that the rate of spontaneous state shifts (flickering) after a teleportation event is increased not only within the first few seconds as already reported, but the network also shows a higher instability level for on much longer (> 1 min) intervals, both in CA3 and in CA1. In addition, we introduce an efficient Bayesian decoder of the rat full trajectory over time, and find that the animal location can be accurately predicted at all times, even during flickering events. Precise information about the animal position is thus always present in the neural activity, irrespectively of the dynamical shifts in the recalled maps.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073759', [], [u'Ecole Normale Superieure;', u'Charles University']]
[u'SVScore: An Impact Prediction Tool For Structural Variation', ['Liron Ganel', 'Haley J Abel', 'Ira M Hall'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Motivation: Structural variation (SV) is an important and diverse source of human genome variation. Over the past several years, much progress has been made in the area of SV detection, but predict-ing the functional impact of SVs discovered in whole genome sequencing (WGS) studies remains extremely challenging. Accurate SV impact prediction is especially important for WGS-based rare variant association studies and studies of rare disease.\nResults: Here we present SVScore, a computational tool for in silico SV impact prediction. SVScore aggregates existing per-base single nucleotide polymorphism pathogenicity scores across relevant genomic intervals for each SV in a manner that considers variant type, gene features, and uncertainty in breakpoint location. We show that in a Finnish cohort, the allele frequency spectrum of SVs with high impact scores is strongly skewed toward lower frequencies, suggesting that these variants are under purifying selection. We further show that SVScore identifies deleterious variants more effectively than naive alternative methods. Finally, our results indicate that high-scoring tandem duplications may be under surprisingly strong selection relative to high-scoring deletions, suggesting that duplications may be more deleterious than previously thought. In conclusion, SVScore provides pathogenicity prediction for SVs that is both informative and meaningful for understanding their functional role in disease.\nAvailability: SVScore is implemented in Perl and available freely at {{http://www.github.com/lganel/SVScore}} for use under the MIT license.\nContact: ihall@wustl.edu', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073833', [], [u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Cell-free translation is more variable than transcription', ['Fabio Chizzolini', 'Michele Forlin', 'Sheref S Mansy'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'T7 transcriptional promoters can control well the amount of RNA produced during transcription-translation with the PURE system and do so consistently across different gene sequences. However, T7 transcriptional promoters are poor in regulating the production of protein. Conversely, ribosome binding sites greatly impact the synthesis of protein, but the effect is inconsistent between different sequences, likely reflecting complications arising from the structure of the mRNA. Further, the variability in expressed protein is significantly greater than that of expressed mRNA. Nevertheless, a computational model that takes into account the variability of transcription-translation and data on the exploited biological parts can be used to select for a subset of sequences with desired activity.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073841', [], [u'University of Trento']]
[u'Integrative classification of human coding and non-coding genes based on RNA metabolism profiles', ['Neelanjan Mukherjee', 'Lorenzo Calviello', 'Antje Hirsekorn', 'Stefano de Pretis', 'Mattia Pelizzola', 'Uwe Ohler'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'The pervasive transcription of the human genome results in a heterogeneous mix of coding and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs). Only a small fraction of lncRNAs possess demonstrated regulatory functions, making it difficult to distinguish functional lncRNAs from non-functional transcriptional byproducts. This has resulted in numerous competing classifications of human lncRNA that are complicated by a steady increase in the number of annotated lncRNAs.\nTo address these challenges, we quantitatively examined transcription, splicing, degradation, localization and translation for coding and non-coding human genes. Annotated lncRNAs had lower synthesis and higher degradation rates than mRNAs, and we discovered mechanistic differences explaining the slower splicing of lncRNAs. We grouped genes into classes with similar RNA metabolism profiles. These classes contained both mRNAs and lncRNAs to varying degrees; they exhibited distinct relationships between steps of RNA metabolism, evolutionary patterns, and sensitivity to cellular RNA regulatory pathways. Our classification provides a behaviorally-coherent alternative to genomic context-driven annotations of lncRNAs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073643', [], [u'MDC Berlin;', u'Center for Genomic Science of IIT@SEMM, Fondazione Instituto Italiano di Tecnologia, Milan, Italy']]
[u'Genome-wide binding of posterior HOXA/D transcription factors reveals subgrouping and association with CTCF', ['Ivana Jerkovic', 'Daniel Murad Ibrahim', 'Guillaume Andrey', 'Stefan Haas', 'Peter Hansen', 'Catrin Janetzki', 'Irene Gonzalez Navarrete', 'Peter Nick Robinson', 'Jochen Hecht', 'Stefan Mundlos'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Abstract\nHomeotic genes code for key transcription factors (HOX-TFs) that pattern the animal body plan. During embryonic development, Hox genes are expressed in overlapping patterns and function in a partially redundant manner. In vitro biochemical screens probing the HOX-TF sequence specificity revealed largely overlapping sequence preferences, indicating that co-factors might modulate the biological function of HOX-TFs. However, due to their overlapping expression pattern, high protein homology, and insufficiently specific antibodies, little is known about their genome-wide binding preferences. In order to overcome this problem, we virally expressed tagged versions of limb-expressed posterior Hox genes (Hoxa9-13, and Hoxd9-13) in primary mesenchymal limb progenitor cells (micromass). We determined the effect of each HOX-TF on cellular differentiation (chondrogenesis) and gene expression and found that groups of HOX-TFs induce distinct regulatory programs. We used ChIP-seq to determine their individual genome-wide binding profiles and identified between 12,540 and 27,466 binding sites for each of the nine HOX-TFs. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of binding profiles revealed that the HOX-TFs are clustered in two subgroups (Group 1: HOXA/D9, HOXA/D10, HOXD12, and HOXA13 and Group 2: HOXA/D11 and HOXD13), which are characterized by differences in their sequence specificity and by the presence of cofactor motifs. Specifically, we identified CTCF binding sites in Group 1, indicating that this subgroup of HOX-proteins cooperates with CTCF. We confirmed this interaction by an independent biological assay (proximity ligation assay) and showed that CTCF is a novel HOX cofactor that specifically associates with Group 1 HOX-TFs, pointing towards a possible interplay between HOX-TFs and chromatin architecture.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073593', [], [u'Max-Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Research Group Development & Disease;', u'Max-Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics, Department Computational Molecular Biology;', u'Institute for Medical and Human Genetics, Charit\xe9 Universit\xe4tsmedizin Berlin;', u'Berlin-Brandenburg Center for Regenerative Therapies, Charit\xe9 Universit\xe4tsmedizin Berlin;', u'Genomics Unit, Centre for Genomic Regulation and Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Dissection of the contribution of regulation mode to the properties of feedforward and feedback and gene regulatory motifs.', ['Bharat Iyengar', 'Beena Pillai', 'K.V. Venkatesh', 'Chetan J Gadgil'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'A framework enabling dissection of the effects of motif structure (feedback or feedforward), nature of the controller (mRNA or protein), and regulation mode (transcriptional, post-transcriptional or translational) on the response to a step change in the input is presented. We have used a common model for gene expression and a common parameter set. Both structures have an activating input and repressing regulatory effect. The effect of global parameter variation on steady-state gain, overshoot, peak time, and peak duration was studied. Protein mediated motifs showed higher degree of adaptation. RNA mediated motifs had a lower tendency to exhibit peaks. For both motif structures, overshoot correlated negatively with peak time. Peak duration is a concave function of peak time for all motifs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/065698', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory;', u'CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology;', u'Indian Institute of Technology Bombay']]
[u'Molecular adaptation in Rubisco: discriminating between convergent evolution and positive selection using mechanistic and classical codon models', ['Sahar Parto', 'Nicolas Lartillot'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Abstract  \nRubisco (Ribulose-1, 5-biphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase) is the most important enzyme on earth, catalyzing the first step of CO2 fixation in photosynthesis. Its molecular adaptation to C4 photosynthetic pathway has attracted a lot of attention. C4 plants, which comprise less than 5% of land plants, have evolved more efficient photosynthesis compared to C3 plants. Interestingly, a large number of independent transitions from C3 to C4 phenotype have occurred. Each time, the Rubisco enzyme has been subject to similar changes in selective pressure, thus providing an excellent model for convergent evolution at the molecular level. Molecular adaptation is often identified with positive selection and is typically characterized by an elevated ratio of non-synonymous over synonymous substitution rates (dN/dS). However, convergent adaptation is expected to leave a different molecular signature, taking the form of repeated transitions toward identical or similar amino acids.\nHere, we use a previously introduced codon-based differential selection model to detect and quantify consistent patterns of convergent adaptation in Rubisco in Amaranthaceae. We further contrast the results thus obtained with those obtained under classical codon models based on the estimation of dN/dS. We find that the two classes of models tend to select distinct, although overlapping, sets of positions. This discrepancy in the results illustrates the conceptual difference between these models, while emphasizing the need to better discriminate between qualitatively different selective regimes, by using a broader class of codon models than those currently considered in molecular evolutionary studies. \n\nKeywords: Rubisco, C4 plants, convergent evolution, positive selection, codon models', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073684', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Montreal;', u'University of Lyon 1']]
[u'Ethnically relevant consensus Korean reference genome towards personal reference genomes', ['Yun Sung Cho', 'Hyunho Kim', 'Hak-Min Kim', 'Sungwoong Jho', 'JeHoon Jun', 'Yong Joo Lee', 'Kyun Shik Chae', 'Chang Geun Kim', 'Sangsoo Kim', 'Anders Eriksson', 'Jeremy S Edwards', 'Semin Lee', 'Byung Chul Kim', 'Andrea Manica', 'George M Church', 'Jong Bhak'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Human genomes are routinely compared against a universal reference. However, this strategy could miss population-specific or personal genomic variations, which may be detected more efficiently using an ethnically-relevant and/or a personal reference. Here we report a hybrid assembly of Korean reference (KOREF) as a pilot case for constructing personal and ethnic references by combining sequencing and mapping methods. KOREF is also the first consensus variome reference, providing information on millions of variants from additional ethnically homogeneous personal genomes. We found that this ethnically-relevant consensus reference was beneficial for efficiently detecting variants. Systematic comparison of KOREF with previously established human assemblies showed the importance of assembly quality, suggesting the necessity of using new technologies to comprehensively map ethnic and personal genomic structure variations. In the era of large-scale population genome projects, the leveraging of ethnicity-specific genome assemblies as well as the human reference genome will accelerate mapping all human genome diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/070805', [u'Genomics'], [u'The Genomics Institute (TGI), Ulsan National Institute of Science and Technology (UNIST);', u'Geromics;', u'Personal Genomics Institute, Genome Research Foundation;', u'National Standard Reference Center, Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science;', u'School of Systems Biomedical Science, Soongsil University;', u'Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge;', u'Chemistry and Chemical Biology, UNM Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of New Mexico;', u'Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Transcriptome analysis revealed the possible contribution of chromosome introgression fragments from Sea Island cotton (Gossypium barbadense) to fiber strength in Upland cotton (Gossypium hirsutum)', ['Quanwei Lu', 'Yuzhen Shi', 'Xianghui Xiao', 'Pengtao Li', 'Juwu Gong', 'Aiying Liu', 'Haihong Shang', 'Wankui Gong', 'Tingting Chen', 'Qun Ge', 'Junwen Li', 'Wei Su', 'Shaoqi Li', 'Zhen Zhang', 'Youlu Yuan', 'Jinling Huang'], u'September 6, 2016.', u'Cotton fiber strength is a critical property determining fiber qualities, and determined by the secondary cell wall development. Understanding the mechanism of fiber development will provide a way to improvement of fiber strength. In this study, the introgression lines of upland and sea island cotton, and have experience of four generations of backcross with upland parent, and have significant higher fiber strength than their upland parent, and the transcriptome were analyzed and compared between the introgression lines and their upland parent. There were 2201 differentially expressed genes (DEG) identified by comparing two introgression lines with their recurrent parent CCRI45, in different development stages from 15 days post-anthesis (DPA) to 28 DPA. The up-regulated genes regulated the polysaccharide metabolic process, single-organism localization, cell wall organization or biogenesis and so on. The down-regulated genes involved in the microtubule-based process, cellular response to stress, cell cycle process and so on. Further functional analysis revealed three significant functional genes, XLOC_036333 (mannosyl-oligosaccharide-alpha-mannosidase mns1), XLOC_029945 (FLA8) and XLOC_075372 (snakin-1), playing important roles in the regulation of cotton fiber strength. Our results provide important candidates genes and inspirations for the future investigation of the molecular mechanism of fiber quality formation, and improvement of cotton fiber quality in breeding.', u'/content/early/2016/09/06/073726', [u'Genomics'], [u'College of Agriculture,  Shanxi Agriculture University;', u'Institute of Cotton Research, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
