[u'Genetic determinants of chromatin accessibility and gene regulation in T cell activation across human individuals', ['Christine S Cheng', 'Rachel E Gate', 'Aviva P Aiden', 'Atsede Siba', 'Marcin Tabaka', 'Dmytro Lituiev', 'Ido Machol', 'Meena Subramaniam', 'Muhammad Shammim', 'Kendrick L Hougen', 'Ivo Wortman', 'Su-Chen Huang', 'Neva C Durand', 'Ting Feng', 'Philip L De Jager', 'Howard Y Chang', 'Erez Lieberman Aiden', 'Christophe Benoist', 'Micheal A Beer', 'Chun J Ye', 'Aviv Regev'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'The vast majority of genetic variants associated with complex human traits map to non-coding regions, but little is understood about how they modulate gene regulation in health and disease. Here, we analyzed Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin (ATAC-seq) profiles from activated primary CD4+ T cells of 105 healthy donors to identify ATAC-QTLs: genetic variants that affect chromatin accessibility. We found that ATAC-QTLs are widespread, disrupt binding sites for transcription factors known to be important for CD4+ T cell differentiation and activation, overlap and mediate expression QTLs from the same cells and are enriched for SNPs associated with autoimmune diseases. We also identified numerous pairs of ATAC-peaks with highly correlated chromatin accessibility. When we characterize 3D chromosome organization in primary CD4+ T cells by in situ-Hi-C, we found that correlated peaks tend to reside in the same chromatin contact domains, span super-enhancers, and are more impacted by ATAC-QTLs than single peaks. Thus, variability in chromatin accessibility in primary CD4+ T cells is heritable, is determined by genetic variation in a manner affected by the 3D organization of the genome, and mediates genetic effects on gene expression. Our results provide insights into how genetic variants modulate chromatin state and gene expression in primary immune cells that play a key role in many human diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090241', [u'Genomics'], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'UCSF;', u'Baylor College of Medicine and Rice University;', u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'John Hopkins University;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u"Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School;", u'Stanford University;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard and HHMI']]
[u'Mechanism of ribosome rescue by ArfA and RF2', ['Gabriel Demo', 'Egor Svidritskiy', 'Rohini Madireddy', 'Ruben Diaz-Avalos', 'Timothy Grant', 'Nikolaus Grigorieff', 'Duncan Sousa', 'Andrei Korostelev'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'ArfA rescues ribosomes stalled on truncated mRNAs by recruiting the release factor RF2, which normally binds stop codons to catalyze peptide release. We report two 3.2-A resolution cryo-EM structures, determined from a single sample, of the 70S ribosome with ArfA and RF2 in the A site. In both states, the ArfA C-terminus occupies the mRNA tunnel downstream of the A site. One state contains a compact inactive RF2 conformation, hitherto unobserved in 70S termination complexes. Ordering of the ArfA N-terminus in the second state rearranges RF2 into an extended conformation that docks the catalytic GGQ motif into the peptidyl-transferase center. Our work thus reveals the structural dynamics of ribosome rescue. The structures demonstrate how ArfA senses the vacant mRNA tunnel and activates RF2 to mediate peptide release without a stop codon, allowing stalled ribosomes to be recycled.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091256', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Massachusetts Medical School, RNA Therapeutics Institute;', u'Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute;', u'Department of Biological Science, Florida State University']]
[u'Resonance modulation, annihilation and generation of anti-resonance and anti-phasonance in 3D neuronal systems: interplay of resonant and amplifying currents with slow dynamics', ['Horacio G Rotstein'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Subthreshold (membrane potential) resonance and phasonance (preferred amplitude and zero-phase responses to oscillatory inputs) in single neurons arise from the interaction between positive and negative  feedback effects provided by relatively fast  amplifying currents and slower resonant currents. In 2D neuronal systems, amplifying currents are required to be slaved to voltage (instantaneously fast) for these phenomena to occur. In higher dimensional systems, additional currents operating at various effective time scales may  modulate and  annihilate  existing resonances and generate antiresonance (minimum amplitude response)  and antiphasonance (zero-phase response with phase monotonic properties opposite to phasonance). We use mathematical modeling, numerical simulations and dynamical systems tools to investigate the mechanisms underlying these phenomena  in 3D linear models, which are obtained as the linearization of biophysical (conductance-based) models.  We characterize the parameter regimes for which the system exhibits the various types of behavior mentioned above in the rather general case in which  the underlying 2D system exhibits resonance. We consider two cases: (i) the interplay of two resonant gating variables, and (ii)  the interplay of one resonant and one amplifying gating variables.  Increasing levels of an amplifying current cause (i) a response amplification if the amplifying current is faster than the resonant current, (ii) resonance and phasonance attenuation and annihilation if the amplifying and resonant currents have identical dynamics, and (iii) antiresonance and antiphasonance if the amplifying current is slower than the resonant current.  We investigate the underlying mechanisms by extending the envelope-plane diagram approach developed in previous work (for 2D systems) to three dimensions to include the additional gating variable, and constructing the corresponding envelope curves in these envelope-space diagrams. We find that antiresonance and antiphasonance emerge as the result of  an asymptotic boundary layer problem in the frequency domain created by the different balances between the intrinsic time constants of the cell and the input frequency f  as it changes. For large enough values of f the envelope curves are quasi-2D and the impedance profile decrease with the input frequency. In contrast, for f << 1 the dynamics is quasi-1D and the impedance profile increases above the limiting value in the other regime. Antiresonance is created because the continuity of the solution requires the impedance profile to connect the portions belonging to the two regimes. If in doing so the phase profile crosses the zero value, then antiphasonance is also generated.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091207', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New Jersey Institute of Technology']]
[u'Pathways analyses of schizophrenia GWAS focusing on known and novel drug targets', ['Helena Alexandra Gaspar', 'Gerome Breen'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Schizophrenia is a common, heritable and highly complex psychiatric disorder for which genomewide association studies (GWASs) have discovered >100 loci. This, and the progress being made in other complex disorders, leads to the questions of how efficiently GWAS can be used to identify novel drug targets and druggable pathways. Taking a series of increasingly better powered GWASs for schizophrenia, we analyse genetic data using information about drug targets and drug therapeutical classes to assess the potential utility of GWAS for drug discovery. As sample size increases, schizophrenia GWAS results show increasing enrichment for known antipsychotic drugs, psycholeptics, and antiepileptics. Drugs targeting calcium channels or nicotinic acetylcholine receptors also show significant association. We conclude that current schizophrenia GWAS results may hold potential therapeutic leads given their power to detect existing treatments. This is a proof of principle study and, given GWAS results of any complex disorder with a sufficient sample size, this approach may be used both to validate the ability of a GWAS to detect known treatments and to identify new drug targets and therapeutic drug families.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091264', [u'Genomics'], [u"King's College London"]]
[u'Characterizing Xenopus tropicalis endurance capacities with multilevel transcriptomics', ['Adam J Richards', 'Anthony Herrel', 'Mathieu Videlier', 'Konrad Paszkiewicz', 'Nicolas Pollet', 'Camille Bonneaud'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Vertebrate endurance capacity is a phenotype with considerable genetic heterogeneity. RNA-Seq technologies\nare an ideal tool to investigate the involved genes and processes, but several challenges exist when the phenotype\nof interest has a complex genetic background. Difficulties manifest at the level of results interpretation because\ncommonly used statistical methods are designed to identify strongly associated genes. If an observed phenotype can\nbe achieved though multiple distinct genetic mechanisms then typical gene-centric methods come with the attached\nrisk that signal may be lost or misconstrued.\n\nGene set analysis (GSA) methods are now widely accepted as a means to address some of the shortcomings of\ngene-by-gene analysis methods. We carry out both gene level and gene set level analyses on Xenopus tropicalis to\nidentify the genetic factors that contribute to endurance heterogeneity. A typical workflow might consider gene level\nand pathway level analyses, but in this work we propose an additional focus at the intermediate level of functional\nmodules. We generate functional modules for GSA testing in order to be explicit in how ontology information\nis used with respect to the functional genomics of Xenopus. Additionally, we make use of multiple assemblies to\ncorroborate implicated genes and processes.\n\nWe identified 42 core genes, 10 functional modules, and 14 pathways based on gene expression differences between\nendurant and non-endurant frogs. The majority of the genes and processes are readily associated with muscle\ncontraction or catabolism. A substantial number of these genes are involved in lipid metabolic processes, suggesting\nan important role in frog endurance heterogeneity. Unsurprisingly, many of the gene expression differences between\nendurant and non-endurant frogs can be distilled down to the capacity to utilize substrate for energy, but at the\nindividual level frogs appear to make use of diverse machinery to achieve these differences.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091280', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CNRS;', u'University of Exeter']]
[u'Nus factors have a widespread regulatory function in bacteria', ['Gabriele Baniulyte', 'Navjot Singh', 'Courtney Benoit', 'Richard Johnson', 'Robert Ferguson', 'Mauricio Paramo', 'Anne Stringer', 'Ashley Scott', 'Pascal Lapierre', 'Joseph Wade'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Nus factors are broadly conserved across bacterial species, and are often essential for viability. A complex of five Nus factors (NusB, NusE, NusA, NusG and SuhB) is considered to be a dedicated regulator of ribosomal RNA folding, and has been shown to prevent Rho-dependent transcription termination. We have established the first cellular function for the Nus factor complex beyond regulation of ribosomal assembly: repression of the Nus factor-encoding gene, suhB. This repression occurs by translation inhibition followed by Rho-dependent transcription termination. Thus, Nus factors can prevent or promote Rho activity depending on the gene context. Extensive conservation of NusB/E binding sites upstream of nus factor genes indicates that Nus factor autoregulation likely occurs in many species. Putative NusB/E binding sites are also found upstream of many other genes in diverse species, and we demonstrate Nus factor regulation of one such gene in Citrobacter koseri. We conclude that Nus factors have an evolutionarily widespread regulatory function beyond ribosomal RNA, and that they are often autoregulatory.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091223', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, School of Public Health, University at Albany;', u'Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health']]
[u'Negative regulation of uPAR activity by a GPI-specific phospholipase C', ['Michiel van Veen', 'Elisa Matas-Rico', 'Koen van de Wetering', 'Daniela Leyton-Puig', 'Katarzyna M Kedziora', 'Nicolai Sidenius', 'Kees Jalink', 'Anastassis Perrakis', 'Wouter H Moolenaar'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'The urokinase receptor (uPAR) is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored protein that promotes tissue remodeling, tumor cell adhesion, migration and invasion. uPAR mediates degradation of the extracellular matrix through protease recruitment and enhances cell adhesion, migration and signaling through vitronectin binding and interactions with integrins and other receptors. Full-length uPAR is released from the cell surface, but the mechanism and functional significance of uPAR release remain obscure. Here we show that transmembrane glycerophosphodiesterase GDE3 is a GPI-specific phospholipase C that cleaves and releases uPAR with consequent loss of the proteolytic and non-proteolytic activities of uPAR. In breast cancer cells, high GDE3 expression depletes endogenous uPAR resulting in a less transformed phenotype, correlating with higher survival probability in patients. Our results establish GDE3 as a negative regulator of the uPAR signaling network and, more generally, highlight GPI-anchor hydrolysis as a cell-intrinsic mechanism to alter cell behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091272', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'The Netherlands Cancer Institute;', u'The FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology']]
[u'Gene expression models based on a reference laboratory strain are bad predictors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex transcriptional diversity.', ['Alvaro Chiner-Oms', 'Fernando Gonzalez-Candelas', 'Inaki Comas'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Species of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) kill more people every year than any other infectious disease. As a consequence of its global distribution and parallel evolution with the human host the bacteria is not genetically homogeneous. The observed genetic heterogeneity has relevance at different phenotypic levels, from gene expression to epidemiological dynamics. However current systems biology datasets have focused in the laboratory reference strain H37Rv. By using large expression datasets testing the role of almost two hundred transcription factors, we have constructed computational models to grab the expression dynamics of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv genes. However, we have found that many of those transcription factors are deleted or likely dysfunctional across strains of the MTBC. In accordance, we failed to predict expression changes in strains with a different genetic background when compared with experimental data. The results highlight the importance of designing systems biology approaches that take into account the tubercle bacilli genetic diversity if we want to identify universal targets for vaccines, diagnostics and treatments.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091082', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Valencia;', u'Biomedicine Institute of Valencia (IBV-CSIC)']]
[u'The Structured Coalescent and its Approximations', ['Nicola Felix Mueller', 'David Alan Rasmussen', 'Tanja Stadler'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Phylogenetics can be used to elucidate the movement of pathogens between different host populations when the location of samples are considered alongside of pathogen sequence data. Pathogen phylogenies therefore offer insights into the movement of pathogens not available from classic epidemiological data alone. However, current phylogeographic methods to quantify migration patterns from phylogenies have several known shortcomings. In particular, one of the most widely used method treats migration the same as mutation, and as such does not incorporate information about population demography. This may lead to severe biases in estimated migration rates for datasets where sampling is biased across populations. On the other hand, the structured coalescent allows us to coherently model the migration and transmission process, but current implementations struggle with complex datasets due to the need to additionally infer ancestral migration histories. Thus, approximations to the structured coalescent which integrate over all ancestral migration histories have been developed. However, the validity and robustness of these approximations remain unclear. We here provide an exact numerical solution to the structured coalescent that does not require the inference of migration histories. While this solution is computationally unfeasible for large datasets, it clarifies the assumptions of previously developed approximate methods and allows us to provide an improved approximation to the structured coalescent. We have implemented these methods in BEAST2, and we show how our newly described approach outperforms previously described methods in accuracy at comparable computational cost.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091058', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'ETH Zuerich']]
[u'Effective Cell Immunoablation in Undisrupted Developing Avian Embryos', ['Mariacruz Lopez Diaz', 'Julia Bujan Valera', 'Carlos Cadorniga'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'In birds the construction of germline chimeras by grafting exogenous primordial germ cells (PGCs) during embryonic development is feasible since they migrate to the gonads through the blood. Up to date, the efficiencies are highly variable, in part dependent on the destruction of endogenous PGCs in the recipient embryo. We show an almost complete ablation of the endogenous PGCs in stage X embryos using a baby rabbit serum (BRS), with previous cellular signaling by specific antibodies (SSEA1). The application of the treatments, either on epiblast or subgerminaly,  produced the reduction of the PGCs in the embryos in a dose dependent manner. No malformations or damages were detected in the treated embryos. However, subgerminal injection of this cocktail produced a massive cellular destruction in all embryos. Therefore, sequential application is a selective and effective method to produce receptor embryos. Nevertheless, it can also be highly destructive if the mixture is applied locally, this could be useful in the treatment of malignancies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091116', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'INIA;', u'UAH']]
[u'Multi-scale approaches for high-speed imaging and analysis of large neural populations', ['Johannes Friedrich', 'Weijian Yang', 'Daniel Soudry', 'Yu Mu', 'Misha B Ahrens', 'Rafael Yuste', 'Darcy S Peterka', 'Liam Paninski'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Progress in modern neuroscience critically depends on our ability to observe the activity of large neuronal populations with cellular spatial and high temporal resolution.  However, two bottlenecks constrain efforts towards fast imaging of large populations.  First, the resulting large video data is challenging to analyze.  Second, there is an explicit tradeoff between imaging speed, signal-to-noise, and field of view: with current recording technology we cannot image very large neuronal populations with simultaneously high spatial and temporal resolution.\n\nHere we describe multi-scale approaches for alleviating both of these bottlenecks.  First, we show that spatial and temporal decimation techniques provide order-of-magnitude speedups in spatiotemporally demixing calcium video data into estimates of single-cell neural activity.  Second, once the shapes of individual neurons have been identified (e.g., after an initial phase of conventional imaging with standard temporal and spatial resolution), we find that the spatial/temporal resolution tradeoff shifts dramatically: after demixing we can accurately recover neural activity from data that has been spatially decimated by an order of magnitude.  This offers a cheap method for compressing this large video data, and also implies that it is possible to either speed up imaging significantly, or to "zoom out" by a corresponding factor to image order-of-magnitude larger neuronal populations with minimal loss in accuracy or temporal resolution.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091132', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'Janelia Research Campus']]
[u'Senescence gives insights into the morphogenetic evolution of anamniotes.', ['Eric Villiard', 'Jean-Francois Denis', 'Faranak Sadat Hashemi', 'Sebastian Igelmann', 'Gerardo Ferbeyre', 'Stephane Roy'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Senescence represents a mechanism to avoid undesired cell proliferation that plays a role in tumor suppression, wound healing and embryonic development. In order to gain insight on the evolution of senescence, we looked at its presence in developing axolotls (urodele amphibians) and in zebrafish (teleost fish), which are both anamniotes. Our data indicate that cellular senescence is present in various developing structures in axolotls (pronephros, olfactory nerve fascicles, lateral organs, gums) and in zebrafish (epithelium of the yolk sac and in the lower part of the gut). Senescence was particularly associated with transient structures (pronephros in axolotls & yolk sac in zebrafish) suggesting that it plays a role in the elimination of these tissues. Our data supports the notion that cellular senescence evolved early in vertebrate evolution to influence embryonic development.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091199', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Universite de Montreal']]
[u'A Bayesian Heteroscedastic GLM with Application to fMRI Data with Motion Spikes', ['Anders Eklund', 'Martin A Lindquist', 'Mattias Villani'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'We propose a voxel-wise general linear model with autoregressive noise and heteroscedastic noise innovations (GLMH) for analyzing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. The model is analyzed from a Bayesian perspective and has the benefit of automatically down-weighting time points close to motion spikes in a data-driven manner. We develop a highly efficient Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm that allows for Bayesian variable selection\namong the regressors to model both the mean (i.e., the design matrix) and variance. This makes it possible to include a broad range of explanatory variables in both the mean and variance (e.g., time trends, activation stimuli, head motion parameters and their temporal derivatives), and to compute the posterior probability of inclusion from the MCMC output. Variable selection is also applied to the lags in the autoregressive noise process, making it possible to infer the\nlag order from the data simultaneously with all other model parameters. We use both simulated data and real fMRI data from OpenfMRI to illustrate the importance of proper modeling of heteroscedasticity in fMRI data analysis. Our results show that the GLMH tends to detect more brain activity, compared to its homoscedastic counterpart, by allowing the variance to change over time depending on the degree of head motion.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091066', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Linkoping university;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Joint inference of demography and mutation rates from polymorphism data and pedigrees', ['Florence Parat', 'Sandor Miklos Szilagyi', 'Daniel Wegmann', 'Aurelien Tellier'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Inference of demography and mutation rates is of major interest but difficult because genetic data is only informative about the population mutation rate, the product of the effective population size times the mutation rate, and\nnot about these quantities individually. Here we show that this limitation can be overcome by combining genetic data with pedigree information. To successfully use pedigree data, however, important aspects of real populations such as the presence of two sexes, unbalanced sex ratios and overlapping generations have to be taken into account. We present here an extension of the classic Wright-Fisher model accounting for these effects and show that the coalescent process under this model reduces to the classic Kingman coalescent with specific scaling parameters. We further derive the probability of a pedigree under that model and show how pedigree data can thus be used to infer demographic parameters. Finally,\nwe present a computationally efficient inference approach combining pedigree information and genetic data summarized\nby the site frequency spectrum (SFS) that allows for the joint inference of the mutation rate, sex-specific population sizes\nand the fraction of overlapping generations. Using simulations we then show that these parameters can be accurately inferred from pedigrees spanning just a few generations, as are available for many species. We finally discuss future possible extensions of the model and inference framework necessary for applications to wild and domesticated species,\nnamely the account for more complex demographies and the uncertainty in assigning pedigree individuals to specific generations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091090', [u'Genetics'], [u'Technische Universitaet Muenchen;', u'Petru Maior University;', u'University of Fribourg']]
[u'The Tell-Tale Genome', ['EUGENIO BORTOLINI', 'Luca Pagani', 'Enrico Ryunosuke Crema', 'Stefania Sarno', 'Chiara Barbieri', 'Alessio Boattini', 'Marco Sazzini', 'Sara Graca da Silva', 'Gessica Martini', 'Mait Metspalu', 'Davide Pettener', 'Donata Luiselli', 'Jamshid Johari Tehrani'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Observable patterns of cultural variation are consistently intertwined with demic move- ments, cultural diffusion, and adaptation to different ecological contexts (Cavalli-Sforza and Feldman 1981; Boyd and Richerson 1985). The quantitative study of gene-culture co-evolution has focused in particular on the mechanisms responsible for change in frequency and attributes of cultural traits, on the spread of cultural information through demic and cultural diffusion, and on detecting relationships between genetic and cultural lineages. Here, for the first time, we make use of worldwide whole-genome sequences (Pagani et al. 2016) to assess the impact of demic diffusion on cultural diversity, focusing on the variability observed in folktale tradi- tions (N=596) (Uther 2004) in Eurasia and Africa. We show that at small geographic scales (<=5000 km) there is a strong correlation between folktale and genomic distance when the effect of geography is corrected, while geographic distance has no independent effect on the distribution of folkloric narratives at the same spatial scale. This points to demic processes (i.e. population movement and re- placement) as the main driver of folktale transmission at limited geographic ranges. The role of population movements becomes more apparent when regions characterized by episodes of directional expansions, such as the Neolithization of West Eurasia, are examined. Furthermore, we identify 89 individual tales which are likely to be pre- dominantly transmitted through demic diffusion, and locate putative focal areas for a subset of them.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091074', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'IMF-CSIC, Spanish National Research Council, 08001 Barcelona, Spain;', u'Estonian Biocentre, 51010 Tartu, Estonia;', u'McDonald Institute for Archaeological Research, CB2 3ER Cambridge, UK;', u'Department of Biological, Geological and Environmental Sciences, University of Bologna,40126 Bologna;', u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, 07745 Jena, Germany;', u'New University of Lisbon, 1069-061 Lisbon, Portugal;', u'Department of Anthropology, Durham University, DH1 3LE Durham, UK']]
[u'High-resolution tracking of microbial colonization in Fecal Microbiota Transplantation experiments via metagenome-assembled genomes', ['Sonny TM Lee', 'Stacy A Kahn', 'Tom O Delmont', 'Nathaniel A Hubert', 'Hilary G Morrison', 'Dionysios A Antonopoulos', 'David T Rubin', 'A. Murat Eren'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) is an effective treatment for recurrent Clostridium difficile infection and shows promise for treating other medical conditions associated with intestinal dysbioses. However, we lack a sufficient understanding of which microbial populations successfully colonize the recipient gut, and the widely used approaches to study the microbial ecology of FMT experiments fail to provide enough resolution to identify populations that are likely responsible for FMT-derived benefits. Here we used shotgun metagenomics to reconstruct 97 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from fecal samples of a single donor and followed their distribution in two FMT recipients to identify microbial populations with different colonization properties. Our analysis of the occurrence and distribution patterns post-FMT revealed that 22% of the MAGs transferred from the donor to both recipients and remained abundant in their guts for at least eight weeks. Most MAGs that successfully colonized the recipient gut belonged to the order Bacteroidales. The vast majority of those that lacked evidence of colonization belonged to the order Clostridiales and colonization success was negatively correlated with the number of genes related to sporulation. Although our dataset showed a link between taxonomy and the ability of a MAG to colonize the recipient gut, we also identified MAGs with different colonization properties that belong to the same taxon, highlighting the importance of genome-resolved approaches to explore the functional basis of colonization and to identify targets for cultivation, hypothesis generation, and testing in model systems for mechanistic insights.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090993', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'Marine Biological Laboratory']]
[u'Analyses of the core eukaryotic protein subunit of telomerase support extensive adaptation to different evolutionary and life histories in the Metazoa', ['Alvina G Lai', 'Natalia Pouchkina-Stantcheva', 'Alessia Di Donfrancesco', 'Gerda Kildisiute', 'Sounak Sahu', 'Aziz Aboobaker'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Most animals employ telomerase, which consists of a catalytic subunit known as the telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) and an RNA template, to maintain telomere ends. Given the importance of TERT and the apparent importance of telomere biology in core metazoan life history traits like ageing and the control of somatic cell proliferation, we hypothesised that TERT would have patterns of sequence and regulatory evolution reflecting adaptations to diverse evolutionary and life histories across the Animal Kingdom. To test this, we performed a complete investigation of the evolutionary history of TERT across animals. We show that although TERT is almost ubiquitous across Metazoa, it has undergone substantial sequence evolution in canonical motifs. Beyond the known canonical motifs, we also identify and compare regions that are highly variable between lineages, but for which conservation exists within phyla. Recent data have highlighted the importance of alternate splice forms of TERT in non-canonical functions in some animals. Although animals may share some conserved introns, we find that the selection of exons for alternative splicing appears to be highly variable, and regulation by alternative splicing appears to be a very dynamic feature of TERT evolution. We show that even within a closely related group of triclad flatworms, where alternative splicing of TERT was previously correlated with reproductive strategy, we observe highly diverse alternative splicing patterns. Our work establishes that the evolutionary history and structural evolution of TERT involves previously unappreciated levels of change, supporting the view that this core eukaryotic protein has adapted to the requirements of diverse animal life histories.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/091124', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Lung epithelial cells have virus-specific and shared gene expression responses to infection by diverse respiratory viruses', ['James T Van Leuven', 'Benjamin J Ridenhour', 'Craig R Miller', 'Tanya A Miura'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'The severity and outcome of respiratory viral infections is partially determined by the cellular response mounted by infected lung epithelial cells. Disease prevention and treatment is dependent on our understanding of the shared and unique responses elicited by diverse viruses, yet few studies compare host responses to different viruses while controlling other experimental parameters. We compared changes in gene expression of murine lung epithelial cells infected individually by three respiratory viruses causing mild (rhinovirus, RV1B), moderate (coronavirus, MHV-1), and severe (influenza A virus, PR8) disease in mice. RV1B infection caused numerous gene expression changes, but the differential effect peaked at 12 hours post-infection. PR8 altered an intermediate number of genes whose expression continued to change through 24 hours. MHV-1 had comparatively few effects on host gene expression. The viruses elicited highly overlapping responses in antiviral genes, though MHV-1 induced a lower type I interferon response than the other two viruses. Signature genes were identified for each virus and included host defense genes for PR8, tissue remodeling genes for RV1B, and transcription factors for MHV-1. Our comparative approach identified universal and specific transcriptional signatures of virus infection that can be used to discover mechanisms of pathogenesis in the respiratory tract.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090936', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Idaho']]
[u'How well do RNA-Seq differential gene expression tools perform in higher eukaryotes?', ['Kimon Froussios', 'Nicholas J Schurch', 'Katarzyna Mackinnon', 'Marek Gierlinski', 'Celine Duc', 'Gordon G Simpson', 'Geoffrey J Barton'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'RNA-seq experiments are usually carried out in three or fewer replicates. In order to work well with so few samples, Differential Gene Expression (DGE) tools typically assume the form of the underlying distribution of gene expression. A recent highly replicated study revealed that RNA-seq gene expression measurements in yeast are best represented as being drawn from an underlying negative binomial distribution. In this paper, the statistical properties of gene expression in the higher eukaryote Arabidopsis thaliana are shown to be essentially identical to those from yeast despite the large increase in the size and complexity of the transcriptome:  Gene expression measurements from this model plant species are consistent with being drawn from an underlying negative binomial or log-normal distribution and the false positive rate performance of nine widely used DGE tools is not strongly affected by the additional size and complexity of the A. thaliana transcriptome. For RNA-seq data, we therefore recommend the use of DGE tools that are based on the negative binomial distribution.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090753', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'GReD;', u'University of dundee']]
[u'Climate-driven range shifts in fragmented ecosystems', ['Robin Cristofari', 'Xiaoming Liu', 'Francesco Bonadonna', 'Yves Cherel', 'Pierre Pistorius', 'Yvon Le Maho', 'Virginie Raybaud', 'Nils Chr Stenseth', 'Celine Le Bohec', 'Emiliano Trucchi'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Range shift is the primary short-term response of species to rapid climate change but it is hampered by natural or anthropogenic habitat fragmentation. Fragmented habitats expose different critical areas of a species niche to heterogeneous environmental changes resulting in uncoupled effects. Modelling species distribution under complex real-life scenarios and incorporating such uncoupled effects has not been achieved yet. Here we identify the most vulnerable areas and the potential cold refugia of a top-predator with fragmented niche range in the Southern ocean by integrating genomic, ecological and behavioural data with atmospheric and oceanographic models. Our integrative approach constitutes an indispensable example for predicting the effect of global warming on species relying on spatially and ecologically distinct areas to complete their life-cycle (e.g., migratory animals, marine pelagic organisms, central-place foragers) and, in general, on species constrained in fragmented landscapes due to continuously-growing anthropogenic pressure.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090852', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center;', u'Universite Paul-Valery Montpellier;', u'CNRS-Universite de La Rochelle;', u'Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University;', u'Universite Cote Azur;', u'University of Oslo;', u'Centre Scientifique de Monaco;', u'University of Ferrara']]
[u'Impact of climatic changes in the Late Pleistocene on migrations and extinctions of mammals in Europe: four case studies', ['Mateusz Baca', 'Adam Nadachowski', 'Grzegorz Lipecki', 'Pawe Mackiewicz', 'Adrian Marciszak', 'Danijela Popovic', 'Pawe Socha', 'Krzysztof Stefaniak', 'Piotr Wojtal'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Climate changes that occurred during the Late Pleistocene have profound effects on the distribution of many plant and animal species and influenced the formation of contemporary faunas and floras of Europe. The course and mechanisms of responses of species to the past climate changes are now being intensively studied by the use of direct radiocarbon dating and genetic analyses of fossil remains. Here, we review the advances in understanding these processes by the example of four mammal species: woolly mammoth (Mammuthus primigenius), cave bear (Ursus spelaeus s. l.), saiga antelope (Saiga tatarica) and collared lemmings (Dicrostonyx ssp.). The cases discussed here as well as others show that the migrations, range shifts and local extinctions were the main responses to climate changes and that the dynamics of these climate driven processes were much more profound than it was previously thought. Each species reacted by its individual manner, which depended on its biology and adaptation abilities to the changing environment and climate conditions. The most severe changes in European ecosystems that affected the largest number of species took place around 33-31 ka BP, during the Last Glacial Maximum 22-19 ka BP and the Late Glacial warming 15-13 ka BP.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090878', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Laboratory of Paleogenetics and Conservation Genetics, Centre of New Technologies, University of War;', u'Institute of Systematics and Evolution of Animals, Polish Academy of Sciences;', u'Department of Genomics, Faculty of Biotechnology, University of Wroc\u0142aw;', u'Department of Paleozoology, Institute of Environmental Biology, University of Wroc\u0142aw']]
[u'Summary of muscle parameters for Hill-based muscle modeling in the human lower limb', ['Ross Miller'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'A summary is presented of five mechanical parameters from human skeletal muscles of the lower limb critical for Hill-based muscle modeling: the optimal fiber length, fiber pennation angle, the physiological cross-sectional area (PCSA), the unloaded tendon length, and the fast-twitch fiber fraction.  The data presented are drawn from a total of 28 publications including human cadaver studies, in vivo imaging studies of live humans, musculoskeletal modeling studies, and combinations of these methods.  Where possible, parameter values were adjusted from the referenced data to present them with consistent definitions (normalization of measured fiber lengths to optimal sarcomere length, and calculation of PCSA as the ratio of fiber volume to fiber length).  It is seen that within a specific muscle, optimal fiber lengths are fairly consistent between studies, pennation angles and PCSAs vary widely between studies, and data for unloaded tendon length are comparatively sparse.  Guidelines for implementing these parameter values in muscle modeling and musculoskeletal modeling are suggested.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090944', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Maryland']]
[u'Improved Search of Large Transcriptomic Sequencing Databases Using Split Sequence Bloom Trees', ['Brad Solomon', 'Carl Kingsford'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Enormous databases of short-read RNA-seq sequencing experiments such as the NIH Sequencing Read Archive (SRA) are now available. These databases could answer many questions about the condition-specific expression or population variation, and this resource is only going to grow over time. However, these collections remain difficult to use due to the inability to search for a particular expressed sequence. While some progress has been made on this problem, it is still not feasible to search collections of hundreds of terabytes of short-read sequencing experiments. We introduce an indexing scheme called Split Sequence Bloom Tree (SSBT) to support sequence-based querying of terabyte-scale collections of thousands of short-read sequencing experiments. SSBT is an improvement over the SBT data structure for the same task. We apply SSBT to the problem of finding conditions under which query transcripts are expressed. Our experiments are conducted on a set of 2,652 publicly available RNA-seq experiments contained in the NIH for the breast, blood, and brain tissues. We demonstrate that this SSBT index can be queried for a 1000 nt sequence in under 4 minutes using a single thread and can be stored in just 39 GB, a five-fold improvement in search and storage costs compared to SBT. We further report that SSBT can be further optimized by pre-loading the entire index to accomplish the same search in 30 seconds.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/086561', [u'Genomics'], [u'Carnegie Mellon;', u'Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'AllSome Sequence Bloom Trees', ['Chen Sun', 'Robert S. Harris', 'Rayan Chikhi', 'Paul Medvedev'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'The ubiquity of next generation sequencing has transformed the size and nature of many databases, pushing the boundaries of current indexing and searching methods. One particular example is a database of 2,652 human RNA-seq experiments uploaded to the Sequence Read Archive. Recently, Solomon and Kingsford proposed the Sequence Bloom Tree data structure and demonstrated how it can be used to accurately identify SRA samples that have a transcript of interest potentially expressed.\nIn this paper, we propose an improvement called the AllSome Sequence Bloom Tree. Results show that our new data structure significantly improves performance, reducing the tree construction time by 52.7% and query time by 39 - 85%. Notably, it can query a batch of 198,074 queries in under 8 hours(compared to around two days previously) and a whole set of k-mers from a sequencing experiment(about 27 mil k-mers) in under 11 minutes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090464', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Pennsylvania State University;', u'Department of Biology, The Pennsylvania State University, USA;', u'CNRS, CRIStAL, University of Lille, France']]
[u'Taming the Late Quaternary phylogeography of the Eurasiatic wild ass through ancient and modern DNA', ['E. Andrew Bennett', 'Sophie Champlot', 'Joris Peters', 'Benjamin S. Arbuckle', 'Silvia Guimaraes', 'Melanie Pruvost', 'Shirli Bar-David', 'Simon J.M. Davis', 'Mathieu Gautier', 'Petra Kaczensky', 'Ralph Kuehn', 'Marjan Mashkour', 'Arturo Morales-Muniz', 'Erich Pucher', 'Jean-Francois Tournepiche', 'Hans-Peter Uerpmann', 'Adrian Balasescu', 'Mietje Germonpre', 'Can Y. Gunden', 'Mahmoud-Reza Hemami', 'Pierre-Elie Moulle', 'Aliye Oztan', 'Margarete Uerpmann', 'Chris Walzer', 'Thierry Grange', 'Eva-Maria Geigl'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Taxonomic over-splitting of extinct or endangered taxa, due to an incomplete knowledge of both skeletal morphological variability and the geographical ranges of past populations, continues to confuse the link between isolated extant populations and their ancestors. This is particularly problematic with the genus Equus. To more reliably determine the evolution and phylogeographic history of the endangered Asiatic wild ass, we studied the genetic diversity and inter-relationships of both extinct and extant populations over the last 100,000 years, including samples throughout its previous range from Western Europe to Southwest and East Asia. Using 229 bp of the mitochondrial hypervariable region, an approach which allowed the inclusion of information from extremely poorly preserved ancient samples, we classify all non-African wild asses into nine clades that show a clear phylogeographic structure revealing their phylogenetic history. This study places the extinct European wild ass, E. hydruntinus, the phylogeny of which has been debated since the end of the 19th century, into its phylogenetic context within the Asiatic wild asses and reveals recent gene flow events between populations currently regarded as separate species. The phylogeographic organization of clades resulting from these efforts can be used not only to improve future taxonomic determination of a poorly characterized group of equids, but also to identify historic ranges, interbreeding events between various populations, and the impact of ancient climatic changes. In addition, appropriately placing extant relict populations into a broader phylogeographic and genetic context can better inform ongoing conservation strategies for this highly endangered species.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090928', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS-University Paris Diderot, Paris, France;', u'Institute of Palaeoanatomy, Ludwig-Maximilian University, Munich, Germany;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,Chapel Hill, N.C. 27599-135, USA;', u'Institut Jacques Monod CNRS-University Paris Diderot, Paris, France;', u'Jacob Blaustein Institutes for Desert Research, Ben-Gurion University, Israel;', u'Laboratorio de Arqueociencias, (DGPC), Lisbon, Portugal;', u'Centre de Biologie pour la Gestion des Populations CBGP, Montferrier-sur-Lez, France;', u'Research Institute of Wildlife Ecology, University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria;', u'Technische Universitaet Muenchen, AG Molekulare Zoologie/Lehrstuhl fuer Zoologie, Freising, Germany;', u"Museum national d'Histoire naturelle, UMR 7209, Archeozoology, archeobotany, Paris, France;", u'Laboratory of Archaeozoology, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain;', u'Naturhistorisches Museum, Vienna, Austria;', u"Musee d'Angouleme, Angouleme, France;", u'Eberhard-Karls-Universitaet Tuebingen, Institut fuer Ur- und Fruehgeschichte, Tuebingen, Germany;', u'National History Museum of Romania, National Centre of Pluridisciplinary Research, Bucarest, Romania;', u'Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, Brussels, Belgium;', u'Fen Edebiyat Fakultesi, Batman, Turkey;', u'Department of Natural Resources, Isfahan University of Technology, Isfahan, Iran;', u'Musee de Prehistoire Regionale, Menton, France;', u'Ankara University Dil ve Tarih-Cografya Fakultesi, Ankara, Turkey;', u'CNRS - University Paris Diderot']]
[u'Single-molecule sequencing of the Drosophila serrata genome', ['Scott L Allen', 'Emily Kay Delaney', 'Artyom Kopp', 'Stephen F Chenoweth'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Long read sequencing technology promises to greatly enhance de novo assembly of genomes for non-model species. While error rates have been a large stumbling block, sequencing at high coverage allows reads to be self-corrected. Here we sequence and de novo assemble the genome of Drosophila serrata, a non-model species from the montium subgroup that has been well studied for clines and sexual selection. Using 11 PacBio SMRT cells, we generated 12 Gbp of raw sequence data comprising approximately 65x whole genome coverage. Read lengths averaged 8,940 bp (NRead50 12,200) with the longest read at 53 Kbp. We self-corrected reads using the PBDagCon algorithm and assembled the genome using the MHAP algorithm within the PBcR assembler. Total genome length was 198 Mbp with an N50 just under 1 Mbp. Contigs displayed a high degree of arm-level conservation with D. melanogaster. We also provide an initial annotation for this genome using in silico gene predictions that were supported by RNA-seq data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090969', [u'Genomics'], [u'The University of Queensland, Australia;', u'Univeristy of California, Davis, United States;', u'University of California - Davis, United States;', u'University of Queensland, Australia']]
[u'Long-read whole genome sequencing identifies causal structural variation in a Mendelian disease', ['Jason Merker', 'Aaron M Wenger', 'Tam Sneddon', 'Megan Grove', 'Daryl Waggott', 'Sowmi Utiramerur', 'Yanli Hou', 'Christine C Lambert', 'Kevin S Eng', 'Luke Hickey', 'Jonas Korlach', 'James Ford', 'Euan A Ashley'], u'December 2, 2016.', u'Current clinical genomics assays primarily utilize short-read sequencing (SRS), which offers high throughput, high base accuracy, and low cost per base. SRS has, however, limited ability to evaluate tandem repeats, regions with high [GC] or [AT] content, highly polymorphic regions, highly paralogous regions, and large-scale structural variants. Long-read sequencing (LRS) has complementary strengths and offers a means to discover overlooked genetic variation in patients undiagnosed by SRS. To evaluate LRS, we selected a patient who presented with multiple neoplasia and cardiac myxomata suggestive of Carney complex for whom targeted clinical gene testing and whole genome SRS were negative. Low coverage whole genome LRS was performed on the PacBio Sequel system and structural variants were called, yielding 6,971 deletions and 6,821 insertions > 50bp. Filtering for variants that are absent in an unrelated control and that overlap a coding exon of a disease gene identified three deletions and three insertions. One of these, a heterozygous 2,184 bp deletion, overlaps the first coding exon of PRKAR1A, which is implicated in autosomal dominant Carney complex. This variant was confirmed by Sanger sequencing and was classified as pathogenic using standard criteria for the interpretation of sequence variants. This first successful application of whole genome LRS to identify a pathogenic variant suggests that LRS has significant potential to identify disease-causing structural variation. We recommend larger studies to evaluate the diagnostic yield of LRS, and the development of a comprehensive catalog of common human structural variation to support future studies.', u'/content/early/2016/12/02/090985', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'Stanford Health Care']]
