[u'An efficient electroporation protocol for the genetic modification of mammalian cells', ['Leonardo Chicaybam', 'Camila Barcelos', 'Barbara Peixoto', 'Mayra Carneiro', 'Cintia Gomez Limia', 'Patricia Redondo', 'Carla Lira', 'Flavio Paraguassu-Braga', 'Zilton Vasconcelos', 'Luciana Barros', 'Martin Bonamino'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Genetic modification of cell lines and primary cells is an expensive and cumbersome approach, often involving the use of viral vectors. Electroporation using square wave generating devices, like Lonza Nucleofector, is a widely used option, but the costs associated with the acquisition of electroporation kits and the transient transgene expression might hamper the utility of this methodology. In the present work we show that our in house developed buffers, termed Chicabuffers, can be efficiently used to electroporate cell lines and primary cells from murine and human origin. Using the Nucleofector II device, we electroporated 14 different cell lines and also primary cells, like mesenchymal stem cells and cord blood CD34+, providing optimized protocols for each of them. Moreover, when combined with Sleeping Beauty based transposon system, long-term transgene expression could be achieved in all types of cells tested. Transgene expression was stable and did not interfere with CD34+ differentiation to committed progenitors. We also show that these buffers can be used in CRISPR-mediated editing of PDCD1 gene locus in 293T and human peripheral blood mononuclear cells. The optimized protocols reported in this study provide a suitable and cost-effective platform for the genetic modification of cells, facilitating the widespread adoption of this technology.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073387', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Fundacao Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, VPPLR, Rio de Janeiro - Brazil;', u'Programa de Carcinogenese Molecular, Instituto Nacional de Cancer (INCA), Rio de Janeiro - Brazil;', u'Centro de Transplante de Medula Ossea, Instituto Nacional de Cancer, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;', u'Instituto Fernandes Figueira, Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;', u'Banco de Cordao Umbilical e Placentario, Instituto Nacional de Cancer (INCA) Rio de Janeiro - Brazil']]
[u'Direct and Indirect Models for Protein Chemical Denaturation are Characteristic of Opposite Dynamic Properties', ['Liangzhong Lim', 'Linlin Miao', 'Jianxing Song'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Two major models, namely direct and indirect models, have been proposed for the protein chemical denaturation but it remains challenging to experimentally demonstrate and distinguish between them. Here, by use of CD and NMR spectroscopy, we succeeded in differentiating the effects on a small but well-folded protein WW4, of GdmCl and NaSCN at diluted concentrations (\u2264200 mM). Both denaturants up to 200 mM have no alternation of its average structure but do reduce its thermodynamic stability to different degrees. Despite acting as the stronger denaturant, GdmCl only weakly interacts with amide protons, while NaSCN shows extensive interactions with both hydrophobic side chains and amide protons. Although both denaturants show no significant perturbation on overall ps-ns backbone dynamics of WW4, GdmCl suppresses while NaSCN enhances its \u03bcs-ms backbone dynamics in a denaturant concentration dependent manner. Quantitative analysis reveals that although they dramatically raise exchange rates, GdmCl slightly increases while NaSCN reduces the population of the major conformational state. Our study represents the first report deciphering that GdmCl and NaSCN appear to destabilize a protein following two models respectively, which are characteristic of opposite \u03bcs-ms dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073346', [u'Biophysics'], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Decellularised Human Liver is too Heterogeneous for Designing a Generic ECM-mimic Hepatic Scaffold', ['Giorgio Mattei', 'Chiara Magliaro', 'Andrea Pirone', 'Arti Ahluwalia'], u'September 4, 2016.', u"Decellularised human livers are considered the perfect ECM (extracellular matrix) surrogate because both 3-dimensional architecture and biological features of the hepatic microenvironment are thought to be preserved. However, donor human livers are in chronically short supply, both for transplantation or as decellularised scaffolds, and will become even scarcer as life expectancy increases. It is hence of interest to determine the structural and biochemical properties of human hepatic ECM to derive design criteria for engineering bio-mimetic scaffolds. The intention of this work was to obtain quantitative design specifications for fabricating scaffolds for hepatic tissue engineering using human livers as a template. To this end, hepatic samples from 5 human donors were decellularised using a protocol shown to reproducibly conserve matrix composition and micro-structure in porcine livers. The decellularisation outcome was evaluated through histological and quantitative image analyses to evaluate cell removal, protein and glycosaminoglycan content per unit area. Applying the same decellularisation protocol to human liver samples obtained from 5 different donors yielded 5 different outcomes. Only 1 liver out of 5 was completely decellularised, while the other 4 showed different levels of remaining cells. Moreover, protein and glycosaminoglycan content per unit area after decellularisation were also found to be donor-dependent. The donor-to-donor variability of human livers thus precludes their use as templates for engineering a generic 'one-size fits all' ECM-mimic hepatic scaffold.", u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073270', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Pisa']]
