[u'Thanatotranscriptome: genes actively expressed after organismal death', ['Alexander E Pozhitkov', 'Rafik Neme', 'Tomislav Domazet-Loso', 'Brian Leroux', 'Shivani Soni', 'Diethard Tautz', 'Peter Anthony Noble'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'A continuing enigma in the study of biological systems is what happens to highly ordered structures, far from equilibrium, when their regulatory systems suddenly become disabled.  In life, genetic and epigenetic networks precisely coordinate the expression of genes -- but in death, it is not known if gene expression diminishes gradually or abruptly stops or if specific genes are involved.  We investigated the unwinding of the clock by identifying upregulated genes, assessing their functions, and comparing their transcriptional profiles through postmortem time in two species, mouse and zebrafish.  We found transcriptional abundance profiles of 1,063 genes were significantly changed after death of healthy adult animals in a time series spanning from life to 48 or 96 h postmortem.  Ordination plots revealed non-random patterns in profiles by time.  While most thanatotranscriptome (thanatos-, Greek defn. death) transcript levels increased within 0.5 h postmortem, some increased only at 24 and 48 h.  Functional characterization of the most abundant transcripts revealed the following categories: stress, immunity, inflammation, apoptosis, transport, development, epigenetic regulation, and cancer.  The increase of transcript abundance was presumably due to thermodynamic and kinetic controls encountered such as the activation of epigenetic modification genes responsible for unraveling the nucleosomes, which enabled transcription of previously silenced genes (e.g., development genes).  The fact that new molecules were synthesized at 48 to 96 h postmortem suggests sufficient energy and resources to maintain self-organizing processes.  A step-wise shutdown occurs in organismal death that is manifested by the apparent upregulation of genes with various abundance maxima and durations.  The results are of significance to transplantology and molecular biology.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058305', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology;', u'Ru\u0111er Boskovic Institute;', u'Alabama State University;', u'Max-Planck-Institue for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Gene-tree reconciliation with MUL-trees to resolve polyploidy events', ['Gregg W.C. Thomas', 'S. Hussain Ather', 'Matthew W. Hahn'], u'June 10, 2016.', u"Polyploidy can have a huge impact on the evolution of species, and is a common occurrence, especially in plants. Two types of polyploids - autopolyploids and allopolyploids - differ in the level of divergence between the genes brought together in the new polyploid lineage. Because allopolyploids are formed via hybridization, the homologous copies of genes within them are as divergent as the parental species that came together to form them. This means that common methods for estimating the timing of polyploidy events fail to correctly date allopolyploidy, and can lead to incorrect inferences about the number of gene duplications and losses. Here we have adapted the standard algorithm for gene-tree reconciliation to work with multi-labeled species trees (MUL-trees). MUL-trees are defined as having identical species labels, which makes them a natural representation of polyploidy events. Using this new reconciliation algorithm we can: accurately date allopolyploidy events on a tree, identify the parental lineages that hybridized to form allopolyploids, distinguish auto- from allopolyploidy, and correctly count the number of duplications and losses in a set of gene trees. We validate our method using gene trees simulated with and without polyploidy, and revisit the history of polyploidy in data from the clades including both baker's yeast and bread wheat. Our re-analysis of the yeast data confirms the allopolyploid origin of this group, but identifies slightly different parental lineages than a previous analysis. The method presented here should find wide use in the growing number of genomes from species with a history of polyploidy.", u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058149', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indiana Univeristy;', u'Indiana University']]
[u'Genome-wide association study implicates immune activation of multiple integrin genes in inflammatory bowel disease', ['Katrina M de Lange', 'Loukas Moutsianas', 'James C Lee', 'Christopher A Lamb', 'Yang Luo', 'Nicholas A Kennedy', 'Luke Jostins', 'Daniel L Rice', 'Javier Gutierrez-Achury', 'Sun-Gou Ji', 'Graham Heap', 'Elaine R Nimmo', 'Cathryn Edwards', 'Paul Henderson', 'Craig Mowat', 'Jeremy Sanderson', 'Jack Satsangi', 'Alison Simmons', 'David C Wilson', 'Mark Tremelling', 'Ailsa Hart', 'Christopher G Mathew', 'William G Newman', 'Miles Parkes', 'Charles W Lees', 'Holm Uhlig', 'Chris Hawkey', 'Natalie J Prescott', 'Tariq Ahmad', 'John Mansfield', 'Carl A Anderson', 'Jeffrey Barrett'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'Genetic association studies have identified 210 risk loci for inflammatory bowel disease, which have revealed fundamental aspects of the molecular biology of the disease, including the roles of autophagy and Th17 cell signaling and development.  We performed a genome-wide association study of 25,305 individuals, and meta-analyzed with published summary statistics, yielding a total sample size of 59,957 subjects. We identified 26 new genome-wide significant loci, three of which contain integrin genes that encode molecules in pathways identified as important therapeutic targets in inflammatory bowel disease.  The associated variants are also correlated with expression changes in response to immune stimulus at two of these genes (ITGA4, ITGB8) and at two previously implicated integrin loci (ITGAL, ICAM1). In all four cases, the stimulus-dependent expression increasing allele also increases disease risk. We applied summary statistic fine-mapping and identified likely causal missense variants in the primary immune deficiency gene PLCG2 and the negative regulator of inflammation, SLAMF8. Our results demonstrate that new common variant associations continue to identify genes and pathways of relevance to therapeutic target identification and prioritization.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058255', [u'Genomics'], [u'The Wellcomne Trust Sanger Institute;', u'The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Inflammatory Bowel Disease Research Group, Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge, UK;', u'Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne;', u'Program in Medical and Population Genetics, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT;', u'Precision Medicine Exeter, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK;', u'The Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics;', u'Gastrointestinal Unit, Wester General Hospital University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK;', u'Department of Gastroenterology, Torbay Hospital, Torbay, Devon, UK;', u'Department of Child Life and Health, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK;', u'Department of Medicine, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, Dundee, UK;', u'Guys & St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, St Thomas Hospital, Department of Gastroenterology;', u'Translational Gastroenterology Unit, John Radcliffe Hospital, University of Oxford;', u'Paediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh, UK;', u'Gastroenterology & General Medicine, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, Norwich, UK;', u'Department of Medicine, St Marks Hospital, Harrow, Middlesex, UK;', u'Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Life Science and Medicine, Kings College;', u'Genetic Medicine, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK;', u'Translational Gastroenterology Unit and the Department of Paediatrics, University of Oxford;', u'Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre, Queens Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK;', u'Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Life Science and Medicine, Kings College L;', u'Institute of Human Genetics, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK;', u'Sanger Institute']]
[u'Exposing the diversity of multiple infection patterns', ['Mircea T Sofonea', 'Samuel Alizon', 'Yannis Michalakis'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'Natural populations often have to cope with genetically distinct parasites that can coexist, or not, within the same hosts. Theoretical models addressing the evolution of virulence have considered two within host infection outcomes, namely superinfection and coinfection. The field somehow became limited by this dichotomy that does not correspond to an empirical reality, as other infection patterns, namely sets of within-host infection outcomes, are possible. We indeed formally prove there are 114 different infection patterns for the sole recoverable chronic infections caused by horizontally-transmitted microparasites. We afterwards highlight eight infection patterns using an explicit modelling of within-host dynamics that captures a large range of ecological interactions, five of which have been neglected so far. To clarify the terminology related to multiple infections, we introduce terms describing these new relevant patterns and illustrate them with existing biological systems. This characterisation of infection patterns opens new perspectives for understanding the epidemiology and the evolution of parasites.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058263', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Laboratoire MIVEGEC (UMR CNRS 5290, IRD 224, UM)']]
[u'Characterizing and predicting cyanobacterial blooms in an 8-year amplicon sequencing time-course', ['Nicolas Tromas', 'Nathalie Fortin', 'Larbi Bedrani', 'Yves Terrat', 'Pedro Cardoso', 'David Bird', 'Charles W Greer', 'B. Jesse Shapiro'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'Cyanobacterial blooms occur in lakes worldwide, producing toxins that pose a serious public health threat. Eutrophication caused by human activities and warmer temperatures both contribute to blooms, but it is still difficult to predict precisely when and where blooms will occur. One reason that prediction is so difficult is that blooms can be caused by different species or genera of cyanobacteria, which may interact with other bacteria and respond to a variety of environmental cues. Here we used a deep 16S amplicon sequencing approach to profile the bacterial community in eutrophic Lake Champlain over time, to characterize the composition and repeatability of cyanobacterial blooms, and to determine the potential for blooms to be predicted based on time-course sequence data. Our analysis, based on 143 samples between 2006 and 2013, spans multiple bloom events. We found that the microbial community varies substantially over months and seasons, while remaining stable from year to year. Bloom events significantly alter the bacterial community but do not reduce overall diversity, suggesting that a distinct microbial community -- including non-cyanobacteria -- prospers during the bloom. Blooms tend to be dominated by one or two genera of cyanobacteria: Microcystis or Dolichospermum. Blooms are thus relatively repeatable at the genus level, but more unpredictable at finer taxonomic scales (97% operational taxonomic units; OTUs). We therefore used probabilistic assemblages of OTUs (rather than individual OTUs) to classify our samples into bloom or non-bloom bins, achieving up to 92% accuracy (86% after excluding cyanobacterial sequences). Finally, using symbolic regression, we were able to predict the start date of a bloom with 78-91% explained variance over tested data (depending on the data used for model training), and found that sequence data was a better predictor than environmental factors.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058289', [u'Microbiology'], [u'D\xe9partement de sciences biologiques, Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al;', u'National Research Council of Canada;', u'Finnish Museum of Natural History, University of Helsinki;', u'Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Montr\xe9al, D\xe9partement des sciences biologiques;', u'Univ. of Montreal']]
[u'Controlling the rate of GWAS false discoveries', ['Damian Brzyski', 'Christine B. Peterson', 'Piotr Sobczyk', 'Emmanuel J. Candes', 'Malgorzata Bogdan', 'Chiara Sabatti'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'With the rise of both the number and the complexity of traits of interest, control of the false discovery rate (FDR) in genetic association studies has become an increasingly appealing and accepted target for multiple comparison adjustment.\nWhile a number of robust FDR controlling strategies exist, the nature of this error rate is intimately tied to the precise way in which discoveries are counted, and the performance of FDR controlling procedures is satisfactory only if there is a one-to-one correspondence between what scientists describe as unique discoveries and the number of rejected hypotheses. The presence of linkage disequilibrium between markers  in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) often leads researchers to consider the signal associated to multiple neighboring SNPs as indicating the existence of a single genomic locus with possible influence on the phenotype. This a posteriori aggregation of rejected hypotheses results in inflation of the relevant FDR. We propose a novel approach to FDR control that is based on pre-screening to identify the level of resolution of distinct hypotheses. We show how FDR controlling strategies can be adapted to account for this initial selection  both with theoretical results and simulations that mimic the dependence structure to be expected in GWAS. We demonstrate that our approach is versatile and useful  when the data are analyzed  using both tests based on single marker and  multivariate regression. We provide an R package that allows practitioners to apply our procedure on standard GWAS format data, and illustrate its performance on lipid traits in the NFBC66 cohort study.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058230', [u'Genomics'], [u'Indiana University;', u'Stanford University;', u'Wroclaw University of Technology;', u'University of Wroclaw']]
[u'Hipk is required for JAK/STAT activity and promotes hemocyte-derived tumorigenesis', ['Jessica A. Blaquiere', 'Nathan B. Wray', 'Esther M. Verheyen'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'Dysregulation of key signalling molecules and pathways are causative of many Human diseases and cancers.  A point mutation in the Drosophila Janus kinase (called hop) causes constitutive activation of the JAK/STAT pathway and results in blood cell tumours. We provide robust genetic evidence that Hipk is required for endogenous JAK/STAT activity. Overexpression of Hipk can phenocopy the effects of overactive JAK/STAT mutations and lead to melanized tumors and loss of Hipk can suppress the effects of hyperactive JAK/STAT. Furthermore, Hipk expression in blood cell progenitors causes tumors. PLA experiments show that Hipk can interact with the pathway effector Stat92E. Together our results show that Hipk is a novel factor required for effective JAK/STAT signaling.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058156', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Simon Fraser University']]
[u'MutPrior:An Ensemble Method for Ranking Genes in Cancer', ['Shailesh Patil', 'Sreya Dey', 'Randeep Singh'], u'June 10, 2016.', u"Root cause analysis of cancer as well of design of personalized treatment depends on the ability to prioritize mutated genes in cancer. In this paper, we propose a novel approach 'MutPrior' to prioritize genes in a given caner.   We hypothesize that a gene is important for cancer if it has high functional impact mutations, is strategically important for network stability and has high relevance to the disease. This approach integrates functional impact scores, centrality  in  gene-gene interaction network and disease relevance scores to prioritize the mutated genes.  MutPrior outputs a prioritization of genes which is more actionable than any current approaches.  In the process, we do away with the arbitrary cutoffs as well as confusion caused by notions of driver-passenger.", u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058222', [u'Genomics'], [u'SAP Labs India Pvt. Ltd;', u'SAP labs India Pvt. ltd']]
[u'Differential analysis of RNA-Seq incorporating quantification uncertainty', ['Harold J Pimentel', 'Nicolas Bray', 'Suzette Puente', 'Pall Melsted', 'Lior Pachter'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'We describe a novel method for the differential analysis of RNA-Seq data that utilizes bootstrapping in conjunction with response error linear modeling to decouple biological variance from inferential variance. The method is implemented in an interactive shiny app called sleuth that utilizes kallisto quantifications and bootstraps for fast and accurate analysis of RNA-Seq experiments.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058164', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'University of Iceland']]
[u'Polygenic scores using summary statistics via penalized regression', ['Timothy Mak', 'Robert Milan Porsch', 'Shing Wan Choi', 'Xueya Zhou', 'Pak Chung Sham'], u'June 10, 2016.', u"Polygenic scores (PGS) summarize the genetic contribution of a person's genotype to a disease or phenotype. They are useful in a wide variety of analyses of genetic data. Many possible ways of calculating polygenic scores have been proposed, and recently there is much interest in methods that incorporate information available in published summary statistics. As there is no inherent information on linkage disequilibrium (LD) in summary statistics, a pertinent question is whether we can make use of LD information available elsewhere to supplement such analyses. To answer this question we proposed a method for constructing PGS using summary statistics and a reference panel in a penalized regression framework, which we called lassosum. We also proposed a general method for choosing the value of the tuning parameter in the absence of validation data. Our simulation results suggested that lassosum is faster and more robust than other similar methods in most scenarios. We also found that accounting for LD with a reference panel is beneficial only when the signals from the data are strong. In the presence of summary statistics from a large number of SNPs, clumping may both enhance or decrease the performance of standard PGS, although its effects on lassosum is attenuated. lassosum combined with pre-filtering by clumping appears to be a robust and reliable option for calculating predictive PGS.", u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058214', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Hong Kong']]
[u'Regulation of global transcription in E. coli by Rsd and 6S RNA', ['Avantika Lal', 'Sandeep Krishna', 'Aswin Sai Narain Seshasayee'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'In Escherichia coli, the housekeeping sigma factor \u03c370 directs RNA polymerase to transcribe growth-related genes, whereas the alternative sigma factor \u03c338 directs it to transcribe stress response genes during stationary phase. Two molecules hypothesized to regulate RNA polymerase activity are Rsd, which sequesters free \u03c370, and 6S RNA, which sequesters the RNA polymerase-\u03c370 holoenzyme. Despite multiple studies, their function remains controversial. Here we use genome-wide expression studies in five phases of growth, along with theoretical modeling, to investigate the functions of Rsd and 6S RNA. We show that 6S RNA and Rsd act as global regulators of gene expression throughout bacterial growth, and that both increase transcription of \u03c338 dependent genes. We also find several instances of crosstalk between 6S RNA and Rsd, and propose a model in which this crosstalk is important in regulating sigma factor competition.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/058339', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'Simons Centre for the Study of Living Machines, National Centre for Biological Sciences']]
[u'To what extent are the terminal stages of sepsis, septic shock, SIRS, and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome actually driven by a prion/amyloid form of fibrin? bioRxiv preprint.', ['Douglas Bruce Kell', 'Etheresia Pretorius'], u'June 10, 2016.', u'A well-established development of increasing disease severity leads from sepsis through septic shock, SIRS, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and cellular and organismal death. We argue that a chief culprit is the LPS-induced anomalous coagulation of fibrinogen to produce a form of fibrin that is at once inflammatory, resistant to fibrinolysis, and underpins the disseminated intravascular coagulation commonly observed in sepsis. In particular, we argue that the form of fibrin produced is anomalous because much of its normal alpha-helical content is transformed to beta-sheets, as occurs in established amyloidogenic and prion diseases. We hypothesise that these processes play a major role in the passage along the above pathways to organismal death, and that inhibiting them would be of great therapeutic value, a claim for which there is emerging evidence.', u'/content/early/2016/06/10/057851', [u'Immunology'], [u'The University of Manchester;', u'The University of Pretoria']]
