[u'PBrowse: A web-based platform for real-time collaborative exploration of genomic data', ['Peter S Szot', 'Andrian Yang', 'Xin Wang', 'Chirag Parsania', 'Uwe Rohm', 'Koon Ho Wong', 'Joshua W. K. Ho'], u'August 5, 2016.', u"Summary: The central task of a genome browser is to enable easy visual exploration of large genomic data to gain biological insight. Most existing genome browsers were designed for data exploration by individual users, while a few allow some limited forms of collaboration among multiple users, such as file sharing and wiki-style collaborative editing of gene annotations. Our work's premise is that allowing sharing of genome browser views instantaneously in real-time enables the exchange of ideas and insight in a collaborative project, thus harnessing the wisdom of the crowd. PBrowse is a parallel-access real-time collaborative web-based genome browser that provides both an integrated, real-time collaborative platform and a comprehensive file sharing system. PBrowse also allows real-time track comment and has integrated group chat to facilitate interactive discussion among multiple users. Through the Distributed Annotation Server protocol, PBrowse can easily access a wide range of publicly available genomic data, such as the ENCODE data sets. We argue that PBrowse, with the re-designed user management, data management and novel collaborative layer based on Biodalliance, represents a paradigm shift from seeing genome browser merely as a tool of data visualisation to a tool that enables real-time human-human interaction and knowledge exchange in a collaborative setting.\n\nAvailability: PBrowse is available at http://pbrowse.victorchang.edu.au, and its source code is available via the open source BSD 3 license at http://github.com/VCCRI/PBrowse.\n\nSupplementary Information: Supplementary video demonstrating collaborative feature of PBrowse is available in https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ROvKXZoXiIc.", u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068049', [], [u'Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute;', u'University of Macau;', u'University of Sydney']]
[u'AN ISOCHORE FRAMEWORK UNDERLIES CHROMATIN ARCHITECTURE', ['Kamel Jabbari', 'Giorgio Bernardi'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'A recent investigation showed the existence of correlations between the architectural features of mammalian interphase chromosomes and the compositional properties of isochores. This result prompted us to compare maps of the Topologically Associating Domains (TADs) and of the Lamina Associated Domains (LADs) with the corresponding isochore maps of mouse and human chromosomes. This approach revealed that: 1) TADs and LADs correspond to isochores, i.e.,  isochores are the genomic units that underlie chromatin domains; 2) the conservation of TADs and LADs in mammalian genomes is explained by the evolutionary conservation of isochores; 3) chromatin domains corresponding to GC-poor isochores (e.g., LADs) interact with other domains also corresponding to GC-poor isochores even if located far away on the chromosomes; in contrast, chromatin domains corresponding to GC-rich isochores (e.g., TADs) show more localized chromosomal interactions, many of which are inter-chromosomal. In conclusion, this investigation establishes a link between DNA sequences and chromatin architecture, explains the evolutionary conservation of TADs and LADs and provides new information on the spatial distribution of GC-poor/gene-poor and GC-rich/gene-rich chromosomal regions in the interphase nucleus.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068114', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing;', u'Roma Tre University']]
[u'Ancient European dog genomes reveal continuity since the early Neolithic', ['Laura Botigue', 'Shiya Song', 'Amelie Scheu', 'Shyamalika Gopalan', 'Amanda Pendleton', 'Matthew Oetjens', 'Angela Taravella', 'Timo Seregely', 'Andrea Zeeb-Lanz', 'Rose-Marie Arbogast', 'Dean Bobo', 'Kevin Daly', 'Martina Unterlander', 'Joachim Burger', 'Jeffrey Kidd', 'Krishna Veeramah'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Europe has played a major role in dog evolution, harbouring the oldest uncontested Palaeolithic remains and having been the centre of modern dog breed creation. We sequenced the whole genomes of an Early and End Neolithic dog from Germany, including a sample associated with one of Europe\u2019s earliest farming communities. Both dogs demonstrate continuity with each other and predominantly share ancestry with modern European dogs, contradicting a Late Neolithic population replacement previously suggested by analysis of mitochondrial DNA and a Late Neolithic Irish genome. However, our End Neolithic sample possesses additional ancestry found in modern Indian dogs, which we speculate may be derived from dogs that accompanied humans from the Eastern European steppe migrating into Central Europe. By calibrating the mutation rate using our oldest dog, we narrow the timing of dog domestication to 20,000-40,000 years ago. Interestingly, the extreme copy number expansion of the AMY2B gene found in modern dogs was not observed in the ancient samples, indicating that the AMY2B copy number increase arose as an adaptation to starch-rich diets after the advent of agriculture in the Neolithic period.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068189', [], [u'Stony Brook;', u'University of Michigan;', u'Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz;', u'University of Bamberg;', u'Department for Monumental Heritage Speyer;', u'CNRS UMR 7044-UDS;', u'Trinity College Dublin;', u'Johannes Gutenberg-University Mai;', u'Stony Brook University']]
[u'Structural and Functional Analyses of PolyProline-II helices in Globular Proteins', ['Prasun Kumar', 'Manju Bansal'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'PolyProline-II (PPII) helices are defined as a continuous stretch of a protein chain in which the constituent residues have the backbone torsion angle (\u03c6,\u03c8) values of (-75\xb0, 145\xb0) and take up extended left handed conformation, lacking any intra-helical hydrogen bonds. They are found to occur very frequently in protein structures with their number exceeding that of \u03c0-helices, though it is considerably less than that of \u03b1-helices and \u03b2-strands. A relatively new procedure, ASSP, for the identification of regular secondary structures using C\u03b1 trace identifies 3597 PPII helices in 3582 protein chains, solved at resolution \u2264 2.5\xc5. Taking advantage of this significantly expanded database of PPII-helices, we have analyzed the functional and structural roles of PPII helices as well as determined the amino acid propensity within and around them. Though Pro residues are highly preferred, it is not a mandatory condition for the formation of PPII-helices, since ~40% PPII-helices were found to contain no Proline residues. Aromatic amino acids are avoided within this helix, while Gly, Asn and Asp residues are preferred in the proximal flanking regions. These helices range from 3 to 13 residues in length with the average twist and rise being -121.2\xb0\xb19.2\xb0 and 3.0\xc5\xb10.1\xc5 respectively. A majority (~72%) of PPII-helices were found to occur in conjunction with \u03b1-helices and \u03b2-strands, and serve as linkers as well. The analysis of various intra-helical non-bonded interactions revealed frequent presence of C-H...O H-bonds. PPII-helices participate in maintaining the three-dimensional structure of proteins and are important constituents of binding motifs involved in various biological functions.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068098', [], [u'Indian Institute of Science']]
[u'Sympatry with the devil? Niche-based approach explains the mechanisms allowing 1 coexistence of native and non-native salmonids', ['Camille Musseau', 'Simone Vincenzi', 'Dusan Jesensek', 'Stephanie Bouletreau', 'Frederic Santoul', 'Alain Jean Crivelli'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Niche-based hypotheses have been proposed to explain processes and mechanisms of success in the establishment of non-native species into native communities. Competition due to niche overlap may lead to native species niche shift and to native species replacement. To understand the ecological consequences of trophic interactions between non-native rainbow trout and native and endangered marble trout, we used as model system the Idrijca river (Western Slovenia) in which marble trout occurs either in allopatry (MTa) or in sympatry (MTs) with rainbow trout (RTs). We focused on different metrics of niche change such as centroid shift, niche overlap and trophic niche breadth using stable isotope analysis (\u03b415N and \u03b413C). Our results showed plasticity in niche overlap between MTs and RTs and niche shift of marble trout when occurring in sympatry with RTs, but not due to a niche replacement of MTs by RTs. Niche breadth of marble trout increases in sympatry and the trophic position during the growth period was higher for MTs than MTa.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068171', [], [u'Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin;', u'University of California, Santa Cruz;', u'Tolmin Angling Association;', u'Universit\xe9 de Toulouse;', u'Tour du Valat']]
[u'On the estimation errors of KM and V from time-course experiments using the Michaelis-Menten equation', ['Wylie Stroberg', 'Santiago Schnell'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'The conditions under which the Michaelis-Menten equation accurately captures the steady-state kinetics of a simple enzyme-catalyzed reaction is contrasted with the conditions under which the same equation can be used to estimate parameters, KM and V, from progress curve data. The conditions for the validity of the underlying assumptions leading to the Michaelis-Menten equation are shown to be necessary, but not sufficient to guarantee accurate estimation of KM and V. Detailed error analysis and numerical "experiments" are used to show the required experimental conditions for the independent estimation of both KM and V from progress curve experiments. It is found that, if the initial substrate concentration is of the same order of magnitude as KM, the estimated values of the KM and V will correspond to their true values calculated from the microscopic rate constants of the corresponding mass action system.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068015', [], [u'University of Michigan Medical School']]
[u'A damped oscillator imposes temporal order on posterior gap gene expression in Drosophila', ['Berta Verd', 'Erik Clark', 'Anton Crombach', 'Johannes Jaeger'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Insects determine their body segments in two different ways.  Short-germband insects, such as the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, use a molecular clock to establish segments sequentially.  In contrast, long-germband insects, such as the vinegar fly Drosophila melanogaster, determine all segments simultaneously through a hierarchical cascade of gene regulation.  Gap genes constitute the first layer of the Drosophila segmentation gene hierarchy, downstream of maternal gradients. We use data driven modelling and phase space analysis to show that shifting gap domains in the posterior half of the Drosophila embryo are an emergent property of a robust damped oscillator mechanism.  The rate at which gap domains shift is determined by the level of maternal Caudal (Cad), which also regulates the frequency of the Tribolium molecular clock.  Our evidence indicates that the regulatory dynamics underlying long- and short-germband segmentation are much more similar than previously thought.  This similarity may help explain why long-germband segmentation evolved convergently multiple times during the radiation of the holometabolan insects.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068072', [], [u'KLI Klosterneuburg;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'CIRB;', u'KI Klosterneuburg']]
[u'Dynamic Maternal Gradients Control Timing and Shift-Rates for Gap Gene Expression', ['Berta Verd', 'Anton Crombach', 'Johannes Jaeger'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Pattern formation during development is a highly dynamic process.  In spite of this, few experimental and modelling approaches take into account the explicit time-dependence of the rules governing regulatory systems.  We address this problem by studying dynamic morphogen interpretation by the gap gene network in Drosophila melanogaster.  Gap genes are involved in segment determination during early embryogenesis.  They are activated by maternal morphogen gradients encoded by bicoid (bcd) and caudal (cad).  These gradients decay at the same time-scale as the establishment of the antero-posterior gap gene pattern.  We use a reverse-engineering approach, based on data-driven regulatory models called gene circuits, to isolate and characterise the explicitly time-dependent effects of changing morphogen concentrations on gap gene regulation.  To achieve this, we simulate the system in the presence and absence of dynamic gradient decay.  Comparison between these simulations reveals that maternal morphogen decay controls the timing and limits the rate of gap gene expression.  In the anterior of the embyro, it affects peak expression and leads to the establishment of smooth spatial boundaries between gap domains.  In the posterior of the embryo, it causes a progressive slow-down in the rate of gap domain shifts, which is necessary to correctly position domain boundaries and to stabilise the spatial gap gene expression pattern.  We use a newly developed method for the analysis of transient dynamics in non-autonomous (time-variable) systems to understand the regulatory causes of these effects.  By providing a rigorous mechanistic explanation for the role of maternal gradient decay in gap gene regulation, our study demonstrates that such analyses are feasible and reveal important aspects of dynamic gene regulation which would have been missed by a traditional steady-state approach.  More generally, it highlights the importance of transient dynamics for understanding complex regulatory processes in development.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068064', [], [u'KLI Klosterneuburg;', u'CIRB']]
[u'Population genomics of C. melanopterus using target gene capture data: demographic inferences and conservation perspectives', ['Pierpaolo Maisano Delser', 'Shannon Corrigan', 'Matthew Hale', 'Chenhong Li', 'Michel Veuille', 'Serge Planes', 'Gavin Naylor', 'Stefano Mona'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Population genetics studies on non-model organisms typically involve sampling few markers from multiple individuals. Next-generation sequencing approaches open up the possibility of sampling many more markers from fewer individuals to address the same questions. Here, we applied a target gene capture method to deep sequence ~1000 independent autosomal regions of a non-model organism, the blacktip reef shark (Carcharhinus melanopterus). We devised a sampling scheme based on the predictions of theoretical studies of metapopulations to show that sampling few individuals, but many loci, can be extremely informative to reconstruct the evolutionary history of species. We collected data from a single deme (SID) from Northern Australia and from a scattered sampling representing various locations throughout the Indian Ocean (SCD). We explored the genealogical signature of population dynamics detected from both sampling schemes using an ABC algorithm. We then contrasted these results with those obtained by fitting the data to a non-equilibrium finite island model. Both approaches supported an Nm value ~40, consistent with philopatry in this species. Finally, we demonstrate through simulation that metapopulations exhibit greater resilience to recent changes in effective size compared to unstructured populations. We propose an empirical approach to detect recent bottlenecks based on our sampling scheme.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068106', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'College of Charleston;', u'Medical University of South Carolina;', u'Key Laboratory of Exploration and Utilization of Aquatic Genetic Resources, Shanghai;', u'EPHE;', u'CRIOBE-USR']]
[u'An autonomous meiosis-specific region of yeast Nup2 (hNup50) promotes normal meiotic chromosome dynamics in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.', ['Daniel B. Chu', 'Sean M Burgess'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Meiosis is a specialized cellular program required to create haploid gametes from diploid parent cells. Prior to the first meiotic division, homologous chromosomes pair, synapse, and recombine to ensure their proper disjunction at anaphase I. Additionally, telomeres tethered at the nuclear envelope cluster in the bouquet configuration where they are subjected to dramatic pulling forces acting from outside of the nucleus. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the telomere-associated protein Ndj1 is required for bouquet formation. When Ndj1 is absent, these dramatic motions cease and multiple steps of meiosis I prophase progression are delayed. Here we identified Nup2 in a pool of enriched proteins that co-purify with tagged Ndj1 from meiotic cell extracts. Nup2 is a nonessential nucleoporin that functions in nuclear transport, boundary activity, and telomere silencing in mitotically dividing cells. We found that deletion of NUP2 delayed pairing and synapsis during meiosis, and led to decreased spore viability, similar to the ndj1\u0394 mutant phenotype. Surprisingly, the nup2\u0394 ndj1\u0394 double mutant failed to segregate chromosomes, even though the meiotic program continued. These results suggest that a physical impediment to nuclear division is created in the absence of Nup2 and Ndj1. Our deletion analysis of NUP2 identified a previously uncharacterized 125-amino acid region that is both necessary and sufficient to complement all of nup2\u0394???s meiotic phenotypes, which we call the meiotic autonomous region (MAR). We propose that Ndj1 and Nup2 function in parallel pathways to promote the dynamic chromosome events of meiotic chromosome dynamics, perhaps through the establishment or maintenance of higher-order chromosome organization.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068056', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'Long-time analytic approximation of large stochastic oscillators: simulation, analysis and inference', ['Giorgos Minas', 'David A Rand'], u'August 5, 2016.', u"There is currently a great need for analytical tools and accurate approximation methods for large complex stochastic dynamical models such as those oscillators studied in systems biology. We present a new stochastic approximation of biological oscillators that allows such an approach. To do this we analyse the failure of the fast and analytically tractable Linear Noise Approximation (LNA) and use this understanding and dynamical systems perturbation theory to develop a modified LNA, called phase-corrected LNA (pcLNA) that overcomes the main limitations of the standard LNA providing\napproximations uniformly accurate for long times, which are still fast and analytically tractable. As part of this, we develop analytical expressions for\nkey probability distributions and associated quantities, such as the Fisher Information Matrix and Kullback-Leibler divergence, which can be used\nto analyse the system's stochastic sensitivities and information geometry. We also present algorithms for statistical inference and for long-term simulation of oscillating systems. We use a model of the drosophila circadian clock for illustration and comparisons of pcLNA with exact\nsimulations.", u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068148', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Overcoming the dichotomy: new insights into the genomic diversity of open and isolated European populations', ['Paolo Anagnostou', 'Valentina Dominici', 'Cinzia Battaggia', 'Luca Pagani', 'Miguel Vilar', 'Spencer Wells', 'Davide Pettener', 'Stefania Sarno', 'Alessio Boattini', 'Paolo Francalacci', 'Vincenza Colonna', 'Giuseppe Vona', 'Carla Calo', 'Giovanni Destro Bisol', 'Sergio Tofanelli'], u'August 5, 2016.', u"Human populations are often dichotomized into 'isolated' and 'open' using cultural and/or geographical barriers to gene flow as differential criteria. Although widespread, the use of these alternative categories could obscure further heterogeneity due to inter-population differences in effective size, growth rate, and timing or amount of gene flow. We compared intra and inter-population variation measures combining novel and literature data relative to 87,818 autosomal SNPs in 14 open populations and 10 geographic and/or linguistic European isolates. Patterns of intra-population diversity were found to vary significantly more among isolates, probably due to differential levels of drift and inbreeding. The relatively large effective size estimated for some population isolates challenges the generalized view that they originate from small founding groups. Principal component scores based on measures of intra-population variation of isolated and open populations turned out to be distributed along a sort of continuum, with an area of intersection between the two groups. Patterns of inter-population diversity were even closer, as we were able to detect some differences between population groups only for a few multidimensional scaling dimensions. Therefore, different lines of evidence suggest that dichotomizing human populations into open and isolated fails to capture the actual relations among their genomic features.", u'/content/early/2016/08/05/067850', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Rome;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'National Geographic Society;', u'Univerisity of Bologna;', u'University of Sassari;', u'National Research Council (CNR);', u'University of Cagliari;', u'University of Pisa']]
[u'Identification of Brain Expression Quantitative Trait Loci Associated with Schizophrenia and Affective Disorders in Normal Brain Tissue', ['Oneil G Bhalala', 'Artika P Nath', 'Michael Inouye', 'Christopher R Sibley'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Schizophrenia and the affective disorders, here comprising bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder, are psychiatric illnesses that lead to significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. Whilst understanding of their pathobiology remains limited, large case-control studies have recently identified single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with these disorders. However, discerning the functional effects of these SNPs has been difficult as the associated causal genes are unknown. Here we evaluated whether schizophrenia and affective disorder associated-SNPs are correlated with gene expression within human brain tissue. Specifically, to identify expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), we leveraged disorder-associated SNPs identified from six Psychiatric Genomics Consortium and CONVERGE Consortium studies with gene expression levels in post-mortem, neurologically-normal tissue from two independent human brain tissue expression datasets (UK Brain Expression Consortium (UKBEC) and Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx)). We identified 6 188 and 16 720 cis-acting SNPs exceeding genome-wide significance (p<5x10-8) in the UKBEC and GTEx datasets, respectively. 1 288 cis-eQTLs were significant in a meta-analysis leveraging overlapping brain regions and were associated with expression of 15 genes, including three non-coding RNAs. One cis-eQTL, rs16969968, results in a functionally disruptive missense mutation in CHRNA5, a schizophrenia-implicated gene. Meta-analysis identified 297 trans-eQTLs associated with 24 genes that were significant in a region-specific manner. Importantly, comparing across tissues, we find that blood eQTLs largely do not capture brain cis-eQTLs. This study identifies putatively causal genes whose expression in region-specific brain tissue may contribute to the risk of schizophrenia and affective disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068007', [u'Genetics'], [u'The University of Melbourne;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Synthetic Photosynthetic Consortia Define Interactions Leading to Robustness and Photoproduction', ['Stephanie G. Hays', 'Leo L.W. Yan', 'Pamela A. Silver', 'Daniel C. Ducat'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Microbial consortia composed of autotrophic and heterotrophic species abound in nature, yet examples of synthetic communities with mixed metabolism are limited in the laboratory. Herein, we construct artificial synthetic consortia consisting of sucrose-secreting cyanobacteria, Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942, paired with three disparate heterotrophs: Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Comparison of these different dyads highlights underlying interactions in co-culture. We witness both engineered and emergent interactions between cyanobacterium and heterotroph shared across heterotrophic species. Heterotrophs can consume carbon fixed photosynthetically by cyanobacteria while non-sucrose byproducts of photosynthesis can negatively impact heterotroph growth. Surprisingly, all tested heterotrophic species can positively impact cyanobacterial growth in co-culture in comparison to monoculture. Growth of co-cultures is witnessed in batch and continuous culture as well as on agar plates. Co-cultures persist long-term and can survive perturbation, particularly when heterotrophic sucrose uptake is enhanced and/or heterotrophic sensitivity to byproducts of photosynthetic metabolism is mitigated. This level of robustness is infrequently witnessed in synthetic microbial communities. Furthermore, by exchanging partner heterotrophs, we demonstrate flexible, phototrophic production of alpha-amylase and polyhydroxybutyrate in co-cultures containing specialized strains of B. subtilis and E. coli, respectively. Production can be improved via engineered intervention, i.e. increased efficiency growing on sucrose, showing promise for future tuning of these communities as production platforms. Altogether these synthetic microbial consortia provide a platform to study autotroph-heterotroph interactions, while demonstrating promising flexibility and stability for potential photoproduction strategies that capitalize on multi-species interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068130', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Harvard;', u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Fast and accurate de novo genome assembly from long uncorrected reads', ['Robert Vaser', 'Ivan Sovic', 'Niranjan Nagarajan', 'Mile Sikic'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'The assembly of long reads from Pacific Biosciences and Oxford Nanopore Technologies typically requires resource intensive error correction and consensus generation steps to obtain high quality assemblies. We show that the error correction step can be omitted and high quality consensus sequences can be generated efficiently with a SIMD accelerated, partial order alignment based stand-alone consensus module called Racon. Based on tests with PacBio and Oxford Nanopore datasets we show that Racon coupled with Miniasm enables consensus genomes with similar or better quality than state-of-the-art methods while being an order of magnitude faster.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068122', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Zagreb, Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing;', u'Rudjer Boskovic Institute;', u'Genome Institute of Singapore']]
[u'Removing bias against short sequences enables northern blotting to better complement RNA-seq for the study of small RNAs', ['Yun S Choi', 'Lanelle O Edwards', 'Aubrey DiBello', 'Antony Merlin Jose'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Changes in small non-coding RNAs such as micro RNAs (miRNAs) can serve as indicators of disease and can be measured using next-generation sequencing of RNA (RNA-seq). Here, we highlight the need for approaches that complement RNA-seq, discover that northern blotting of small RNAs is biased against short sequences, and develop a protocol that removes this bias. We found that multiple small RNA-seq datasets from the worm C. elegans had shorter forms of miRNAs that appear to be degradation products that arose during the preparatory steps required for RNA-seq. When using northern blotting during these studies, we discovered that miRNA-length probes can have a ~360-fold bias against detecting even synthetic sequences that are 8 nt shorter. By using shorter probes and by performing hybridization and washes at low temperatures, we greatly reduced this bias to enable equivalent detection of 24 nt to 14 nt RNAs. Our protocol can better discriminate RNAs that differ by a single nucleotide and can detect specific miRNAs present in total RNA from C. elegans. This improved northern blotting is particularly useful to obtain a measure of small RNA integrity, analyze products of RNA processing or turnover, and analyze functional RNAs that are shorter than typical miRNAs.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/068031', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Maryland;', u'University of Maryland College Park']]
[u'Interactive online brain shape visualization', ['Anisha Keshavan', 'Arno Klein', 'Benjamin Cipollini'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'The Mindboggle project was initiated to improve the labeling as well as morphometry of brain imaging data, and to promote open science by making all data, software, and documentation freely and openly available. An interface for interactive visualization is essential for assessing issues in brain image processing and analysis, including surface reconstruction, labeling, and morphometry. We completed an initial version of our browser-based interactive visualization tool; a left hemisphere of a human brain is available at http://roygbiv.mindboggle.info.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/067678', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UCSF;', u'Sage Bionetworks;', u'UCSD']]
[u'Evolution of simple multicellularity increases environmental complexity', ['Maria Rebolleda-Gomez', 'William C. Ratcliff', 'Fankhauser Jonathon', 'Michael Travisano'], u'August 5, 2016.', u"Multicellularity--the integration of previously autonomous cells into a new, more complex organ-\nism--is one of the major transitions in evolution. Multicellularity changed evolutionary possibilities\nand facilitated the evolution of increased complexity. Transitions to multicellularity are associated with\nrapid diversification and increased ecological opportunity but the potential mechanisms are not well\nunderstood. In this paper we explore the ecological mechanisms of multicellular diversification during\nexperimental evolution of the brewer's yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The evolution from single cells into multicellular clusters modifies the structure of the environment, changing the fluid dynamics and creating novel ecological opportunities. This study demonstrates that even in simple conditions, incipient multicellularity readily changes the environment, facilitating the origin and maintenance of diversity.", u'/content/early/2016/08/05/067991', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'Georgia Tech']]
[u'Optimized implementations of voxel-wise degree centrality and local functional connectivity density mapping in AFNI', ['Richard Craddock', 'Daniel Clark'], u'August 5, 2016.', u'Degree centrality (DC) and local functional connectivity density (lFCD) are statistics calculated from brain connectivity graphs that measure how important a brain region is to the graph. DC (a.k.a. global functional connectivity density) is calculated as the number of connections a region has with the rest of the brain (binary DC), or the sum of weights for those connections (weighted DC). lFCD was developed to be a surrogate measure of DC that is faster to calculate by restricting its computation to regions that are spatially adjacent. Although both of these measures are popular for investigating inter-individual variation in brain connectivity, efficient neuroimaging tools for computing them are scarce. The goal of this Brainhack project was to contribute optimized implementations of these algorithms to the widely used, open source, AFNI software package.', u'/content/early/2016/08/05/067702', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research;', u'Child Mind Institute']]
