[u'Ecology, molecules and colour: Multivariate species delimitation and conservation of Harlequin poison frogs', ['Andres Posso-Terranova', 'Jose Andres Abad'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'We propose a iterative protocol for delimiting species under the generalized lineage concept (GLC) based on the multivariate clustering of morphological, ecological, and genetic data. Our rationale is that the resulting groups should correspond to evolutionarily independent metapopulation lineages because they reflect the common signal of different secondary defining properties (ecological and genetic distinctiveness, morphological diagnosability, etc.), implying the existence of barriers preventing or limiting gene exchange. We applied this method to study a group of highly endangered poison frogs,  the Oophaga histrionica complex. In our study case, we use next generation targeted amplicon sequencing to obtain a robust genetic dataset that we then combined with patterns of morphological and ecological divergence. Our analyses revealed the existence of at least five different species in the histrionica complex (three of them new to science) occurring in very small isolated populations outside any protected areas.  More broadly, our study exemplifies how transcriptome-based reduction of genomic complexity and multivariate statistical techniques can be integrated to successfully identify species and their boundaries.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050922', [], [u'University of Saskatchewan']]
[u'Global Genome Nucleotide Excision Repair is Organised into Domains Promoting Efficient DNA Repair in Chromatin', ['Shirong Yu', 'Katie Ellen Evans', 'Patrick van Eijk', 'Mark Bennett', 'Richard M Webster', 'Matthew Leadbitter', 'Yumin Teng', 'Raymond Waters', 'Stephen Philip P Jackson', 'Simon Huw Reed'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'The rates at which lesions are removed by DNA repair can vary widely throughout the genome with important implications for genomic stability. To study this, we measured the distribution of nucleotide excision repair (NER) rates for UV-induced lesions throughout the budding yeast genome. By plotting these repair rates in relation to genes and their associated flanking sequences, we reveal that in normal cells, genomic repair rates display a distinctive pattern, suggesting that DNA repair is highly organised within the genome. Furthermore, by comparing genome-wide DNA repair rates in wild-type cells, and cells defective in the global genome-NER (GG-NER) sub-pathway, we establish how this alters the distribution of NER rates throughout the genome. We also examined the genomic locations of GG-NER factor binding to chromatin before and after UV irradiation revealing that GG-NER is organised and initiated from specific genomic locations. At these sites, chromatin occupancy of the histone acetyl transferase Gcn5 is controlled by the GG-NER complex, which regulates histone H3 acetylation and chromatin structure, thereby promoting efficient DNA repair of UV-induced lesions. Chromatin remodeling during the GG-NER process is therefore organized into these genomic domains. Importantly, loss of Gcn5, significantly alters the genomic distribution of NER rates, a finding that has important implications for the effects of chromatin modifiers on the distribution of mutations that arise throughout the genome.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050807', [], [u'Cardiff University, School of Medicine;', u'University of Cambridge, Wellcome Trust/Cancer Research UK Gurdon Institute']]
[u'How life history can sway the fixation probability of mutants', ['Xiang-Yi Li', 'Shun Kurokawa', 'Stefano Giaimo', 'Arne Traulsen'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'In this work, we study the effects of demographic structure on evolutionary dynamics, when selection acts on reproduction, survival, or both.\nIn contrast with the previously discovered pattern that the fixation probability of a neutral mutant decreases while population becomes younger, we show that a mutant with constant selective advantage may have a maximum or a minimum of the fixation probability in populations with an intermediate fraction of young individuals.\nThis highlights the importance of life history and demographic structure in studying evolutionary dynamics.\nWe also illustrate the fundamental differences between selection on reproduction and on survival when age structure is present. \nIn addition, we evaluate the relative importance of size and structure of the population in determining the fixation probability of the mutant.\nOur work lays the foundation for studying also density and frequency dependent effects in populations when demographic structures cannot be neglected.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050914', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology;', u'Division of Natural Resource Economics, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University, Japan;', u'MPI Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Urbanization drives parallel adaptive clines in plant populations', ['Ken A. Thompson', 'Marie Renaudin', 'Marc T.J. Johnson'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Urban areas are a new and increasingly dominant feature of terrestrial landscapes that dramatically alter environments. It is unclear whether wild populations can adapt to the unique challenges presented by urbanization. To address this problem, we sampled the frequency of a Mendelian-inherited trait - cyanogenesis - in white clover (Trifolium repens L.) plants along urbanization gradients in four large cities. Cyanogenesis protects plants from herbivores, but also reduces freezing tolerance. Plants evolved reduced cyanogenesis with increasing proximity to the urban center in three of the four cities. In an experiment, we demonstrate that gradients in herbivore pressure do not cause these clines. Instead, urban areas experience relatively cold minimum winter ground temperatures because of reduced snow cover within cities, which selects against cyanogenesis. Together, our study demonstrates that wild populations exhibit parallel adaptive evolution in response to urbanization, which likely facilitates the persistence of these plants and promotes pollinator abundance and diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050773', [], [u'University of Toronto;', u'Agrosup Dijon;', u'University of Toronto Mississauga']]
[u'A novel approach using increased taxon sampling reveals thousands of hidden orthologs in flatworms', ['Jose M Martin-Duran', 'Joseph F Ryan', 'Bruno Cossermelli Cossermelli Vellutini', 'Kevin Pang', 'Andreas Hejnol'], u'April 28, 2016.', u"Gene gains and losses shape the gene complement of animal lineages and are a fundamental aspect of genomic evolution. Acquiring a comprehensive view of the evolution of gene repertoires is however limited by the intrinsic limitations of common sequence similarity searches and available databases. Thus, a subset of the complement of an organism consists of hidden orthologs, those with no apparent homology with common sequenced animal lineages --mistakenly considered new genes-- but actually representing fast evolving orthologs of presumably lost proteins. Here, we describe 'Leapfrog', an automated pipeline that uses increased taxon sampling to overcome long evolutionary distances and identify hidden orthologs in large transcriptomic databases. As a case study, we used 35 transcriptomes of 29 flatworm lineages to recover 3,597 hidden orthologs. Unexpectedly, we do not observe a correlation between the number of hidden orthologs in a lineage and its 'average' evolutionary rate. Hidden orthologs do not show unusual sequence composition biases (e.g. GC content, average length, domain composition), but do appear to be more common in genes with binding or catalytic activity. By using 'Leapfrog', we identify key centrosome-related genes and homeodomain classes previously reported as absent in free-living flatworms, e.g. planarians. Altogether, our findings demonstrate that hidden orthologs comprise a significant proportion of the gene repertoire, qualifying the impact of gene losses and gains in gene complement evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050724', [], [u'Sars International Centre. University of Bergen;', u'Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience;', u'University of Bergen']]
[u'Na\xefve chicks prefer hollow objects', ['Elisabetta Versace', 'Jana Schill', 'Andrea Maria Nencini', 'Giorgio Vallortigara'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Cognitive predispositions can influence approaching and avoid responses since the early stages of life. Young individuals of species that require parental care (e.g. human babies and chicks of the domestic fowl) are attracted by stimuli that contain features present in social partners such as face-like configurations, biological motion and self-propulsion. Studies on human infants showed that 8-month-old babies might possess expectations about the biological properties of animate entities. It is not clear though whether previous experience with animate entities had generated those expectations, or whether they arose spontaneously. We reasoned that na\xefve chicks of the domestic fowl (Gallus gallus) might be a convenient subject to investigate whether the mere property of being filled vs. hollow triggers unlearned preferences. To this aim we tested preferences of na\xefve and imprinted chicks for hollow and closed cylinders of the size and colour that elicit affiliative responses. We documented an unlearned attraction for hollow stimuli, showing that the property of being filled is not sufficient to elicit affiliative responses in chicks. The preference for hollow stimuli could be decreased through filial imprinting, by exposing na\xefve chicks to filled stimuli. When chicks were imprinted on stimuli that could be either filled or hollow, the preference for hollow stimuli emerged again. Further experiments revealed that hollow objects were mainly attractive by means of depth cues such as darker innards, more than as places to hide or as objects with high contrast.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050799', [], [u'University of Trento;', u'Center for Mind/Brain Sciences, University of Trento (Italy)']]
[u'A qualitative model of the rod photoreceptor in natural context', ['Timothee T Dubuc', 'Etienne B Roesch'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Given the intricacies of the retinal neural circuit, which bears a striking resemblance to that of the brain, it is proposed that retinal function goes beyond mere spatiotemporal prefiltering. We hypothesise that aspects related to motion detection and discrimination, anticipation and adaptation to environmental and contextual conditions, which have traditionally been ascribed to the brain, may be supported by neurons in the retina. Such early computations may be dependent on compensative and adaptive mechanisms that stem from qualities intrinsic to the retinal neural circuit and its interaction with the environment (neural transduction time, connectivity patterns, regularities in the input signal, temporal dynamics and light variations).\nWith a view to investigating the contribution of the photoreceptor population to the processing performed by the retina in natural scotopic conditions, we present a continuous model of the rod photoreceptor. Our model permits the reproduction and exploration of a set of qualitative features displayed in vitro, such as excitation-dependent activation level and time-to-membrane current integration. We captured qualitative aspects of key features selected for their presumed importance in early visual function. Further, we subjected our model to extensive parameter sensitivity analyses, aiming to provide a visual representation of their contribution to the observed qualitative behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050823', [], [u'University of Reading']]
[u'Inferring interaction partners from protein sequences', ['Anne-Florence Bitbol', 'Robert S Dwyer', 'Lucy J Colwell', 'Ned S Wingreen'], u'April 28, 2016.', u"Specific protein-protein interactions are crucial in the cell, both to ensure the formation and stability of multi-protein complexes, and to enable signal transduction in various pathways. Functional interactions between proteins result in coevolution between the interaction partners. Hence, the sequences of interacting partners are correlated. Here we exploit these correlations to accurately identify which proteins are specific interaction partners from sequence data alone. Our general approach, which employs a pairwise maximum entropy model to infer direct couplings between residues, has been successfully used to predict the three-dimensional structures of proteins from sequences. Building on this approach, we introduce an iterative algorithm to predict specific interaction partners from among the members of two protein families. We assess the algorithm's performance on histidine kinases and response regulators from bacterial two-component signaling systems. The algorithm proves successful without any a priori knowledge of interaction partners, yielding a striking 0.93 true positive fraction on our complete dataset, and we uncover the origin of this surprising success. Finally, we discuss how our method could be used to predict novel protein-protein interactions.", u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050732', [], [u'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie;', u'Princeton University;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Origin and modulation of the narrowband gamma oscillation in the mouse visual system', ['Aman B Saleem', 'Anthony D Lien', 'Michael Krumin', 'Bilal Haider', 'Miroslav Roman Roson', 'Asli Ayaz', 'Kimberley Reinhold', 'Laura Busse', 'Matteo Carandini', 'Kenneth D Harris'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Visual cortex (V1) exhibits two types of gamma oscillation: a well-characterized broadband (30-90Hz) rhythm, and a narrowband oscillation occurring at frequencies close to 60 Hz in mice. We investigated the source of narrowband gamma, the factors modulating its strength, and its relationship to broadband gamma. Narrowband and broadband gamma power were uncorrelated. Increasing visual contrast had opposite effects on the two kinds of gamma activity: it increased broadband power, but suppressed the narrowband oscillation. Narrowband power was strongest in layer 4, and was mediated primarily by excitatory currents entrained by rhythmically firing neuronal ensembles in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Silencing the cortex optogenetically did not affect narrowband rhythmicity in either LGN spike trains or cortical EPSCs, suggesting that this oscillation reflects unidirectional flow of information from LGN to V1.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050245', [], [u'University College London;', u'University of San Diego, USA;', u'University College London, London, UK;', u'University of Tubingen, Germany;', u'University of Zurich, Switzerland']]
[u'Shh and ZRS enhancer co-localisation is specific to the zone of polarizing activity', ['William Iain Williamson', 'Laura A Lettice', 'Robert Hill', 'Wendy A Bickmore'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Limb-specific Shh expression is regulated by the (~1 Mb distant) ZRS enhancer. In the mouse, limb bud restricted spatiotemporal expression of Shh occurs from ~E10-E11.5 at the distal posterior margin and is essential for correct autopod formation. Here, we have analysed the higher-order chromatin conformation of Shh in expressing and non-expressing tissues, both by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) and by chromosome conformation capture (5C). Conventional and super-resolution light microscopy identified significantly elevated frequencies of Shh/ZRS co-localisation only in the Shh expressing regions of the limb bud. However, Shh-ZRS spatial distances were consistently shorter than intervening distances to a neural enhancer in all tissues and developmental stages analysed. 5C identified a topologically associating domain (TAD) over the Shh/ZRS genomic region and enriched interactions between Shh and ZRS throughout E11.5 embryos. Shh/ZRS co-localisation, therefore, correlates with the spatiotemporal domain of limb bud-specific Shh expression, but close Shh/ZRS proximity in the nucleus occurs regardless of whether the gene or enhancer is active. We suggest that this constrained chromatin configuration optimises the opportunity for the active enhancer to locate and instigate Shh expression.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050849', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Accurate classification of protein subcellular localization from high throughput microscopy images using deep learning', ['Tanel Parnamaa', 'Leopold Parts'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'High throughput microscopy of many single cells generates high-dimensional data that are far from straightforward to analyze. One important problem is automatically detecting the cellular compartment where a fluorescently tagged protein resides, a task relatively simple for an experienced human, but difficult to automate on a computer. Here, we train an 11-layer neural network on data from mapping thousands of yeast proteins, achieving per cell localization classification accuracy of 91%, and per protein accuracy of 99% on held out images. We confirm that low-level network features correspond to basic image characteristics, while deeper layers separate localization classes. Using this network as a feature calculator, we train standard classifiers that assign proteins to previously unseen compartments after observing only a small number of training examples. Our results are the most accurate subcellular localization classifications to date, and demonstrate the usefulness of deep learning for high throughput microscopy.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050757', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Tartu;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Whole genome sequencing identifies independent outbreaks of Shigellosis in 2010 and 2011 in La Pampa Province, Argentina', ['Isabel Chinen', 'Marcelo Galas', 'Ezequiel Tuduri', 'Maria Rosa Vinas', 'Carolina Carbonari', 'Anabella Della Gaspera', 'Daniela Napoli', 'David M Aanensen', 'Silvia Argimon', 'Nicholas R Thomson', 'Darren Hughes', 'Stephen Baker', 'Caterina Guzman;Verri', 'Matthew TG Holden', 'Alejandra M Abdala', 'Lucia P Alvarez', 'Beatriz Alvez', 'Rosana Barros', 'Shirley Budall', 'Constanza Campano', 'Luciana S Chamosa', 'Paul Cheddie', 'Daniel Cisterna', 'Denise De Belder', 'Milena Dropa', 'David Durand', 'Alan Elena', 'Gustavo Fontecha', 'Claudia Huber', 'Ana Paula Lemos', 'Luciano Melli', 'Roxana Elizabeth Paul', 'Lesly Suarez', 'Julian Torres Flores', 'Josefina Campos'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Shigella sonnei is an emergent cause of diarrheal disease in middle-income countries. The organism causes endemic disease and is also associated with sporadic outbreaks in susceptible populations. In 2010 and 2011 there were two suspected outbreaks of diarrheal disease caused by S. sonnei in La Pampa province in central Argentina. Aiming to confirm these as outbreaks and provide insight into the relationship of the strains causing these infections we combined antimicrobial susceptibility testing and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) with whole genome sequencing (WGS). Antimicrobial susceptibility testing suggested the two events were unrelated; organisms isolated in 2010 exhibited resistance to trimethoprim sulphate whereas the 2011 S. sonnei were non-susceptible against ampicillin, trimethoprim sulphate and cefpodoxime. PFGE profiling confirmed the likelihood of two independent outbreaks, separating the isolates into two main XbaI restriction profiles. We additionally performed WGS on 17 isolates associated with these outbreaks. The resulting phylogeny confirmed the PFGE structure and separated the organisms into two comparatively distantly related clones. Antimicrobial resistant genes were common, and the presence of an OXA-1 was likely associated with resistance to cefpodoxime in the second outbreak. We additionally identified novel horizontally transferred genetic material that may impinge on the pathogenic phenotype of the infecting strains. Our study shows that even with a lack of supporting routine data WGS is an indispensible method for the tracking and surveillance of bacterial pathogens during outbreaks and is becoming a vital tool for the monitoring of antimicrobial resistant strains of S. sonnei.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/049940', [u'Genomics'], [u'Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades Infecciosas, ANLIS, Buenos Aires, Argentina;', u'Imperial College London, London, United Kingdom;', u'Centre for Genomic Pathogen Surveillance, Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'The Wellcome Genome Campus Advanced Courses, Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'The Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Wellcome Trust Major Overseas Programme, Oxford University Cl;', u'Universidad Nacional, 3000 Heredia, Costa Rica;', u'The University of St. Andrews, St. Andrews, Scotland;', u'National Institute for Agricultural Technology (INTA)CONICET, Argentina;', u'Universidad Central de Venezuela, Caracas, Venezuela;', u'Fluminense Federal University, Niterio, Brazil;', u'University of the West Indies, Mona Campus, Kingston, Jamaica;', u'Institute of Public Health of Chile, Santiago, Chile;', u'Universidad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina;', u'University of Guyana, Georgetown, Guyana;', u'University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia, Lima, Peru;', u'Microbiology Research Institute, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Honduras, Tegucigalpa, Honduras;', u'Laboratorio Central de Salud Publica, Asuncion, Paraguay;', u'Instituto Adolfo Lutz;', u'Universidad Nacional de San Martin, Buenos Aires, Argentina;', u'Malbran Institute;', u'Cayetano Heredia University, Lima, Peru']]
[u'Understanding properties of the master effector of phage shock operon in Mycobacterium tuberculosis via bioinformatics approach', ['Zarrin Basharat', 'Azra Yasmin'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'The phage-shock-protein (psp) is a part of the psp operon, which assists in safeguarding the survival of bacterium in stress and shields the cell against proton motif force challenge. It is strongly induced by bacterium allied phages, improperly localized mutant porins and various other stresses. Master effector of the operon, PspA has been modeled and simulated, illustrating how it undergoes significant conformational transition at the far end in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Association of this key protein of the operon influences action of Psp system on the whole. We are further working on the impact of phosphorylation perturbation and the impact of structural fluctuations during complex formation of PspA with other moieties of interest.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050047', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Fatima Jinnah Women University']]
[u'No \u2032small genome attraction\u2032 artifact: A response to Harish et al. \u2032Did viruses evolve as a distinct supergroup from common ancestors of cells?\u2032', ['Arshan Nasir', 'Kyung Mo Kim', 'Gustavo Caetano-Anolles'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'In a recent eLetter and associated preprint, Harish, Abroi, Gough and Kurland criticized our structural phylogenomic methods, which support the early cellular origin of viruses. Their claims include the argument that the rooting of our trees is artifactual and distorted by small genome (proteome) size. Here we uncover their aprioristic reasoning, which mingles with misunderstandings and misinterpretations of cladistic methodology. To demonstrate, we labeled the phylogenetic positions of the smallest proteomes in our phylogenetic trees and confirm that the smallest genomes were neither attracted towards the root nor caused any distortions in the four-supergroup tree of life. Their results therefore stem from confusing outgroups with ancestors and handpicking problematic taxa to distort tree reconstruction. In doing so, they ignored the details of our rooting method, taxa sampling rationale, the plethora of evidence given in our study supporting the ancient origin of the viral supergroup and also recent literature on viral evolution. Indeed, our tree of life uncovered many viral monophyletic groups consistent with ICTV classifications and showed remarkable evolutionary tracings of virion morphotypes onto a revealing tree topology.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050179', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Biosciences, COMSATS Institute of Information Technology;', u'Biological Resource Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology;', u'Department of Crop Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Genome-wide analyses of empathy and systemizing: heritability and correlates with sex, education, and psychiatric risk', ['Varun Warrier', 'Roberto Toro', 'Bhismadev Chakrabarti', 'Nadia Litterman', 'David Hinds', 'Thomas Bourgeron', 'Simon Baron-Cohen'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Empathy is the drive to identify the mental states of others and respond to these with an appropriate emotion. Systemizing is the drive to analyse or build lawful systems. Difficulties in empathy have been identified in different psychiatric conditions including autism and schizophrenia. In this study, we conducted genome-wide association studies of empathy and systemizing using the Empathy Quotient (EQ) (n = 46,861) and the Systemizing Quotient-Revised (SQ-R) (n = 51,564) in participants from 23andMe, Inc. We confirmed significant sex-differences in performance on both tasks, with a male advantage on the SQ-R and female advantage on the EQ. We found highly significant heritability explained by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) for both the traits (EQ: 0.11 \xb1 0.014; P= 1.7x10-14 and SQ-R: 0.12 \xb1 0.012; P=1.2x10-20) and these were similar for males and females. However, genes with higher expression in the male brain appear to contribute to the male advantage for the SQ-R. Finally, we identified significant genetic correlations between high score for empathy and risk for schizophrenia (P= 2.5x10-5), and correlations between high score for systemizing and higher educational attainment (P= 5x10-4). These results shed light on the genetic contribution to individual differences in empathy and systemizing, two major cognitive functions of the human brain.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050682', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'University of Reading;', u'23andMe, Inc.']]
[u'Recombineering in C. elegans: genome editing using in vivo assembly of linear DNAs', ['Alexandre Paix', 'Helen Schmidt', 'Geraldine Seydoux'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Recombineering, the use of endogenous homologous recombination systems to recombine DNA in vivo, is a commonly used technique for genome editing in microbes. Recombineering has not yet been developed for animals, where non-homology-based mechanisms have been thought to dominate DNA repair. Here, we demonstrate that homology-dependent repair (HDR) is robust in C. elegans using linear templates with short homologies (~35 bases). Templates with homology to only one side of a double-strand break initiate repair efficiently, and short overlaps between templates support template switching. We demonstrate the use of single-stranded, bridging oligonucleotides (ssODNs) to target PCR fragments precisely to DSBs induced by CRISPR/Cas9 on chromosomes. Based on these findings, we develop recombineering strategies for genome editing that expand the utility of ssODNs and eliminate in vitro cloning steps for template construction. We apply these methods to the generation of GFP knock-in alleles and gene replacements without co-integrated markers. We conclude that, like microbes, metazoans possess robust homology-dependent repair mechanisms that can be harnessed for recombineering and genome editing.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050815', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine']]
[u'Proportion of cocaine-coding neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex determines individual drug preferences', ['Karine Guillem', 'Serge H Ahmed'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Cocaine addiction is a harmful preference for drug use over and at the expense of other nondrug-related activities. Here we identify in the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), a prefrontal region involved in choice and decision-making, a mechanism that explains individual preferences in rats between cocaine use and an alternative, nondrug action. We found that initiation of these actions is selectively encoded by two non-overlapping populations of OFC neurons, and that the relative size and differential pre-choice activity of the cocaine action-coding population determine an individual preference, a larger size and a higher pre-choice activity being associated with cocaine preference. A larger size is a structural feature that may confer to a population of OFC neurons a competitive advantage during choice in favor of the encoded action. Such structural encoding also explains two other major defining features of an individual drug preference, its stability over time and its resistance to change.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050872', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Universite de Bordeaux']]
[u'Localizing metabolic synthesis in microbial cultures with kinetic mass spectrometry imaging (kMSI)', ['Katherine Louie', 'Benjamin Bowen', 'Rebecca Lau', 'Trent Northen'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) has emerged as a powerful technique enabling spatially defined imaging of metabolites within microbial biofilms.  Here, we extend this approach to enable differentiation of newly synthesized versus pre-existing metabolites across a co-culture.  This is accomplished by MS imaging two soil microbes, Shewanella oneidensis MR1 and Pseudomonas stutzeri RCH2, that were administered heavy water (D2O) during growth on agar plates.  For two species-specific diglyceride (DG) lipids, isotopic analysis was performed on each spectra collected across the co-culture to determine the relative amount of newly synthesized versus pre-existing lipid.  Here, highest levels of new synthesis of RCH2 lipid was localized to border regions adjacent to S. oneidensis MR1, while the MR1 lipid showed highest levels in regions further from RCH2.  Interestingly, regions of high lipid abundance did not correspond to the regions with highest new lipid biosynthesis.  Given the simplicity and generality of using D2O as a stable isotopic probe combined with the accessibility of kMSI to a range of MSI instrumentation, this approach has broad application for improving our understanding of how microbial interactions influence metabolite biosynthesis.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050658', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory / Joint Genome Institute;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory']]
[u'Origins and evolution of trans-splicing of bursicon in mosquitos', ['Scott W Roy'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'Broad transcriptomic sequencing of eukaryotes has revealed the ubiquity of splicing of nuclear genes.  While the vast majority of splicing events join segments of the same RNA transcript, various studies have found a few intriguing cases of trans-splicing of introns, in which splicing events within protein coding regions join segments of different RNA transcripts.  The most structurally intricate case known involves the bursicon gene in mosquitos, in which an internal exon is encoded at a distinct locus, requiring multiple trans-splicing events form the mature mRNA.  This arrangement is known to be ancestral to mosquitos, however the exact timing of the origin of trans-splicing and the history of the bursicon gene within mosquitos is unknown.  Taking advantage of the recent availability of genomes from various Anopheles mosquitos and from relatives of mosquitos, I determined trans versus cis encoding of bursicon across Culicomorpha.  I conclude that trans-splicing emerged in the last common ancestor of mosquitos, and that trans-splicing has been retained in all 19 studied Anopheles species.  The retention of trans-splicing could indicate functional importance of this arrangement, or could alternatively reflect the rarity of mutations giving rise to viable allelic alternatives.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050625', [u'Genetics'], [u'San Francisco State University']]
[u'Cell Painting, a high-content image-based assay for morphological profiling using multiplexed fluorescent dyes', ['Mark-Anthony Bray', 'Shantanu Singh', 'Han Han', 'Chadwick T Davis', 'Blake Borgeson', 'Cathy Hartland', 'Maria Kost-Alimova', 'Sigrun M Gustafsdottir', 'Christopher C Gibson', 'Anne E Carpenter'], u'April 28, 2016.', u'In morphological profiling, quantitative data are extracted from microscopy images of cells to identify biologically relevant similarities and differences among samples based on these profiles. This protocol describes the design and execution of experiments using Cell Painting, a morphological profiling assay multiplexing six fluorescent dyes imaged in five channels, to reveal eight broadly relevant cellular components or organelles. Cells are plated in multi-well plates, perturbed with the treatments to be tested, stained, fixed, and imaged on a high-throughput microscope. Then, automated image analysis software identifies individual cells and measures ~1,500 morphological features (various measures of size, shape, texture, intensity, etc.) to produce a rich profile suitable for detecting subtle phenotypes. Profiles of cell populations treated with different experimental perturbations can be compared to suit many goals, such as identifying the phenotypic impact of chemical or genetic perturbations, grouping compounds and/or genes into functional pathways, and identifying signatures of disease. Cell culture and image acquisition takes two weeks; feature extraction and data analysis take an additional 1-2 weeks.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/049817', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Imaging Platform, Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Cambridge USA;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT;', u'Recursion Pharmaceuticals']]
[u'Subiculum neurons map the current axis of travel', ['Jacob M Olson', 'Kanyanat Tongprasearth', 'Douglas M Nitz'], u'April 27, 2016.', u"Travel constrained to paths, a common navigational context, demands knowledge of spatial relationships between routes, their components, and their positioning in the larger environment. During traversal of an environment composed of multiple interconnected paths, a subpopulation of subiculum neurons robustly encoded the animal's current axis of travel. The firing of these axis-tuned neurons peaked bimodally at head orientations approximately 180 degrees apart. Track rotation experiments revealed that axis encoding carried the spatial reference frame of the larger environment as opposed to the track itself. However, axis-tuned activity of the same subpopulation was largely absent during unconstrained movement about a circular arena. Thus, during navigation in a path-rich environment, subpopulations of subiculum neurons encode the animal's current axis of travel relative to environmental boundaries - providing a powerful mechanism for mapping of specific relationships between routes, route components, and the larger environment.", u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050641', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Predicting Drug Synergy and Antagonism from Genetic Interaction Neighborhoods', ['Jonathan H Young', 'Edward M Marcotte'], u'April 27, 2016.', u"Although drug combinations have proven efficacious in a variety of diseases, the design of such regimens often involves extensive experimental screening due to the myriad choice of drugs and doses. To address these challenges, we utilize the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model organism to evaluate whether drug synergy or antagonism is mediated through genetic interactions between their target genes. Specifically, we hypothesize that if the inhibition targets of one chemical compound are in close proximity to those of a second compound in a genetic interaction network, then the compound pair will exhibit synergy or antagonism. Graph metrics are employed to make precise the notion of proximity in a network. Knowledge of genetic interactions and small-molecule targets are compiled through literature sources and curated databases, with predictions validated according to experimentally determined gold standards. Finally, we test whether genetic interactions propagate through networks according to a ``guilt-by-association'' framework. Our results suggest that close proximity between the target genes of one drug and those of another drug does not strongly predict synergy or antagonism. In addition, we find that the extent to which the growth of a double gene mutant deviates from expectation is moderately anti-correlated with their distance in a genetic interaction network.", u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050567', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Carbon nanotube electrodes for retinal implants: a study of structural and functional integration over time', ['Cyril G Eleftheriou', 'Jonas B Zimmermann', 'Henrik D Kjeldsen', 'Moshe David-Pur', 'Yael Hanein', 'Evelyne Sernagor'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'The choice of electrode material is of paramount importance in neural prosthetic devices. Electrodes must be biocompatible yet able to sustain repetitive current injections in a highly corrosive environment. We explored the suitability of carbon nanotube (CNT) electrodes to stimulate retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in a mouse model of outer retinal degeneration. We investigated morphological changes at the bio-hybrid interface and changes in RGC responses to electrical stimulation following prolonged in vitro coupling to CNT electrodes.\nWe observed gradual remodelling of the inner retina to incorporate CNT assemblies. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrate a progressive increase in coupling between RGCs and the CNT electrodes over three days, characterized by a gradual decrease in stimulation thresholds and increase in cellular recruitment. These results provide novel evidence for time-dependent formation of viable bio-hybrids between CNTs and the retina, demonstrating that CNTs are a promising material for inclusion in retinal prosthetic devices.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050633', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Newcasle University, Faculty of Medical Sciences, Institute of Neuroscience;', u'Tel-Aviv University, Dept of Electrical Engineering;', u'Newcastle University, Faculty of Medical Sciences']]
[u'Evolution of brain ontogenetic growth under ecological challenges', ['Mauricio Gonzalez-Forero', 'Timm Faulwasser', 'Laurent Lehmann'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'Large brains are metabolically expensive but support skills (or cognitive abilities, knowledge, information, etc.) that allow overcoming ecological and social challenges, with social challenges being thought to strongly promote large-brain evolution by causing evolutionary arms races in cognition yielding exaggerated brain sizes. We formulate a mathematical model that yields quantitative predictions of brain and body mass throughout ontogeny when individuals evolve facing ecological but no social challenges. We find that ecological challenges alone can generate adult brain and body mass of ancient human scale, showing that evolutionary arms races in cognition are not necessary for extreme brain sizes. We show that large brains are favored by intermediately challenging ecological environments where skills are moderately effective and metabolically expensive for the brain to maintain. We further show that observed correlations of cognitive abilities and brain mass can result from saturation with skill maintenance of the brain metabolic rate allocated to skills.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050534', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Lausanne;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne']]
[u'Induction of Kanizsa contours requires awareness', ['Theodora Banica', 'D. Sam Schwarzkopf'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'It remains unknown to what extent the human visual system interprets information about complex scenes without conscious analysis. Here we used visual masking techniques to assess whether illusory contours (Kanizsa shapes) are perceived when the inducing context creating this illusion does not reach awareness. In experiment 1 we tested perception directly by having participants discriminate the orientation of an illusory contour. In experiment 2, we probed perception indirectly by using Kanizsa shapes to prime performance on a visual search task. In experiment 3, we exploited the fact that the presence of an illusory contour enhances performance on a spatial localization task. Moreover, in experiment 3 we also used a different masking method to rule out the effect of stimulus duration. Our results suggest that participants do not perceive illusory contours when they are unaware of the inducing context. While perceptual grouping and surface segmentation may occur without awareness of the stimuli, the induction of the phenomenal percept of an illusory shape does not. This is consistent with theories of a multistage, recurrent process of perceptual integration. Our findings thus challenge some reports, including those from neurophysiological experiments in anaesthetized animals. We discuss the importance to test the presence of the phenomenal percept directly with appropriate methods.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050526', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCL']]
[u'MALT: Fast alignment and analysis of metagenomic DNA sequence data applied to the Tyrolean Iceman', ['Alexander Herbig', 'Frank Maixner', 'Kirsten I. Bos', 'Albert Zink', 'Johannes Krause', 'Daniel H. Huson'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'Modern next generation sequencing technologies produce vast amounts of data in the context of large-scale metagenomic studies, in which complex microbial communities can be reconstructed to an unprecedented level of detail. Most prominent examples are human microbiome studies that correlate the bacterial taxonomic profile with specific physiological conditions or diseases.\nIn order to perform these analyses high-throughput computational tools are needed that are able to process these data within a short time while preserving a high level of sensitivity and specificity.\nHere we present MALT (MEGAN ALignment Tool) a program for the ultrafast alignment and analysis of metagenomic DNA sequencing data. MALT processes hundreds of millions of sequencing reads within only a few hours. In addition to the alignment procedure MALT implements a taxonomic binning algorithm that is able to specifically assign reads to bacterial species. Its tight integration with the interactive metagenomic analysis software MEGAN allows for visualization and further analyses of results.\nWe demonstrate MALT by its application to the metagenomic analysis of two ancient microbiomes from oral cavity and lung samples of the 5,300-year-old Tyrolean Iceman. Despite the strong environmental background, MALT is able to pick up the weak signal of the original microbiomes and identifies multiple species that are typical representatives of the respective host environment.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050559', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History;', u'Institute for Mummies and the Iceman, European Academy of Bozen/Bolzano (EURAC), Bolzano, Italy;', u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena, Germany;', u'Center for Bioinformatics, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany']]
[u'Nuclear and Plastid DNA Sequence-based Molecular Phylogeography of Salvadora oleoides (Salvadoraceae) in Punjab, India', ['Felix Bast', 'Navreet Kaur'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'Salvadora oleiodes is a tropical tree species belonging to the little-known family Salvadoraceae and distributed in the arid regions of Africa and Asia. Aims of our study were to trace the microevolutionary legacy of this tree species with the help of sequence-based multi-local phylogeography and to find the comparative placement of family Salvadoraceae within angiosperm clade malvids. A total 20 geographical isolates were collected from different regions of North India, covering a major part of its species range within the Indian Subcontinent. Sequence data from nuclear-encoded Internal Transcribed Spacer region (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) and plastid-encoded trnL-F spacer region, were generated for this species for the first time in the world.  ITS-based Bayesian phylogeographic analysis revealed the existence of four clades while trnL-F spacer based Bayesian analysis revealed one clade for this species distributed in the Indian subcontinent. Between these two loci, ITS revealed more distinct phylogeographic clades, indicating the phylogeographic utility of this locus for the systematics of Salvadoraceae. Phylogenetic analyzes based on trnL-F spacer suggested a synonymy of this species with Salvadora angustifolia. Maximum Likelihood gene tree based on ITS sequence data revealed that Salvadoraceae belongs to Sapindales rather than Brassicales. However, in the gene tree based on trnL-F spacer sequence, this family clustered within Brassicales. An evolutionary congruence of S. oleoides isolates across its range in North India is revealed in this study. Given the conflicting results on the relative placement of Salvadoraceae in Brassicales and Sapindales, the need for further phylogenetic analyses of malvids using supermatrix approach is highlighted.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050518', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Central University of Punjab']]
[u'Membrane tension is a key determinant of bud morphology in clathrin-mediated endocytosis', ['Julian E. Hassinger', 'George Oster', 'David G. Drubin', 'Padmini Rangamani'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'In clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME), clathrin and various adaptor proteins coat a patch of the plasma membrane, which is reshaped to form a budded vesicle. Experimental studies have demonstrated that elevated membrane tension can inhibit bud formation by a clathrin coat. In this study, we investigate the impact of membrane tension on the mechanics of membrane budding by simulating clathrin coats that either grow in area or progressively induce greater curvature. At low membrane tension, progressively increasing the area of a curvature-generating coat causes the membrane to smoothly evolve from a flat to budded morphology, whereas the membrane remains essentially flat at high membrane tensions. Interestingly, at physiologically relevant, intermediate membrane tensions, the shape evolution of the membrane undergoes a snapthrough instability in which increasing coat area causes the membrane to "snap" from an open, U-shaped bud to a closed, \u03a9-shaped bud. This instability is accompanied by a large energy barrier, which could  cause a developing endocytic pit to stall if the binding energy of additional coat is insufficient to overcome this barrier. Similar results were found for a coat of constant area in which the spontaneous curvature progressively increases. Additionally, a pulling force on the bud, simulating a force from actin polymerization, is sufficient to drive a transition from an open to closed bud, overcoming the energy barrier opposing this transition.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050484', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Paradoxical signaling regulates structural plasticity in dendritic spines', ['Padmini Rangamani', 'Michael G. Levy', 'Shahid M. Khan', 'George Oster'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'Transient spine enlargement (3-5 min timescale) is an important event associated with the structural plasticity of dendritic spines. Many of the molecular mechanisms associated with transient spine enlargement have been identified experimentally. Here, we use a systems biology approach to construct a mathematical model of biochemical signaling and actin-mediated transient spine expansion in response to calcium-influx due to NMDA receptor activation. We have identified that a key feature of this signaling network is the paradoxical signaling loop. Paradoxical components act bifunctionally in signaling networks and their role is to control both the activation and inhibition of a desired response function (protein activity or spine volume). Using ordinary differential equation (ODE)-based modeling, we show that the dynamics of different regulators of transient spine expansion including CaMKII, RhoA, and Cdc42  and the spine volume can be described using paradoxical signaling loops. Our model is able to capture the experimentally observed dynamics of transient spine volume. Furthermore, we show that actin remodeling events provide a robustness to spine volume dynamics. We also generate experimentally testable predictions about the role of different components and parameters of the network on spine dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050492', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCSD;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory']]
[u'Stay tuned: active amplification tunes tree cricket ears to track temperature-dependent song frequency', ['Natasha Mhatre', 'Gerald Pollack', 'Andrew Mason'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'Tree cricket males produce tonal songs, used for mate attraction and male-male interactions. Active mechanics tunes hearing to conspecific song frequency. However, tree cricket song frequency increases with temperature, presenting a problem for tuned listeners. We show that the actively amplified frequency increases with temperature, thus shifting mechanical and neuronal auditory tuning to maintain a match with conspecific song frequency. Active auditory processes are known from several taxa, but their adaptive function has rarely been demonstrated. We show that tree crickets harness active processes to ensure that auditory tuning remains matched to conspecific song frequency, despite changing environmental conditions and signal characteristics. Adaptive tuning allows tree crickets to selectively detect potential mates or rivals over large distances and is likely to bestow a strong selective advantage by reducing mate-finding effort and facilitating intermale interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050583', [u'Physiology'], [u'University of Toronto at Scarborough']]
[u'Is most published research really false?', ['Jeffrey T Leek', 'Leah R Jager'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'There has been an increasing concern that most published medical findings are false. But what does it mean to be false? Here we describe the range of definitions of false discoveries in the scientific literature. We summarize the philosophical, statistical, and experimental evidence for each type of false discovery. We discuss common underpinning problems with the scientific and data analytic practices and point to tools and behaviors that can be implemented to reduce the problems with published scientific results.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050575', [u'Scientific Communication'], [u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health']]
[u'Amyloid \u03b2-peptides interfere with mitochondrial preprotein import competence by a co-aggregation process', ['Giovanna Cenini', 'Cornelia Rub', 'Michael Bruderek', 'Wolfgang Voos'], u'April 27, 2016.', u'A\u03b2 peptides play a central role in the etiology of Alzheimer disease (AD) by exerting cellular toxicity correlated with aggregate formation. Experimental evidences showed an intraneuronal accumulation of A\u03b2 peptides and toxic effects on mitochondrial functions. Nevertheless, the relevance of intracellular A\u03b2 peptides in the pathophysiology of AD remained controversial. Here, we found that the two major species of A\u03b2 peptides, in particular A\u03b242, exhibited a strong negative effect on the preprotein import reactions essential for mitochondrial protein biogenesis. However, A\u03b2 peptides only weakly interact with mitochondria and did not affect the inner membrane potential or the structure of the preprotein translocase complexes. A\u03b2 peptides significantly decreased the import competence of mitochondrial precursor proteins through a specific co-aggregation mechanism. Co-aggregation and import inhibition were significantly stronger in case of the longer peptide A\u03b242, correlating with its importance in AD pathology. Our results demonstrate that a direct interference of aggregation-prone A\u03b2 peptides with mitochondrial protein biogenesis represents a crucial aspect of the pathobiochemical mechanisms contributing to cellular damage in AD.', u'/content/early/2016/04/27/050617', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Bonn']]
[u'Ayurvedic Amalaki Rasayana promotes improved stress tolerance and thus has anti-aging effects in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Vibha Dwivedi', 'Subhash C. Lakhotia'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Amalaki Rasayana (AR), a common Ayurvedic herbal formulation of Phyllanthus emblica fruits and other ingredients and used for general good health and healthy aging, was reported earlier to improve life history traits and suppress neurodegeneration and induced apoptosis in Drosophila. \nAim of the study\nTo examine effects of dietary AR supplement on cell stress responses in Drosophila melanogaster. \nMaterials and methods\nHealthy larvae/flies, reared on normal food or on that supplemented with 0.5% (w/v) AR, were exposed to crowding, thermal or oxidative stress and examined for survival, stress tolerance and levels of lipid peroxides, SOD and HSPs. \nResults\nWild type larvae/flies reared on AR supplemented food survived the various cell stresses much better than those reared on normal food. AR-fed mutant park13 or DJ-1\u03b2Delta93 larvae, however, showed only partial or no protection, respectively, against paraquat-induced oxidative stress. AR feeding reduced the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation in 35 day old wild type flies while enhancing superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity. Interestingly, while Hsp70 or Hsp83 expression under normal or stress conditions was not differentially affected by AR feeding, levels of Hsp27 were elevated in AR fed wild type control as well as heat shocked larvae. Therefore, besides the known anti-oxidant activity of Phyllanthus emblica fruits, dietary AR also enhanced cellular levels of Hsp27. \nConclusion\nAR feeding provides better cell stress tolerance through multiple pathways. Taken in conjunction with our earlier findings, AR promotes "healthy aging" and enhanced life span through better homeostasis and stress tolerance.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050476', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Banaras Hindu University']]
[u'Alpha Phase Dynamics Predict Age-Related Visual Working Memory Decline', ['Tam Tran', 'Nicole C Hoffner', 'Sara C LaHue', 'Lisa Tseng', 'Bradley Voytek'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Alpha oscillations are modulated in response to visual temporal and spatial cues, However, the neural response to alerting cues is less explored, as is how this response is affected by healthy aging. Using scalp EEG, we examined how visual cortical alpha activity relates to working memory performance. Younger (20-30 years) and older (60-70 years) participants were presented with a visual alerting cue uninformative of the position or size of a lateralized working memory array. Older adults showed longer response times overall, and reduced accuracy when memory load was high. Older adults had less consistent cue-evoked phase resetting than younger adults, which predicted worse performance. Alpha phase prior to memory array presentation predicted response time, but the relationship between phase and response time was weaker in older adults. These results suggest that changes in alpha phase dynamics, especially prior to presentation of task-relevant stimuli, potentially contribute to age-related cognitive decline.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050450', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCSD;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u"Human infants' understanding of social imitation: Inferences of affiliation from third party observations", ['Lindsey J Powell', 'Elizabeth S Spelke'], u'April 26, 2016.', u"Imitation is ubiquitous in positive social interactions.  For adult and child observers, it also supports inferences about the participants in such interactions and their social relationships, but the origins of these inferences are obscure.  Do infants attach social significance to this form of interaction?  Here we test 4- to 5.5-month-old infants' interpretation of imitation by asking whether the imitative interactions they observe support inferences of social affiliation.  Across 10 experimental conditions that varied the modality of the imitation (movement vs. sound), the roles of specific characters (imitators vs. targets), the number of characters in the displays (3 vs. 5), and the number of parties initiating affiliative test events (1 vs. 2), the research yielded three main findings.  First, infants expect that characters who engaged in imitation will approach and affiliate with the characters whom they imitated.  Second, infants show no evidence of expecting that characters who were targets of imitation will approach and affiliate with their imitators.  Third, analyzing imitative interactions is difficult for young infants, whose expectations vary in strength depending on the number of characters to be tracked and the number of affiliative actors to be compared.  These findings have implications for our understanding of social imitation, and they provide methods for advancing understanding of other aspects of early social cognitive development.", u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050385', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'MIT;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Different speciation types meet in a Mediterranean genus: the biogeographic history of Cymbalaria (Plantaginaceae)', ['Pau Carnicero', 'Llorens Saez', 'Nuria Garcia-Jacas', 'Merce Galbany-Casals'], u'April 26, 2016.', u"Cymbalaria is a Mediterranean genus including ten species and six subspecies\ngrowing on rocky habitats. A very fragmented distribution, the different ecologic\npreferences of partially sympatric species and the presence of different ploidy levels,\nsuggest the role of allopatric, sympatric ecological and polyploid speciation in its\nevolution. The aims of this study are to verify the monophyly and to reconstruct the\nphylogenetic relationships of Cymbalaria, to infer its biogeographic history by\nestimating the lineage divergence dates and the ancestral areas of distribution, and to\ndiscuss the role of different types of speciation. To address these issues, we\nconstructed a complete phylogeny of the genus with ITS, 3'ETS, ndhF and rpl32-trnL\nsequences. A time-calibrated phylogeny and an ancestral-area estimation were\nobtained from the nrDNA data. The evidence supported the genus Cymbalaria as\nmonophyletic. It originated ca. 5 Ma and three lineages segregated rapidly, one with\nthe single extant taxa Cymbalaria microcalyx subsp. microcalyx and the other two\ncorresponding to western and central-eastern species, respectively. The main\ndiversification events occurred after the onset of the Mediterranean climate and during\nPleistocene oscillations. Founder-event and sympatric speciation were supported by\nthe biogeographic analyses, and chromosome data combined with our phylogeny\nsupported at least two polyploidization events. We observed that the consequences of\nphysical barriers were different amongst the different species.", u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050369', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona;', u'Institut Botanic de Barcelona - CSIC']]
[u'Charting Improvements in US Registry HLA Typing Ambiguity Using a Typing Resolution Score', ['Vanja Paunic', 'Loren Gragert', 'Joel Schneider', 'Carlheinz Mueller', 'Martin Maiers'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Unrelated stem cell registries have been collecting HLA typing of volunteer bone marrow donors for over 25 years. Donor selection for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is based primarily on matching the alleles of donors and patients at five polymorphic HLA loci. As HLA typing technologies have continually advanced since the beginnings of stem cell transplantation, registries have accrued typings of varied HLA typing ambiguity.  We present a new typing resolution score, based on the likelihood of self-match, that allows the systematic comparison of HLA typings across different methods, data sets and populations. We apply the typing resolution score to chart improvement in HLA typing within the Be The Match Registry of the United States from the initiation of DNA-based HLA typing to the current state of high-resolution typing using next-generation sequencing technologies. In addition, we present a publicly available online tool for evaluation of any given HLA typing. This typing resolution score objectively evaluates HLA typing methods and can help define standards for acceptable recruitment HLA typing.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050443', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Marrow Donor Program;', u'Zentrales Knochenmarkspender Register fur Deutschland']]
[u'A data acquisition and analysis pipeline for scanning angle interference microscopy', ['Catherine B Carbone', 'Ronald D Vale', 'Nico Stuurman'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'We describe open source software and hardware tools for calibrating, acquiring, and analyzing images for scanning angle interference microscopy (SAIM) analysis. These tools make it possible for any user with a TIRF microscope equipped with a motorized illumination unit to generate reconstructed images with nanometer precision in the axial (z) direction and diffraction-limited resolution in the lateral (xy) plane.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050468', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California San Francisco']]
[u'Reconstructing contact network parameters from viral phylogenies', ['Rosemary M McCloskey', 'Richard H Liang', 'Art FY Poon'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Models of the spread of disease in a population often make the simplifying assumption that the population is homogeneously mixed, or is divided into homogeneously mixed compartments. However, human populations have complex structures formed by social contacts, which can have a significant influence on the rate of epidemic spread. Contact network models capture this structure by explicitly representing each contact which could possibly lead to a transmission. We developed a method based on kernel approximate Bayesian computation (kernel-ABC) for estimating structural parameters of the contact network underlying an observed viral phylogeny. The method combines adaptive sequential Monte Carlo for ABC, Gillespie simulation for propagating epidemics though networks, and a kernel-based tree similarity score. We used the method to fit the Barab\xe1si-Albert network model to simulated transmission trees, and also applied it to viral phylogenies estimated from five published HIV sequence datasets. On simulated data, we found that the preferential attachment power and the number of infected nodes in the network can often be accurately estimated. On the other hand, the mean degree of the network, as well as the total number of nodes, were not estimable with kernel-ABC. We observed substantial heterogeneity in the parameter estimates on real datasets, with point estimates for the preferential attachment power ranging from 0.06 to 1.05. These results underscore the importance of considering contact structures when performing phylodynamic inference. Our method offers the potential to quantitatively investigate the contact network structure underlying viral epidemics.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050435', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS;', u'BC Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS and Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Assessing the accuracy of Approximate Bayesian Computation approaches to infer epidemiological parameters from phylogenies', ['Emma Saulnier', 'Samuel Alizon', 'Olivier Gascuel'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Phylodynamics typically rely on likelihood-based methods to infer epidemiological parameters from dated phylogenies.\nThese methods are essentially based on simple epidemiological models because of the difficulty in expressing the likelihood function analytically.\nComputing this function numerically raises additional challenges, especially for large phylogenies.\nHere, we use Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) to circumvent these problems.\nABC is a likelihood-free method of parameter inference, based on simulation and comparison between target data and simulated data, using summary statistics.\nWe simulated target trees under several epidemiological scenarios in order to assess the accuracy of ABC methods for inferring epidemiological parameter such as the basic reproduction number (R0), the mean duration of infection, and the effective host population size.\nWe designed many summary statistics to capture the information in a phylogeny and its corresponding lineage-through-time plot.\nWe then used the simplest ABC method, called rejection, and its modern derivative complemented with adjustment of the posterior distribution by regression.\nThe availability of machine learning techniques including variable selection, motivated us to compute many summary statistics on the phylogeny.\nWe found that ABC-based inference reaches an accuracy comparable to that of likelihood-based methods for birth-death models and can even outperform existing methods for more refined models and large trees.\nBy re-analysing data from the early stages of the recent Ebola epidemic in Sierra Leone, we also found that ABC provides more realistic estimates than the likelihood-based methods, for some parameters.\nThis work shows that the combination of ABC-based inference using many summary statistics and sophisticated machine learning methods able to perform variable selection is a promising approach to analyse large phylogenies and non-trivial models.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050211', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Universite de Montpellier;', u'CNRS;', u'CNRS et Insitut Pasteur']]
[u'Pan-retinal characterization of Light Responses from Ganglion Cells in the Developing Mouse Retina', ['Gerrit Hilgen', 'Sahar Pirmoradian', 'Daniela Pamplona', 'Pierre Kornprobst', 'Bruno Cessac', 'Matthias H Hennig', 'Evelyne Sernagor'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'The functional organization of the mammalian retina is not spatially uniform. These functional inhomogenities presumably represent adaptations to specific visual needs associated with particular ecological benefits. However, how such asymmetries develop has not been documented yet. Here we present the ontogeny of light responses in mouse RGCs from eye opening to adulthood. Using a large-scale, high-density multielectrode array, we were able to record simultaneously from hundreds to thousands of dorsal and ventral RGCs, documenting light response properties (firing peak amplitude,  time to peak and response duration) for the three major RGC types (ON, OFF, ON-OFF). Responses to different contrasts not only revealed a complex developmental profile for all three RGC types, but also unveiled differences between RGCs located in the dorsal versus ventral retina. At eye-opening, dorsal RGCs of all types were significantly more responsive to light, perhaps indicating an ecological advantage to nest viewing for young, pre-weaning pups. At the same time, the developmental profile of ON and OFF RGCs exhibited antagonistic behavior, with the strongest ON responses shortly after eye-opening, followed by an increase in the strength of OFF responses at later stages. We estimated RGC receptive field sizes and polarity across development using a novel super-resolution approach based on white noise and spike-triggered average (STA) responses and found that receptive field centers decrease but STA strength increases with maturation. These results show for the first time that the refinement of developing RGC responses to light is also not spatially uniform across the retina.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050393', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University, Newcastle, UK;', u'Institute for Adaptive and Neural Computation, School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh, UK;', u'Inria, Neuromathcomp Team, 06902 Sophia Antipolis, France']]
[u'NGS-based assay for frequent newborn inherited diseases: from development to implementation', ['Tamara Simakova', 'Anton Bragin', 'Maria Zaytseva', 'Carla Clemente', 'Magdalena Lewicka', 'Jose Machado', 'Jose Costa', 'Margaret Hughes', 'Christiane Hertz-Fowler', 'Nika Petrova', 'Alexander Polyakov', 'Rena Zinchenko', 'Elena Kondratyeva', 'Alexander Pavlov'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'NGS is a powerful tool for the diagnostics of inherited diseases. A number of studies devoted to the development and validation of targeted NGS panels are published. Here we present not only development and validation of an assay, but report our experience on introduction of a new approach into the real clinical practice. The assay is intended for the diagnostics of frequent newborn inherited diseases: cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria and galactosemia. The analysis is performed on the Ion PGM sequencing platform and allows the detection of single-nucleotide variations as well as copy number variants. We developed the software performing data quality control, providing decision-support variant annotation and generating the medical report that enables clinical application of the assay. Analytical validation of the assay was performed by bi-directional Sanger sequencing of the most part of the targeted region. Clinical validation was performed by multicenter blind testing of clinical and control samples. Sensitivity and specificity of the assay are above 99%. We have developed statements for test ordering, test acquisition form and practical recommendations for the results interpretation. The test has been successfully applied for the confirmatory diagnostics in a clinical laboratory during a year. Thus, the developed assay is a comprehensive ready-to-use CE-IVD solution for clinical diagnostics.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050419', [u'Genomics'], [u'Parseq Lab Company, Saint Petersburg, Russia;', u'Stab Vida Company, Caparica, Portugal;', u'Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology (Ipatimup), University of Porto, Porto, Portugal;', u'Centre for Genomic Research University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom;', u'Federal State Budgetary Institution Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Moscow, Russia']]
[u'Persistent vulnerability to relapse despite complete extinction of cocaine craving', ['Paul Girardeau', 'Sylvia Navailles', 'Audrey Durand', 'Caroline Vouillac-Mendoza', 'Karine Guillem', 'Serge H Ahmed'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Craving often precedes relapse into cocaine addiction. This explains why considerable research effort is being expended to try to develop anti-craving strategies for relapse prevention. Recently, we discovered using the classic reinstatement model of cocaine craving that the reinstating or priming effect of cocaine can be extinguished with repeated priming in rats, a phenomenon dubbed extinction of cocaine priming. Here we sought to measure the potential beneficial effect of this novel extinction strategy on subsequent relapse (i.e., return to the pre-extinction pattern of cocaine self-administration once the drug is made again available after extinction). Overall and contrary to our initial hope, extensive and complete extinction of cocaine priming had no major impact on relapse. This lack of effect occurred despite evidence for post-extinction loss of neuronal responses to cocaine priming in brain regions critically involved in cocaine-induced reinstatement (i.e., the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and the core of the nucleus accumbens). An effect of extinction of cocaine priming on relapse was only observed when cocaine was available for self-administration under more demanding conditions. However, this effect was modest and short-lived. Finally, we succeeded to trace the origin of our failure to prevent relapse to a persistent, extinction-resistant form of operant behavior that is not directly induced by cocaine. This extinction-resistant behavior is commonly reported, though generally ignored as causally irrelevant, in many other reinstatement studies. We propose that this behavior should become both a novel marker for long-term vulnerability to relapse and a novel target for preclinical development of potential relapse prevention interventions.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050401', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'IMN /CNRS / Universite de Bordeaux;', u'IMN / CNRS / Universite de Bordeaux']]
[u'Recurrently deregulated lncRNAs associated with HCC tumorigenesis and metastasis revealed by genomic, epigenomic and transcriptomic profiling in paired primary tumor and PVTT samples', ['Yang Yang', 'Lei Chen', 'Jin Gu', 'Hanshuo Zhang', 'Jiapei Yuan', 'Qiuyu Lian', 'Guishuai Lv', 'Siqi Wang', 'Yang Wu', 'Yu-Cheng T. Yang', 'Dongfang Wang', 'Yang Liu', 'Jing Tang', 'Guijuan Luo', 'Yang Li', 'Long Hu', 'Xinbao Sun', 'Dong Wang', 'Mingzhou Guo', 'Qiaoran Xi', 'Jianzhong Xi', 'Hongyang Wang', 'Michael Q. Zhang', 'Zhi John Lu'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) are highly potent to invade the portal venous system and subsequently develop into the portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT). PVTT could induce intra-hepatic metastasis, which is closely associated with poor prognosis. A comprehensive systematic characterization of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) associated with HCC metastasis has not been reported. Here, we first assayed 60 clinical samples (matched primary tumor, adjacent normal tissue, and PVTT) from 20 HCC patients using total RNA sequencing. We identified and characterized 8,603 novel lncRNAs from 9.6 billion sequenced reads, indicating specific expression of these lncRNAs in our samples. On the other hand, the expression patterns of 3,212 known and novel recurrently deregulated lncRNAs (in >=20% of our patients) were well correlated with clinical data in a TCGA cohort and published liver cancer data. Some lncRNAs (e.g., RP11-166D19.1/MIR100HG) were shown to be useful as putative biomarkers for prognosis and metastasis. Moreover, matched array data from 60 samples showed that copy number variations (CNVs) and alterations in DNA methylation contributed to the observed recurrent deregulation of 716 lncRNAs. Subsequently, using a coding-noncoding co-expression network, we found that many recurrently deregulated lncRNAs were enriched in clusters of genes related to cell adhesion, immune response, and metabolic processes. Candidate lncRNAs related to metastasis, such as HAND2-AS1, were further validated using RNAi-based loss-of-function assays. The results of our integrative analysis provide a valuable resource regarding functional lncRNAs and novel biomarkers associated with HCC tumorigenesis and metastasis.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050377', [u'Genomics'], [u'Tsinghua University;', u'Eastern Hepatobiliary Surgery Institute;', u'Peking University;', u'Wuhan General Hospital of Guangzhou Command;', u'Chinese PLA General Hospital']]
[u'Arabidopsis cobra protein binds to glucan chains with higher affinity than to cellulose', ['Nadav Sorek', 'Chris Somerville'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Because of several anomalies in a publication that we coauthored, concerning the interaction of the Arabidopsis cobra protein with crystalline cellulose (Avicel) and individual glucan chains (cellohexaose) we reexamined the data and had an independent laboratory redo a key experiment. The results show that COBRA binds to cellohexaose preferably over binding to Avicel, confirming our previous report.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050427', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'Nano Random Forests to mine protein complexes and their relationships in quantitative proteomics data', ['Luis F Montano-Gutierrez', 'Shinya Ohta', 'Georg Kustatscher', 'William C. Earnshaw', 'Juri Rappsilber'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'The large and ever increasing numbers of quantitative proteomics datasets constitute a currently underexploited resource for drawing biological insights on proteins and their functions. Multiple observations by different laboratories indicate that protein complexes often follow similar trends. However, the data is often noisy and incomplete \u2212 members of a complex may correlate weakly or only in a fraction of all experiments, or may not be observed in all experiments. We have previously used the Random Forest (RF) machine-learning algorithm to distinguish functional chromosomal proteins from hitchhikers in an analysis of mitotic chromosomes. Even though it is assumed that RFs need large training sets, here we show that RFs also are able to detect small protein complexes and relationships between them. We use artificial datasets to demonstrate the robustness of RFs to identify small groups even when working with mixes of noisy and apparently uninformative experiments. We then use our procedure to retrieve a number of chromosomal complexes from real quantitative proteomics datasets, comparing wild-type and multiple different knock-out mitotic chromosomes. The procedure also revealed other proteins that covary strongly with these complexes suggesting novel functional links. Integrating the RF analysis for several complexes revealed the known interdependency of kinetochore subcomplexes, as well as an unexpected dependency between the Constitutive\u2212Centromere\u2212Associated Network (CCAN) and the condensin (SMC 2/4) complex. Serving as negative control, ribosomal proteins remained independent of kinetochore complexes. Together, these results show that this complex-oriented RF (nanoRF) can uncover subtle protein relationships and higher-order dependencies in integrated proteomics data.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050302', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Kochi University']]
[u'C19ORF66 is an Interferon-Stimulated Gene (ISG) which Inhibits Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1', ['Weidong Xiong', 'Deisy Contreras', 'Joseph Ignatius Irudayam', 'Ayub Ali', 'Otto O Yang', 'Vaithilingaraja Arumugaswami'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Innate immunity is the first line of defense against invading microbes. The type I interferon (IFN) pathway plays a key role in controlling Human Immunodeficiency Virus type 1 (HIV-1) replication. We identified an IFN-\u03b1 stimulated gene C19ORF66 that we term Suppressor of Viral Activity (SVA). Full length SVA-1 protein inhibits HIV-1 by blocking virion production. SVA splice variants truncated at the C-terminus and/or disrupted at the nuclear export signal (NES) lose antiviral activity and localize to nucleus, while full length SVA-1 co-localizes with HIV-1 p24 protein in the cytoplasmic compartment of infected cells. SVA-1 is structurally and functionally conserved across species, including mouse and chimpanzee. We provide the first description of the effector function of the gene SVA/C190RF66 as an innate immune factor with anti-HIV-1 activity.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050310', [u'Immunology'], [u'Cedars-Sinai Medical Center;', u'University of California at Los Angeles;', u'University of California at Los Angeles, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center']]
[u'Genetic and chemical differentiation of Campylobacter coli and Campylobacter jejuni lipooligosaccharide pathways', ['Alejandra Culebro', 'Joana Revez', 'Ben Pascoe', 'Yasmin Friedmann', 'Matthew D Hitchings', 'Jacek Stupak', 'Samuel K Sheppard', 'Jianjun Li', 'Mirko Rossi'], u'April 26, 2016.', u"Despite the importance of lipooligosaccharides (LOS) in the pathogenicity of campylobacteriosis, little is known about the genetic and phenotypic diversity of LOS in C. coli. In this study, we investigated the distribution of LOS locus classes among a large collection of unrelated C. coli isolates sampled from several different host species. Furthermore, we paired C. coli genomic information and LOS chemical composition for the first time to identify mechanisms consistent with the generation of LOS phenotypic heterogeneity. After classifying three new LOS locus classes, only 85% of the 144 isolates tested were assigned to a class, suggesting higher genetic diversity than previously thought. This genetic diversity is at the basis of a completely unexplored LOS structure heterogeneity. Mass spectrometry analysis of the LOS of nine isolates, representing four different LOS classes, identified two features distinguishing C. coli LOS from C. jejuni's. GlcN-GlcN disaccharides were present in the lipid A backbone in contrast to the GlcN3N-GlcN backbone observed in C. jejuni. Moreover, despite that many of the genes putatively involved in Qui3pNAcyl were absence in the genomes of various isolates, this rare sugar was found in the outer core of all C. coli. Therefore, regardless the high genetic diversity of LOS biosynthesis locus in C. coli, we identified species-specific phenotypic features of C. coli LOS which might explain differences between C. jejuni and C. coli in terms of population dynamics and host adaptation.", u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050328', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Helsinki;', u'Swansea University;', u'National Research Council']]
[u'The fitness burden imposed by synthesizing quorum sensing signals', ['Avika Ruparell', 'Jean Frederic Dubern', 'Cartherine A Ortori', 'Freya Harrison', 'Nigel M Halliday', 'Abigail Emtage', 'Mahmoud Ashawesh', 'Charles A Laughton', 'Steve Diggle', 'Paul Williams', 'David A Barrett', 'Kim Rachael Hardie'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'It is now well established that bacterial populations utilize cell-to-cell signaling (quorum-sensing, QS) to control the production of public goods and other co-operative behaviours. Evolutionary theory predicts that both the cost of signal production and the response to signals should incur fitness costs for producing cells. Although costs imposed by the downstream consequences of QS have been shown, it has not been demonstrated that the production of QS signal molecules (QSSMs) results in a decrease in fitness. We measured the fitness cost to cells of synthesising QSSMs by quantifying metabolite levels in the presence of QSSM synthases. We found that: (i) bacteria making QSSMs have a growth defect that exerts an evolutionary cost, (ii) production of QSSMs correlates with reduced intracellular concentrations of QSSM precursors, (iii) the production of heterologous QSSMs negatively impacts the production of a native QSSM that shares common substrates, and (iv) supplementation with exogenously added metabolites partially rescued growth defects imposed by QSSM synthesis. These data provide the first direct experimental evidence that the production of QS signals carries fitness costs to producer cells.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050229', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'Automated structure refinement of macromolecular assemblies from cryo-EM maps using Rosetta', ['Ray Yu-Ruei Wang', 'Yifan Song', 'Benjamin Barad', 'Yifan Cheng', 'James Fraser', 'Frank DiMaio'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Cryo-EM has revealed many challenging yet exciting macromolecular assemblies at near-atomic resolution (3-4.5 Angstrom), providing biological phenomena with molecular descriptions. However, at these resolutions accurately positioning individual atoms remains challenging and may be error-prone. Manually refining thousands of amino acids -- typical in a macromolecular assembly -- is tedious and time-consuming. We present an automated method that can improve the atomic details in models manually built in near-atomic-resolution cryo-EM maps. Applying the method to three systems recently solved by cryo-EM, we are able to improve model geometry while maintaining or improving the fit-to-density. Backbone placement errors are automatically detected and corrected, and the refinement shows a large radius of convergence. The results demonstrate the method is amenable to structures with symmetry, of very large size, and containing RNA as well as covalently bound ligands. The method should streamline the cryo-EM structure determination process, providing accurate and unbiased atomic structure interpretation of such maps.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050286', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Pan-cancer analysis of the metabolic reaction network', ['Francesco Gatto', 'Jens Nielsen'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Metabolic reprogramming is considered a hallmark of malignant transformation. However, it is not clear whether the network of metabolic reactions expressed by cancers of different origin differ from each other nor from normal human tissues. In this study, we reconstructed functional and connected genome-scale metabolic models for 917 primary tumors based on the probability of expression for 3,765 reference metabolic genes in the sample. This network-centric approach revealed that tumor metabolic networks are largely similar in terms of accounted reactions, despite diversity in the expression of the associated genes. On average, each network contained 4,721 reactions, of which 74% were core reactions (present in >95% of all models). Whilst 99.3% of the core reactions were classified as housekeeping also in normal tissues, we identified reactions catalyzed by ARG2, RHAG, SLC6 and SLC16 family gene members, and PTGS1 and PTGS2 as core exclusively in cancer. The remaining 26% of the reactions were contextual reactions. Their inclusion was dependent in one case (GLS2) on the absence of TP53 mutations and in 94.6% of cases on differences in cancer types. This dependency largely resembled differences in expression patterns in the corresponding normal tissues, with some exceptions like the presence of the NANP-encoded reaction in tumors not from the female reproductive system or of the SLC5A9-encoded reaction in kidney-pancreatic-colorectal tumors. In conclusion, tumors expressed a metabolic network virtually overlapping the matched normal tissues, raising the possibility that metabolic reprogramming simply reflects cancer cell plasticity to adapt to varying conditions thanks to redundancy and complexity of the underlying metabolic networks. At the same time, the here uncovered exceptions represent a resource to identify selective liabilities of tumor metabolism.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050187', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Chalmers University of Technology']]
[u'Two frequency bands contain the most stimulus-related information in visual cortex', ['Christopher M Lewis', 'Conrado A Bosman', 'Nicolas M Brunet', 'Bruss Lima', 'Mark J. Roberts', 'Thilo Womelsdorf', 'Peter de Weerd', 'Sergio Neuenschwander', 'Wolf Singer', 'Pascal Fries'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Sensory cortices represent the external world through the collective activity of diversely tuned cells. How the activity of single cells is coordinated within local populations, across whole cortical areas, and between different levels of a sensory hierarchy in order to reliably represent the external world is largely unknown. Cortical oscillations may play an important role in coordinating the activity of local and distributed neuronal groups. By using datasets from intracortical multi-electrode recordings and from large- scale electrocorticography (ECoG) grids, we investigated how parameters of visual stimulation could be extracted from the local field potential (LFP) and how this compared with the information available from multi-unit activity (MUA). MUA recorded from macaque V1 contained comparable amounts of stimulus information (orientation and motion direction) as simultaneously recorded LFP power in two frequency bands, one in the alpha-beta band and the other in the gamma band. In the ECoG array, covering a large portion of the left hemisphere, visual information was spatially limited to the recording sites in visual areas. ECoG-LFP contained most information in the same frequency bands as microelectrode-LFP. Most surprisingly, from the ECoG-LFP power in these frequency bands, we were able to decode the identity of natural scenes. The fact that information was contained in the same bands in both intracortical and ECoG recordings suggests that oscillatory activity could play similar roles at both spatial scales.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/049718', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ernst Struengmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience;', u'University of Amsterdam;', u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour;', u'Max Planck Institute for Brain Research;', u'Maastricht University;', u'Brain Institute, Federal Univesity of Rio Grande do Norte']]
[u'Convergent evolution of sperm gigantism and the developmental origins of sperm size variability in Caenorhabditis nematodes', ['Anne Vielle', 'Nicolas Callemeyn-Torre', 'Clotilde Gimond', 'Nausicaa Poullet', 'Jeremy C Gray', 'Asher D Cutter', 'Christian Braendle'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Sperm cells provide crucial, if usually diminutive, ingredients to successful sexual reproduction as the source of centrioles and half the diploid genome. Despite this essential conserved function, sperm competition and coevolution with female traits can drive spectacular change in size and shape of these motile cells. Here we characterize four repeated instances of convergent evolution of sperm gigantism in Caenorhabditis nematodes using phylogenetic comparative methods on 26 species. Species at the extreme end of the 50-fold range of sperm-cell volumes across the genus have sperm capable of comprising up to 5% of egg-cell volume, representing severe attenuation of the magnitude of anisogamy. Exploring potential genetic and developmental determinants of Caenorhabditis sperm size variation, we uncover significant differences in mean and variance of sperm size among genotypes, between sexes of androdioecious species, as well as within and between individuals of identical genotypes. We demonstrate that the developmental basis of sperm size variation, both within and between species, becomes established during an early stage of sperm development, i.e. at the formation of primary spermatocytes while subsequent meiotic divisions contribute little further sperm size variability. These findings provide first insights into the developmental determinants of inter- and intraspecific sperm size differences in Caenorhabditis. Together, our results provide a novel integrative view on the developmental and evolutionary origins of Caenorhabditis sperm size variation. We hypothesize that life history and/or ecological differences among species favoured the evolution of alternative sperm competition strategies toward either many smaller sperm or fewer larger sperm, with gigantic sperm potentially providing a means of paternal care via gametic provisioning or as a potent vehicle for sexual conflict over offspring development.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050252', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CNRS;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Comparative analysis of protein evolution and RNA structural changes in the genome of pre-epidemic and epidemic Zika virus', ['Arunachalam Ramaiah', 'Lei Dai', 'Deisy Contreras', 'Sanjeev Sinha', 'Ren Sun', 'Vaithilingaraja Arumugaswami'], u'April 26, 2016.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) infection is associated with microcephaly, neurological disorders and poor pregnancy outcome and no vaccine is available. Although ZIKV was first discovered in 1947, the exact mechanism of virus replication and pathogenesis still remains unknown. Recent outbreaks of Zika virus in the Americas clearly suggest a better adaptation of viral strains to human host. Understanding the conserved and adaptive features in the evolution of ZIKV genome will reveal the molecular mechanism of virus replication and host adaptation. Here, we show comprehensive analysis of protein evolution and changes in RNA secondary structures of ZIKV strains including the current 2015-16 outbreak. To identify the constraints on ZIKV evolution, selection pressure at individual codons, immune epitopes, co-evolving sites, and RNA structures were analyzed. The proteome of current 2015/16 epidemic ZIKV strains of Asian genotype is found to be genetically conserved due to genome-wide negative selection on codons, with limited positive selection. Predicted RNA structures at the 5-prime and 3-prime ends of ZIKV strains reveal substantial changes such as an additional stem loop which makes it similar to that of Yellow Fever Virus. Concisely, the targeted changes at both the amino acid and the RNA levels contribute to the better adaptation of ZIKV strains to human host with an enhanced neurotropism.', u'/content/early/2016/04/26/050278', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Indian Institute of Science;', u'University of California at Los Angeles;', u'Cedars-Sinai Medical Center;', u'All India Institute of Medical Sciences;', u'University of California at Los Angeles; Cedars-Sinai Medical Center']]
[u'Dengue Virus Antibodies Enhance Zika Virus Infection', ['Lauren M Paul', 'Eric R Carlin', 'Meagan M Jenkins', 'Amanda L Tan', 'Carolyn M Barcellona', 'Cindo O Nicholson', 'Lydie Trautmann', 'Scott F Michael', 'Sharon Isern'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'Background \nFor decades, human infections with Zika virus (ZIKV), a mosquito-transmitted flavivirus, were sporadic, associated with mild disease, and went underreported since symptoms were similar to other acute febrile diseases endemic in the same regions. Recent reports of severe disease associated with ZIKV, including Guillain-Barre syndrome and severe fetal abnormalities, have greatly heightened awareness. Given its recent history of rapid spread in immune naive populations, it is anticipated that ZIKV will continue to spread in the Americas and globally in regions where competent Aedes mosquito vectors are found. Globally, dengue virus (DENV) is the most common mosquito-transmitted human flavivirus and is both well-established and the source of outbreaks in areas of recent ZIKV introduction. DENV and ZIKV are closely related, resulting in substantial antigenic overlap. Through a mechanism known as antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE), anti-DENV antibodies can enhance the infectivity of DENV for certain classes of immune cells, causing increased viral production that correlates with severe disease outcomes. Similarly, ZIKV has been shown to undergo ADE in response to antibodies generated by other flaviviruses. However, response to DENV antibodies has not yet been investigated. \nMethodology / Principal Findings\nWe tested the neutralizing and enhancing potential of well-characterized broadly neutralizing human anti-DENV monoclonal antibodies (HMAbs) and human DENV immune sera against ZIKV using neutralization and ADE assays. We show that anti-DENV HMAbs, cross-react, do not neutralize, and greatly enhance ZIKV infection in vitro. DENV immune sera had varying degrees of neutralization against ZIKV and similarly enhanced ZIKV infection.\nConclusions / Significance\nOur results suggest that pre-existing DENV immunity will enhance ZIKV infection in vivo and may increase disease severity. A clear understanding of the interplay between ZIKV and DENV will be critical in informing public health responses in regions where these viruses co-circulate and will be particularly valuable for ZIKV and DENV vaccine design and implementation strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/050112', [u'Immunology'], [u'Florida Gulf Coast University;', u'Walter Reed Army Institute of Research']]
[u'Integrated Biomedical System', ['Darrell O. Ricke', 'James Harper', 'Anna Shcherbina', 'Nelson Chiu'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'Capabilities for generating and storing large amounts of data relevant to individual health and performance are rapidly evolving and have the potential to accelerate progress toward quantitative and individualized understanding of many important issues in health and medicine. Recent advances in clinical and laboratory technologies provide increasingly complete and dynamic characterization of individual genomes, gene expression levels for genes, relative abundance of thousands of proteins, population levels for thousands of microbial species, quantitative imaging data, and more, all on the same individual.  Personal and wearable electronic devices are increasingly enabling these same individuals to routinely and continuously capture vast amounts of quantitative data including activity, sleep, nutrition, environmental exposures, physiological signals, speech, and neurocognitive performance metrics at unprecedented temporal resolution and scales. While some of the companies offering these measurement technologies have begun to offer systems for integrating and displaying correlated individual data, these are either closed/proprietary platforms that provide limited access to sensor data or have limited scope that focus primarily on one data domain (e.g. steps/calories/activity, genetic data, etc.). The Integrated Biomedical System is being developed to demonstrate an adaptable open-source tool for reducing the burden associated with integrating heterogeneous genome, interactome, and exposome data from a constantly evolving landscape of biomedical data generating technologies.  The Integrated Biomedical System provides a scalable and modular framework that can be extended to include support for numerous types of analyses and applications at scales ranging from personal users, communities and groups, to large populations.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/050138', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'MIT Lincoln Laboratory']]
[u'Longitudinal assessment of sputum microbiome by sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene in non-CF bronchiectasis patients', ['Michael J Cox', 'Elena M Turek', 'Catherine Hennessy', 'Ghazala K Mirza', 'Phillip L James', 'Meg Coleman', 'Andrew Jones', 'Robert Wilson', 'Diana Bilton', 'William O C M Cookson', 'Miriam F Moffatt', 'Michael Loebinger'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'Bronchiectasis is accompanied by chronic bronchial infection that may drive disease progression. However, the evidence base for antibiotic therapy is limited. DNA based methods offer better identification and quantification of microbial constituents of sputum than standard clinical culture and may help inform patient management strategies. Our study objective was to determine the longitudinal variability of the non-CF bronchiectasis microbiome in sputum with respect to clinical variables. \n\nEighty-five patients with non-cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchiectasis and daily sputum production were recruited from outpatient clinics and followed for six months. Monthly sputum samples and clinical measurements were taken, together with additional samples during exacerbations. 16S rRNA gene sequencing of the sputum microbiota was successful for 381 samples from 76 patients and analysed in conjunction with clinical data.\n\nMicrobial communities were highly individual in composition and stability, usually with limited diversity and often containing multiple pathogens. When compared to DNA sequencing, microbial culture had restricted sensitivity in identifying common pathogens. With some exceptions, community characteristics showed poor correlations with clinical features including underlying disease, antibiotic use and exacerbations.\n\nThe use of microbial community analysis of sputum added to information from microbial culture. A simple model of exacerbations driven by bacterial overgrowth was not supported, suggesting a need for revision of principles for antibiotic therapy. In individual patients, the management of chronic bronchial infection may be improved by therapy specific to their microbiome, taking into account pathogen load, community stability, and acute and chronic community responses to antibiotics.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/050237', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Royal Brompton Hospital']]
[u'Chromatin structure shapes the search process of transcription factors', ['Neslihan Avcu', 'Nacho Molina'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'The diffusion of regulatory proteins within the nucleus plays a crucial role in the dynamics of transcriptional regulation. The standard model assumes a 3D plus 1D diffusion process: regulatory proteins either move freely in solution or slide on DNA. This model however does not considered the 3D structure of chromatin. Here we proposed a multi-scale stochastic model that integrates, for the first time, high-resolution information on chromatin structure as well as DNA-protein interactions. The dynamics of transcription factors was modeled as a slide plus jump diffusion process on a chromatin network based on pair-wise contact maps obtained from high-resolution Hi-C experiments. Our model allowed us to uncover the effects of chromatin structure on transcription factor occupancy profiles and target search times. Finally, we showed that binding sites clustered on few topological associated domains leading to a higher local concentration of transcription factors which could reflect an optimal strategy to efficiently use limited transcriptional resources.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/050146', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'The rate and effect of de novo mutations in natural populations of Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Moises Exposito-Alonso', 'Claude Becker', 'Verena J. Schuenemann', 'Ella Reitter', 'Claudia Setzer', 'Radka Slovak', 'Benjamin Brachi', 'Joerg Hagmann', 'Dominik G. Grimm', 'Chen Jiahui', 'Wolfgang Busch', 'Joy Bergelson', 'Rob W. Ness', 'Johannes Krause', 'Hernan A. Burbano', 'Detlef Weigel'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'Like many other species, the plant Arabidopsis thaliana has been introduced in recent history from its native Eurasian range to North America, with many individuals belonging to a single lineage. We have sequenced 100 genomes of present-day and herbarium specimens from this lineage, covering the time span from 1863 to 2006. Within-lineage recombination was nearly absent, greatly simplifying the genetic analysis, allowing direct estimation of the mutation rate and an introduction date in the early-17th century. The comparison of substitution rates at different sites throughout the genome reveals that genetic drift predominates, but that purifying selection in this rapidly expanding population is nevertheless evident even over short historical time scales. Furthermore, an association analysis identifies new mutations affecting root development, a trait important for adaptation in the wild. Our work illustrates how mutation and selection rates can be observed directly by combining modern genetic methods and historic samples.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/050203', [u'Genomics'], [u'Dept. of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Institute of Archaeological Sciences, University of Tuebingen, 72070 Tuebingen, Germany;', u'Gergor Mendel Institute, Austrian Academy of Sciences, 1030 Vienna, Austria;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA;', u'Department of Biology, University of Toronto Mississauga, Mississauga, Ontario L5L IC6, Canada;', u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, 07743 Jena, Germany']]
[u'Predictability of Genetic Interactions from Functional Gene Modules', ['Jonathan H Young', 'Edward M Marcotte'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'Characterizing genetic interactions is crucial to understanding cellular and organismal response to gene-level perturbations. Such knowledge can inform the selection of candidate disease therapy targets. Yet experimentally determining whether genes interact is technically non-trivial and time-consuming. High-fidelity prediction of different classes of genetic interactions in multiple organisms would substantially alleviate this experimental burden. Under the hypothesis that functionally-related genes tend to share common genetic interaction partners, we evaluate a computational approach to predict genetic interactions in Homo sapiens, Drosophila melanogaster, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. By leveraging knowledge of functional relationships between genes, we cross-validate predictions on known genetic interactions and observe high-predictive power of multiple classes of genetic interactions in all three organisms. Additionally, our method suggests high-confidence candidate interaction pairs that can be directly experimentally tested. A web application is provided for users to query genes for predicted novel genetic interaction partners. Finally, by subsampling the known yeast genetic interaction network, we found that novel genetic interactions are predictable even when knowledge of currently known interactions is minimal', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/049627', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Annotation Regression for Genome-Wide Association Studies with an Application to Psychiatric Genomic Consortium Data', ['Sunyoung Shin', 'Sunduz Keles'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'Although genome-wide association studies (GWAS)  have been successful at finding thousands of  disease-associated\ngenetic variants (GVs),  identifying causal variants and elucidating the mechanisms by which genotypes influence phenotypes are critical open questions. A key challenge is that a large percentage of  disease-associated GVs are potential regulatory GVs located in noncoding regions, making them difficult to interpret. Recent research efforts focus on going beyond annotating GVs by integrating functional annotation data with GWAS to prioritize GVs. However, applicability of these approaches are challenged by high dimensionality and  heterogeneity of  functional annotation data.\nFurthermore,  existing methods often assume global associations of GVs with annotation data. This strong assumption is susceptible to violations for GVs involved in many complex diseases. To address these issues, we develop a general regression framework, named \nAnnotation Regression or GWAS (ARoG).  ARoG is based on finite mixture of linear regression models where GWAS association measures are viewed as responses and functional annotations as predictors. This mixture framework addresses heterogeneity of impacts of GVs by grouping them into clusters and high dimensionality of the functional annotations by enabling annotation selection within each cluster. ARoG employs permutation testing to evaluate the significance of selected annotations. Computational experiments indicate that ARoG can discover distinct associations between  disease risk and  functional annotations. Application of ARoG to autism and schizophrenia data from Psychiatric Genomics Consortium led to identification of GVs that significantly affect interactions of several transcription factors with DNA as potential mechanisms contributing to these disorders.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/049932', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Wisconsin Madison;', u'University of Wisconsin, Madison']]
[u'Population Genetic Analysis of the DARC Locus (Duffy) Reveals Adaptation from Standing Variation Associated with Malaria Resistance in Humans', ['Kimberly F. McManus', 'Angela Taravella', 'Brenna Henn', 'Carlos D. Bustamante', 'Martin Sikora', 'Omar E. Cornejo'], u'April 25, 2016.', u'The human DARC (Duffy antigen receptor for chemokines) gene encodes a membrane-bound chemokine receptor crucial for the infection of red blood cells by Plasmodium vivax, a major causative agent of malaria. Of the three major allelic classes segregating in human populations, the FY*O allele has been shown to protect against P. vivax infection and is near fixation in sub-Saharan Africa, while FY*B and FY*A are common in Europe and Asia, respectively. Due to the combination of its strong geographic differentiation and association with malaria resistance, DARC is considered a canonical example of a locus under positive selection in humans.\n\nHere, we use sequencing data from over 1,000 individuals in twenty-one human populations, as well as ancient human and great ape genomes, to analyze the fine scale population structure of DARC. We estimate the time to most recent common ancestor (TMRCA) of the FY*O mutation to be 42 kya (95% CI: 34-49 kya). We infer the FY*O null mutation swept to fixation in Africa from standing variation with very low initial frequency (0.1%) and a selection coefficient of 0.043 (95% CI:0.011-0.18), which is\namong the strongest estimated in the genome. We estimate the TMRCA of the FY*A mutation to be 57 kya (95% CI: 48-65 kya) and infer that, prior to the sweep of FY*O, all three alleles were segregating in Africa, as highly diverged populations from Asia and Khomani San hunter-gatherers share the same FY*A haplotypes. We test multiple models of admixture that may account for this observation and reject recent Asian or European admixture as the cause.', u'/content/early/2016/04/25/050096', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Stony Brook University;', u'Centre for Geogenetics, Natural History Museum Denmark;', u'Washington State University']]
