[u'A Graph Extension of the Positional Burrows-Wheeler Transform and its Applications', ['Adam M Novak', 'Erik Garrison', 'Benedict Paten'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'We present a generalization of the Positional Burrows-Wheeler Transform (PBWT) to genome graphs, which we call the gPBWT. A genome graph is a collapsed representation of a set of genomes described as a graph. In a genome graph, a haplotype corresponds to a restricted form of walk. The gPBWT is a compressible representation of a set of these graph-encoded haplotypes that allows for efficient subhaplotype match queries. We give efficient algorithms for gPBWT construction and query operations. We describe our implementation, showing the compression and search of 1000 Genomes data. As a demonstration, we use the gPBWT to quickly count the number of haplotypes consistent with random walks in a genome graph, and with the paths taken by mapped reads; results suggest that haplotype consistency information can be practically incorporated into graph-based read mappers.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051409', [], [u'UC Santa Cruz Genomics Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Multi-ethnic polygenic risk scores improve risk prediction in diverse populations.', ['Carla Marquez-Luna', 'Alkes L. Price'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Methods for genetic risk prediction have been widely investigated in recent years. However, most available training data involves European samples, and it is currently unclear how to accurately predict disease risk in other populations. Previous studies have used either training data from European samples in large sample size or training data from the target population in small sample size, but not both. Here, we introduce a multi-ethnic polygenic risk score approach, MultiPRS, that combines training data from European samples and training data from the target population. We applied MultiPRS to predict type 2 diabetes in a Latino cohort using both publicly available European summary statistics in large sample size and Latino training data in small sample size, and observed a >70% relative improvement in prediction accuracy compared to methods that use only one source of training data, consistent with large relative improvements observed in simulations. Notably, this improvement is contingent on the use of ancestry-adjusted coefficients in MultiPRS.  Our work reduces the gap in risk prediction accuracy between European and non-European target populations.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051458', [], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health']]
[u'Sub-atomic resolution X-ray diffraction of the SH3 domain from the post-synaptic density protein Shank3', ['Srinivas Kumar Ponna', 'Matti Myllykoski', 'Tobias M Boeckers', 'Petri Kursula'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'The post-synaptic density multidomain scaffolding proteins of the Shank family are structurally poorly charaterised. The Shank family consists of three members, and domain-specific interactions of Shank are involved in forming a network of proteins at the post-synaptic region for intracellular signalling and cellular scaffolding. While X-ray crystallography has provided some information on individual Shank domains, the structural basis of Shank interactions is still largely unknown. In this study, the production and crystallisation of the previously uncharacterised Shank3 SH3 domain is presented. The highly twinned crystals diffracted synchrotron X-rays to a resolution higher than 0.9 A, and these crystals will eventually have the potential to provide an ultrahigh-resolutioan view into the Shank family SH3  domains and their interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051425', [], [u'University of Oulu;', u'University of Ulm;', u'University of Bergen']]
[u'P2Y2 purinergic receptor is induced following human cytomegalovirus infection and its activity is required for efficient viral replication', ['Saisai Chen', 'Thomas Shenk', 'Maciej T Nogalski'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) manipulates many aspects of host cell biology to create an intracellular milieu optimally supportive of its replication and spread. The current study reveals a role for purinergic signaling in HCMV infection. The levels of several components of the purinergic signaling system, including the P2Y2 receptor, were altered in HCMV-infected fibroblasts. P2Y2 receptor RNA and protein are strongly induced following infection. Pharmacological inhibition of receptor activity or knockdown of receptor expression markedly reduced the production of infectious HCMV progeny. When P2Y2 activity was inhibited, the accumulation of most viral RNAs tested and viral DNA was reduced. In addition, the level of cytosolic calcium within infected cells was reduced when P2Y2 signaling was blocked. The HCMV-coded UL37x1 protein was previously shown to induce calcium flux from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum to the cytosol, and the present study demonstrates that P2Y2 function is required for this mobilization. We conclude that P2Y2 supports the production of HCMV progeny, possibly at multiple points within the viral replication cycle that interface with signaling pathways induced by the purinergic receptor.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051391', [], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Optimizing multiplex CRISPR/Cas9-based genome editing for wheat', ['Wei Wang', 'Alina Akhunova', 'Shiaoman Chao', 'Eduard Akhunov'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Background: CRISPR/Cas9-based genome editing holds a great promise to accelerate the development of improved crop varieties by providing a powerful tool to modify genomic regions controlling major agronomic traits. The effective deployment of this technology for crop improvement still requires further optimization of the CRISPR/Cas9 system for different applications. Here we have optimized multiplex gene editing strategy for hexaploid wheat.\n \nResults: The functionality of the various components of the CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing system was validated using the wheat protoplast transformation assay followed next-generation sequencing (NGS) of the targeted gene regions. The wheat codon optimized Cas9 was shown to be able to effectively edit targets in the wheat genome. Multiple guide RNAs (gRNAs) were evaluated for the ability to target the homoeologous copies of four genes controlling important agronomic traits in wheat. Low correspondence was found between the gRNA efficiency predicted bioinformatically and that assessed in the protoplast transient expression assay. Multiplex gene editing was successfully accomplished using the construct with several gRNA-tRNA units under the control of a single RNA polymerase III promoter. \n\nConclusions: The assessment of gRNAs\u2032 targeting efficiency using the transient expression in the protoplasts and NGS suggest that further optimization of the gRNA design tools will be required to improve the selection of functional gRNAs for the allopolyploid genome. The empirically selected gRNAs provided an effective method for designing a successful multiplex gene editing experiment in wheat. Wheat codon optimized Cas9 as well as the Golden Gate-compatible tRNA processing-based gRNA cassette developed here further expand the CRISPR/Cas9 toolbox available for editing the hexaploid wheat genome.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051342', [], [u'Kansas State University;', u'USDA-ARS Cereal Crops Research Unit']]
[u'Probing the mechanisms of intron creation in a fast-evolving mite', ['Scott W Roy'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Available genomic sequences from diverse eukaryotes attest to creation of millions of spliceosomal introns throughout the course of evolution, however the question of how introns are created remains unresolved.  Resolution of this question has been thwarted by the fact that many modern introns appear to be hundreds of millions of years old, obscuring the mechanisms by which they were initially created.  As such, analysis of lineages undergoing rapid intron creation is crucial.  Recently, Hoy et al. reported the genome of the predatory mite Metaseiulus occidentalis, revealing generally rapid molecular evolution including wholesale loss of ancestral introns and gain of new ones.  I sought to test several potential mechanisms of intron creation.  BLAST searches did not reveal patterns of similarity between intronic sequences from different sites or between intron sequences and non-intronic sequences, which would be predicted if introns are created by propagation of pre-existing intronic sequences or by transposable element insertion.  To test for evidence that introns are created by any of multiple mechanisms that are expected to lead to duplication of sequences at the two splice boundaries of an intron, I compared introns likely to have been gained in the lineage leading to M. occidentalis and likely ancestral introns.  These comparisons did initially reveal greater similarity between boundaries in M. occidentalis-specific introns, however this excess appeared to be largely or completely due to greater adherence of newer introns to the so-called protosplice site, and therefore may not provide strong evidence for particular intron gain mechanisms.  The failure to find evidence for particular intron creation mechanisms could reflect the relatively old age of even these introns, intron creation by variants of tested mechanisms that do not leave a clear sequence signature, or by intron creation by unimagined mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051292', [], [u'San Francisco State University']]
[u'SPATIALLY EXPLICIT MODELS TO INVESTIGATE GEOGRAPHIC PATTERNS IN THE DISTRIBUTION OF FORENSIC STRs', ['Francesco Messina', 'Andrea Finocchio', 'Nejat Akar', 'Aphrodite Loutradis', 'Emmanuel I. Michalodimitrakis', 'Radim Brdicka', 'Carla Jodice', 'Andrea Novelletto'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Human forensic STRs are used for individual identification but have been reported to have little power for inter-population analyses. Several methods have been developed which incorporate information on the spatial distribution of individuals to arrive at a description of the arrangement of diversity. We genotyped at 16 forensic STRs a large population sample obtained from many locations in Italy, Greece and Turkey, i.e. three countries seldom represented together in previous studies. Using spatial PCA on the full dataset, we detected patterns of population affinities in the area similar to those of genome-wide SNP and STR studies. Additionally, we devised objective criteria to reduce the overall complexity into reduced datasets. Independent spatially explicit methods applied to these latter datasets converged in showing that the extraction of information on long- to medium-range geographical trends and structuring from the overall diversity is possible. All analyses returned the picture of a background clinal variation, with regional discontinuities captured by each of the reduced datasets. These coincided with the main bodies of water, i.e. the Adriatic/Ionian and the Aegean Seas. High levels of gene flow were inferred within the main continental areas by coalescent simulations. These results are promising in a microevolutionary perspective, in view of the fast pace at which forensic data are being accumulated for many locales. It is foreseeable that this will allow the exploitation of an invaluable genotypic resource, assembled for other (forensic) purposes, to clarify important aspects in the formation of local gene pools.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051375', [], [u'Department of Biology, University \u201cTor Vergata\u201d;', u'Pediatrics Department, TOBB-Economy and Technology University Hospital, Ankara, Turkey;', u'National Center for Thalassemias, Athens, Greece;', u'Department of Forensic Sciences, University of Crete School of Medicine, Heraklion, Crete, Greece;', u'Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion, Praha, Czech Republic']]
[u'Description of a new genus of primitive ants from Canadian amber, with the study of relationships between crown ants and stem ants (Hymenoptera: Formicidae)', ['Leonid Borysenko'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'A detailed study of the holotype of Sphecomyrma canadensis Wilson 1985 from Canadian amber led to the conclusion that the specimen belongs to a genus here named Boltonimecia gen.nov. not previously described. The taxonomy of stem ants is not clearly understood; thus, in order to find the taxonomic position of the new genus, it was necessary to review the classification of stem ants in a study of their relation to crown ants. Lacking morphological data for traditional taxonomic approaches, a statistical study was done based on a morphometric analysis of antennae. The elongation of the scape is believed to play an important role in the evolution of eusociality in ants. However, this hypothesis has never been confirmed statistically. Our statistical analysis lends support to the view that the morphology of antennae reliably distinguishes stem ants from crown ants to determine whether a species belongs to one or the other group. This in turn may indicate the relationship exists between eusociality and the elongation of the scape. A review of Cretaceous records of ants is made and the higher classification of Formicidae with definitions of stem and crown groups is proposed. The newly obtained data are discussed focusing particularly on the origin, evolution and diversity of ants.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051367', [], [u'Canadian National Collection of Insects, Arachnids and Nematodes']]
[u'Generating an Executable Model of the Drosophila Central Complex', ['Lev E Givon', 'Aurel A Lazar'], u'May 2, 2016.', u"The central complex (CX) is a set of neuropils in the center of the fly brain that have been implicated as playing an important role in vision-mediated behavior and integration of spatial information for locomotor control. In contrast to currently available data regarding the neural circuitry of neuropils in the fly's vision and olfactory systems, comparable data for the CX neuropils is relatively incomplete; many categories of neurons remain only partly characterized, and the synaptic connectivity between CX neurons has yet to be experimentally determined. Successful modeling of the information processing functions of the CX neuropils therefore requires a means of easily constructing and testing a range of hypotheses regarding both the high-level structure of their neural\ncircuitry and the properties of their constituent neurons and synapses. This document demonstrates how NeuroArch and Neurokernel may be used to algorithmically construct and evaluate executable neural circuit models of the CX neuropils and their interconnects based upon currently available information regarding the geometry and polarity of the arborizations of identified local and projection neurons in the CX.", u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051318', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Systematic exploration of unsupervised methods for mapping behavior', ['Jeremy G Todd', 'Jamey S Kain', 'Benjamin de Bivort'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'To fully understand the mechanisms giving rise to behavior, we need to be able to precisely measure it. When coupled with large behavioral data sets, unsupervised clustering methods offer the potential of unbiased mapping of behavioral spaces. However, unsupervised techniques to map behavioral spaces are in their infancy, and there have been few systematic considerations of all the methodological options. We compared the performance of seven distinct mapping methods in clustering a data set consisting of the x- and y-positions of the six legs of individual flies. Legs were automatically tracked by small pieces of fluorescent dye, while the fly was tethered and walking on an air-suspended ball. We find that there is considerable variation in the performance of these mapping methods, and that better performance is attained when clustering is done in higher dimensional spaces (which are otherwise less preferable because they are hard to visualize). High dimensionality means that some algorithms, including the nonparametric watershed cluster assignment algorithm, cannot be used. We developed an alternative watershed algorithm which can be used in high-dimensional spaces when the probability density estimate can be computed directly. With these tools in hand, we examined the behavioral space of fly leg postural dynamics and locomotion. We find a striking division of behavior into modes involving the fore legs and modes involving the hind legs, with few direct transitions between them. By computing behavioral clusters using the data from all flies simultaneously, we show that this division appears to be common to all flies. We also identify individual-to-individual differences in behavior and behavioral transitions. Lastly, we suggest a computational pipeline that can achieve satisfactory levels of performance without the taxing computational demands of a systematic combinatorial approach.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051300', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Chloroquine inhibits Zika Virus infection in different cellular models', ['Rodrigo Delvecchio', 'Luiza M Higa', 'Paula Pezzuto', 'Ana Luiza Valadao', 'Patricia P Garcez', 'Fabio L Monteiro', 'Erick C Loiola', 'Stevens Rehen', 'Loraine Campanati', 'Renato Santana de Aguiar', 'Amilcar Tanuri'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) infection in utero might lead to microcephaly and other congenital defects. In adults, cases of Guillain-Barr\xe9 syndrome and meningoencephalitis associated with ZIKV infection have been reported, but to date, no specific therapy is available. There is an urgency for the discovery of antiviral agents capable of inhibiting viral replication and its deleterious effects. Chloroquine is widely used as an antimalarial drug and anti-inflammatory agent that also shows antiviral activity against several viruses. Here we show that chloroquine exhibits antiviral activity against ZIKV in VERO, human brain microvascular endothelial, and neural stem cells. We demonstrated in vitro that chloroquine reduces the number of ZIKV-infected cells, virus production and cell death promoted by ZIKV infection without cytotoxic effects. Our results suggest that chloroquine is a promising candidate for ZIKV clinical trials, since it is already approved for clinical use and can be safely administered to pregnant woman.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051268', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Genetics Department, Institute of Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil;', u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;', u"D'Or Institute for Research and Education (IDOR), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.;", u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.']]
[u'Transcriptome Analysis Reveals Skin Lipid Metabolism Related to Wool Diameter in Sheep', ['Shao yin FU', 'Yun Xia QI', 'Xiao long HE', 'Lai DA', 'Biao WANG', 'Rigele TE', 'Jiang hong WU', 'Ding YANG', 'Yong bin LIU', 'Weng guang ZHANG'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Wool is one of the most important animal fibers in the textile industry and the diameter directly affects its economic value. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the wool diameter have not been fully elucidated. In the present study, high-throughput RNA-Seq technology was employed to explore the skin transcriptome using 3 sheep with fine wool (fiber diameter, FD<21.0mm) and 3 sheep with coarse wool (fiber diameter, FD>27.0mm). In total, 28,607,228 bp clean reads were obtained, and 78.88%+/-3.84% was uniquely aligned to the reference genome across the six samples. In total, 19,914 mRNA transcripts were expressed (FPKM>0) in the six skin samples, among which there were certain well-known genes affecting the skin hair cycle, such as KRTAP7-1\uff0cKRT14\uff0cWnt10b\uff0cWnt2b, \u03b2-catenin\uff0cand FGF5. Furthermore, 467 expressed genes were significantly differentially expressed between the two groups, including 21 genes up-regulated and 446 genes down-regulated in the sheep with the smaller fiber diameter. To verify the results, 13 differentially expressed genes were randomly selected to validate the expression patterns using qRT-PCR, and the correlation between the mRNA expression level from qRT-PCR and RNA-Seq data was  0.999 ( P<0.05). These differentially expressed genes were particularly enriched in GO processes related to lipid metabolism, skin development, differentiation, and immune function (P<0.05). The biological processes were involved in collagen catabolism, negative regulation of macromolecule metabolism, steroid hormone stimulation and lipid metabolism. A significant KEGG pathway involving the \u201cmetabolism of lipids and lipoproteins\u201d was also enriched. This study revealed that the lipid metabolism might constitute one of the major factors related to wool diameter.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051359', [u'Genetics'], [u'Inner Mongolia Academy of Agricultural & Animal Husbandry Sciences, China;', u'Inner Mongolia Prataculture Research Center, Chinese Academy of Science, China;', u'College of Animal Science, Inner Mongolia Agricultural University, China']]
[u'CRISPR-Cas9 targeted deletion of the C9orf72 repeat expansion mutation corrects cellular phenotypes in patient-derived iPS cells', ['Mochtar Pribadi', 'Zhongan Yang', 'Tanya S Kim', 'Elliot W Swartz', 'Alden Y Huang', 'Jason A Chen', 'Deepika Dokuru', 'Jaeyun Baek', 'Fuying Gao', 'Andrea T Fua', 'Kevin Wojta', 'Qing Wang', 'Ed Lezcano', 'Stephanie Ng', 'Farid F Chehab', 'Anna Karydas', 'Jamie Fong', 'Harry V Vinters', 'Bruce L Miller', 'Giovanni Coppola'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'The large hexanucleotide (GGGGCC) repeat expansion in the non-coding promoter region of C9orf72 is the leading cause of Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration are not clear, and both a C9orf72 loss of function and a gain of toxicity, in the form of RNA foci or dipeptide repeat deposition, are implicated. CRISPR (clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats)-Cas9-mediated genome editing is an attractive strategy for disease modeling and therapeutic intervention. Here we show that this system can be utilized to completely remove the large repeat expansion mutation within C9orf72 in patient-derived induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. Removal of the mutation prevented RNA foci formation and promoter hypermethylation, two phenotypes of the C9orf72 mutation. Interestingly, these changes did not significantly alter C9orf72 expression at the mRNA or protein level. This work provides a proof-of-principle for the use of CRISPR-Cas9-mediated excision of the pathogenic C9orf72 repeat expansion as a therapeutic strategy in FTD/ALS.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051193', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'University of California San Francisco']]
[u'A scalable method for automatically measuring pharyngeal pumping in C. elegans', ['Monika Scholz', 'Dylan J Lynch', 'Kyung Suk Lee', 'Erel Levine', 'David Biron'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'We describe a scalable automated method for measuring the pharyngeal pumping of Caenorhabditis elegans in controlled environments. Our approach enables unbiased measurements for prolonged periods, a high throughput, and measurements in controlled yet dynamically changing feeding environments. The automated analysis compares well with scoring pumping by visual inspection, a common practice in  the field. In addition, we observed overall low rates of pharyngeal pumping and long correlation times when food availability was oscillated.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051243', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Department of Physics and the James Franck Institute, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637;', u'Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60607;', u'Department of Physics and Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138']]
[u'The genetic basis of natural variation in C. elegans telomere length', ['Daniel E Cook', 'Stefan Zdraljevic', 'Robyn E Tanny', 'Beomseok Seo', 'David Riccardi', 'Luke M Noble', 'Matthew V Rockman', 'Mark Alkema', 'Christian Braendle', 'Jan Kammenga', 'John Wang', 'Leonid Kruglyak', 'Marie-Anne Felix', 'Junho Lee', 'Erik Andersen'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Telomeres are involved in the maintenance of chromosomes and the prevention of genome instability. Despite this central importance, significant variation in telomere length has been observed in a variety of organisms. The genetic determinants of telomere-length variation and their effects on organismal fitness are largely unexplored. Here, we describe natural variation in telomere length across the Caenorhabditis elegans species. We identify a large-effect variant that contributes to differences in telomere length. The variant alters the conserved oligosaccharide/oligonucleotide-binding fold of POT-2, a homolog of a human telomere-capping shelterin complex subunit. Mutations within this domain likely reduce the ability of POT-2 to bind telomeric DNA, thereby increasing telomere length. We find that telomere-length variation does not correlate with offspring production or longevity in C. elegans wild isolates, suggesting that naturally long telomeres play a limited role in modifying fitness phenotypes in C. elegans.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051276', [u'Genetics'], [u'Northwestern University, United States;', u'Seoul National University, United States;', u'New York University, United States;', u'University of Massachusetts, Korea, Republic of;', u'Univ. Nice Sophia Antipolis, United States;', u'Wageningen University, United States;', u'Academia Sinica, United States;', u'UCLA, United States;', u'ENS, France']]
[u'Eliminating redundancy among protein sequences using submodular optimization', ['Maxwell W Libbrecht', 'Jeffrey A Bilmes', 'William Stafford Noble'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Submodular optimization, a discrete analogue to continuous convex optimization, has been used with great success in many fields but is not yet widely used in biology. We demonstrate how submodular optimization can be applied to the problem of removing redundancy in protein sequence data sets, a common step in many bioinformatics and structural biology workflows. We show that an approach based on submodular optimization results in representative protein sequence subsets with greater functional diversity than sets chosen with existing methods. In particular, we compare to a widely used, heuristic algorithm implemented in software tools such as CD-HIT, using as a gold standard the SCOPe library of protein domain structures. In this setting, submodular optimization consistently yields protein sequence subsets that include more SCOPe domain families than sets of the same size selected by the heuristic approach. This framework is theoretically optimal under some assumptions, and it is flexible and intuitive because it applies generic methods to optimize one of a variety of objective functions. This application serves as a model for how submodular optimization can be applied to other discrete problems in biology.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051201', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Risk estimates for microcephaly related to Zika virus infection - from French Polynesia to Bahia, Brazil', ['Michael A Johansson', 'Luis Mier-y-Teran-Romero', 'Jennita Reefhuis', 'Suzanne M Gilboa', 'Susan L Hills'], u'May 2, 2016.', u'Amidst the ongoing Zika epidemic, Zika virus (ZIKV) infection has been linked to various adverse pregnancy outcomes including microcephaly and other developmental defects, collectively referred to as congenital Zika syndrome. The magnitude of risk associated with ZIKV infection during pregnancy remains uncertain, with data from French Polynesia suggesting a 1% risk of microcephaly for pregnancies experiencing ZIKV infection in the first trimester. Temporal data on suspect Zika cases and microcephaly in Bahia, Brazil substantiate this finding, indicating a strong association between ZIKV infection risk in the first trimester of pregnancy and microcephaly, with an estimated risk of 1-13% (reflecting substantial uncertainties in available data). Microcephaly is just one indicator of congenital Zika syndrome, risk may extend beyond the first trimester, and current estimates lack precision, yet early estimates of risk are critical to public health planning as the epidemic progresses.', u'/content/early/2016/05/02/051060', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Centers for Disease Control and Prevention']]
