[u'Genome size variation and species diversity in salamander families', ['Bianca Sclavi', 'John Herrick'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Salamanders (urodela) have among the largest vertebrate genomes, ranging in size from 10 to 120 pg.  The urodela are divided into ten extant families each with a characteristic range in genome size. Although changes in genome size often occur randomly and in the absence of selection pressure, non-random patterns of genome size variation are evident among specific vertebrate lineages. Here we report that genome size in salamander families varies inversely with species diversity and other ecological factors: clades that began radiating earlier (older crown age) tend to have smaller genomes, higher levels of diversity and larger geographical ranges. These observations support the hypothesis that urodela families with larger genomes either have a lower propensity to diversify or are more vulnerable to extinction than families with smaller genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065425', [], [u'LBPA, CNRS UMR 8113, ENS Cachan;', u'Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, BC, Canada']]
[u'The quantity of Neanderthal DNA in modern humans: a reanalysis relaxing the assumption of constant mutation rate.', ['William Amos'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Few now dispute that a few percent of the DNA of non-African humans is a legacy of interbreeding with Neanderthals.  However, heterozygosity and mutation rate appear to be linked such that the loss of diversity associated with humans migrating out of Africa caused a mutational slowdown, allowing Africans to diverge more from both our common ancestor and Neanderthals.  Here I use a range of contrasting tests aimed at distinguishing between mutation slowdown and introgression as explanations for the higher rates of base-sharing between non-Africans and Neanderthals.  In every instance the mutation slowdown hypothesis fits better.  Thus, while some interbreeding likely occurred, as evidenced by the finding of skeletons of admixed individuals, adaptive genes and the apparently large contribution of Denisovan DNA to Oceanian genomes, my results challenge the idea that non-Africans generally carry an appreciable Neanderthal legacy.  My analysis shows that inferences about introgression may be unreliable unless variation in mutation rate linked to demographically induced changes in heterozygosity can be excluded as an alternative hypothesis.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065359', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Cambridge University']]
[u'Morphological structure of ant assemblages in tropical and temperate forests', ['Rogerio R. Silva', 'Israel Del Toro', 'Carlos R. F. Brandao', 'Aaron M. Ellison'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Morphological variation in co-occurring species often is used to infer species assembly rules and other processes structuring ecological assemblages. We compared the morphological structure of ant assemblages in two biogeographic regions along two extensive latitudinal gradients to examine common patterns and unique characteristics of trait distribution. We sampled ant assemblages along extensive latitudinal gradients in Tropical Atlantic Forest in eastern Brazil and temperate forests in the eastern United States. We quantified 14 morphological traits related to the ecology and life history of each of 599 ant species and defined the morphological space occupied by different ant assemblages. Null models were used to test whether tropical and temperate ant assemblages differed from random expectation in morphological structure. Correlations between traits and climate were used to infer associations between habitat characteristics and morphological space occupied by ant assemblages. Tropical ant assemblages had higher morphological diversity and variation in the space of occupied morphospace, whereas temperate assemblages had higher variance in size. Although tropical ant assemblages had smaller morphological distances among species, species packing (i.e., mean nearest-neighbor distance) did not differ between regions. Null model analysis revealed scant evidence of habitat filtering or niche differentiation within assemblages. Different traits had different means, variances, skewness, and kurtosis values along each environmental gradient. Mean trait values within assemblages were associated mainly with region and correlated with temperature but trait variances had more complex responses to climate, including interactions between temperature and precipitation in the models. The higher functional diversity in tropical ant assemblages occurs by expansion of the morphospace rather than through an increase in species packing. Different traits vary independently along environmental gradients. Analysis of individual traits together with categorization of the moments of trait distributions (statistical central tendencies) provide new directions for quantifying morphological diversity in ant assemblages', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065417', [u'Ecology'], [u'Museu Paraense Em\xedlio Goeldi;', u'Center for Macroecology Evolution and Climate, University of Copenhagen;', u'Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo;', u'Harvard Forest, Harvard University']]
[u'High Phylogenetic Utility of an Ultraconserved Element Probe Set Designed for Arachnida', ['James Starrett', 'Shahan Derkarabetian', 'Marshal Hedin', 'Robert W Bryson', 'John E McCormack', 'Brant C Faircloth'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Arachnida is an ancient, diverse, and ecologically important animal group that contains a number of species of interest for medical, agricultural, and engineering applications. Despite this applied importance, many aspects of the arachnid tree of life remain unresolved, hindering comparative approaches to arachnid biology. Biologists have made considerable efforts to resolve the arachnid phylogeny; yet, limited and challenging morphological characters, as well as a dearth of genetic resources, have confounded these attempts. Here, we present a genomic toolkit for arachnids featuring hundreds of conserved DNA regions (ultraconserved elements or UCEs) that allow targeted sequencing of any species in the arachnid tree of life. We used recently developed capture probes designed from conserved genomic regions of available arachnid genomes to enrich a sample of loci from 32 diverse arachnids. Sequence capture returned an average of 487 UCE loci for all species, with a range from 170 to 722. Phylogenetic analysis of these UCEs produced a highly resolved arachnid tree with relationships largely consistent with recent transcriptome-based phylogenies. We also tested the phylogenetic informativeness of UCE probes within the spider, scorpion, and harvestman orders, demonstrating the utility of these markers at shallower taxonomic scales, even down to the level of species differences. This probe set will open the door to phylogenomic and population genomic studies across the arachnid tree of life, enabling systematics, species delimitation, species discovery, and conservation of these diverse arthropods.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065201', [u'Genomics'], [u'San Diego State University;', u'Department of Biology and Burke Museum of Natural History and Culture;', u'Moore Laboratory of Zoology, Occidental College;', u'Louisiana State University']]
[u'On numerical study of Parkinson tremor', ['Annalakshmi Harikrishna', 'Dennis Effah Osei', 'Magdalena Weronika Kaminska', 'Sarangam Majumdar'], u'July 22, 2016.', u"Parkinson's disease and Parkinson's tremor are the two most common movement disorders, nor do we fully understand the origin of one of the disease's cardinal symptom: the Parkinsonian tremor. We study one mathematical model involved in Parkinson's disease and in the Parkinsonian tremor. In this paper, we use the Van der Pol equation to further understand this tremor as well as investigate di\ufb00erent numerical approaches to solve the system and compare them.", u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065318', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Universita degli Studi dell Aquila']]
[u'Quantitative, image-based phenotyping methods provide insight into spatial and temporal dimensions of plant disease', ['Andrew M. Mutka', 'Sarah J. Fentress', 'Joel W. Sher', 'Jeffrey C. Berry', 'Chelsea Pretz', 'Dmitri A. Nusinow', 'Rebecca Bart'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Plant disease symptoms exhibit complex spatial and temporal patterns that are challenging to quantify. Image-based phenotyping approaches enable multi-dimensional characterization of host-microbe interactions and are well suited to capture spatial and temporal data that are key to understanding disease progression. We applied image-based methods to investigate cassava bacterial blight, which is caused by the pathogen Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. manihotis (Xam). We generated Xam strains in which individual predicted type III effector (T3E) genes were mutated and applied multiple imaging approaches to investigate the role of these proteins in bacterial virulence. Specifically, we quantified bacterial populations, water-soaking disease symptoms, and pathogen spread from the site of inoculation over time for strains with mutations in avrBs2, xopX, and xopK as compared to wild-type Xam. \u0394avrBs2 and \u0394xopX both showed reduced growth in planta and delayed spread through the vasculature system of cassava. \u0394avrBs2 exhibited reduced water-soaking symptoms at the site of inoculation. In contrast, \u0394xopK exhibited enhanced induction of disease symptoms at the site of inoculation but reduced spread through the vasculature. Our results highlight the importance of adopting a multi-pronged approach to plant disease phenotyping to more fully understand the roles of T3Es in virulence. Finally, we demonstrate that the approaches used in this study can be extended to many host-microbe systems and increase the dimensions of phenotype that can be explored.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/064980', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center']]
[u'Privatization of a breeding resource by the burying beetle /Nicrophorus vespilloides/ is associated with shifts in bacterial communities', ['Ana Duarte', 'Martin Welch', 'Josef Wagner', 'Rebecca M Kilner'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'It is still poorly understood how animal behaviour shapes bacterial communities and their evolution. We use burying beetles, Nicrophorus vespilloides, to investigate how animal behaviour impacts the assembly of bacterial communities. Burying beetles use small vertebrate carcasses as breeding resources, which they roll into a ball, smear with antimicrobial exudates and bury. Using high-throughput sequencing we characterize bacterial communities on fresh mouse carcasses, aged carcasses prepared by beetles, and aged carcasses that were manually buried. The long-standing hypothesis that burying beetles clean the carcass from bacteria is refuted, as we found higher loads of bacterial DNA in beetle-prepared carcasses. Beetle-prepared carcasses were similar to fresh carcasses in terms of species richness and diversity. Beetle-prepared carcasses distinguish themselves from manually buried carcasses by the reduction of groups such as Proteobacteria and increase of groups such as Flavobacteriales and Clostridiales. Network analysis suggests that, despite differences in membership, network topology is similar between fresh and beetle-prepared carcasses. We then examined the bacterial communities in guts and exudates of breeding and non-breeding beetles. Breeding was associated with higher diversity and species richness. Breeding beetles exhibited several bacterial groups in common with their breeding resource, but that association is likely to disappear after breeding.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065326', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'The dynamics of resting fluctuations in the brain: metastability and its dynamical cortical core', ['Gustavo Deco', 'Morten L Kringelbach', 'Viktor Jirsa', 'Petra Ritter'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'In the human brain, spontaneous activity during resting state consists of rapid transitions between functional network states over time but the underlying mechanisms are not understood. We use computational brain network modeling to reveal fundamental principles of how the human brain generates large scale activity observable by noninvasive neuroimaging. By including individual structural and functional neuroimaging data into brain network models we construct personalized brain models. With this novel approach, we reveal that the human brain during resting state operates at maximum metastability, i.e. in a state of maximum network switching. Personalized, i.e. person-specific brain network modelling goes beyond correlational neuroimaging analysis and reveals the network mechanisms underlying non-invasive observations.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065284', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Institut de Neurosciences des Systemes UMR INSERM 1106;', u'Charite University']]
[u'A Rationally Designed Aminoacyl-tRNA Synthetase for Genetically Encoded Fluorescent Amino Acids', ['Ximena Steinberg', 'Jason Galpin', 'Gibran Nasir', 'Jose Sepulveda-Ugarte', 'Romina Sepulveda', 'Fernando Gonzalez-Nilo', 'Leon D Islas', 'Christopher A Ahern', 'Sebastian E Brauchi'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'The incorporation of non-canonical amino acids into proteins has emerged as a promising strategy to\nmanipulate and study protein structure-function relationships with superior precision in vitro and in vivo. To date,\nfluorescent non-canonical amino acids (f-ncAA) have been successfully incorporated in proteins expressed in bacterial\nsystems, Xenopus oocytes, and HEK-293T cells. Here, we describe the rational generation of an orthogonal aminoacyltRNA\nsynthetase based on the E. coli tyrosine synthetase that is capable of encoding the f-ncAA tyr-coumarin in HEK-293T\ncells.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065227', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Physiology, Universidad Austral de Chile;', u'Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, University of Iowa;', u'Center for Bioinformatics and Integrative Biology, Universidad Andres Bello;', u'Physiology, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico']]
[u'Genomic infectious disease epidemiology in partially sampled and ongoing outbreaks', ['Xavier Didelot', 'Christophe Fraser', 'Jennifer Gardy', 'Caroline Colijn'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Genomic data is increasingly being used to understand infectious disease epidemiology. Isolates from a given outbreak are sequenced, and the patterns of shared variation are used to infer which isolates within the outbreak are most closely related to each other. Unfortunately, the phylogenetic trees typically used to represent this variation are not directly informative about who infected whom -- a phylogenetic tree is not a transmission tree. However, a transmission tree can be inferred from a phylogeny while accounting for within-host genetic diversity by colouring the branches of a phylogeny according to which host those branches were in. Here we extend this approach and show that it can be applied to partially sampled and ongoing outbreaks. This requires computing the correct probability of an observed transmission tree and we herein demonstrate how to do this for a large class of epidemiological models. We also demonstrate how the branch colouring approach can incorporate a variable number of unique colours to represent unsampled intermediates in transmission chains. The resulting algorithm is a reversible jump Monte-Carlo Markov Chain, which we apply to both simulated data and real data from an outbreak of tuberculosis. By accounting for unsampled cases and an outbreak which may not have reached its end, our method is uniquely suited to use in a public health environment during real-time outbreak investigations. We implemented our technique in an R package called TransPhylo, which is freely available from https://github.com/xavierdidelot/TransPhylo .', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065334', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'British Columbia Centre for Disease Control']]
[u'Probabilistic adaptation in changing microbial environments', ['Yarden Katz', 'Michael Springer'], u'July 22, 2016.', u'Microbes growing in animal host environments face fluctuations that have elements of both randomness and predictability. In the mammalian gut, fluctuations in nutrient levels and other physiological parameters are structured by the animal host\'s behavior, diet, health and microbiota composition. Microbial cells that are able to anticipate these fluctuations by exploiting this structure would likely gain a fitness advantage, by adapting their internal state in advance. We propose that the problem of adaptive growth in these structured changing environments can be viewed as probabilistic inference. We analyze environments that are "meta-changing": where there are changes in the way the environment fluctuates, governed by a mechanism unobservable to cells. We develop a dynamic Bayesian model of these environments and show that a real-time inference algorithm (particle filtering) for this model can be used as a microbial growth strategy implementable in molecular circuits. The growth strategy suggested by our model outperforms heuristic strategies, and points to a class of algorithms that could support real-time probabilistic inference in natural or synthetic cellular circuits.', u'/content/early/2016/07/22/065243', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
