[u'THETA-Rhythm makes the world go round: Dissociative effects of TMS theta vs alpha entrainment of right pTPJ on embodied perspective transformations', ['Gerard F Gooding-Williams', 'Hongfang Wang', 'Klaus Kessler'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Being able to imagine another person\'s experience and perspective of the world is a crucial human ability and recent reports suggest that humans "embody" another\'s viewpoint by mentally rotating their own body representation into the other\'s orientation. Our recent Magnetoencephalography (MEG) data further confirmed this notion of embodied perspective transformations and pinpointed the right posterior temporo-parietal junction (pTPJ) as the crucial hub in a distributed network oscillating at theta frequency (3-7 Hz). In a subsequent transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) experiment we interfered with right pTPJ processing and observed a modulation of the embodied aspects of perspective transformations. While these results corroborated the role of right pTPJ, the notion of theta oscillations being the crucial neural code remained a correlational observation based on our MEG data. In the current study we therefore set out to confirm the importance of theta oscillations directly by means of TMS entrainment. We compared entrainment of right pTPJ at 6 Hz vs. 10 Hz and confirmed that only 6 Hz entrainment facilitated embodied perspective transformations (at 160deg angular disparity) while 10 Hz slowed it down. The reverse was true at low angular disparity (60deg between egocentric and target perspective) where a perspective transformation was not strictly necessary. Our results further corroborate right pTPJ involvement in embodied perspective transformations and highlight theta oscillations as a crucial neural code.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083733', [], [u'Aston University']]
[u'Quantitative Modeling and Automated Analysis of Meiotic Recombination', ['Martin White', 'Shunxin Wang', 'Liangran Zhang', 'Nancy Kleckner'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Many morphological features, in both physical and biological systems, exhibit spatial patterns that are specifically characterized by a tendency to occur with even spacing (in one, two or three dimensions).  The positions of crossover (CO) recombination events along meiotic chromosomes provides an interesting biological example of such an effect (1-3).  In general, mechanisms that explain such patterns may (a) be mechanically-based, (b) occur by a reaction-diffusion mechanism in which macroscopic mechanical effects are irrelevant, or (c) involve a combination of both types of effects.  We have proposed that meiotic CO patterns arise by a mechanical mechanism, have developed mathematical expressions for such a process based on a particular physical system with analogous properties (the so-called "beam-film model"), and have shown that the beam-film model can very accurately explain experimental CO patterns as a function of the values of specific defined parameters (4-7).  Importantly, the mathematical expressions of the beam-film model can apply quite generally to any mechanism, whether it involves mechanical components or not, as long as its logic and component features correspond to those of the beam-film system (3; below).  Furthermore, via its various parameters, the beam-film model discretizes the patterning process into specific components.  Thus, the model can be used to explore the theoretically predicted effects of various types of changes in the patterning process.  Such predictions can expand detailed understanding of the bases for various biological effects (e.g. 2, 5).  We present here a new MATLAB program that implements the mathematical expressions of the beam-film model with increased robustness and accessibility as compared to programs presented previously.  As in previous versions, the presented program permits both: (i) simulation of predicted CO positions along chromosomes of a test population; and (ii) easy analysis of CO positions, both for experimental data sets and for data sets resulting from simulations.  The goal of the current presentation is to make these approaches more readily accessible to a wider audience of researchers.  Also, the program is easily modified, and we encourage interested users to make changes to suit their specific needs.  A link to the program is available on the Kleckner laboratory web site: http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/kleckner_lab.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083808', [], [u'Harvard University;', u'Shandong University']]
[u'The best formula for estimating the low density lipoprotein cholesterol on a North African population', ['benghezel hichem', 'Boukrous hanane', 'ZEHAF mouna', 'SAADI Radia'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'We often use the estimation of low density lipoprotein cholesterol by using the Friedwald Formula, however limitation and uncertainties make calculation its limits use. Otherwise, simple and inexpensive formulas exists, rarely used in clinical laboratories: Hatorri, Puavilai, Anandaraja, Ahmadi, Vujovic, Saidullah and Cordova. These formulas were studied on small geographically and ethnically populations and require validation in a larger population.\nWe intended by this work, highlight the formula that best estimates the low density lipoprotein cholesterol more accurately than the Friedewald formula on a North African population.\nIt seems that the Puivalai formula is the most suitable to be applied on this population.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083790', [], [u'faculty of medecin, department of pharmacy;', u'faculty of medecin, department of medecin']]
[u'Adaptive, arousal-related adjustments of perceptual biases optimize perception in a dynamic environment', ['Kamesh Krishnamurthy', 'Matthew R Nassar', 'Shilpa Sarode', 'Joshua I Gold'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Prior expectations can be used to improve perceptual judgments about ambiguous stimuli. However, little is known about if and how these improvements are maintained in dynamic environments in which the quality of appropriate priors changes from one stimulus to the next. Using a novel sound-localization task, we show that changes in stimulus predictability lead to arousal-mediated adjustments in the magnitude of prior-driven biases that optimize perceptual judgments about each stimulus. These adjustments depend on task-dependent changes in the relevance and reliability of prior expectations, which subjects update using both normative and idiosyncratic principles. The resulting variations in biases across task conditions and individuals are reflected in modulations of pupil diameter, such that larger stimulus-evoked pupil responses correspond to smaller biases. These results suggest a critical role for the arousal system in adjusting the strength of perceptual biases with respect to inferred environmental dynamics to optimize perceptual judgements.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083766', [], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Brown University']]
[u'Analytical and Clinical Validity Study of FirstStepDx PLUS: A Chromosomal Microarray Optimized for Patients with Neurodevelopmental Conditions', ['Charles H. Hensel', 'Rena Vanzo', 'Megan Martin', 'Sean Dixon', 'Christophe G. Lambert', 'Brynn Levy', 'Lesa Nelson', 'Andy Peiffer', 'Karen Ho', 'Patricia Mowery-Rushton', 'Moises Serrano', 'Sarah South', 'Kenneth Ward', 'E. Robert Wassman'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Introduction: Chromosomal microarray analysis (CMA) is recognized as the first-tier test in the genetic evaluation of children with developmental delays, intellectual disabilities, congenital anomalies and autism spectrum disorders of unknown etiology. \nArray Design: To optimize detection of clinically relevant copy number variants associated with these conditions, we designed a whole-genome microarray, FirstStepDx PLUS (FSDX). A set of 88,435 custom probes was added to the Affymetrix CytoScanHD platform targeting genomic regions strongly associated with these conditions. This combination of 2,784,985 total probes results in the highest probe coverage and clinical yield for these disorders.\nResults and Discussion: Clinical testing of this patient population is validated on DNA from either non-invasive buccal swabs or traditional blood samples. In this report we provide data demonstrating the analytic and clinical validity of FSDX and provide an overview of results from the first 7,570 consecutive patients tested clinically. We further demonstrate that buccal sampling is an effective method of obtaining DNA samples, which may provide improved results compared to traditional blood sampling for patients with neurodevelopmental disorders who exhibit somatic mosaicism.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083741', [], [u'Lineagen, Inc.;', u'LIneagen, Inc.;', u'University of New Mexico;', u'Columbia University Medical Center;', u'Affiliated Genetics, Inc.;', u'Lineagen, Inc., University of Utah;', u'23 & Me']]
[u'Inhibition of microbial biofuel production in drought stressed switchgrass hydrolysate', ['Rebecca Garlock Ong', 'Alan Higbee', 'Scott Bottoms', 'Quinn Dickinson', 'Dan Xie', 'Scott A. Smith', 'Jose Serate', 'Edward Pohlmann', 'Arthur Daniel Jones', 'Joshua J. Coon', 'Trey K. Sato', 'Gregg R. Sanford', 'Dustin Eilert', 'Lawrence G. Oates', 'Jeff S. Piotrowski', 'Donna M. Bates', 'David Cavalier', 'Yaoping Zhang'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Background: Interannual variability in precipitation, particularly drought, can affect lignocellulosic crop biomass yields and composition, and is expected to increase biofuel yield variability. However, the effect of precipitation on downstream fermentation processes has never been directly characterized. In order to investigate the impact of interannual climate variability on biofuel production, corn stover and switchgrass were collected during three years with significantly different precipitation profiles, representing a major drought year (2012) and two years with average precipitation for the entire season (2010 and 2013). All feedstocks were AFEX (ammonia fiber expansion)-pretreated, enzymatically hydrolyzed, and the hydrolysates separately fermented using xylose-utilizing strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Zymomonas mobilis. A chemical genomics approach was also used to evaluate the growth of yeast mutants in the hydrolysates.\n\nResults: While most corn stover and switchgrass hydrolysates were readily fermented, growth of S. cerevisiae was completely inhibited in hydrolysate generated from drought stressed switchgrass. Based on chemical genomics analysis, yeast strains deficient in genes related to protein trafficking within the cell were significantly more resistant to the drought year switchgrass hydrolysate. Detailed biomass and hydrolysate characterization revealed that switchgrass accumulated greater concentrations of soluble sugars in response to the drought and these sugars were subsequently degraded to pyrazines and imidazoles during ammonia-based pretreatment. When added ex situ to normal switchgrass hydrolysate, imidazoles and pyrazines caused anaerobic growth inhibition of S. cerevisiae.\n\nConclusions: In response to the osmotic pressures experienced during drought stress, plants accumulate soluble sugars that are susceptible to degradation during chemical pretreatments. For ammonia-based pretreatment these sugars degrade to imidazoles and pyrazines. These compounds contribute to S. cerevisiae growth inhibition in drought year switchgrass hydrolysate. This work discovered that variation in environmental conditions during the growth of bioenergy crops could have significant detrimental effects on fermentation organisms during biofuel production. These findings are relevant to regions where climate change is predicted to cause an increased incidence of drought and to marginal lands with poor water holding capacity, where fluctuations in soil moisture may trigger frequent drought stress response in lignocellulosic feedstocks.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083758', [], [u'Michigan Technological University;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Michigan State University']]
[u'PatternMarkers and Genome-Wide CoGAPS Analysis in Parallel Sets (GWCoGAPS) for data-driven detection of novel biomarkers via whole transcriptome Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF)', ["Genevieve Stein-O'Brien", 'Jacob Carey', 'Wai-shing Lee', 'Michael Considine', 'Alexander Favorov', 'Emily Flam', 'Theresa Guo', 'Lucy Li', 'Luigi Marchionni', 'Thomas Sherman', 'Daria Gaykalova', 'Ronald McKay', 'Michael Ochs', 'Carlo Colantuoni', 'Elana Fertig'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'NMF algorithms associate gene expression changes with biological processes (e.g., time-course dynamics or disease subtypes). Compared with univariate associations, the relative  weights of NMF solutions can obscure biomarkers identification. Therefore, we developed a novel PatternMarkers statistic to extract unique genes for biological validation and enhanced visualization of NMF results. Finding novel and unbiased gene markers with PatternMarkers requires whole-genome data. However, NMF algorithms typically do not converge for the tens of thousands of genes in genome-wide profiling. Therefore, we also developed GWCoGAPS, the first robust Bayesian NMF technique for whole genome transcriptomics using the sparse, MCMC algorithm, CoGAPS. This software contains additional analytic and visualization tools including a Shiny web application, patternMatcher, which are generalized for any NMF. Using these tools, we find granular brain-region and cell-type specific signatures with corresponding biomarkers in GTex data, illustrating GWCoGAPS and patternMarkers unique ability to detect data-driven biomarkers from whole genome data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083717', [], [u'Johns Hopkins School of Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins School of Medicine Baltimore, MD, USA;', u'Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, MD, USA;', u'The College of New Jersey;', u'Lieber Institute for Brain Development']]
[u'A NEW SPECIES OF SEEDEATER (EMBERIZIDAE: SPOROPHILA) FROM THE IBERA GRASSLANDS, IN NORTHEAST ARGENTINA', ['Adrian Di Giacomo', 'Bernabe Lopez Lanus', 'Cecilia Kopuchian'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'We describe a new species of capuchino of the genus Sporophila (Emberizidae) of the Esteros del Ibera, province of Corrientes, in northeastern Argentina. This species would have remained unidentified due to lack of ornithological explorations in the central area of the Esteros del Ibera. It has been confused with immature individuals of other Sporophila species. We made observations of behavior and habitat, playback experiments, comparative analyzes of the vocalizations and plumage with other sympatric species of the same genus, and we found this species, which we have named Sporophila iberaensis, inhabiting wet grasslands from the edges of the marshes, having a unique vocal repertoire and a unique plumage. Because of its restricted geographical distribution and the threats that have their habitat, this new species should be categorized as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/046318', [], [u'CONICET;', u'Audiornis']]
[u'Applying Corrections in Single-Molecule FRET', ['Antonino Ingargiola'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Single-molecule F\xf6rster resonance energy transfer (smFRET) experiments can \ndetect the distance between a donor and an acceptor fluorophore on the 3-10nm \nscale. In ratiometric smFRET experiments, the FRET efficiency is estimated from \nthe ratio of acceptor and total signal (donor + acceptor). An excitation scheme \ninvolving two alternating lasers (ALEX) is often employed to discriminate \nbetween singly- and doubly-labeled populations thanks to a second ratiometric \nparameter, the stoichiometry S. Accurate FRET and S estimations requires \napplying three well-known correction factors: donor emission leakage into the \nacceptor channel, acceptor direct excitation by the donor excitation laser and \nthe "gamma factor" (i.e. correction for the imbalance between donor and \nacceptor signals due to different fluorophore\'s quantum yields and photon \ndetection efficiencies).\n\nExpressions to directly correct both raw FRET and S values have been reported\nin (Lee et al. BJ2005) in the context of freely-diffusing smFRET.\nHere we extend Lee et al. work providing several expressions for the direct\nexcitation coefficient and highlighting a clear interpretation in terms of physical\nparameters and experimental quantities.\nMoreover, we derive a more complete set of analytic expressions for correcting FRET\nand S. We aim to provide a clear and concise reference for different definitions\nof correction coefficients and correction formulas valid for any smFRET experiment\nboth in immobilized and freely-diffusing form.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083287.1', [], [u'UCLA']]
[u'Microsaccadic information sampling provides Drosophila hyperacute vision', ['Mikko Juusola', 'An Dau', 'Zhuoyi Song', 'Narendra Solanki', 'Diana Rien', 'David Jaciuch', 'Sidhartha Dongre', 'Florence Blanchard', 'Gonzalo G de Polavieja', 'Roger C Hardie', 'Jouni Takalo'], u'October 26, 2016.', u"Small fly eyes should not see fine image details. Because flies exhibit saccadic visual behaviors and their compound eyes have relatively few ommatidia (sampling points), their photoreceptors would be expected to generate blurry and coarse retinal images of the world. Here we demonstrate that Drosophila see the world far better than predicted from the classic theories. By using electrophysiological, optical and behavioral assays, we found that R1-R6 photoreceptors' encoding capacity in time is maximized to high-frequency saccadic light changes. Whilst over space, R1-R6s resolve moving objects at saccadic speeds beyond the predicted motion-blur-limit. Our results show how refractory phototransduction and rapid photomechanical photoreceptor contractions jointly sharpen retinal images in space-time, enabling hyperacute vision, and explain how such microsaccadic information sampling exceeds the compound eyes' optical limits.", u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083691', [], [u'University of Sheffield;', u'Champalimaud Center for the Unknown;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'A simple molecular mechanism explains multiple patterns of cell-size regulation', ['Morgan Delarue', 'Daniel Weissman', 'Oskar Hallatschek'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Increasingly accurate and massive data have recently shed light on the fundamental question of how cells maintain a stable size trajectory as they progress through the cell cycle. Microbes seem to use strategies ranging from a pure sizer, where the end of a given phase is triggered when the cell reaches a critical size, to pure adder, where the cell adds a constant size during a phase. Yet the biological origins of the observed spectrum of behavior remain elusive. We analyze a molecular size-control mechanism, based on experimental data from the yeast S. cerevisiae, that gives rise to behaviors smoothly interpolating between adder and sizer. The size-control is obtained from the titration of a repressor protein by an activator protein that accumulates more rapidly with increasing cell size. Strikingly, the size-control is composed of two different regimes: for small initial cell size, the size-control is a sizer, whereas for larger initial cell size, is is an imperfect adder. Our model thus indicates that the adder and critical size behaviors may just be different dynamical regimes of a single simple biophysical mechanism.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083725', [], [u'New York University Langone Medical Center;', u'Emory University;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'plantiSMASH: automated identification, annotation and expression analysis of plant biosynthetic gene clusters', ['Satria A Kautsar', 'Hernando G Suarez Duran', 'Kai Blin', 'Anne Osbourn', 'Marnix H Medema'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Plants around the globe produce a wide variety of specialized metabolites that play key roles in communication and defense. Recently, evidence has been accumulating that (like in microbes) the genes encoding the biosynthetic pathways towards these metabolites are often densely clustered in specific genomic loci: biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs). This offers great potential for genome-based discovery of plant natural products. However, effective computational tools to identify and analyze plant BGCs have thus far been lacking. Here, we introduce plantiSMASH, a versatile online analysis platform that automates the identification of candidate plant BGCs, as well as their comparative genomic and transcriptomic analysis. The cluster detection logic, validated on a set of all plant BGCs that have been experimentally characterized thus far, is able to pinpoint many complex metabolic loci across the Plant Kingdom. Additionally, interactively visualized coexpression analysis and comparative cluster-cluster alignment allow users to judge multiple sources of evidence for a candidate BGC to encode a group of enzymes that truly functions jointly in a biosynthetic pathway. Furthermore, plantiSMASH finds coexpression correlations between candidate BGCs and genes elsewhere in the genome. Altogether, this new software provides a comprehensive toolkit for plant geneticists to further explore the nature of gene clustering in plant metabolism. Moreover, spurred by the continuing decrease in costs of plant genome sequencing and assembly, it will soon allow natural product chemists to apply genome mining technologies to the discovery of novel medicinal compounds from a wide range of plant species.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083535', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Bioinformatics Group, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands;', u'The Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Biosustainability, Technical University of Denmark;', u'Department of Metabolic Biology, John Innes Centre, Norwich, UK']]
[u'Compromised External Validity: Federally Produced Cannabis Does Not Reflect Legal Markets', ['Daniela Vergara', 'Cinnamon Bidwell', 'Reggie Gaudino', 'Anthony Torres', 'Gary Du', 'Travis Ruthenburg', 'Kymron deCesare', 'Donald P Land', 'Kent E Hutchison', 'Nolan C Kane'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'As the most widely used illicit drug, the basis of the fastest growing major industry in the US, and as a source of numerous under-studied psychoactive compounds, understanding the psychological and physiological effects of Cannabis is essential. The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) is designated as the sole legal producer of Cannabis for use in US research studies. We sought to compare the chemical profiles of Cannabis varieties that are available to consumers in states that have state-legalized use versus what is available to researchers interested in studying the plant and its effects. Our results demonstrate that the federally produced Cannabis has significantly less variety and lower concentrations of cannabinoids. Current research, which has focused on material that is far less diverse and less potent than that used by the public, limits our understanding of the plants chemical, biological, psychological, medical, and pharmacological properties. Investigation is urgently needed on the diverse forms of Cannabis used by the public in state-legal markets.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083444', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Colorado Boulder;', u'Steep Hill Labs Inc']]
[u'HBP: an integrative and flexible pipeline for the interaction analysis of Hi-C dataset', ['Chao He', 'Ping Li', 'Minglei Shi', 'Yan Zhang', 'Bingyu Ye', 'Dejian Xie', 'Wenlong Shen', 'Zhihu Zhao'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Background: The spatial organization of interphase chromatin in the nucleus play an important role in gene expression regulation and function. With the rapid development of revolutionized chromosome conformation capture technology and its genome-wide derivatives such as Hi-C, investigation of the genome folding becomes more efficient and convenient. How to robustly deal with these massive datasets and infer accurate 3D model and within-nucleus compartmentalization of chromosomes becomes a new challenge.  Result: The implemented pipeline HBP (Hi-C BED file analysis Pipeline) integrates existing pipelines focusing on individual steps of Hi-C data processing into an all-in-one package with adjustable parameters to infer the consensus 3D structure of genome from raw Hi-C sequencing data. What is more, HBP could assign statistical confidence estimation for chromatin interactions, and clustering interaction loci according to enrichment tracks or topological structure automatically.  Conclusion: The freely available HBP is an optimized and flexible pipeline for analyzing the folding of whole chromosome and interactions between some specific sites from the Hi-C raw sequencing reads to the partially processed datasets. The other complex genetic and epigenetic datasets from public sources such as GWAS, ENCODE consortiums etc. will also easily be integrated into HBP, hence the final output results of HBP could provide a comprehensive in-depth understanding for the specific chromatin interactions, potential molecular mechanisms and biological significance. We believe that HBP is a reliable tool for the rapidly analysis of Hi-C data and will be very useful for a wide range of researchers, particularly those who lack of background in computational biology. HBP is freely accessible at https://github.com/hechao0407/HBP/blob/master/HBP_1.0.tar.gz.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083576', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Beijing Institute of Biotechnology']]
[u'Metafounders are Fst fixation indices and reduce bias in single step genomic evaluations', ['Carolina Andrea Garcia-Baccino', 'Andres Legarra', 'Ole F Christensen', 'Ignacy Misztal', 'Ivan Pocrnic', 'Zulma G Vitezica', 'Rodolfo J.C. Cantet'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'BACKGROUND:\nMetafounders are pseudo-individuals that condense the genetic heterozygosity and relationships within and across base pedigree populations, i.e. ancestral populations. This work addresses estimation and usefulness of metafounder relationships in Single Step GBLUP.\nRESULTS:\n We show that the ancestral relationship parameters are proportional to standardized covariances of base allelic frequencies across populations, like Fst fixation indexes. These covariances of base allelic frequencies can be estimated from marker genotypes of related recent individuals, and pedigree. Simple methods for estimation include naive computation of allele frequencies from marker genotypes or a method of moments equating average pedigree-based and marker-based relationships. Complex methods include generalized least squares or maximum likelihood based on pedigree relationships. To our knowledge, methods to infer Fst coefficients and Fst differentiation have not been developed for related populations. \nA compatible genomic relationship matrix constructed as a crossproduct of {-1,0,1} codes, and equivalent (up to scale factors) to an identity by state relationship matrix at the markers, is derived. Using a simulation with a single population under selection, in which only males and youngest animals were genotyped, we observed that generalized least squares or maximum likelihood gave accurate and unbiased estimates of the ancestral relationship parameter (true value: 0.40) whereas the other two (naive and method of moments) were biased (estimates of 0.43 and 0.35). We also observed that genomic evaluation by Single Step GBLUP using metafounders was less biased in terms of accurate genetic trend (0.01 instead of 0.12 bias), slightly overdispersed (0.94 instead of 0.99) and as accurate (0.74) than the regular Single Step GBLUP. Single Step GBLUP using metafounders also provided consistent estimates of heritability.\nCONCLUSIONS:\nEstimation of metafounder relationship can be achieved using BLUP-like methods with pedigree and markers. Inclusion of metafounder relationships improves bias of genomic predictions with no loss in accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083675', [u'Genetics'], [u'Universidad de Buenos Aires;', u'INRA;', u'University of Aarhus;', u'University of Georgia;', u'INPT']]
[u'RECONSTRUCTION OF THE CORTICAL MAPS OF THE TASMANIAN TIGER AND COMPARISON TO THE TASMANIAN DEVIL', ['Gregory S. Berns', 'Ken W.S. Ashwell'], u'October 26, 2016.', u"The last known Tasmanian tiger (Thylacinus cynocephalus) - aka the thylacine - died in 1936. Because its natural behavior was never documented, we are left to infer aspects of its behavior from museum specimens and unreliable historical recollections. Recent advances in brain imaging have made it possible to scan postmortem specimens of a wide range of animals, even more than a decade old. Any thylacine brain, however, would be more than 100 years old. Here, we show that it is possible to reconstruct white matter tracts in two thylacine brains. For functional interpretation, we compare to the white matter reconstructions of the brains of two Tasmanian devils (Sarcophilus harrisii). We reconstructed the cortical projection zones of the basal ganglia and major thalamic nuclei. The basal ganglia reconstruction showed a more modularized pattern in the cortex of the thylacine, while the devil cortex was dominated by the putamen. Similarly, the thalamic projections had a more orderly topography in the thylacine than the devil. These results are consistent with theories of brain evolution suggesting that larger brains are more modularized. Functionally, the thylacine's brain may have had relatively more cortex devoted to planning and decision-making, which would be consistent with a predatory ecological niche versus the scavenging niche of the devil.", u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083592', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Emory University;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'CancerGD: a resource for identifying and interpreting genetic dependencies in cancer', ['Stephen Bridgett', 'James Campbell', 'Christopher J Lord', 'Colm J Ryan'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Genes whose function is selectively essential in the presence of cancer associated genetic aberrations represent promising targets for the development of precision therapeutics. Here we present CancerGD (www.cancergd.org), a resource that integrates genotypic profiling with large- scale loss-of-function genetic screens in tumor cell lines to identify such genetic dependencies. CancerGD provides tools for searching, visualizing, and interpreting these genetic dependencies through the integration of functional interaction networks.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/081992', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University College Dublin;', u'The Institute of Cancer Research']]
[u'Fractal model of emergence of a proto-plant', ['Valerii V Galitskii'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'ABSTRACT Sectional model of the tree\'s system branches, which was published earlier, was extended in the range (0,1) for model\'s allometric parameter \u03bc, binding magnitude of the green biomass of a tree and its size (for spruce \u03bc \u2248 1.83). The model has shown presence of a biomass of branches in this range that indicates, according to fractal geometry, on the placement of a green\nbiomass in the form of set of "points". In turn according to contemporary notions about endosymbiotic character of appearance of organelles in eukaryotic cell this was interpreted as begin of endosymbiosis of cyanobacteria and a host (protist) and has been modeled by the groups placement of growing number of points on an interval under initial limitation the number of points per group. The limitation is connected to the initial absence in protist an infrastructure which is need for the growing number of cyanobacteria. It has been demonstrated that initially in course of increasing total number of points the parameter \u03bc decreases from 1.0 to 0.25 under the fixed number of points per group and then increases to 1.0 under the fixed number of groups. This gives an initial deceleration of growth of proto-plant\'s size (a characteristic geometrical size of the point set) and then the exponential growth after deliverance from limitation of point number per group in course of host evolution. Similar initial deceleration of growth can be seen now also in higher plants. Morphological analogy of situations of beginning the plant embryogenesis and of seed germination with the situation described by the model of proto-plant appearance is discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083543', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Institute of Physical-Chemical and Biological Problems of Soil Science RAS']]
[u'UP-DOWN cortical dynamics reflect state transitions in a bistable balanced network', ['Daniel Jercog', 'Alex Roxin', 'Peter Bartho', 'Artur Luczak', 'Albert Compte', 'Jaime de la Rocha'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'In the idling brain, neuronal circuits often exhibit transitions between periods of sustained firing (UP state) and quiescence (DOWN state). Although these dynamics occur across multiple areas and behavioral conditions, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here we analyze spontaneous population activity from the somatosensory cortex of urethane-anesthetized rats. We find that UP and DOWN periods are variable (i.e. non-rhythmic) and that the population rate shows no significant decay during UP periods. We build a network model of excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I) neurons that exhibits a new bistability between a quiescent state and a balanced state of arbitrarily low rate. Fluctuating inputs trigger state transitions. Adaptation in E cells paradoxically causes a marginal decay of E-rate but a marked decay of I-rate, a signature of balanced bistability that we validate experimentally. Our findings provide evidence of a bistable balanced network that exhibits non-rhythmic state transitions when the brain rests.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083626', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institut d Investigacions Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.;', u'Centre de Recerca Matematica, Bellaterra, Spain.;', u'MTA TTK NAP B Research Group of Sleep Oscillations, Budapest, Hungary.;', u'Canadian Center for Behavioural Neuroscience, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge, AB, Canada.']]
[u'Analyzing Single Molecule Localization Microscopy Data Using Cubic Splines', ['Hazen Babcock', 'Xiaowei Zhuang'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'The resolution of super-resolution microscopy based on single molecule localization is in part determined by the accuracy of the localization algorithm. In most published approaches to date this localization is done by fitting an analytical function that approximates the point spread function (PSF) of the microscope. However, particularly for localization in 3D, analytical functions such as a Gaussian, which are computationally inexpensive, may not accurately capture the PSF shape leading to reduced fitting accuracy. On the other hand, analytical functions that can accurately capture the PSF shape, such as those based on pupil functions, can be computationally expensive. Here we investigate the use of cubic splines as an alternative fitting approach. We demonstrate that cubic splines can capture the shape of any PSF with high accuracy and that they can be used for fitting the PSF with only a 2-3x increase in computation time as compared to Gaussian fitting. We provide an open-source software package that measures the PSF of any microscope and uses the measured PSF to perform 3D single molecule localization microscopy analysis with reasonable accuracy and speed.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083402', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Trajectories: how functional traits influence plant growth and shade tolerance across the life-cycle', ['Daniel S Falster', 'Remko Duursma', 'Richard G FitzJohn'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Plant species differ in many functional traits that drive differences in rates of photosynthesis, biomass allocation, and tissue turnover. Yet, it remains unclear how -- and even if -- such traits influence whole-plant growth, with the simple linear relationships predicted by existing theory often lacking empirical support. Here we present a new theoretical framework for understanding the effect of diverse functional traits on plant growth and shade-tolerance, extending a widely-used theoretical model that links growth rate in seedlings with a single leaf trait to explicitly include influences of size, light environment, and five other prominent traits: seed mass, height at maturation, leaf mass per unit leaf area, leaf nitrogen per unit leaf area, and wood density. Based on biomass production and allocation, this framework explains why the influence of prominent traits on growth rate and shade tolerance often varies with plant size and why the impact of size on growth varies among traits. Considering  growth rate in height, we find the influence of: i) leaf mass per unit leaf area is strong in small plants but weakens with size, ii) leaf nitrogen per unit leaf area does not change with size, iii) wood density is present across sizes but is strongest at intermediate sizes, iv) height at maturation strengthens with size, and v) seed mass decreases with size. Moreover, we show how traits moderate plant responses to light environment and also determine shade tolerance, supporting diverse empirical results. By disentangling the effects of plant size, light environment and traits on growth rates, our results provide a solid theoretical foundation for trait ecology and thus provide a platform for understanding growth across diverse species around the world.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083451', [u'Ecology'], [u'Macquarie University;', u'University of Western Sydney;', u'Imperial College, London, United Kingdom']]
[u'Lower brain pH as a shared endophenotype of psychotic disorders', ['Hideo Hagihara', 'Vibeke S Catts', 'Yuta Katayama', 'Tsuyoshi Takagi', 'Freesia L Huang', 'Kuo-Ping Huang', 'Shunsuke Ishii', 'Isabella A Graef', 'Gerald R Crabtree', 'Keiichi I Nakayama', 'Cynthia S Weickert', 'Tsuyoshi Miyakawa'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Lower pH is a well-replicated finding in the postmortem brains of patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Interpretation of the data, however, is controversial as to whether this finding reflects a primary feature of the diseases or is a result of confounding factors such as medication, postmortem interval, and agonal state. To date, systematic investigation of brain pH has not been undertaken using animal models, which can be studied without confounds inherent in human studies. In the present study, we first confirmed that the brains of patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder exhibit lower pH values by conducting a meta-analysis of existing datasets. We then utilized neurodevelopmental mouse models of psychiatric disorders in order to test the hypothesis that lower brain pH exists in these brains compared to controls due to the underlying pathophysiology of the disorders. We measured pH, lactate levels, and related metabolite levels in brain homogenates from three mouse models of schizophrenia (Schnurri-2 KO, forebrain-specific calcineurin KO, and neurogranin KO mice) and one of bipolar disorder (Camk2a HKO mice), and one of autism spectrum disorders (Chd8 HKO mice). All mice were drug-naive with the same postmortem interval and agonal state at death. Upon postmortem examination, we observed significantly lower pH and higher lactate levels in the brains of model mice relative to controls. There was a significant negative correlation between pH and lactate levels. These results suggest that lower pH associated with increased lactate levels is a pathophysiology of such diseases rather than mere artifacts.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083550', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute for Comprehensive Medical Science, Fujita Health University;', u'Schizophrenia Research Laboratory, Neuroscience Research Australia;', u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Medical Institute of Bioregulation, Kyushu University;', u'Institute for Developmental Research, Aichi Human Service Center;', u'Program of Developmental Neurobiology, NICHD, NIH;', u'RIKEN Tsukuba Institute;', u'Department of Pathology, Stanford University of Medicine, Stanford']]
[u'Visual field map clusters in human frontoparietal cortex', ['Wayne E Mackey', 'Jonathan Winawer', 'Clayton E Curtis'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'The visual neurosciences have made enormous progress in recent decades, in part because of the ability to drive visual areas by their sensory inputs, allowing researchers to reliably define visual areas across individuals and across species. Similar strategies for parceling higher-order cortex have proven elusive. Here, using a novel experimental task and nonlinear population receptive field modeling we map and characterize the topographic organization of several regions in human frontoparietal cortex. We discover maps of both polar angle and eccentricity that are organized into clusters, similar to visual cortex, where multiple maps of polar angle of the contralateral visual field share a confluent fovea. This is striking because neural activity in frontoparietal cortex is believed to reflect higher-order cognitive functions rather than external sensory processing. Perhaps the spatial topography in frontoparietal cortex parallels the retinotopic organization of sensory cortex to enable an efficient interface between perception and higher-order cognitive processes. Critically, these visual maps constitute well-defined anatomical units that future study of frontoparietal cortex can reliably target.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083493', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University']]
[u'CENP-F couples cargo to growing and shortening microtubule ends', ['Gil Kanfer', 'Martin Peterka', 'Vladimir K. Arzhanik', 'Alexei L. Drobyshev', 'Fazly I. Ataullakhanov', 'Vladimir A. Volkov', 'Benoit Kornmann'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Dynamic microtubule ends exert pulling and pushing forces on intracellular membranes and organelles. However, the mechanical linkage of microtubule tips to their cargoes is poorly understood. CENP-F is a nonmotor microtubule-binding protein that participates in microtubule binding at kinetochores and in the mitotic redistribution of the mitochondrial network. CENP-F-driven mitochondrial transport is linked to growing microtubule tips, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are unknown. Here we show that CENP-F tracks growing microtubule ends in living cells. In vitro reconstitution demonstrates that microtubule tips can transport mitochondria and CENP-F-coated artificial cargoes over micrometer-long distances, during both growing and shrinking phases. Based on these and previous observations, we suggest that CENP-F might act as a transporter of mitochondria and other cellular cargoes by attaching them to dynamic microtubule ends.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083618', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Institute of Biochemistry, ETH Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland;', u'Department of Bioengineering and Bioinformatics, Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia;', u'Center for theoretical problems of physico-chemical pharmacology, Russian Academy of Sciences;', u'Center for theoretical problems of physicochemical pharmacology, Russian Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Exonic somatic mutations contribute risk for autism spectrum disorder', ['Deidre R Krupp', 'Rebecca A Barnard', 'Yannis Duffourd', 'Sara Evans', 'Raphael Bernier', 'Jean-Baptist Riviere', 'Eric Fombonne', "Brian J O'Roak"], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Genetic risk factors for autism spectrum disorder (ASD) have yet to be fully elucidated. Somatic mosaic mutations (SMMs) have been implicated in several neurodevelopmental disorders and overgrowth syndromes. Here, we systematically evaluate SMMs by leveraging whole-exome sequencing (WES) data on a large family-based ASD cohort, the Simons Simplex Collection (SSC). We find evidence that ~10% of previously published de novo mutations are potentially SMMs. When using a custom somatic calling pipeline, we recalled all SSC WES data. We validated high and low confidence mutation predictions for a subset of families with single molecule molecular inversion probes. With these validation data, we iteratively developed a high confidence calling approach integrating logistic regression modeling and additional heuristics and applied it to the full cohort. Surprisingly, we found evidence of significant synonymous SMM burden in probands, with mutations more likely to be close to splicing sites. Overall, we observe no strong evidence of missense SMM burden. However, we do observe nominally significant signal for missense SMMs in those families without germline mutations, which strengthens specifically in genes intolerant to mutations. In contrast to missense germline mutations, missense SMMs show potential enrichment for chromatin modifiers. We observe 7-10% of parental mosaics are transmitted germline to a child as occult de novo mutations, which has important implications for recurrence risk for families and potential subclinical ASD features. Finally, we find SMMs in previously implicated high-confidence ASD risk genes, including CHD2, CTNNB1, KMT2C, SYNGAP1, and RELN, further suggesting that this class of mutations contribute to population risk.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083428', [u'Genetics'], [u'Oregon Health & Science University;', u'Universit\xe8 Bourgogne Franche-Comt\xe8;', u'University of Washington;', u'McGill University;', u'Oregon Health and Science University']]
[u'A structural variant encoding hybrid glycophorins is associated with resistance to severe malaria', ['Ellen M Leffler', 'Gavin Band', 'George BJ Busby', 'Katja Kivinen', 'Quang Si Le', 'Geraldine M Clarke', 'Kalifa A Bojang', 'David J Conway', 'Muminatou Jallow', 'Fatoumatta Sisay-Joof', 'Edith C Bougouma', 'Valentina D Mangano', 'David Modiano', 'Sodiomon B Sirima', 'Eric Achidi', 'Tobias O Apinjoh', 'Kevin Marsh', 'Carolyne M Ndila', 'Norbert Peshu', 'Thomas N Williams', 'Chris Drakeley', 'Alphaxard Manjurano', 'Hugh Reyburn', 'Eleanor Riley', 'David Kachala', 'Malcolm Molyneux', 'Vysaul Nyirongo', 'Terrie Taylor', 'Nicole Thornton', 'Louise Tilley', 'Shane Grimsley', 'Eleanor Drury', 'Jim Stalker', 'Victoria Cornelius', 'Christina Hubbart', 'Anna E Jeffreys', 'Kate Rowlands', 'Kirk A Rockett', 'Chris CA Spencer', 'Dominic P Kwiatkowski'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Human genetic variation in the region between FREM3 and GYPE was recently reported as associated with resistance to severe malaria in sub-Saharan Africa. By constructing a new imputation reference panel from sequence data with an increased representation of African populations, we show that the signal of association extends across the nearby genes GYPA and GYPB, which encode receptors for erythrocyte invasion by Plasmodium falciparum. Detailed analysis of large copy number variation reveals that the association can be explained by a complex structural variant that has lost GYPB but gained two hybrid genes, each with a GYPB extracellular domain and GYPA intracellular domain. This rearrangement, which is globally rare but carried by one in six children in parts of Kenya, encodes the Dantu blood group antigen, and reduces the risk of severe malaria by up to 40%. These findings provide the first direct evidence of the role malaria has played in shaping the landscape of variation at this polymorphic locus.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083634', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Oxford, UK;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK;', u'Medical Research Council Unit, The Gambia;', u'Centre National de Recherche et de Formation sur le Paludisme, Burkina Faso;', u'University of Rome La Sapienza, Italy;', u'University of Buea, Cameroon;', u'KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Programme, Kenya;', u'Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre, Tanzania;', u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK;', u'Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital, College of Medicine, Malawi;', u'International Blood Group Reference Laboratory, NHS Blood and Transplant, UK']]
[u'Phenotype-specific information improves prediction of functional impact for noncoding variants', ['Corneliu A Bodea', 'Adele A Mitchell', 'Heiko Runz', 'Shamil R Sunyaev'], u'October 26, 2016.', u"A myriad of noncoding genetic association signals are now awaiting the identification of causal alleles and their functional interpretation. We introduce the novel computational framework PINES (Phenotype-Informed Noncoding Element Scoring), which evaluates the functional impact of noncoding variants by integrating diverse epigenetic annotations. A unique feature of PINES is that it directs the analysis towards genomic annotations most relevant to phenotypes of interest. We show that PINES identifies functional noncoding variation more accurately than methods that do not use phenotype-specific knowledge. We apply PINES to fine map noncoding alleles at GWAS loci across a range of diseases, and predict new causal risk alleles for Parkinson's disease and inflammatory bowel disease. We also use PINES to confirm several high-penetrance variants implicated in Mendelian traits, as well as variants residing within known enhancer regions. PINES consistently identifies functional variants in fine mapping analyses, dissecting pathogenic loci while avoiding the resource-intensive traditional fine mapping studies. Due to its flexibility and ease of use through a dedicated web portal, PINES provides a powerful in silico method to prioritize and fine map functional noncoding variants.", u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083642', [u'Genomics'], [u'Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co. Inc.;', u"Brigham & Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'Intron-driven gene expression in the absence of a core promoter in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Jenna E Gallegos', 'Alan B Rose'], u'October 26, 2016.', u"In diverse eukaryotes, certain introns increase mRNA accumulation through the poorly understood mechanism of intron-mediated enhancement (IME). A distinguishing feature of IME is that these introns have no effect from upstream or more than 1 Kb downstream of the transcription start site (TSS). To more precisely define the intron position requirements for IME in Arabidopsis, we tested the effect of the UBQ10 intron on gene expression from 6 different positions surrounding the TSS of a TRP1:GUS fusion. The intron strongly increased expression from all transcribed positions, but had no effect when 204 nt or more upstream of the 5'-most TSS. When the intron was located in the 5' UTR, the TSS unexpectedly changed, resulting in longer transcripts. Remarkably, deleting 303 nt of the core promoter, including all known TSS's and all but 18 nt of the 5' UTR, had virtually no effect on the level of gene expression as long as a stimulating intron was included in the gene. When the core promoter was deleted, transcription initiated in normally untranscribed sequences the same distance upstream of the intron as when the promoter was intact. Together, these results suggest that certain introns play unexpectedly large roles in directing transcription initiation and represent a previously unrecognized type of downstream regulatory elements for genes transcribed by RNA polymerase II. This study also demonstrates considerable flexibility in the sequences surrounding the TSS, indicating that the TSS is not determined by promoter sequences alone. These findings are relevant in practical applications where introns are used to increase gene expression and contribute to our general understanding of gene structure and regulation in eukaryotes.", u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083261', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'An assessment of phylogenetic tools for analyzing the interplay between interspecific interactions and phenotypic evolution', ['Jonathan Drury', 'Gregory F. Grether', 'Theodore Garland', 'Helene Morlon'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Much ecological and evolutionary theory predicts that interspecific interactions often drive phenotypic diversification and that species phenotypes in turn influence species interactions. Several phylogenetic comparative methods have been developed to assess the importance of such processes in nature; however, the statistical properties of these methods have gone largely untested. Here, we assess the performance of available comparative approaches for analyzing the interplay between interspecific interactions and species phenotypes. We find that currently used statistical methods largely fail to detect the impact of interspecific interactions on trait evolution, that sister taxa analyses often erroneously detect character displacement where it does not exist, and that recently developed process-based models have more satisfactory statistical properties. In weighing the strengths and weaknesses of different approaches, we hope to provide a clear guide for empiricists testing hypotheses about the reciprocal effect of interspecific interactions and species phenotypes and to inspire further development of process-based models.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083485', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UCLA;', u'UC Riverside;', u'Ecole Normale Sup\xe9rieure']]
[u'A population genomics approach to assessing the genetic basis of within-host microevolution underlying recurrent cryptococcal meningitis infection', ['Johanna Rhodes', 'Mathew Beale', 'Mathieu Vanhove', 'Joseph N Jarvis', 'Shichina Kannambath', 'John A Simpson', 'Anthea Ryan', 'Graeme Meintjes', 'Thomas S Harrison', 'Matthew Fisher', 'Tihana Bicanic'], u'October 26, 2016.', u'Recurrence of meningitis due to Cryptococcus neoformans after treatment causes substantial mortality in HIV/AIDS patients across sub-Saharan Africa. In order to determine whether recurrence occurred due to relapse of the original infecting isolate or reinfection with a different isolate weeks or months after initial treatment, we used whole-genome sequencing to assess the genetic basis of infection in 17 HIV-infected individuals with recurrent cryptococcal meningitis. Comparisons revealed a clonal relationship for 15 pairs of isolates recovered before and after recurrence showing relapse of the original infection. The two remaining pairs showed high levels of genetic heterogeneity; in one pair we found this to be a result of infection by mixed genotypes, whilst the second was a result of nonsense mutations in the gene encoding the DNA mismatch repair proteins MSH2, MSH5 and RAD5. These nonsense mutations led to a hypermutator state, leading to dramatically elevated rates of synonymous and non-synonymous substitutions. Hypermutator phenotypes owing to nonsense mutations in these genes have not previously been reported in Cryptococcus neoformans and represent a novel pathway for rapid within-host adaptation and evolution of resistance to firstline antifungal drugs.', u'/content/early/2016/10/26/083469', [u'Genomics'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University College London;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u"St. George's University London;", u'National Health Laboratory Service;', u'University of Cape Town']]
