[u'Ecosystem Composition Controls the Early Fate of Rare Earth Elements during Incipient Soil Genesis', ['Dragos G Zaharescu', 'Carmen I Burghelea', 'Katerina Dontsova', 'Jennifer K Presler', 'Raina M Maier', 'Travis Huxman', 'Kenneth J Domanik', 'Edward A Hunt', 'Mary K Amistadi', 'Emily E Gaddis', 'Maria A Palacios- Menendez', 'Maria. O Vaquera-Ibarra', 'Jonathan Chorover'], u'July 2, 2016.', u'The rare earth elements (REE) are of increasing importance in a variety of science and economic fields, including (bio)geosciences, paleoecology, astrobiology, and mining. Despite their great promise, REE fractionation in early plant-microbe-rock systems has largely remained elusive. We tested the hypothesis that REE mass-partitioning during the incipient weathering of basalt, rhyolite, granite and schist depends on the activity of microbes, plant, and arbuscular mycorrhiza.\n\nPore-water element abundances reflected a rapid transition from abiotic to biotic weathering, the latter associated with lower aqueous loss and higher uptake. Abiotic dissolution contributed 38.6+/-19% to total denudation. Microbes incremented denudation, particularly in rhyolite, this effect associating with decreased bioavailable solid fractions in this rock. Total mobilization (aqueous+uptake) was ten times greater in planted treatments compared to abiotic control, REE masses in plant generally exceeding those in water. Plants of larger biomass further increased solid fractions, consistent with soil genesis. Mycorrhiza had a generally positive effect on total mobilization. The incipient REE weathering was dominated by inorganic dissolution enhanced by biotic respiration, the patterns of denudation largely dictated by mineralogy. A consistent biotic signature was observed in La:phosphate, mobilization:solid fraction in all rocks, as well as in the general pattern of denudation and uptake.', u'/content/early/2016/07/02/061846', [], [u'The University of Arizona;', u'University of California, Irvine;', u'Williams College;', u'The University of Caribe;', u'University of the Americas Puebla']]
[u'Hearing scenes: A neuromagnetic signature of perceived auditory spatial extent', ['Santani Teng', 'Verena Sommer', 'Dimitrios Pantazis', 'Aude Oliva'], u'July 2, 2016.', u'Perceiving the geometry of surrounding space is a multisensory process, crucial to contextualizing object perception and guiding navigation behavior. Auditory cues are informative about the shape and extent of large-scale environments: humans can make judgments about surrounding spaces from reverberation cues. However, how the scale of auditory space is represented neurally is unknown. Here, by orthogonally varying the spatial extent and sound source content of auditory scenes during magnetoencephalography (MEG) recording, we report a neural signature of auditory space size perception, starting ~145 ms after stimulus onset. Importantly, this neuromagnetic response is readily dissociable in form and time into representations of the source and its reverberant enclosing space: while the source exhibits an early and transient response, the neural signature of space is sustained and independent of the original source that produced it. Further, the space size response is robust to variations in sound source, and vice versa. The MEG decoding signal was distributed primarily across bilateral temporal sensor locations, significantly correlated with behavioral responses in a separate experiment. Together, our results provide the first neuromagnetic evidence for a robust auditory space size representation in the human brain, sensitive to reverberant decay, and reveal the temporal dynamics of how such a code emerges over time from the transformation of complex naturalistic auditory signals.', u'/content/early/2016/07/02/061762', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Max Planck Institute for Human Development']]
[u'Live Cell Partial Wave Spectroscopic microscopy: Label-free Imaging of the Native, Living Cellular Nanoarchitecture', ['Luay M Almassalha', 'Greta Bauer', 'John Chandler', 'Scott Gladstein', 'Lusik Cherkezyan', 'Yolanda Stypula-Cyrus', 'Sam Weinberg', 'Di Zhang', 'Peder Thusgaard Ruhoff', 'Hemant Roy', 'Hariharan Subramanian', 'Navdeep Chandel', 'Igal Szleifer', 'Vadim Backman'], u'July 2, 2016.', u'The organization of chromatin is a regulator of molecular processes including transcription, replication, and DNA repair. The structures within chromatin that regulate these processes span from the nucleosomal (10nm) to the chromosomal (>200nm) levels, with little known about the dynamics of chromatin structure between these scales due to a lack of quantitative imaging technique in live cells. Previous work using Partial Wave Spectroscopic (PWS) microscopy, a quantitative imaging technique with sensitivity to macromolecular organization between 20-200nm, has shown that transformation of chromatin at these length scales is a fundamental event during carcinogenesis. As the dynamics of chromatin likely play a critical regulatory role in cellular function, it is critical to develop live-cell imaging techniques that can probe the real-time temporal behavior of the chromatin nano-architecture. Therefore, we developed a live cell PWS technique which allows high-throughput, label-free study of the causal relationship between nanoscale organization and molecular function in real-time. In this work, we employ live cell PWS to study the change in chromatin structure due to DNA damage and expand on the link between metabolic function and the structure of higher-order chromatin. In particular, we studied the temporal changes to chromatin during UV light exposure, show that live cell DNA binding dyes induce damage to chromatin within seconds, and demonstrate a direct link between higher-order chromatin structure and mitochondrial membrane potential. Since biological function is tightly paired with structure, live cell PWS is a powerful tool to study the nanoscale structure-function relationship in live cells.', u'/content/early/2016/07/02/061747', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Northwestern University;', u'University of Southern Denmark;', u'Boston Medical Center, Boston University;', u'Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine']]
[u'Loss of flight in the Galapagos cormorant mirrors human skeletal ciliopathies', ['Alejandro Burga', 'Weiguang Wang', 'Paul C Wolf', 'Andrew M Ramey', 'Claudio Verdugo', 'Karen Lyons', 'Patricia G Parker', 'Leonid Kruglyak'], u'July 2, 2016.', u'Changes in the size and proportion of limbs and other structures have played a key role in the adaptive evolution of species. However, despite the ubiquity of these modifications, we have a very limited idea of how these changes occur on the genetic and molecular levels. To fill this gap, we studied a recent and extreme case of wing and pectoral skeleton size reduction leading to flightlessness in the Galapagos cormorant (Phalacrocorax harrisi). We sequenced and de novo assembled the genomes of four closely related cormorant species and applied a joint predictive and comparative genomics approach to find candidate variants. Here we report that function-altering variants in genes necessary for both the correct transcriptional regulation and function of the primary cilium contributed to the evolution of loss of flight in P. harrisi. Cilia are essential for Hedgehog signaling, and humans affected by skeletal ciliopathies suffer from premature arrest of bone growth, mirroring the skeletal features associated with loss of flight.', u'/content/early/2016/07/02/061432', [u'Genomics'], [u'Departments of Human Genetics and Biological Chemistry, UCLA, Los Angeles, USA;', u'Departments of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology and Orthopaedic Surgery, UCLA;', u'United States Department of Agriculture/Wildlife Services;', u'U.S. Geological Survey Alaska Science Center, Alaska, USA;', u'Instituto de Patologia Animal, Facultad de Ciencias Veterinarias, Universidad Austral de Chile, Va;', u'Department of Biology and Whitney Harris World Ecology Center, University of Missouri-St. Louis, USA']]
