[u'Entropy and codon bias in HIV-1', ['Aakash Pandey'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'HIV is rapidly evolving virus with high mutation rate. For heterologous gene expression system, the codon bias has to be optimized according to the host for efficient expression. Although DNA viruses show some correlation on codon bias with their hosts, HIV genes show very low correlation for both nucleotide composition and codon usage bias with its human host which limits the efficient expression of HIV genes. Despite this variation, HIV is efficient in infecting hosts and multiplying in large number. In this study, I have performed information theoretic analysis of nine genes of HIV-1 based on codon statistics of the whole HIV genome, individual genes and codon usage of human genes. For the HIV-1 whole genome sequence analyzed, it has been observed that the codon statistics of the third reading frame has the highest bias representing minimum entropy and hence maximum information. Similarly, despite being poorly adapted to the codon usage bias of human hosts, I have found that the Shannon entropies of nine genes based on overall codon statistics of HIV-1 genome are very similar to the entropies calculated from codon usage of human genes probably suggesting co-evolution of HIV-1 along with human genes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052274', [], [u'Kathmandu University']]
[u'From cytoskeletal dynamics to organ asymmetry: a non-linear, regulative pathway underlies left-right patterning', ['Gary S McDowell', 'Suvithan Rajadurai', 'Michael Levin'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'Consistent left-right asymmetry is a fundamental aspect of the bodyplan across phyla, and errors of laterality form an important class of human birth defects. Its molecular underpinning was first discovered as a sequential pathway of left- and right-sided gene expression that controlled positioning of the heart and visceral organs. Recent data have revised this picture in two important ways. First, the physical origin of chirality has been identified; cytoskeletal dynamics underlie the asymmetry of single cell behavior and of patterning of the left-right axis.  Second, the pathway is not linear: early disruptions that alter the normal sidedness of upstream asymmetric genes do not necessarily induce defects in the laterality of the downstream genes or in organ situs. Thus, the LR pathway is a unique example of two fascinating aspects of biology: the interplay of physics and genetics in establishing large-scale anatomy, and regulative (shape-homeostatic) pathways that correct errors of patterning over time. Here, we review aspects of asymmetry from its intracellular, cytoplasmic origins to the recently-uncovered ability of the LR control circuitry to achieve correct gene expression and morphology despite reversals of key \u2033determinant\u2033 genes. We provide novel functional data, in Xenopus laevis, on conserved elements of the cytoskeleton that drive asymmetry, and repair of downstream gene expression anomalies over developmental time. LR patterning can thus serve as a paradigm of how subcellular physics and gene expression cooperate to achieve developmental robustness of a body axis.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052191', [], [u'Biology Department, and Allen Discovery Center at Tufts University, Medford, MA']]
[u'EM and component-wise boosting for Hidden Markov Models: a machine-learning approach to capture-recapture', ['Robert William Rankin'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'This study presents a new boosting method for capture-recapture models, routed in predictive-performance and machine-learning. The regularization algorithm combines Expectation-Maximization and boosting to yield a type of multimodel inference, including automatic variable selection and control of model complexity. By analyzing simulations and a real dataset, this study shows the qualitatively similar estimates between AICc model-averaging and boosted capture-recapture for the CJS model. I discuss a number of benefits of boosting for capture-recapture, including: i) ability to fit non-linear patterns (regression-trees, splines); ii) sparser, simpler models that are less prone to over-fitting, singularities or boundary-value estimates than conventional methods; iii) an inference paradigm that is routed in predictive-performance and free of p-values or 95% confidence intervals; and v) estimates that are slightly biased, but are more stable over multiple realizations of the data. Finally, I discuss some philosophical considerations to help practitioners motivate the use of either prediction-optimal methods (AIC, boosting) or model-consistent methods. The boosted capture-recapture framework is highly extensible and could provide a rich, unified framework for addressing many topics in capture-recapture, such as spatial capture-recapture, individual heterogeneity, and non-linear effects.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052266', [], [u'Murdoch University']]
[u'Gene Expression Elucidates Functional Impact of Polygenic Risk for Schizophrenia', ['Menachem Fromer', 'Panos Roussos', 'Solveig K Sieberts', 'Jessica S Johnson', 'David H Kavanagh', 'Thanneer M Perumal', 'Douglas M Ruderfer', 'Edwin C Oh', 'Aaron Topol', 'Hardik R Shah', 'Lambertus L Klei', 'Robin Kramer', 'Dalila Pinto', 'Zeynep H Gumus', 'A. Ercument Cicek', 'Kristen Dang', 'Andrew Browne', 'Cong Lu', 'Li Xie', 'Ben Readhead', 'Eli A Stahl', 'Mahsa Parvisi', 'Tymor Hamamsy', 'John F Fullard', 'Ying-Chih Wang', 'Milind C Mahajan', 'Jonathan M.J. Derry', 'Joel Dudley', 'Scott E Hemby', 'Benjamin A Logsdon', 'Konrad Talbot', 'Towfique Raj', 'David A Bennett', 'Phil L De Jager', 'Jun Zhu', 'Bin Zhang', 'Patrick F Sullivan', 'Andrew Chess', 'Shaun M Purcell', 'Leslie A Shinobu', 'Lara M Mangravite', 'Hiroyoshi Toyoshiba', 'Raquel E Gur', 'Chang-Gyu Hahn', 'David A Lewis', 'Vahram Haroutonian', 'Mette A Peters', 'Barbara K Lipska', 'Joseph D Buxbaum', 'Eric E Schadt', 'Keisuke Hira', 'Kathryn Roeder', 'Kristen J Brennand', 'Nicholas Katsanis', 'Enrico Dominici', 'Bernie Devlin', 'Pamela Sklar'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'Over 100 genetic loci harbor schizophrenia associated variants, yet how these common variants confer risk is uncertain. The CommonMind Consortium has sequenced dorsolateral prefrontal cortex RNA from schizophrenia cases (n=258) and control subjects (n=279), creating the largest publicly available resource to date of gene expression and its genetic regulation; ~5 times larger than the latest release of GTEx. Using this resource, we find that ~20% of the schizophrenia risk loci have common variants that could explain regulation of brain gene expression. In five loci, these variants modulate expression of a single gene: FURIN, TSNARE1, CNTN4, CLCN3 or SNAP91. Experimentally altered expression of three of them, FURIN, TSNARE1, and CNTN4, perturbs the proliferation and apoptotic index of neural progenitors and leads to neuroanatomical deficits in zebrafish. Furthermore, shRNA mediated knock-down of FURIN in neural progenitor cells derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells produces abnormal neural migration. Although 4.2% of genes (N = 693) display significant differential expression between cases and controls, 44% show some evidence for differential expression. All fold changes are \u2264 1.33, and an independent cohort yields similar differential expression for these 693 genes (r = 0.58). These findings are consistent with schizophrenia being highly polygenic, as has been reported in investigations of common and rare genetic variation. Co-expression analyses identify a gene module that shows enrichment for genetic associations and is thus relevant for schizophrenia. Taken together, these results pave the way for mechanistic interpretations of genetic liability for schizophrenia and other brain diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052209', [], [u'Division of Psychiatric Genomics, Department of Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'5Systems Biology, Sage Bionetworks;', u'Systems Biology, Sage Bionetworks;', u'Dept of Neurology, Duke University;', u'Institute Dept of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine;', u'Human Brain Collection Core, National Institutes of Health, NIMH;', u'Dept of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Lane Center for Computational Biology, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Statistics, Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Computational Biology, School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Center for Human Disease Modeling, Duke University;', u'Dept of Basic Pharmaceutical Sciences, Fred Wilson School of Pharmacy, High Point University;', u'Department of Neurosurgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center;', u'Rush University Medical Center;', u'The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited;', u'Sage Bionetworks;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine;', u'JJ Peters VA Medical Center;', u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Duke University;', u'University of Trento']]
[u'HapIso : An Accurate Method for the Haplotype-Specific Isoforms Reconstruction from Long Single-Molecule Reads', ['Serghei Mangul', 'Harry Taegyun Yang', 'Farhad Hormozdiari', 'Elizabeth Tseng', 'Alex Zelikovsky', 'Eleazar Eskin'], u'May 9, 2016.', u"Sequencing of RNA  provides the possibility to study an individual's transcriptome landscape and determine allelic expression ratios. Single-molecule protocols generate multi-kilobase reads longer than most transcripts allowing sequencing of complete haplotype isoforms. This allows partitioning the reads into two parental haplotypes. While the read length of the single-molecule protocols is long, the relatively high error rate limits the ability to accurately detect the genetic variants and assemble them into the haplotype-specific isoforms.  In this paper, we present HapIso  (Haplotype-specific Isoform Reconstruction), a method able to tolerate the relatively high error-rate of the single-molecule platform and partition the isoform  reads into the parental alleles. Phasing the reads according to the allele of origin allows our method to efficiently distinguish between the read errors and the true biological mutations. HapIso uses a k-means clustering algorithm aiming to group the reads into two meaningful clusters maximizing the similarity of the reads within cluster and minimizing the similarity of the reads from different clusters. Each cluster corresponds to a parental haplotype. We use family pedigree information to evaluate our approach. Experimental validation suggests that HapIso is able to tolerate the relatively high error-rate and accurately partition the reads into the parental alleles of the isoform transcripts. Furthermore, our method is the first method able to reconstruct the haplotype-specific isoforms from long single-molecule reads.", u'/content/early/2016/05/09/050906', [], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'Department of Computer Science, Georgia State University']]
[u'Odd-paired controls frequency doubling in Drosophila segmentation by altering the pair-rule gene regulatory network', ['Erik Clark', 'Michael Akam'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'Drosophila segmentation is mediated by a group of periodically expressed transcription factors known as the pair-rule genes. These genes are expressed dynamically, with many transitioning from double segment periodicity to single segment periodicity at gastrulation. The myriad cross-regulatory interactions responsible for these expression changes have been studied for over 30 years, however a systems level understanding of pair-rule patterning is still lacking. We carefully analysed the spatiotemporal dynamics of pair-rule gene expression, and found that frequency-doubling is precipitated by multiple coordinated regulatory changes. We identify the broadly expressed but temporally patterned transcription factor, Odd-paired (Opa), as the cause of these changes, and propose a new model for the patterning of the even-numbered parasegment boundaries, which relies on Opa-dependent regulatory interactions. Our findings indicate that the pair-rule gene regulatory network has temporally-modulated topology and dynamics, permitting stage-specific patterning roles.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052241', [], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Visualization and analysis of single-cell RNA-seq data by kernel-based similarity learning', ['Bo Wang', 'Junjie Zhu', 'Emma Pierson', 'Serafim Batzoglou'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'Single-cell RNA-seq technologies enable high throughput gene expression measurement of individual cells, and allow the discovery of heterogeneity within cell populations.  Measurement of cell-to-cell gene expression similarity is critical to identification, visualization and analysis of cell populations. However, single-cell data introduce challenges to conventional measures of gene expression similarity because of the high level of noise, outliers and dropouts. Here, we propose a novel similarity-learning framework, SIMLR (single-cell interpretation via multi-kernel learning), which learns an appropriate distance metric from the data for dimension reduction, clustering and visualization. We show that SIMLR separates subpopulations more accurately in single-cell data sets than do existing dimension reduction methods. Additionally, SIMLR demonstrates high sensitivity and accuracy on high-throughput peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) data sets generated by the GemCode single-cell technology from 10x Genomics.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052225', [], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'UMI-tools: Modelling sequencing errors in Unique Molecular Identifiers to improve quantification accuracy', ['Tom Sean Smith', 'Andreas Heger', 'Ian Sudbery'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'Unique Molecular Identifiers (UMIs) are random oligonucleotide barcodes that are increasingly used in high-throughout sequencing experiments. Through a UMI, identical copies arising from distinct molecules can be distinguished from those arising through PCR amplification of the same molecule. However, bioinformatic methods to leverage the information from UMIs have yet to be formalised. In particular, sequencing errors in the UMI sequence are often ignored, or else resolved in an ad-hoc manner. We show that errors in the UMI sequence are common and introduce network based methods to account for these errors when identifying PCR duplicates. Using these methods, we demonstrate improved quantification accuracy both under simulated conditions and real iCLIP and single cell RNA-Seq datasets. Reproducibility between iCLIP replicates and single cell RNA Seq clustering are both improved using our proposed network-based method, demonstrating the value of properly accounting for errors in UMIs. These methods are implemented in the open source UMI-tools software package (https://github.com/CGATOxford/UMI-tools).', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/051755', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'The University of Sheffield']]
[u'Anchor negatively regulates BMP signaling to control Drosophila wing development', ['Xiaochun Wang', 'Ziguang Liu', 'Lihua Jin'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'G protein-coupled receptors play a particularly important function in many organisms. The novel Drosophila gene anchor is the ortholog of vertebrate GPR155, and its molecular function and biological process are not yet known, especially in wing development. Knocking down anchor resulted in increased wing size and extra and thickened veins. These abnormal wing phenotypes are similar to those observed in gain-of-function of BMP signaling experiments. We observed that the BMP signaling indicator p-Mad was significantly increased in anchor RNAi-induced wing discs in larvae and that it also abnormally accumulated in intervein regions in pupae. Furthermore, the expression of BMP signaling pathway target genes were examined using a lacZ reporter, and the results indicated that omb and sal were substantially increased in anchor knockdown wing discs. In a study of genetic interactions between Anchor and BMP signaling pathway, the broadened and ectopic vein tissues were rescued by knocking down BMP levels. The results suggested that the function of Anchor is to negatively regulate BMP signaling during wing development and vein formation, and that Anchor targets or works upstream of Dpp.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052217', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Northeast Forestry University;', u'Heilongjiang Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Whole-genome sequencing of an advanced case of small-cell gallbladder neuroendocrine carcinoma', ['Maolan Li', 'Fatao liu', 'Yijian Zhang', 'Xiangsong Wu', 'Wenguang Wu', 'Xu-an Wang', 'Shuai Zhao', 'Shibo Liu', 'Haibin Liang', 'Fei Zhang', 'Yuan Gao', 'Shanshan Xiang', 'Huaifeng Li', 'Wei Lu', 'Hao Weng', 'Jiasheng Mu', 'Yijun Shu', 'Runfa Bao', 'Lin Jiang', 'Yunping Hu', 'Wei Gong', 'Yun Zhang', 'Tieliang Ma', 'Kai Zhang', 'Yun Liu', 'Yingbin Liu'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'The majority of gallbladder cancer cases are discovered at later stages, which frequently leads to poor prognoses. Small-cell gallbladder neuroendocrine carcinoma (GB-SCNEC) is a relatively rare histological type of gallbladder cancer, and its survival rate is exceptionally low because of its greater malignant potential. In addition, the genomic landscape of GB-SCNEC is rarely considered in treatment decisions. We performed whole-genome sequencing on an advanced case of GB-SCNEC. By analyzing the whole-genome sequencing data of the primary cancer tissue (76.29X coverage), lymphatic metastatic cancer tissue (73.92X coverage) and matched non-cancerous tissue (35.73X coverage), we identified approximately 900 high-quality somatic single nucleotide variants (SNVs), 109 of which were shared by both the primary and metastatic tumor tissues. Somatic non-synonymous coding variations with damaging impact in HMCN1 and CDH10 were observed in both the primary and metastatic tissue specimens. A pathway analysis of the genes mapped to the SNVs revealed gene enrichment associated with axon guidance, ERBB signaling, sulfur metabolism and calcium signaling. Furthermore, we identified 20 chromosomal rearrangements that included 11 deletions, 4 tandem duplications and 5 inversions that mapped to known genes. Two gene fusions, NCAM2-SGCZ and BTG3-CCDC40 were also discovered and validated by Sanger sequencing. Additionally, we identified genome-wide copy number variations and microsatellite instability. In this study, we identified novel biological markers of GB-SCNEC that may serve as valuable prognostic factors or indicators of treatment response in patients with GB-SCNEC with lymphatic metastasis.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/052316', [u'Genetics'], [u'Xinhua Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine;', u'Institute of Biliary Tract Disease, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine;', u'The Affiliated Yixing Hospital of Jiangsu University;', u'Institutes of Biomedical Sciences, Fudan University']]
[u'Analytical considerations for comparative transcriptomics of wild organisms.', ['Trevor J. Krabbenhoft', 'Thomas F. Turner'], u'May 9, 2016.', u'Comparative transcriptomics can now be conducted on organisms in natural settings, which has greatly enhanced understanding of genome-environment interactions. However, important data handling and quality control challenges remain, particularly when working with non-model species outside of a controlled laboratory environment.  Here, we demonstrate the utility and potential pitfalls of comparative transcriptomics of wild organisms, with an example from three cyprinid fish species (Teleostei:Cypriniformes). We present computational solutions for processing, annotating and summarizing comparative transcriptome data for assessing genome-environment interactions across species.  The resulting bioinformatics pipeline addresses the following points:  (1) the potential importance of "essential genes", (2) the influence of microbiomes and other exogenous DNA, (3) potentially novel, species-specific genes, and (4) genomic rearrangements (e.g., whole genome duplication).  Quantitative consideration of these points contributes to a firmer foundation for future comparative work across distantly related taxa for a variety of sub-disciplines, including stress and immune response, community ecology, ecotoxicology, and climate change.', u'/content/early/2016/05/09/048652', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wayne State University;', u'University of New Mexico']]
