[u'A simple proposal for the publication of journal citation distributions', ['Vincent Lariviere', 'Veronique Kiermer', 'Catriona J MacCallum', 'Marcia McNutt', 'Mark Patterson', 'Bernd Pulverer', 'Sowmya Swaminathan', 'Stuart Taylor', 'Stephen Curry'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'Although the Journal Impact Factor (JIF) is widely acknowledged to be a poor indicator of the quality of individual papers, it is used routinely to evaluate research and researchers. Here, we present a simple method for generating the citation distributions that underlie JIFs. Application of this straightforward protocol reveals the full extent of the skew of distributions and variation in citations received by published papers that is characteristic of all scientific journals. Although there are differences among journals across the spectrum of JIFs, the citation distributions overlap extensively, demonstrating that the citation performance of individual papers cannot be inferred from the JIF. We propose that this methodology be adopted by all journals as a move to greater transparency, one that should help to refocus attention on individual pieces of work and counter the inappropriate usage of JIFs during the process of research assessment.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062109', [], [u'Universite de Montreal;', u'Public Library of Science;', u'Science Journals, AAAS;', u'eLife;', u'The EMBO Journal;', u'Nature Research, Springer Nature;', u'The Royal Society;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Lognormal firing rate distribution reveals prominent fluctuation-driven regime in spinal motor networks', ['Peter C. Petersen', 'Rune W. Berg'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'When spinal circuits generate rhythmic movements it is important that the neuronal activity remains within stable bounds to avoid saturation and to preserve responsiveness. In what dynamical regime does the neuronal population operate in order to achieve this? Here, we simultaneously recorded from hundreds of neurons in lumbar spinal circuits and establish the neuronal fraction that operates within either a mean driven or a fluctuation driven regime during generation of multiple motor behaviors. We find a rich diversity of firing rates across the neuronal population as reflected in a lognormal distribution and demonstrate that half of the neurons spend at least 50% of the time in the fluctuation driven regime regardless of behavior. Since neurons in this regime have a supralinear input output curve, which enhances sensitivity, whereas the mean driven regime reduces sensitivity, this fraction may reflect a fine trade off between stability and sensitivity in order to maintain flexibility across motor behaviors.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062257', [], [u'University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Inference of distribution of fitness effects and proportion of adaptive substitutions from polymorphism data', ['Paula Tataru', 'Maeva Mollion', 'Sylvain Glemin', 'Thomas Bataillon'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'The distribution of fitness effects (DFE) encompasses deleterious, neutral and beneficial mutations. It conditions the evolutionary trajectory of populations, as well as the rate of adaptive molecular evolution (\u03b1). Inference of DFE and \u03b1 from patterns of polymorphism (SFS) and divergence data has been a longstanding goal of evolutionary genetics. A widespread assumption shared by numerous methods developed so far to infer DFE and \u03b1 from such data is that beneficial mutations contribute only negligibly to the polymorphism data. Hence, a DFE comprising only deleterious mutations tends to be estimated from SFS data, and \u03b1 is only predicted by contrasting the SFS with divergence data from an outgroup. Here, we develop a hierarchical probabilistic framework that extends on previous methods and also can infer DFE and \u03b1 from polymorphism data alone. We use extensive simulations to examine the performance of our method. We show that both a full DFE, comprising both deleterious and beneficial mutations, and \u03b1 can be inferred without resorting to divergence data. We demonstrate that inference of DFE from polymorphism data alone can in fact provide more reliable estimates, as it does not rely on strong assumptions about a shared DFE between the outgroup and ingroup species used to obtain the SFS and divergence data. We also show that not accounting for the contribution of beneficial mutations to polymorphism data leads to substantially biased estimates of the DFE and \u03b1. We illustrate these points using our newly developed framework, while also comparing to one of the most widely used inference methods available.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062216', [], [u'Aarhus University;', u'Uppsala University']]
[u'Periodic Non-Sinusoidal Activity Can Produce Cross-Frequency Coupling in Cortical Signals in the Absence of Functional Interaction Between Neural Sources', ['Edden M. Gerber', 'Boaz Sadeh', 'Andrew Ward', 'Robert T. Knight', 'Leon Y. Deouell'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'The analysis of cross-frequency coupling (CFC) has become popular in studies involving intracranial and scalp EEG recordings in humans. It has been argued that some cases where CFC is mathematically present may not reflect an interaction of two distinct yet functionally coupled neural sources with different frequencies. Here we provide two empirical examples from intracranial recordings where CFC can be shown to be driven by the shape of a periodic waveform rather than by a functional interaction between distinct sources. Using simulations, we also present a generalized and realistic scenario where such coupling may arise. This scenario, which we term waveform-dependent CFC, arises when sharp waveforms (e.g., cortical potentials) occur in a periodic manner throughout parts of the data. Since the waveforms are repeated periodically, they constitute a slow wave that is inherently phase-aligned with the high-frequency component carried by the same waveforms. We submit that such behavior of the data, which seems to be present in various cortical signals, cannot be interpreted as reflecting functional modulation between distinct neural sources without additional evidence. In addition, we show that even low amplitude periodic potentials that cannot be readily observed or controlled for, are sufficient for significant CFC to occur.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062190', [], [u'Hebrew University of Jerusalem;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'cy3sabiork: A Cytoscape app for visualizing kinetic data from SABIO-RK', ['Matthias Konig'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'Kinetic data of biochemical reactions are essential for the creation of kinetic models of biochemical networks. One of the main resources of such information is SABIO-RK, a curated database for kinetic data of biochemical reactions and their related information. Despite the importance for computational modelling there has been no simple solution to visualize the kinetic data from SABIO-RK.\nIn this work, I present cy3sabiork, an app for querying and visualization of kinetic data from SABIO-RK in Cytoscape. The kinetic information is accessible via a combination of graph structure and annotations of nodes, with provided information consisting of: (I) reaction details, enzyme and organism; (II) kinetic law, formula, parameters; (III) experimental conditions; (IV) publication; (V) additional annotations. cy3sabiork creates an intuitive visualization of kinetic entries in form of a species-reaction-kinetics graph, which reflects the reaction-centered approach of  SABIO-RK. Kinetic entries can be imported in SBML format from either the SABIO-RK web interface or via web service queries. The app allows for easy comparison of kinetic data, visual inspection of the elements involved in the kinetic record and simple access to the annotation information of the kinetic record. \nI applied cy3sabiork in the computational modelling of galactose metabolism in the Human liver.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062091', [], [u'Humboldt University Berlin']]
[u'The velocity-curvature power law in Drosophila larval locomotion', ['Myrka Zago', 'Francesco Lacquaniti', 'Alex Gomez-Marin'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'We report the discovery that the locomotor trajectories generated by crawling fruit fly larvae follow the same power law relationship between speed and curvature previously found in the human motor control of hand-drawing, walking, eye movements and speech. Using high resolution behavioral tracking of individual flies in different sensory environments, we tested the power law by making maggots trace different trajectory types in naturalistic conditions, from reaching-like movements to scribbles. In all these conditions, we found that the law holds, and also that the exponent of the larval scaling law approaches 3/4, rather than the usual 2/3 exponent found in almost all human situations. This is consistent with recent findings on humans drawing ellipses on water, where dynamic effects related to medium viscosity have been shown to increase the exponent that would emerge from purely kinematic-geometric constraints. To our knowledge, the speed-curvature power law has only been studied in human and non-human primates, our work then being the first demonstration of the speed-curvature scaling principle in other species. As there are still different competing hypotheses for the origin of such law in humans (one invoking complex cortical computations in primates; another postulating its emergence from the coupling of viscoelastic muscle properties with simple central pattern generation) our findings in the larva demonstrate that the law is possible in an animal with a nervous system orders of magnitude simpler than that of humans, thus supporting the latter view. Given that our discovery is in Drosophila (amenable to precise genetic manipulations, electron microscopy reconstruction of neural circuits, imaging in behaving animals, electrophysiology, and other techniques) this opens great potential for uncovering the mechanistic implementation of the velocity-curvature power law. Such scaling laws might exist because natural selection favors processes that remain behaviorally efficient across a wide range of contexts in distantly related species. Our work is an effort to search for shared principles of animal behavior across phyla.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062166', [], [u'IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation;', u'University of Rome Tor Vergata;', u'Instituto de Neurociencias']]
[u'HINGE: Long-Read Assembly Achieves Optimal Repeat Resolution', ['Govinda M Kamath', 'Ilan Shomorony', 'Fei Xia', 'Thomas A Courtade', 'David N Tse'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'Long-read sequencing technologies have potential to produce gold-standard de novo genome assemblies, but fully exploiting error-prone reads to resolve repeats remains a challenge. Aggressive approaches to repeat resolution often produce mis-assemblies, and conservative approaches lead to unnecessary fragmentation. We present HINGE, an assembler that achieves optimal repeat resolution by distinguishing repeats that can be resolved given the data from those that cannot. This is accomplished by adding "hinges" to reads for constructing an overlap graph where only unresolvable repeats are merged. As a result, HINGE combines the error resilience of overlap-based assemblers with repeat-resolution capabilities of de Bruijn graph assemblers. HINGE was evaluated on the long-read datasets from the NCTC project. Besides producing more finished assemblies than the manual pipeline of NCTC based on the HGAP assembler and Circlator, HINGE allows us to identify 40 datasets where unresolvable repeats prevent the reliable construction of a unique finished assembly. In these cases, HINGE outputs a visually interpretable assembly graph that encodes all possible finished assemblies consistent with the reads, while other approaches either fragment the assembly or resolve the ambiguity arbitrarily.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062117', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'UC Berkeley;', u'Tsinghua University']]
[u'Sub-millisecond optogenetic control of neuronal firing with two-photon holographic photoactivation of Chronos', ['Emiliano Ronzitti', 'Rossella Conti', 'Eirini Papagiakoumou', 'Dimitrii Tanese', 'Valeria Zampini', 'Emmanuelle Chaigneau', 'Amanda J Foust', 'Nathan Klapoetke', 'Ed S Boyden', 'Valentina Emiliani'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'Optogenetic neuronal network manipulation promises to at last unravel a long-standing mystery in neuroscience: how does microcircuit activity causally relate to behavioral and pathological states?  The challenge to evoke spikes with high spatial and temporal complexity necessitates further joint development of light-delivery approaches and custom opsins. Two-photon scanning and parallel illumination strategies applied to ChR2- and C1V1-expressing neurons demonstrated reliable, in-depth generation of action potentials both in-vitro and in-vivo, but thus far lack the temporal precision necessary to induce precisely timed spiking events.  Here, we show that efficient current integration enabled by two-photon holographic amplified laser illumination of Chronos, a highly light-sensitive and fast opsin, can evoke spikes with submillisecond precision and repeated firing up to 100 Hz.  These results pave the way for optogenetic manipulation with the spatial and temporal sophistication necessary to mimic natural microcircuit activity.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062182', [], [u'Neurophotonics Laboratory,  CNRS UMR8250 - Universite Paris Descartes;', u'Neurophotonics Laboratory,  CNRS UMR8250 - Universite Paris Descartes - INSERM;', u'Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute;', u'MIT Media Lab and McGovern Institute']]
[u'MINOTAUR: A platform for the analysis and visualization of multivariate results from genome scans with R Shiny', ['Robert Verity', 'Caitlin Collins', 'Daren C. Card', 'Sara M Schaal', 'Liuyang Wang', 'Kathleen Lotterhos'], u'July 5, 2016.', u"Genome scans are widely used to identify 'outliers' in genomic data: loci with different patterns compared with the rest of the genome due to the action of selection or other non-adaptive forces of evolution. These genomic datasets are often high-dimensional, with complex correlation structures among variables, making it a challenge to identify outliers in a robust way. The Mahalanobis distance has been widely used for this purpose, but has the major limitation of assuming that data follow a simple parametric distribution. Here we develop three new metrics that can be used to identify outliers in multivariate space, while making no strong assumptions about the distribution of the data. These metrics are implemented in the R package MINOTAUR, which also includes an interactive web-based application for visualizing outliers in high-dimensional datasets. We illustrate how these metrics can be used to identify outliers from simulated genetic data, and discuss some of the limitations they may face in application.", u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062158', [], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Texas at Arlington;', u'Northeastern University;', u'Duke University']]
[u'iDamIDseq and iDEAR: An improved method and a computational pipeline to profile chromatin-binding proteins of developing organisms', ['Jose Arturo Gutierrez-Triana', 'Juan Mateo', 'David Ibberson', 'Joachim Wittbrodt'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'DNA adenine methyltransferase identification (DamID) has emerged as an alternative for profiling protein-DNA interactions, however critical issues in the method limit its applicability. Here we present iDamIDseq, a protocol that improves specificity and robustness making its use compatible with developing organisms. In addition, we present the analysis tool iDEAR (iDamIDseq Enrichment Analysis with R) to determine protein-DNA interactions genome wide. The combination of both allows establishing highly reliable transcription factor profiles, even in transient assays. For tissue specific expression we improved the Dam coding sequence to overcome predominant aberrant splicing of Dam fusions we discovered with the commonly used sequence.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062208', [], [u'University of Heidelberg']]
[u'SVAPLSseq: A Method to correct for hidden sources of variability in differential gene expression studies based on RNAseq data', ['SUTIRTHA CHAKRABORTY'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'RNAseq technology has revolutionized the face of gene expression profiling by generating read count data measuring the transcript abundances for each queried gene. But on the other side, the underlying technical artefacts generate a wide variety of hidden effects that may potentially distort the primary signals of differential expression between two sample groups. This is in addition to the factors of unwanted biological variability may give rise to a highly complicated pattern of residual expression heterogeneity in the data. Standard normalization techniques fail to correct for these latent variables and leads to a substantial reduction in the power of common statistical tests for differential expression. Here I introduce a novel method SVAPLSseq that aims to capture the traces of hidden variability in the data and incorporate them in a regression framework to re-estimate the primary signals for finding the truly positive genes. Application on both simulated and real-life RNAseq data shows the superior performance of the method compared to other available techniques. The method is provided as an R package SVAPLSseq that has been submitted to Bioconductor.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062125', [], [u'NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BIOMEDICAL GENOMICS']]
[u'Lymphocyte genes and an enhancer sequestered at the nuclear periphery undergo constrained release and associate upon T-cell activation', ['Michael I Robson', 'Jose I de las Heras', 'Alastair R W Kerr', 'Eric C Schirmer'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'The 3D organization of the genome changes concomitantly with expression changes during hematopoeisis and immune activation. However, studies of this phenomenon have focused either on topologically associated domains (TADs) or on lamina-associated domains (LADs) with few studies investigating how TADs and LADs affect one another. To address this we employed a Jurkat T-cell activation system. Lamin B1-DamID was first performed on the resting and activated cells to globally identify all genes moving between the nuclear periphery and the nuclear interior. This identified changes in gene positioning in both directions, though genes being released from the periphery significantly dominated. To assess whether these changes at the nuclear periphery influence wider genome organization, the genes changing in our DamID datasets were contrasted with topologically associated domains (TADs) identified with high resolution in the GM12878 lymphoblastoid cell line. We selected genes that occurred in both LADs and TADs that were released from the periphery during lymphocyte activation. These were tested by fluorescence in situ hybridization finding that the whole TAD moves when an overlapping LAD changes during Jurkat activation and also that higher order TAD compartment interactions are altered. In particular, release of an enhancer from the periphery in the activated cells enabled its association into a higher order TAD-TAD compartment structure. Thus, while TADs are the fundamental unit of genome organization, altered lamina associations clearly influence inter-TAD gene-enhancer interactions as an important additional mode of gene regulation during T-cell activation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062224', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Center for Cell Biology']]
[u'Host genetic variation in mucosal immunity pathways influences the upper airway microbiome', ['Catherine Igartua', 'Emily R Davenport', 'Yoav Gilad', 'Dan L Nicolae', 'Jayant Pinto', 'Carole Ober'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'The degree to which host genetic variation can modulate microbial communities in humans remains an open question. Here we performed a genetic mapping study of the microbiome in two accessible upper airway sites, the nasopharynx and the nasal vestibule, during two seasons in 144 adult members of a founder population of European decent. We estimated the relative abundances (RAs) of genus level bacteria from 16S rRNA gene sequences and examined associations with 148,653 genetic variants (linkage disequilibrium [LD] r2 < 0.5) selected from among all common variants discovered in genome sequences in this population. We identified 37 microbiome quantitative trait loci (mbQTLs) that showed evidence of association with the RAs of 22 genera (q < 0.05), and were enriched for genes in mucosal immunity pathways. The most significant association was between the RA of Dermacoccus (phylum Actinobacteria) and a variant 8kb upstream of TINCR (rs117042385; p = 1.61x10-8; q = 0.002), a long non-coding RNA that binds to peptidoglycan recognition protein 3 (PGLYRP3) mRNA, a gene encoding a known antimicrobial protein. A second association was between a missense variant in PGLYRP4 (rs3006458) and the RA of an unclassified genus of family Micrococcaceae (phylum Actinobacteria) (p = 5.10x10-7; q = 0.032). Our findings provide evidence of host genetic influences on upper airway microbial composition in humans, and implicate mucosal immunity genes in this relationship.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062232', [], [u'Univeristy of Chicago;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Ending AIDS: Progress and prospects for the control of HIV and TB in South Africa', ['Brian Gerard Williams', 'Somya Gupta', 'Matthew Wollmers', 'Reuben Granich'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'We use a dynamical model to fit data on time trends in HIV prevalence and anti-retroviral treatment (ART) coverage for adults in South Africa. We estimate current and project future trends in HIV incidence, prevalence and AIDS related deaths; in ART coverage and incidence; and in TB notification rates. We consider two scenarios: constant effort under which people continue to be started on treatment at the current rate and expanded treatment and prevention under which testing rates are increased, everyone is started on treatment as soon as they are found to be infected with HIV, and voluntary medical male circumcision, pre-exposure prophylaxis and condom distribution programmes are expanded. \n\tHIV incidence and mortality are falling as a result of the expansion of treatment: between 2010 and 2016 incidence fell by 65% and AIDS related deaths fell by 80%. Maintaining a policy of constant effort will lead to further declines in HIV incidence, AIDS related mortality and TB notification rates but will not end AIDS. Implementing a policy of expanded treatment and prevention, as the South African Government intends to do in September 2016, should ensure that by 2020 new infections and deaths will be less than one per thousand adults and the UNAIDS Goal of Ending AIDS by 2030 will be reached. Scaling up voluntary medical male circumcision, pre-exposure prophylaxis and condoms availability will avert some new infections but will save relatively few lives although equity demands that people at very high risk of infection including commercial sex-workers, men-who-have-sex-with-men and young women should have access to the best available methods of prevention. \n\tManaging HIV and TB currently costs South Africa about US$2.2 Bn (0.47% of GDP) and this will rise to a peak of US$2.8 Bn in 2018 (0.55% GDP). As treatment is scaled up and prevention made available to those at high risk, the cost will fall to US$ 1.8 Bn in 2030 and US$ 1.0 Bn in 2050 as those that are living with HIV but are on ART die of natural causes. The cost of testing people for HIV is never more than about 8% of the total cost and since testing is the sine qua non of treatment it will be essential to invest sufficient resources in testing. The cost of treating tuberculosis is never more than about 10% of the total and since this is the major cause of AIDS related illness and deaths, efforts should be made to optimise TB treatment.\n\tEnding AIDS in the world will depend critically on what happens in South Africa which accounts for 20% of all people living with HIV. The increasing availability of ART has had a major impact on both HIV incidence and AIDS related mortality and the cost of achieving this is affordable. With the intention to make treatment available to all those infected with HIV, starting in September 2016, the South African government is well placed to eliminate HIV as a major threat to public health by 2020 and end AIDS by 2030. Individuals at high risk of infection deserve access to the best available methods of protecting themselves and they will become increasingly important in the final stages of ending the epidemic.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/061929', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'WRHI and SACEMA;', u'International Association of Providers of AIDS Care (IAPAC)']]
[u'Potent Protection against H5N1 and H7N9 Influenza via Childhood Hemagglutinin Imprinting', ['Katelyn M Gostic', 'Monique R Ambrose', 'Michael Worobey', 'James O Lloyd-Smith'], u'July 5, 2016.', u"Two zoonotic influenza A viruses (IAV) of global concern, H5N1 and H7N9, exhibit puzzling differences in age distribution of human cases. Previous explanations cannot fully account for these patterns. We analyze data from all known human cases of H5N1 and H7N9 and show that an individual's first IAV infection confers lifelong protection against severe disease from novel hemagglutinin (HA) subtypes of the same phylogenetic group. Statistical modeling reveals protective HA imprinting to be the crucial explanatory factor, providing 75% protection against severe infection and 80% protection against death for both H5N1 and H7N9. Our results enable us to predict age distributions of severe disease for future pandemics and to demonstrate that a novel strain's pandemic potential increases yearly when a group-mismatched HA subtype dominates seasonal influenza circulation. These findings open new frontiers for rational pandemic risk assessment.", u'/content/early/2016/07/05/061598', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'The University of Arizona']]
[u'Immunoecology of species with alternative mating tactics and strategies', ['George A Lozano', 'Albert F. H. Ros'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'Alternative reproductive tactics and strategies (ARTS) refer to polymorphic reproductive behaviours in which in addition to the usual two sexes, there are one or more alternative morphs, usually male, that have evolved the ability to circumvent direct intra-sexual competition. These additional morphs have unique morphological, ecological, developmental, behavioural, life-history, and physiological profiles that shift the balance between self-maintenance, one aspect being immunity, and reproduction. Here, we review the immunoecological work on species with ARTS. We first summarize the evolution, development and maintenance of ARTS. We then review the main immunoecological hypotheses relevant to species with ARTS, dividing them into physiological, life-history, and ecological hypotheses. In context of these hypotheses, we critically review in detail all immunoecological studies we could find on species with ARTS. Several interesting patterns emerge. Generally, progress would be faster if hypotheses and predictions were always explicitly articulated. Oddly, there is a paucity of studies on insects, despite the many benefits that arise from working with insects: larger sample sizes, simple immune systems, and countless forms of alternative reproductive strategies and tactics. Of all the hypotheses reviewed, the immunocompetence handicap hypothesis and its derivatives have generated the greatest amount of work, but not necessarily the greatest level of understanding. Integration has been a one-way street, with ecologists delving deeper into physiology, seemingly at the cost of ignoring their organisms` evolutionary history and ecology. One possible useful framework is to divide ecological and evolutionary factors affecting immunity into those that stimulate the immune system, and those that depress it. Finally, the contributions of genomics to ecology are being increasingly recognized, including in species with ARTS, but we must ensure that evolutionary and ecological hypotheses drive the effort. There is no grandeur in the strict reductionist view of life.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/062083', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Estonian Centre of Evolutionary Ecology;', u'Fischereiforschungsstelle, Langenargen, Germany']]
[u'A mechanism of T cell dependent selection of antigen engaged Germinal Center B cells', ['Vinod Krishna', 'Kurtis E Bachman'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'A model of B cell affinity selection is proposed, and an \nexplanation of peripheral tolerance mechanisms through \nantibody repertoire editing is presented. \nWe show that affinity discrimination between B cells is driven \nby a competition between obtaining T cell help and removal of B cells \nfrom the light zone, either through apoptosis or by a return to the \ndark zone of germinal centers. We demonstrate that this mechanism \nalso allows for the negative selection of self reactive B cells and\nmaintenance of B cell tolerance during the germinal center reaction. \nFinally, we demonstrate that clonal expansion upon return to the \ngerminal center dark zone amplifies differences in the antigen affinity \nof B cells that survive the light zone.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/061879', [u'Immunology'], [u'Janssen Research and Development']]
[u'Cis/transgene optimization: systematic discovery of some key gene expression elements integrating bioinformatics and computational biology', ['Saeid Kadkhodaei', 'Farahnaz S. Golestan Hashemi', 'Morvarid Akhavan Rezaei', 'Sahar Abbasiliasi', 'Tan Joo Shun', 'Hamid R. Rajabi Memari', 'Mahdi Moradpour', 'Arbakariya B. Ariff'], u'July 5, 2016.', u'In recombinant protein production, quantity and quality are the major challenges particularly for large scale and high-throughput production systems. The present study mainly focused on computational analysis and in silico systematic discovery of some key functional gene expression elements in microalgae Dunaliella salina as a case study which there is no or poor information in this regard. Among the key factors, we took a shot at matrix attachment regions (MARs), translation initiation sites (TIS), signal peptide (SP) sequences, gene optimization and transformation system. Computational analysis of MARs sequences provided enough information about the structure of these sequences and led us to design an artificial MAR sequence considering the essential motifs and underlain rules. As the consensus TIS, we revealed that A-3, G-6C-5C-4 and G+1C+2G+3 arrange the specific context in this microalgae which help in locating the ribosome at the correct reading frame. Bioinformatics studies unveiled the sequence of MASTRAPLLALLALLCAGSARA with the highest signal score as the specific SP for secretion systems. A multi-criteria optimization procedure was performed to redesign the coding sequence of the BAR selectable marker gene. The optimized version of the gene mainly covered the host codon preference, the less structured mRNA and exposure of TIS. As the intragenic factors, we selected an efficient promoter, a 5\u02c8-UTR and an intron from the closely related species (Chlamydomonas Sp.) to construct the specific expression vectors. The expression cassettes containing optimized genetic elements could be delivered into the microalgae cells and conferred the resistance to the transformants for at least 90 generations. The findings indicated that the MARs flanking the expression cassette along with the optimized expression elements particularly codon adaptation could potentially improve transformation efficiency and stability. The findings can be efficiently deployed as an empirical model for systematic discovery of the key expression elements and optimization of the cis/transgenes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/05/061945', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Universiti Putra Malaysia;', u'Universiti Sains Malaysia;', u'SynHiTech']]
[u"Uncoupling of dysgranular retrosplenial 'head direction' cells from the global head direction network", ['Pierre-Yves Jacob', 'Giulio Casali', 'Laure Spieser', 'Hector Page', 'Dorothy Overington', 'Kate Jeffery'], u'July 4, 2016.', u"Spatial cognition is an important model system with which to investigate how sensory signals are transformed into cognitive representations. Head direction cells, found in several cortical and subcortical regions, fire when an animal faces a given direction and express a global directional signal which is anchored by visual landmarks and underlies the 'sense of direction'. We investigated the interface between visual and spatial cortical brain regions and report the discovery that a population of neurons in the dysgranular retrosplenial cortex, which we co-recorded with classic head direction cells in a rotationally symmetrical two-compartment environment, were dominated by a local visually defined reference frame and could be decoupled from the main head direction signal. A second population showed rotationally symmetric activity within a single sub-compartment suggestive of an acquired interaction with the head direction cells. These observations reveal an unexpected incoherence within the head direction system, and suggest that dysgranular retrosplenial cortex may mediate between visual landmarks and the multimodal sense of direction. Importantly, it appears that this interface supports a bi-directional exchange of information, which could explain how it is that landmarks can inform the direction sense while at the same time, the direction sense can be used to interpret landmarks.", u'/content/early/2016/07/04/062042', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'City University of London']]
[u'Using imputed genotype data in the joint score tests for genetic association and gene-environment interactions in case-control studies', ['Minsun Song', 'Bill Wheeler', 'Neil Caporaso', 'Maria Teressa Landi', 'Nilanjan Chatterjee'], u'July 4, 2016.', u'Background: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are now routinely imputed for untyped SNPs based on various powerful statistical algorithms for imputation trained on reference datasets. The use of predicted allele count for imputed SNPs as the dosage variable is known to produce valid score test for genetic association. Methods: In this paper, we investigate how to best handle imputed SNPs in various modern complex tests for genetic association incorporating gene-environment interactions. We focus on case-control association studies where inference in an underlying logistic regression model can be performed using alternative methods that rely on varying degree on an assumption of gene-environment independence in the underlying population.  As increasingly large scale GWAS are being performed through consortia effort where it is preferable to share only summary-level information across studies, we also describe simple mechanisms for implementing score-tests based on standard meta-analysis of one-step maximum-likelihood estimates across studies. Results: Applications of the methods in simulation studies and a dataset from genome-wide association study of lung cancer illustrate ability of the proposed methods to maintain type-I error rates for underlying testing procedures.  For analysis of imputed SNPs, similar to typed SNPs, retrospective methods can lead to considerable efficiency gain for modeling of gene-environment interactions under the assumption of gene-environment independence. Conclusions: Proposed methods allow valid analysis of imputed SNPs in case-control studies of gene-environment interaction using alternative strategies that had been earlier available only for genotyped SNPs.', u'/content/early/2016/07/04/062075', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Mathematics and Statistiscs, University of Nevada Reno, Reno, Nevada;', u'Information Management System, Rockville, Maryland;', u'National Cancer Institute;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
