[u'Matching tutor to student: rules and mechanisms for efficient two-stage learning in neural circuits', ['Tiberiu Tesileanu', 'Bence Olveczky', 'Vijay Balasubramanian'], u'August 27, 2016.', u"Existing models of birdsong learning assume that brain area LMAN introduces variability into song for trial-and-error learning.  Recent data suggest that LMAN also encodes a corrective bias driving short-term improvements in song.  These later consolidate in area RA, a motor cortex analogue downstream of LMAN.  We develop a new model of such two-stage learning.  Using a stochastic gradient descent approach, we derive how 'tutor' circuits should match plasticity mechanisms in 'student' circuits for efficient learning.  We further describe a reinforcement learning framework with which the tutor can build its teaching signal.  We show that mismatching the tutor signal and plasticity mechanism can impair or abolish learning.  Applied to birdsong, our results predict the temporal structure of the corrective bias from LMAN given a plasticity rule in RA.  Our framework can be applied predictively to other paired brain areas showing two-stage learning.", u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071910', [], [u'CUNY Graduate Center;', u'Harvard University;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Paleochronic reversion in Psophocarpus, the decompression function in floral anatomic fields', ['Edward G F Benya'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'Paleochronic reversion (an atavism) in Psophocarpus presents a basic floral phylloid ground state. That ground state can quickly change as permutation transformation (TX) begins. The form of permutation can vary as phyllotactic phylloid (TPhyld) and/or floral axial decompression (TAxl) presenting linear elongation (TLong) and/or rotational (TRtn) components. Research with 70 reverted floral specimens documented varying degrees of phyllotactic permutation at the bracts (Bt) region and inter-bracts (IBS) sub-region of the pre-whorls pedicel-bracts anatomic zone. Permutation further yielded an inter-zonal pericladial stalk (PCL). It continued at the floral whorls zone: the calyx (Cl), corolla (Crla), androecium (Andr), and gynoecium (Gynec) with components therein. These organ regions present a continuum as an axial dynamic vector space of floral axial elongation so that anatomic sequence of permutation activity runs from the bracts (Bt) region to the carpel (Crpl) inclusive with components therein. The flower reverts from a system of sexual reproductive, determinate growth to one of non-sexual, indeterminate growth.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/070540', [], [u'UNISINOS (Univeridade do Vale do Rio dos Sinos)']]
[u'Evolution of Drift Robustness in Small Populations of Digital Organisms', ['Thomas LaBar', 'Christoph Adami'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'Most mutations are deleterious and cause a reduction in population mean fitness known as the mutational load. In small populations, weakened selection against slightly-deleterious mutations results in an additional reduction in fitness: the drift load. Many studies have established that populations can evolve a reduced mutational load by evolving mutational robustness, but it is uncertain whether populations can evolve a reduced drift load. Here, using digital experimental evolution, we show that small populations do evolve reduced drift loads, that is, they evolve robustness to genetic drift, or "drift robustness". We find that, compared to genotypes from large populations, genotypes from small populations have a decreased likelihood of small-effect deleterious mutations, thus causing small-population genotypes to be drift-robust. We further show that drift robustness is not under direct selection, but instead arises because small populations preferentially adapt to drift-robust fitness peaks. These results have implications for genome evolution in organisms with small effective population sizes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071894', [], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Direction of actin flow dictates integrin LFA-1 orientation during leukocyte migration', ['Pontus Nordenfelt', 'Travis I. Moore', 'Shalin B. Mehta', 'Joseph Mathew Kalappurakkal', 'Vinay Swaminathan', 'Nobuyasu Koga', 'Talley J. Lambert', 'David Baker', 'Jenifer C. Waters', 'Rudolf Oldenbourg', 'Tomomi Tani', 'Satyajit Mayor', 'Clare M. Waterman', 'Timothy A. Springer'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'Integrin \u03b1\u03b2 heterodimers mediate cell\u2212cell and cell\u2212matrix interactions and provide the traction for most cell migration in the body1,2. Integrin ectodomains are unusually large and complex and assume three global conformational states (Fig. 1a) that differ up to 1,000-fold in affinity for ligand2. Antigen recognition by lymphocytes as well as firm adhesion, diapedesis, and migration of leukocytes within tissues are dependent on lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1), i.e. integrin \u03b1L\u03b22 or CD11a/CD18. Binding of LFA-1 to intercellular adhesion molecules (ICAMs) by the integrin head is communicated by 10 leg domains, through single-span transmembrane domains in each subunit, to the cytoskeleton via adaptors such as talins and kindlins3. How do integrins couple extracellular ligands to the actin cytoskeleton through a molecular mechanism that enables cell migration? Here, we test molecular predictions of a cytoskeletal force model of integrin activation4 in live cells. Using green fluorescent protein (GFP) inserted by fusing its N and C-termini to the LFA-1 head and polarization microscopy, we show that LFA-1 molecules engaged to ICAM-1 and the cytoskeleton are aligned and oriented relative to the direction of retrograde actin flow5,6 at the leading edge of migrating lymphocytes. Realistic 3D models of GFP-head fusions relate the transition dipole orientation of the GFP fluorophore7,8 to the orientation of engaged LFA-1 molecules on the cell surface. The orientation of the transition dipole in two distinct fusions correlates to the orientation of retrograde actin flow at the leading edge of migrating cells as measured by live-cell structured illumination microscopy. Alignment is dependent on cytoskeleton coupling to the \u03b22 cytoplasmic tail and is consistent with integrins with a specific tilt being oriented in the same direction as retrograde actin flow. Together, these results strongly support the cytoskeletal force model of integrin activation and place the atomic structures of integrins in the context of cellular length-scale measurements that define how integrins orient as they function in leukocyte migration.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071936', [], [u'BCMP, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA;', u'Eugene Bell Center, Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole MA, USA;', u'National Center for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, IN;', u'Cell Biology and Physiology Center, NHLBI, NIH, Bethesda MD, USA;', u'Institute for Molecular Science, Myodaiji, Okazaki, Japan;', u'Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA;', u'University of Washington, Seattle, WA and Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Occipital white matter tracts in human and macaque', ['Hiromasa Takemura', 'Franco Pestilli', 'Kevin S Weiner', 'Georgios A Keliris', 'Sofia M Landi', 'Julia Sliwa', 'Frank Q Ye', 'Michael A Barnett', 'David A Leopold', 'Winrich A Freiwald', 'Nikos K Logothetis', 'Brian A Wandell'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'We compare the major white matter tracts in human and macaque occipital lobe. The comparative anatomy of human and macaque occipital white matter tracts reveals both similarities and significant differences in spatial arrangement and relative sizes of the tracts. There are several apparently homologous tracts in the two species, including the vertical occipital fasciculus (VOF), optic radiation, forceps major, and inferior longitudinal fasciculus. There is one large human tract, the inferior occipital-frontal fasciculus, with no corresponding fasciculus in macaque. The macaque VOF is compact and its fibers intertwine with the dorsal segment of the ILF, but the human VOF is much more elongated in the anterior-posterior direction and its fibers do not intertwine with the ILF. These similarities and differences will be useful in establishing which circuitry in the macaque can serve as an accurate model for human visual cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/069443', [], [u'National Institute of Information and Communications Technology;', u'Indiana University;', u'Stanford University;', u'University of Antwerp;', u'The Rockefeller University;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics']]
[u'Reinforcement of conspecific sperm precedence weakens sexual selection in sympatric populations of Drosophila', ['Dean M Castillo', 'Leonie C Moyle'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'It is typically assumed that sexual selection unilaterally drives the evolution of reproductive isolation, but selection for increased reproductive isolation could feed back on sexual selection when these processes share a genetic basis. Direct selection for isolation is most likely to occur in the context of "reinforcement", where selection acts to increase pre-zygotic barriers to reduce the costs of heterospecific matings. Most studies of reinforcement focus on pre-mating barriers to reproduction, however post-mating traits, such as conspecific gamete precedence, are also ubiquitous barriers to reproduction that can potentially respond to reinforcing selection. Conspecific sperm precedence (CSP) also has a known shared genetic basis with intrapopulation sperm competition, allowing for the possibility that selection for increased CSP in sympatry could alter intrapopulation sperm competition specifically in these sympatric populations. We test this prediction with the sister species Drosophila pseudoobscura and D. persimilis, using two sympatric and two allopatric populations of D. pseudoobscura. Consistent with a pattern of reinforcement, the sympatric populations had higher mean CSP. Reinforcement, in turn, constrained sexual selection in sympatric populations by decreasing the average offensive sperm competitive ability within populations, allowing less opportunity for sexual selection to operate. These data demonstrate that strong reinforcing selection for reproductive isolation can have consequences for sexual selection and sexual interactions, in these important postmating sperm competition traits.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071886', [], [u'Indiana University']]
[u'Architecture of a minimal signalling pathway explains the T cell response to a 1,000,000-fold variation in antigen affinity and dose', ['Melissa Lever', 'Hong-Sheng Lim', 'Philipp Kruger', 'John Nguyen', 'Nicola Trendel', 'Enas Abu-Shah', 'Philip K Maini', 'Philip Anton van der Merwe', 'Omer Dushek'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'T cells must respond differently to antigens of varying affinity presented at different doses. Previous attempts to map pMHC affinity onto T cell responses have produced inconsistent patterns of responses preventing for- mulations of canonical models of T cell signalling. Here, a systematic analysis of T cell responses to 1,000,000-fold variations in both pMHC affinity and dose produced bell-shaped dose-response curves and different optimal pMHC affinities at different pMHC doses. Using sequential model rejection/identification algorithms, we identified a unique, minimal model of cellular signalling incorporating kinetic proofreading with limited signalling coupled to an incoherent feed forward loop (KPL-IFF), that reproduces these observations. We show that the KPL-IFF model correctly predicts the T cell response to antigen co-presentation. Our work offers a general approach for studying cellular signalling that does not require full details of biochemical pathways.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071878', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Lost dollars threaten research in public academic health centers', ['Henry R. Bourne', 'Eric Vermillion'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'Decreasing federal and state support threaten long-term sustainability of research in publicly supported academic health centers. In weathering these financial threats, research at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) has undergone substantial changes. Lacking a general endowment, UCSF relies mainly on indirect cost recovery from research grants for institutional support of research programs, and on private gifts and debt for constructing new laboratories. Institutional salary support goes preferentially to senior faculty, while the young increasingly depend on grants. Private and government support for research grows apace in clinical departments, but slowly declines in basic science departments. Research is judged more on its quantity (numbers of investigators and federal and private dollars) than on its goals, achievements, or scientific quality. We propose measures to help UCSF alleviate these problems. Similar issues may afflict research at other large public academic health centers, which have not been carefully studied.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071860', [], [u'UCSF']]
[u'Actin retrograde flow actively aligns and orients ligand-engaged integrins in focal adhesions.', ['Vinay Swaminathan', 'Joseph Mathew Kalappurakkal', 'Shalin B. Mehta', 'Pontus Nordenfelt', 'Travis I Moore', 'Koga Nobuyasu', 'David A. Baker', 'Rudolf Oldenbourg', 'Tomomi Tani', 'Satyajit Mayor', 'Timothy A Springer', 'Clare M Waterman'], u'August 27, 2016.', u'Integrins are transmembrane receptors that, upon activation, bind extracellular matrix (ECM) or cell surface ligands and link them to the actin cytoskeleton to mediate cell adhesion and migration1,2.  One model for the structural transitions mediating integrin activation termed \u2032the cytoskeletal force hypothesis\u2032 posits that force transmitted from the cytoskeleton to ligand-bound integrins acts as an allosteric stabilizer of the extended-open, high-affinity state3.  Since cytoskeletal forces in migrating cells are generated by centripetal \u2032retrograde flow\u2032 of F-actin from the cell leading edge, where integrin-based adhesions are initiated4,5, this model predicts that F-actin flow should align and orient activated, ligand-bound integrins in integrin-based adhesions.  Here, polarization-sensitive fluorescence microscopy of GFP-\u03b1\u03b2V3 integrin chimeras in migrating fibroblasts shows that integrins are aligned with respect to the axis of FAs and the direction of F-actin flow, and this alignment requires binding immobilized ligand and talin-mediated linkage to a flowing cytoskeleton. Polarization imaging and Rosetta modelling of chimeras engineered to orient GFP differentially with respect to the integrin headpiece suggest that ligand-bound \u03b1V\u03b23 integrin may be markedly tilted by the force of F-actin flow.  These results show that actin cytoskeletal forces actively sculpt an anisotropic molecular scaffold in FAs that may underlie the ability of cells to sense directional ECM and physical cues.', u'/content/early/2016/08/27/071852', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'NHLBI/NIH, Bethesda, MD;', u'National Center for Biological Sciences, Bangalore, India;', u'Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA;', u'Lund University, Lund, Sweden;', u'Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA;', u'Institute of Molecular Science, Okazaki, Japan;', u'University of Washington, Seattle, WA']]
