[u'Connecting genetic risk to disease endpoints through the human blood plasma proteome', ['Karsten Suhre', 'Matthias Arnold', 'Aditya Bhagwat', 'Richard J Cotton', 'Rudolf Engelke', 'Annika Laser', 'Johannes Raffler', 'Hina Sarwath', 'Gaurav Thareja', 'Robert Kirk DeLisle', 'Larry Gold', 'Marija Pezer', 'Gordan Lauc', 'Mohammed A. El-Din Selim', 'Dennis O. Mook-Kanamori', 'Eman K. Al-Dous', 'Yasmin A. Mohamoud', 'Joel Malek', 'Konstantin Strauch', 'Harald Grallert', 'Annette Peters', 'Gabi Kastenmuller', 'Christian Gieger', 'Johannes Graumann'], u'November 9, 2016.', u"Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with intermediate phenotypes, like changes in metabolite and protein levels, provide functional evidence for mapping disease associations and translating them into clinical applications. However, although hundreds of genetic risk variants have been associated with complex disorders, the underlying molecular pathways often remain elusive. Associations with intermediate traits across multiple chromosome locations are key in establishing functional links between GWAS-identified risk-variants and disease endpoints. Here, we describe a GWAS performed with a highly multiplexed aptamer-based affinity proteomics platform. We quantified associations between protein level changes and gene variants in a German cohort and replicated this GWAS in an Arab/Asian cohort. We identified many independent, SNP-protein associations, which represent novel, inter-chromosomal links, related to autoimmune disorders, Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular disease, cancer, and many other disease endpoints. We integrated this information into a genome-proteome network, and created an interactive web-tool for interrogations. Our results provide a basis for new approaches to pharmaceutical and diagnostic applications.", u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086793', [], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine - Qatar;', u'Helmholtz Center Munich;', u'Somalogic Inc;', u'Genos Inc;', u'Hamad Medical Corporation;', u'Leiden University Medical Centre']]
[u'Establishing wonder oil, Solanesol, as a novel inhibitor for Focal Adhesive Kinase by in silico strategies', ['Betty Daneial', 'Devashish das', 'Jacob V J Paul', 'Guruprasad R'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Focal adhesion kinase (FAK) plays a primary role in regulating the activity of many signaling molecules. Increased FAK expression has been implicated in a series of cellular processes, including cell migration and survival. Inhibiting the activity of FAK for cancer therapy is currently under investigation. Hence, FAK and its inhibitors has been the subject of intensive research. To understand the structural factors affecting inhibitory potency, kinetic analysis, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation were studied in this project. Though, Solanesol was found have inhibitory activities towards FAK, no in silico tests were ever done on the same.\nDue to high flexibility of Solanesol (Rotatable bonds = 25), it is difficult to analyze using normal docking protocols. This paper introduces a novel method to dock and analyze molecules with high flexibility based on weighed contact based scoring method. This method uses blind docking technique, which was developed for protein peptide docking method, to generate conformations which were used to calculate contact based weights of residues. This method reveals the possible binding site for the small molecule. An exhaustive docking search on the acquired area reveals the docked confirmation of the compound. The final docked conformation was subjected to molecular dynamics to understand of binding stability. This study is in a good agreement with experimental results which shows Solanesol binds at ATP binding site and inhibit the phosphorylation of Focal Adhesion Kinase.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086660', [], [u'St Josephs college, Bangalore, India;', u'Educept, New Delhi;', u'St. Josephs college, Bangalore, India;', u'Durga Femto Technologies and Research, Bangalore, India']]
[u'Inactivation of thermogenic UCP1 as a historical contingency in multiple placental mammal clades', ['Michael Gaudry', 'Martin Jastroch', 'Jason Treberg', 'Michael Hofreiter', 'Johanna Paijmans', 'James Starett', 'Nathan Wales', 'Anthony Signore', 'Mark Springer', 'Kevin L Campbell'], u'November 9, 2016.', u"Mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) is essential for non-shivering thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue and is widely accepted to have played a key thermoregulatory role in small-bodied and neonatal placental mammals that enabled the exploitation of cold environments. Here we map ucp1 sequences from 133 mammals onto a 51-kb species tree and show that inactivating mutations have occurred in at least eight of the 18 traditional placental orders, thereby challenging the physiological importance of UCP1 across Placentalia. Selection and timetree analyses further reveal that ucp1 inactivations temporally correspond with secondary reductions in metabolic intensity in xenarthrans and pangolins, or coincided with a ~30 million year episode of global cooling in the Paleogene that promoted sharp increases in body mass and cladogenesis evident in the fossil record of other lineages lacking a functional UCP1. Our findings also demonstrate that members of various lineages (e.g., cetaceans, horses, woolly mammoths, Steller's sea cows) evolved extreme cold hardiness in the absence of UCP1-mediated thermogenesis. Finally, we identify ucp1 inactivation as a historical contingency that is linked to the current low species diversity of UCP1-less clades, thus providing the first evidence of species selection related to the presence or absence of a single gene product.", u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086819', [], [u'University of Manitoba;', u'Helmholtz Zentrum Munchen;', u'University of Potsdam;', u'San Diego State University;', u'Natural History Museum of Denmark;', u'University of Nebraska, Lincoln;', u'University of California, Riverside']]
[u'Directional evolution in temperature-responsive gene expression in yeast', ['Xueying C Li', 'Justin C. Fay'], u'November 9, 2016.', u"Gene regulation is a ubiquitous mechanism by which organisms respond to their environment. While organisms are often found to be adapted to the environments they experience, the role of gene regulation in environmental adaptation is not often known. In this study, we examine divergence in cis-regulatory effects between two Saccharomyces species, S. cerevisiae and S. uvarum, that have substantially diverged in their thermal growth profile. We measured allele specific expression (ASE) in the species' hybrid at three temperatures, the highest of which is lethal to S. uvarum but not the hybrid or S. cerevisiae. We find that S. uvarum alleles can be expressed at the same level as S. cerevisiae alleles at high temperature and most cis-acting differences in gene expression are not dependent on temperature. However, a set of 136 genes with temperature dependent ASE show a directional pattern of evolution with S. cerevisiae alleles exhibiting a stronger temperature response than S. uvarum alleles. Although we find binding sites enriched upstream of temperature responsive genes, there are only weak correlations between binding site and expression divergence. Our results indicate that temperature divergence between S. cerevisiae and S. uvarum has not caused widespread divergence in cis-regulatory activity, but that a subset of genes show evidence of directional evolution, mediated by positive selection or loss of constraint. The difficulty of explaining divergence in cis-regulatory sequences with models of transcription factor binding sites and nucleosome positioning highlights the importance of identifying mutations that underlie cis-regulatory divergence between species.", u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086785', [], [u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'De novo transcriptome characterization of a sterilizing trematode parasite (Microphallus sp.) from two species of New Zealand snails', ['Laura Bankers', 'Maurine Neiman'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Snail-borne trematodes represent a large, diverse, and evolutionarily, ecologically, and medically important group of parasites, often imposing strong selection on their hosts and causing host morbidity and mortality. Even so, there are very few genomic and transcriptomic resources available for this important animal group. We help to fill this gap by providing transcriptome resources from trematode metacercariae infecting two congeneric snail species, Potamopyrgus antipodarum and P. estuarinus. This genus of New Zealand snails has gained prominence in large part through the development of P. antipodarum and its sterilizing trematode parasite Microphallus livelyi into a textbook model for host-parasite coevolutionary interactions in nature. By contrast, the interactions between Microphallus trematodes and P. estuarinus, an estuary-inhabiting species closely related to the freshwater P. antipodarum, are relatively unstudied. Here, we provide the first annotated transcriptome assemblies from Microphallus isolated from P. antipodarum and P. estuarinus. We also use these transcriptomes to produce genomic resources that will be broadly useful to those interested in host-parasite coevolution, local adaption, and molecular evolution and phylogenetics of this and other snail-trematode systems. Analyses of the two Microphallus transcriptomes revealed that the two trematode isolates are more genetically differentiated from one another than are M. livelyi infecting different populations of P. antipodarum, suggesting that the Microphallus infecting P. estuarinus represent a distinct lineage. We also provide a promising set of candidate genes likely involved in parasitic infection and response to salinity stress.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086801', [], [u'University of Iowa, United States']]
[u'Optimizing complex phenotypes through model-guided multiplex genome engineering', ['Gleb Kuznetsov', 'Daniel B. Goodman', 'Gabriel T. Filsinger', 'Matthieu Landon', 'Nadin Rohland', 'John Aach', 'Marc J. Lajoie', 'George M. Church'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'New technologies for constructing and editing genomes are facilitating the creation of organisms with novel properties, but these organisms often suffer from phenotypic defects due to suboptimal design or mutations that arise during construction. While laboratory evolution has traditionally been used to optimize complex phenotypes, multiplex genome editing can complement and direct evolutionary approaches by creating combinatorial variants of specific allelic changes. Here, we present a method for identifying genomic modifications that optimize complex phenotypes by combining multiplex genome engineering and predictive modeling. We applied our method to the 63-codon E. coli strain C321.\u2206A, which has 676 mutations relative to its wild-type ancestor, and identified six single nucleotide mutations that together recover 59% of the fitness defect exhibited by the strain. The resulting optimized strain, C321.DA.opt, is an improved chassis for production of proteins containing non-standard amino acids. We show how multiple cycles of multiplex automated genome engineering (MAGE) and inexpensive sequencing can generate rich genotypic and phenotypic diversity that can be combined with linear regression techniques to quantify individual allelic effects. We find that our model-guided approach is less susceptible to bias from population dynamics and recombination efficiency, can be effectively used on sets of over 100 target alleles, and can additionally identify beneficial de novo mutations arising in the background of a targeted approach. Beyond improving engineered genomes, our work provides a proof-of-principle approach for high-throughput quantification of allelic effects that could be used with any method for generating targeted genotypic diversity.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086595', [], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'DNA-polymerase guided elimination of paternal mitochondrial genomes: An escape-proof obstacle to their transmission', ['Zhongsheng Yu', "Patrick H. O'Farrell", 'Nikita Yakubovich', 'Steven Z. DeLuca'], u'November 9, 2016.', u"Mitochondrial DNA is predominantly inherited from only one parent. In animals this is usually the mother.  This program is not in the interest of the paternal mitochondrial genome whose potential to contribute to future generations is restricted.  However, in a dramatic example of genetic conflict, nuclear programs ensure the outcome.  Two large mitochondria extend the length of Drosophila sperm tails.  The hundreds of nucleoids in these mitochondria vanish during spermatogenesis eliminating their potential for transmission.  Our previous work showed that mutational inactivation of EndoG, a nuclear encoded mitochondrial endonuclease, slows elimination of mitochondrial genomes.  Here, we show that knockdown of the nuclearly encoded mitochondrial DNA polymerase, Tamas, produces a much more complete block of mtDNA loss.  Recruitment of Tamas to the nucleoid at the time of its disappearance suggests a direct contribution to the elimination, but the 3'-exonuclease function of the polymerase is not needed.  While DNA elimination is a surprising function for DNA polymerase, its use to restrict paternal genomes provides a strategy that cannot easily be evaded by the mitochondrial genome without compromising its replication.", u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086702', [], [u'UCSF;', u'Carnegie Institution of Science, Dept. of Embryology']]
[u'Balance of microtubule stiffness and cortical tension determines the size of blood cells with marginal band across species', ['Serge Dmitrieff', 'Adolfo Alsina', 'Aastha Mathur', 'Francois Nedelec'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'The fast blood stream of animals is associated with large shear stresses. Consequently, blood cells have evolved a special morphology and a specific internal architecture allowing them to maintain their integrity over several weeks. For instance, non-mammalian red blood cells, mammalian erythroblasts and platelets have a peripheral ring of microtubules, called the marginal band, that flattens the overall cell morphology by pushing on the cell cortex. In this article, we model how the shape of these cells stems from the balance between marginal band elasticity and cortical tension. We predict that the diameter of the cell scales with the total microtubule polymer, and verify the predicted law across a wide range of species. Our analysis also shows that the combination of the marginal band rigidity and cortical tension increases the ability of the cell to withstand forces without deformation. Finally, we model the marginal band coiling that occurs during the disc-to-sphere transition observed for instance at the onset of blood platelet activation. We show that when cortical tension increases faster than crosslinkers can unbind, the marginal band will coil, whereas if the tension increases slower, the marginal band may shorten as microtubules slide relative to each other.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086728', [], [u'EMBL']]
[u'A network-based approach to eQTL interpretation and SNP functional characterization', ['Maud Fagny', 'Joseph N. Paulson', 'Marieke L. Kuijjer', 'Abhijeet R. Sonawane', 'Cho-Yi Chen', 'Camila M. Lopes-Ramos', 'Kimberly Glass', 'John Quackenbush', 'John Platig'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) analysis associates genotype with gene expression, but most eQTL studies only include cis-acting variants and generally examine a single tissue. We used data from 13 tissues obtained by the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project v6.0 and, in each tissue, identified both cis- and trans-eQTLs. For each tissue, we represented significant associations between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and genes as edges in a bipartite network. These networks are organized into dense, highly modular communities often representing coherent biological processes. Global network hubs are enriched in distal gene regulatory regions such as enhancers, but are devoid of disease-associated SNPs from genome wide association studies. In contrast, local, community-specific network hubs (core SNPs) are preferentially located in regulatory regions such as promoters and enhancers and highly enriched for trait and disease associations. These results provide help explain how many weak-effect SNPs might together influence cellular function and phenotype.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086587', [u'Genomics'], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u"Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'Segregation between the parietal memory network and the default mode network: Effects of spatial smoothing and model order in ICA', ['Yang Hu', 'Jijun Wang', 'Chunbo Li', 'Yinshan Wang', 'Zhi Yang', 'Xi-Nian Zuo'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'A brain network consisting of two key parietal nodes, the precuneus and the posterior cingulate cortex, has emerged from recent fMRI studies. Though it is anatomically adjacent to and spatially overlaps with the default mode network (DMN), its function has been associated with memory processing, and it has been referred to as the parietal memory network (PMN). Independent component analysis (ICA) is the most common data-driven method of extracting PMN and DMN simultaneously. However, the effects of data preprocessing and parameter determination in ICA on PMN-DMN segregation are completely unknown. Here, we employ three typical algorithms of group ICA to assess how spatial smoothing and model order influence the degree of PMN-DMN segregation. Our findings indicate that PMN and DMN can only be stably separated using a combination of low-level spatial smoothing and high-order model across the three ICA algorithms. We thus argue for more considerations on parametric settings for interpreting DMN data.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086454', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Shanghai Mental Health Center']]
[u'Complete mapping of viral escape from neutralizing antibodies', ['Michael B Doud', 'Scott E Hensley', 'Jesse D Bloom'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Identifying viral mutations that confer escape from antibodies is crucial for understanding the interplay between immunity and viral evolution. Here we quantify how every amino-acid mutation to influenza hemagglutinin affects neutralization by monoclonal antibodies targeting several antigenic regions. Our approach involves creating all replication-competent protein variants of the virus, selecting these variants with antibody, and using deep sequencing to identify enriched mutations. These high-throughput measurements are predictive of the effects of individual mutations in traditional neutralization assays. At many residues, only some of the possible mutations escape from an antibody. For instance, at a single residue targeted by two different antibodies, we identify some mutations that escape both antibodies and other mutations that escape only one or the other. Therefore, our approach maps how viruses can escape antibodies with mutation-level sensitivity, and shows that only some mutations at antigenic residues actually alter antigenicity.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086611', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Unified Framework for Representing and Ranking', ['Jim Jing-Yan Wang', 'Halima Bensmail'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'In the database retrieval and nearest neighbor classification tasks, the two basic problems are to represent the query and database objects, and to learn the ranking scores of the database objects to the query. Many studies have been conducted for the representation learning and the ranking score learning problems, however, they are always learned independently from each other. In this paper, we argue that there are some inner relationships between the representation and ranking of database objects, and try to investigate their relationships by learning them in a unified way. To this end, we proposed the Unified framework\nfor Representation and Ranking (UR2) of objects for the database retrieval and nearest neighbor classification tasks. The learning of representation parameter and the ranking scores are modeled within one single unified objective function. The objective function is optimized alternately with regarding to representation parameter and the ranking scores. Based on the optimization results; iterative\nalgorithms are developed to learn the representation parameter and the ranking scores on a unified way. Moreover, with two different formulas of representation (feature selection and subspace learning), we give two versions of UR2. The proposed algorithms are tested on two challenging tasks - MRI image based brain tumor retrieval and nearest neighbor classification based protein identification. The experiments show the advantage of the proposed unified framework over the state-of-the-art independent representation and ranking methods.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086678', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'KAUST;', u'Qatar Foundation']]
[u'Cladogenetic and Anagenetic Models of Chromosome Number Evolution: a Bayesian Model Averaging Approach', ['William A Freyman', 'Sebastian Hoehna'], u'November 9, 2016.', u"Chromosome number is a key feature of the higher-order organization of the genome, and changes in chromosome number play a fundamental role in evolution. Dysploid gains and losses in chromosome number, as well as polyploidization events, may drive reproductive isolation and lineage diversification. The recent development of probabilistic models of chromosome number evolution in the groundbreaking work by Mayrose et al. (2010, ChromEvol) have enabled the inference of ancestral chromosome numbers over molecular phylogenies and generated new interest in studying the role of chromosome changes in evolution. However, the ChromEvol approach assumes all changes occur anagenetically (along branches), and does not model events that are specifically cladogenetic. Cladogenetic changes may be expected if chromosome changes result in reproductive isolation. Here we present a new class of models of chromosome number evolution (called ChromoSSE) that incorporate both anagenetic and cladogenetic change. The ChromoSSE models allow us to determine the mode of chromosome number evolution; is chromosome evolution occurring primarily within lineages, primarily at lineage splitting, or in clade-specific combinations of both? Furthermore, we can estimate the location and timing of possible chromosome speciation events over the phylogeny. We implemented ChromoSSE in a Bayesian statistical framework, specifically in the software RevBayes, to accommodate uncertainty in parameter estimates while leveraging the full power of likelihood based methods. We tested ChromoSSE's accuracy with simulations and re-examined chromosomal evolution in Aristolochia, Carex section Spirostachyae, Helianthus, Mimulus sensu lato (s.l.), and Primula section Aleuritia, finding evidence for clade-specific combinations of anagenetic and cladogenetic dysploid and polyploid modes of chromosome evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086629', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California Berkeley']]
[u'A mixture of sparse coding models explaining properties of face neurons related to holistic and parts-based processing', ['Haruo Hosoya', 'Aapo Hyvarinen'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Although recent computational studies of feedforward neural network models have demonstrated remarkable performance in object recognition and neural response prediction, visual processing clearly has much more complex aspects that cannot be understood without feedback processing.  Here, we propose a novel framework called mixture of sparse coding models, inspired by the formation of category-specific subregions in the inferotemporal (IT) cortex such as faces and objects.  The model reconciles two opposing ideas, parts-based and holistic processing, where the former is achieved by sparse coding and the latter by the top-down explain-away effect of the mixture model.  We developed a concrete hierarchical network that implemented a mixture of two sparse coding submodels on top of a simple Gabor analysis, where each submodel was trained with face or non-face object images and the latent variables were estimated by standard Bayesian inference to model evoked neural activities.  As a result, the units in the face submodel not only exhibited significant selectivity to face images compared to object images, but also explained, qualitatively and quantitatively, several tuning properties to facial features found in the middle patch of face processing in the macaque IT cortex as documented by Freiwald, Tsao, and Livingstone (2009).  Namely, we found tuning to only a small number of facial features that were often related to geometrically large parts like face outline and hair, preference of extreme facial features (e.g., large inter-eye distance) with anti-preference of the other extremes (e.g., small inter-eye distance), and reduction of the gain of feature tuning for face stimuli that were partial as opposed to whole.  Thus, we hypothesize that the coding principle of facial features in the middle patch of face processing in the macaque IT cortex may be closely related to mixture of sparse coding models.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086637', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'ATR International;', u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'T cell co-stimulatory receptor CD28 is a primary target for PD-1-mediated inhibition', ['Enfu Hui', 'Jeanne Cheung', 'Jing Zhu', 'Xiaolei Su', 'Marcus J. Taylor', 'Heidi A. Wallweber', 'Dibyendu K. Sasmal', 'Jun Huang', 'Jeong M. Kim', 'Ira Mellman', 'Ronald D. Vale'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Programmed death-1 (PD-1) is a co-inhibitory receptor that suppresses T cell activation and is an\nimportant cancer immunotherapy target. Upon activation by its ligand PD-L1, PD-1 is thought to\nsuppress signaling through the T cell receptor (TCR). Here, by titrating the strength of PD-1\nsignaling in both biochemical reconstitution systems and in T cells, we demonstrate that the\ncoreceptor CD28 is strongly preferred over the TCR as a target for dephosphorylation by PD-1-\nrecruited Shp2 phosphatase. We also show that PD-1 colocalizes with the costimulatory receptor\nCD28 in plasma membrane microclusters but partially segregates from the TCR. These results\nreveal that PD-1 suppresses T cell function primarily by inactivating CD28 signaling, suggesting\nthat costimulatory pathways may play unexpected roles in regulating effector T cell function and\ntherapeutic responses to anti-PD-L1/PD-1.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086652', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'HHMI, University of California San Francisco;', u'Genentech;', u'HHMI, University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Differential protein expression marks the transition from infection with Opisthorchis viverrini to cholangiocarcinoma', ['Jarinya Khoontawad', 'Chawalit Pairojkul', 'Rucksak Rucksaken', 'Porntip Pinlaor', 'Chaisiri Wongkham', 'Puangrat Yongvanit', 'Ake Pugkhem', 'Alun Jones', 'Jordan Plieskatt', 'Jeremy Potriquet', 'Jeffery Bethony', 'Somchai Pinlaor', 'Jason Mulvenna'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Parts of Southeast Asia have the highest incidence of intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) in the world due to infection by the liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini (Ov). Ov-associated CCA is the culmination of chronic Ov-infection, with the persistent production of the growth factors and cytokines associated with persistent inflammation, which can endure for years in Ov-infected individuals prior to transitioning to CCA. Isobaric labelling and tandem mass spectrometry of liver tissue from a hamster model of CCA was used to compare protein expression profiles from inflammed tissue (Ov-infected but not cancerous) versus cancerous tissue (Ov-induced CCA). Immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting were used to verify dysregulated proteins in the animal model and in human tissue. We identified 154 dysregulated proteins that marked the transition from Ov-infection to Ov-induced CCA, i.e. proteins dysregulated during carcinogenesis but not Ov-infection. The verification of dysregulated proteins in resected liver tissue from humans with Ov-associated CCA showed the numerous parallels in protein dysregulation between human and animal models of Ov-induced CCA. To identify potential circulating markers for CCA, dysregulated proteins were compared to proteins isolated from exosomes secreted by a human CCA cell line (KKU055) and 27 proteins were identified as dysregulated in CCA and present in exosomes. These data form the basis of potential diagnostic biomarkers for human Ov-associated CCA. The profile of protein dysregulation observed during chronic Ov-infection and then in Ov-induced CCA provides insight into the etiology of an infection-induced inflammation-related cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086645', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Khon Kaen University;', u'Rajamangala University of Technology Isan;', u'University of Queensland;', u'George Washington University;', u'QIMR Berghofer MRI']]
[u'Inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) knockout mice as a model of trichotillomania', ['Plinio C Casarotto', 'Caroline Biojone', 'Karina Montezuma', 'Fernando Q Cunha', 'Samia R L Joca', 'Eero Castren', 'Francisco S Guimaraes'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Trichotillomania (TTM) is an impulse control disorder characterized by repetitive hair pulling/trimming. Barbering behavior (BB) has been observed in laboratory animals and proposed as TTM model. The neurobiological basis of TTM is not clear, but it seems to involve striatal hyperactivity parallel to hypoactivation of prefrontal cortex. In this study we observed that knockout mice to the inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (NOS2) exhibit exacerbated BB following the 4th week of age, as well as increased repetitive movements compared to wild-type mice (WT). These behaviors are associated to decreased levels of NMDA receptor subunit (NR1) in prefrontal cortex, while an increase was observed in striatum of NOS2KO compared to WT. Striatal neurons from NOS2KO also exhibited increased number of branches compared to WT. The repeated treatment with clomipramine, a clinically approved drug to treat TTM in humans, or memantine, an antagonist of NMDA receptors, as well as partial rescue of NOS2 expression in haploinsufficient animals, attenuated the expression of BB. The silencing of NOS2 expression reduced the MAP2 (microtubule-associated protein 2) levels in activity-induced differentiated PC12 cells. Our data led us to propose that NOS2 regulates the neuronal maturation of the inhibitory afferent pathways to striatum during neurodevelopment, and such inadequate inhibition of striatal motor programs might be associated to the observed phenotype.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086173', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Helsinki;', u'University of Sao Paulo']]
[u'How lizards fly: A novel type of wing in animals', ['J Maximilian Dehling'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Flying lizards of the genus Draco are famous for their gliding ability, using an aerofoil formed by winglike patagial membranes and supported by elongated thoracic ribs. It has remained unknown, however, how the lizards manoeuvre during flight. Here, I show that the patagium is deliberately grasped and controlled by the forelimbs while airborne. This type of composite wing is unique inasmuch as the lift-generating and the controlling units are formed independently by different parts of the body and are connected to each other only for the duration of the flight. The major advantage for the lizards is that the forelimbs keep their entire movement range and functionality for climbing and running when they are not used as the controlling unit of the wing. These findings not only shed a new light on the flight of Draco lizards but also have implications for the interpretation of gliding performance in fossil species.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086496', [u'Zoology'], [u'University of Koblenz-Landau']]
[u'Impact of Zygosity in Bimodal Phenotype Distributions', ['Thomas Holst-Hansen', 'Elena Abad', 'Aura Muntasell', 'Miguel Lopez-Botet', 'Mogens H. Jensen', 'Ala Trusina', 'Jordi Garcia-Ojalvo'], u'November 9, 2016.', u'Allele number, or zygosity, is a clear determinant of gene expression in diploid cells. But the relationship between the number of copies of a gene and its expression can be hard to anticipate, especially when the gene in question is embedded in a regulatory circuit\nthat contains feedbacks. Here we study this question making use of the natural genetic variability of human populations, which allows us to compare the expression profiles of a receptor protein in natural killer cells between donors infected with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) with one or two copies of the allele. Crucially, the distribution of gene expression in many of the donors is bimodal, indicative of the presence of a positive feedback somewhere in the regulatory environment of the gene. Three separate gene-circuit models differing in the location of the positive feedback with respect to the gene can all reproduce well the homozygous data. However, when the resulting fitted models are applied to the hemizygous donors, only one model (the one with the positive feedback located at the level of gene transcription) reproduces the experimentally observed gene-expression profile. In that way, our work shows that zygosity can help us relate structure and function of gene regulatory networks.', u'/content/early/2016/11/09/086215', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Niels Bohr Institute;', u'Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute']]
