[u'Dual origins of measured phase-amplitude coupling reveal distinct neural mechanisms underlying episodic memory in the human cortex', ['Alex P Vaz', 'Robert B Yaffe', 'John H Wittig', 'Sara K Inati', 'Kareem A Zaghloul'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) is hypothesized to coordinate neural activity,\nbut its role in successful memory formation in the human cortex is unknown. Measures of PAC are difficult to interpret, however. Both increases and decreases in PAC have been linked to memory encoding, and PAC may arise due to different neural mechanisms. Here, we use a waveform analysis to examine PAC in the human cortex as participants with intracranial electrodes performed a paired associates memory task. We found that successful memory formation exhibited significant decreases in left temporal lobe and prefrontal cortical PAC, and these two regions exhibited changes in PAC within different frequency bands. Two underlying neural mechanisms, nested oscillations and sharp waveforms, were responsible for the changes in these regions. Our data therefore suggest that decreases in measured cortical PAC during episodic memory reflect two distinct underlying mechanisms that are anatomically segregated in the human brain.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084194', [], [u'Duke University School of Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS)']]
[u'Genomic diagnosis for children with intellectual disability and/or developmental delay', ['Kevin M Bowling', 'Michelle L Thompson', 'Michelle D Amaral', 'Candice R Finnila', 'Susan M Hiatt', 'Krysta L Engel', 'J Nicholas Cochran', 'Kyle B Brothers', 'Kelly M East', 'David E Gray', 'Whitley V Kelley', 'Neil E Lamb', 'Edward J Lose', 'Carla A Rich', 'Shirley Simmons', 'Jana S Whittle', 'Benjamin T Weaver', 'Richard M Myers', 'Gregory S Barsh', 'E Martina Bebin', 'Gregory M Cooper'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Developmental disabilities have diverse genetic causes that must be identified to facilitate precise diagnoses. We here describe genomic data from 371 affected individuals, 310 of which were sequenced as proband-parent trios. Exomes were generated for 127 probands (365 individuals) and genomes were generated for 244 probands (612 individuals). Diagnostic variants were found in 102 individuals (27%), with variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in an additional 44 (11.8%). We found that a family history of neurocognitive disease, especially the presence of an affected first-degree relative, strongly reduces the diagnosis rate, reflecting both the disease relevance and relative ease of interpretation of de novo variants. We also found that improvements to genetic knowledge facilitated interpretation changes in many cases. Through systematic reanalyses we have thus far reclassified 15 variants, with 10.8% of families who initially received a VUS, and 4.7% of families who received no variant, subsequently given a diagnosis. To further such progress, the data described here are being shared through ClinVar, GeneMatcher, and dbGAP. Our results strongly support the value of genome sequencing as a first-choice diagnostic tool and means to continually advance, especially when coupled to rapid and free data sharing, clinical and research progress related to developmental disabilities.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084251.1', [], [u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology;', u'University of Louisville;', u'University of Alabama at Birmingham']]
[u'CMPyMOL: A Tool for Protein Contact-Map Analysis', ['Venkatramanan Krishnamani'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Contact-maps are reduced 2D representation of the 3D spatial configuration of a protein. Many valuable structural features like secondary structures, inter and intra-protein interactions, interacting domains, etc., can be readily identified from these maps. However, it is not straightforward and intuitive to reckon the spatial organization of the contact regions from reduced representation. The CMPyMOL software attempts to bridge this gap as an interactive graphical tool for protein contact-maps that interfaces with PyMOL for 3D visualization. Importantly, CMPyMOL helps understand the functional importance of contacts by providing visual overlays of various structural and biochemical properties of a protein on top of its contact-map.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084269', [], [u'University of Iowa']]
[u'Challenges and solutions for transcriptome assembly in non-model organisms with an application to hybrid specimens', ['Arnaud Ungaro', 'Nicolas Pech', 'Jean-Francois Martin', 'Scott RJ McCairns', 'Remi Chappaz', 'Andre Gilles'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Analyses of high-throughput transcriptome sequences of non-model organisms are based on three main approaches:  de novo assembly, genome-guided assembly, or direct read to genome mapping (DGM). We describe a flexible DGM pipeline, and demonstrate its performance by using simulated reads of lengths corresponding to those generated by the most common sequencing platforms, and over a realistic range of genetic divergence.  We also evaluate the performance of a combined pipeline (de novo + DGM) via simulation and empirically, using data from two hybridizing Cyprinid fish species. Finally, we explore the assignation of F1 hybrids reads to their parental species, and discuss the implications of erroneous assignations on gene expression studies. Our DGM pipeline recovers 94.8% of the genes irrespective of read length at 0% divergence; however, assignation rate of reads is negatively impacted both by increasing divergence level and reducing read lengths.  Likewise our combined de novo + DGM pipeline outperforms de novo analyses alone at all levels of divergence and the read length.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084145', [], [u'Aix Marseille Universite;', u'Montpellier SupAgro;', u'Aix Marseille Universite - INRA']]
[u'Na+/Ca2+ exchangers and Orai channels jointly refill endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+ via ER nanojunctions in vascular endothelial cells', ['Cristiana Maria Loredana Di Giuro', 'Niroj Shrestha', 'Roland Malli', 'Klaus Groschner', 'cornelis van breemen', 'Nicola Fameli'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'We investigated the role of Na+/Ca2+ exchange (NCX) in the refilling of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca2+ in vascular endothelial cells under various conditions of cell stimulation and plasma membrane (PM) polarization. Better understanding of the mechanisms behind basic ER Ca2+ content regulation is important, since current hypotheses on the possible ultimate causes of ER stress point to deterioration of the Ca2+ transport mechanism to/from ER itself. We measured [Ca2+]i temporal changes by Fura-2 fluorescence under experimental protocols that inhibit a host of transporters (NCX, Orai, non-selective transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels, sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA), Na+/K+ ATPase (NKA)) involved in the Ca2+ communication between the extracellular space and the ER. Following histamine-stimulated ER Ca2+ release, blockade of NCX Ca2+-influx mode (by 10 \xb5M KB-R7943) diminished the ER refilling capacity by about 40%, while in Orai1 dominant negative-transfected cells NCX blockade attenuated ER refilling by about 60%. Conversely, inhibiting the high-ouabain-affinity NKA (10 nM ouabain), which may be localized in PM-ER junctions, increased the ER Ca2+ releasable fraction by about 20%, thereby supporting the hypothesis that this process of privileged ER refilling is junction-mediated. Junctions were observed in the cell ultrastructure and their main parameters of membrane separation and linear extension were (9.6 \xb1 3.8) nm and (128 \xb1 63) nm, respectively. Our findings point to a process of privileged refilling of the ER, in which NCX and SOCE via the stromal interaction molecule (STIM)-Orai system are the sole protagonists. These results shed light on the molecular machinery involved in the function of a previously hypothesized subplasmalemmal Ca2+ control unit during ER refilling with extracellular Ca2+.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084285', [], [u'Medical University of Graz;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Single cell analysis of lincRNA expression during human blastocyst differentiation identifies TERT (+) multi-lineage precursor cells', ['Jens Durruthy-Durruthy', 'Mark Wossidlo', 'Vittorio Sebastiano', 'Gennadi Glinsky'], u'October 28, 2016.', u"Chromosome instability and aneuploidies occur very frequently in human embryos, impairing proper embryogenesis and leading to cell cycle arrest, loss of cell viability, and developmental failures in 50-80% of cleavage-stage embryos. This high frequency of cellular extinction events represents a significant experimental obstacle challenging analyses of individual cells isolated from human preimplantation embryos. Here, we carried out single cell expression profiling analyses of 241 individual cells recovered from 32 human embryos during the early and late stages of viable human blastocyst differentiation. Classification of embryonic cells was performed solely based on expression patterns of human pluripotency-associated transcripts (HPAT), which represent a family of transposable element-derived lincRNAs highly expressed in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and regulating nuclear reprogramming and pluripotency induction. We then validated our findings by analyzing 1,708 individual embryonic cells recovered from more than 100 human embryos and 259 mouse embryonic cells at different stages of preimplantation embryogenesis. Our experiments demonstrate that segregation of human blastocyst cells into distinct sub-populations based on single-cell expression profiling of just three HPATs (HPAT-21; -2; and -15) appears to inform key molecular and cellular events of na\xefve pluripotency induction and accurately captures a full spectrum of cellular diversity during human blastocyst differentiation. HPAT's expression-guided spatiotemporal reconstruction of human embryonic development inferred from single-cell expression analysis of viable blastocyst differentiation enabled identification of TERT(+) sub-populations, which are significantly enriched for cells expressing key na\xefve pluripotency regulatory genes and genetic markers of all three major lineages created during human blastocyst differentiation. Results of our analyses suggest that during early stages of preimplantation embryogenesis putative immortal multi-lineage precursor cells (iMPCs) are created, which then differentiate into trophectoderm, primitive endoderm and pluripotent epiblast lineages. We propose that cellular extinction events in cleavage-stage embryos are triggered by premature activation of HPAT lincRNAs reflecting failed iMPC's creation attempts.", u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084087', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'The need to include phylogeny in trait-based analyses of community composition', ['Daijiang Li', 'Anthony R Ives'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'1. A growing number of studies incorporate functional trait information to analyse patterns and processes of community assembly. These studies of trait-environment relationships generally ignore phylogenetic relationships among species. When functional traits and the residual variation in species distributions among communities have phylogenetic signal, however, analyses ignoring phylogenetic relationships can decrease estimation accuracy and power, inflate type I error rates, and lead to potentially false conclusions.\n2. Using simulations, we compared estimation accuracy, statistical power, and type I error rates of linear mixed models (LMM) and phylogenetic linear mixed models (PLMM) designed to test for trait-environment interactions in the distribution of species abundances among sites. We considered the consequences of both phylogenetic signal in traits and phylogenetic signal in the residual variation of species distributions generated by an unmeasured (latent) trait with phylogenetic signal.\n3. When there was phylogenetic signal in the residual variation of species among sites, PLMM provided better estimates (closer to the true value) and greater statistical power for testing whether the trait-environment interaction regression coefficient differed from zero. LMM had unacceptably high type I error rates when there was phylogenetic signal in both traits and the residual variation in species distributions. When there was no phylogenetic signal in the residual variation in species distributions, LMM and PLMM had similar performances.\n4. LMMs that ignore phylogenetic relationships can lead to poor statistical tests of trait-environment relationships when there is phylogenetic signal in the residual variation of species distributions among sites, such as caused by unmeasured traits. Therefore, phylogenies and PLMMs should be used when studying how functional traits affect species abundances among communities in response to environmental gradients.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084178', [], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'Distinctive BOLD Connectivity Patterns in the Schizophrenia Brain: Machine-learning based comparison between various connectivity measures', ['Hio-Been Han'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have found distinctive functional connectivity in the schizophrenia brain. However, most of the studies focused on the correlation value to define the functional connectivity for BOLD fluctuations between brain regions, which resulted in the limited understanding to the network properties of altered functional connectivity in the schizophrenia brain. Here I characterized the distinctiveness of BOLD connectivity pattern in the schizophrenia brain relative to healthy brain with various similarity measures using time-frequency domain analysis, while participants performing the working memory task in the MRI scanner. To assess the distinctiveness of the BOLD connectivity in the schizophrenia, recognition performances of pattern classifier machine trained by each similarity measure were compared. Interestingly, classifier machine trained by time-lagging patterns of low-frequency fluctuation (LFF) produced highest classifying accuracy than the machines trained by other measures. Also, classifier machine trained by coherence pattern in LFF band also made better performance than the machine trained by correlation-based connectivity pattern. These results indicate that characteristics of altered functional network in the schizophrenia brain can hardly defined with single aspect of relationship across the multiple brain regions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084160', [], [u'Department of Psychology, Yonsei University']]
[u'Genome-wide screen for haploinsufficient cell size genes in the opportunistic yeast Candida albicans', ['Julien Chaillot', 'Michael A Cook', 'Jacques Corbeil', 'Adnane Sellam'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'One of the most critical but still poorly understood aspects of eukaryotic cell proliferation is the basis for commitment to cell division in late G1 phase called Start in yeast and the Restriction Point in metazoans. In all species, a critical cell size threshold coordinates cell growth with cell division and thereby establishes a homeostatic cell size. While a comprehensive survey of cell size genetic determinism has been performed in the saprophytic yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, very little is known in pathogenic fungi. As a number of critical Start regulators are haploinsufficient for cell size, we applied a quantitative analysis of the size phenome, using elutriation-barcode sequencing methodology, to 5,639 barcoded heterozygous deletion strains in the opportunistic yeast Candida albicans. Our screen identified conserved known regulators and biological processes required to maintain size homeostasis in addition to novel C. albicans specific size genes, and provided a conceptual framework for future mechanistic studies. Interestingly, some of the size genes identified were required for fungal pathogenicity suggesting that cell size homeostasis may be elemental to C. albicans fitness or virulence inside the host.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084244', [], [u'Universit\xe9 Laval;', u'Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute']]
[u'Neuronal synchrony and the relation between the BOLD response and the local field potential.', ['Dora Hermes', 'Mai Nguyen', 'Jonathan Winawer'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'The most widespread measures of human brain activity are the blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal and surface field potential. These measures provide complementary information about human brain activity. To develop an understanding of how to interpret these signals, we developed a model of (a) neuronal population responses, and (b) transformations from neuronal responses into the fMRI BOLD signal and electrocorticographic (ECoG) field potential. Rather than seeking a transformation between signals directly, this approach interprets each measure with respect to the underlying neuronal population responses. Our model accounts for the relationship between BOLD and ECoG data from human visual cortex (V1-V3), matching in three ways: BOLD and ECoG broadband were positively correlated, BOLD and alpha (8-13Hz) were negatively correlated, and BOLD and narrowband gamma (30-80Hz) did not correlate. We infer that features of the field potential that are uncorrelated with BOLD arise largely from changes in synchrony, rather than level, of neuronal activity.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/083840', [], [u'Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, UMC Utrecht, The Netherlands;', u'Princeton University;', u'New York University']]
[u'Single or Multi-Frequency Generators in On-going Brain Activity: a Mechanistic Whole-Brain Model following empirical MEG evidences', ['Gustavo Deco', 'Joana Cabral', 'Mark Woolrich', 'Angus Stevner', 'Tim van Hartevelt', 'Morten Kringelbach'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'During rest, envelopes of band-limited on-going MEG signals co-vary across the brain in consistent patterns, which have been related to resting-state fMRI functional networks. To investigate the genesis of such envelope correlations, we consider a whole-brain network model assuming two distinct fundamental scenarios: one where each brain area generates oscillations in a single frequency, and a novel one where each brain area can generate oscillations in multiple frequency bands. The models share, as a common generator of damped oscillations, the normal form of a supercritical Hopf bifurcation operating at the critical border between the steady state and the oscillatory regime. The envelopes of the simulated signals are compared with empirical MEG data using new methods to analyse the envelope dynamics in terms of their phase coherence and stability across the spectrum of carrier frequencies.\nConsidering the whole-brain model with a single frequency generator in each brain area, we obtain the best fit with the empirical MEG data when the fundamental frequency is tuned at 12Hz. However, when multiple frequency generators are placed at each local brain area, we obtain an improved fit of the spatio-temporal structure of on-going MEG data across all frequency bands. Our results indicate that the brain is likely to operate on multiple frequency channels during rest, introducing a novel dimension for future models of large-scale brain activity.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084103', [], [u'UPF;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Oxford Centre for Human Brain Actvity']]
[u'The case for species selection', ['Carl Simpson'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'The mere existence of speciation and extinction make macroevolutionary processes possible. Speciation and extinction introduce discontinuities in the microevolutionary change within lineages by initiating, disrupting, and terminating the continuity of species lineages. Within a clade, speciation and extinction become potent means of macroevolution in and of themselves. This process, termed species selection, is a macroevolutionary analogue of natural selection, with species playing an analogous part akin to that played by organisms in microevolution. Regardless, it has proven difficult to think about levels of selection. The concept of species sorting was introduced to help our thinking on this issue by identifying two sources of uncertainty: uncertainty in the level that selection acts and uncertainty about if the pattern of selection is in fact caused at all. Thanks to insights from evolutionary transitions in individuality, we now know more about how to identify the level of selection and how to parse the causal structure in hierarchical evolutionary circumstances. We know that if the fitness of organisms causes the fitness of more inclusive species then they must covary. However, there is no evidence of such a covariance between fitness. This covariance is just not observed; neither between cells and organisms nor between organisms and species. Rather, speciation and extinction rates appear to be completely divorced from organismal fitness. With this insight, the concept of sorting only covers the two processes of selection and drift. I argue that we are better off focusing on understanding the processes of species selection and drift and that there is therefore no further need for the concept of species sorting.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084046', [], [u'National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution']]
[u'Genome scale mutational analysis of Geobacter sulfurreducens reveals distinct molecular mechanisms for respiration of poised electrodes vs. Fe(III) oxides', ['Chi Ho Chan', 'Caleb E. Levar', 'Fernanda Jimenez Otero', 'Daniel R. Bond'], u'October 28, 2016.', u"Abstract: Geobacter sulfurreducens generates electricity by coupling intracellular oxidation of organic acids with electron transfer to the cell exterior, while maintaining a conductive connection to electrode surfaces. This unique ability has been attributed to the bacterium's capacity to also respire extracellular terminal electron acceptors that require contact, such as insoluble metal oxides. To expand the molecular understanding of electricity generation mechanisms, we constructed Geobacter sulfurreducens transposon mutant (Tn-Seq) libraries for growth with soluble fumarate or an electrode surface as the electron acceptor. Mutant libraries with over 33,000 unique transposon insertions and an average of 9 transposon insertions per kb allowed identification of 1,214 genomic features essential for growth with fumarate, including over 270 genes with one or more functional homologs that could not be resolved by previous annotation or in silico modeling. Tn-Seq analysis of electrode-grown cells identified mutations in over 50 genes encoding cytochromes, processing systems for proline-rich proteins, sensory systems, extracellular structures, polysaccharides, metabolic enzymes and hypothetical proteins that caused at least a 50% reduction in apparent growth rate. Scarless deletion mutants of genes identified via Tn-Seq revealed a new putative c-type cytochrome conduit complex (extABCD) essential for growth with electrodes, which was not required for Fe(III)-oxide reduction. In addition, mutants lacking components of a putative methyl-accepting chemotaxis/cyclic dinucleotide sensing network (esnABCD) were defective in electrode growth, but grew normally with Fe(III)-oxides. These results suggest that G. sulfurreducens possesses distinct mechanisms for recognition, colonization, and reduction of electrodes compared to other environmental electron acceptors. \n\nImportance: Many metal-reducing organisms can also generate electricity at anodes. Because metal oxide electron acceptors are insoluble, one hypothesis is that cells sense and reduce metal particles using the same molecular mechanisms used to form biofilms on electrodes and produce electricity. However, by simultaneously comparing thousands of Geobacter sulfurreducens transposon mutants undergoing electrode-dependent respiration, we discovered new cytochromes and chemosensory proteins essential for growth with electrodes that are not required for metal respiration. This supports an emerging hypothesis where G. sulfurreducens recognizes surfaces and forms conductive biofilms using sensing and electron transfer pathways distinct from those used for growth with metal oxides. These findings provide a molecular explanation for studies that correlate electricity generation on electrode surfaces with direct interspecies electron transfer rather than metal reduction by Geobacter species, and reveal many previously unrecognized targets for improving and engineering this biotechnologically useful capability in other organisms.", u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084228', [], [u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Leveraging uncertainty information from deep neural networks for disease detection', ['Christian Leibig', 'Vaneeda Allken', 'Philipp Berens', 'Siegfried Wahl'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'In recent years, deep neural networks (DNNs) have revolutionized the field of computer vision and image processing. In medical imaging, algorithmic solutions based on DNNs have been shown to achieve high performance on tasks that previously required medical experts. So far DNN-based solutions for disease detection have been proposed without quantifying their uncertainty in a decision. In contrast, a physician knows whether she is uncertain about a case and will consult more experienced colleagues if needed. Here we propose to estimate the uncertainty of DNNs in medical diagnosis based on a recent theoretical insight on the link between dropout networks and approximate Bayesian inference. Using the example of detecting diabetic retinopathy (DR) from fundus photographs, we show that uncertainty informed decision referral improves diagnostic performance. Experiments across different networks, tasks and datasets showed robust generalization. Depending on network capacity and task/dataset difficulty, we surpass 85% sensitivity and 80% specificity as recommended by the NHS when referring 0%-20% of the most uncertain decisions for further inspection. We analyse causes of uncertainty by relating intuitions from 2D visualizations to the high-dimensional image space, showing that it is in particular the difficult decisions that the networks consider uncertain.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084210', [], [u'University of Tuebingen']]
[u'Accurate prediction of human essential genes using only nucleotide composition and association information', ['Feng-Biao Guo', 'Chuan Dong', 'Hong-Li Hua', 'Shuo Liu', 'Hao Luo', 'Hong-Wan Zhang', 'Yan-Ting Jin', 'Kai-Yue Zhang'], u'October 28, 2016.', u"Three groups recently identified essential genes in human cancer cell lines using wet experiments, and these genes are of high values. Herein, we improved the widely used Z curve method by creating a \u03bb-interval Z curve, which considered interval association information. With this method and recursive feature elimination technology, a computational model was developed to predict human gene essentiality. The 5-fold cross-validation test based on our benchmark dataset obtained an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.8814. For the rigorous jackknife test, the AUC score was 0.8854. These results demonstrated that the essentiality of human genes could be reliably reflected by only sequence information. However, previous classifiers in three eukaryotes can gave satisfactory prediction only combining sequence with other features. It is also demonstrated that although the information contributed by interval association is less than adjacent nucleotides, this information can still play an independent role. Integrating the interval information into adjacent ones can significantly improve our classifier's prediction capacity. We re-predicted the benchmark negative dataset by Pheg server (http://cefg.uestc.edu.cn/Pheg), and 118 genes were additionally predicted as essential. Among them, 21 were found to be homologues in mouse essential genes, indicating that at least a part of the 118 genes were indeed essential, however previous experiments overlooked them. As the first available server, Pheg could predict essentiality for anonymous gene sequences of human. It is also hoped the \u03bb-interval Z curve method could be effectively extended to classification issues of other DNA elements.", u'/content/early/2016/10/28/084129', [], [u'School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China;', u'School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China,;', u'Department of Physics, Tianjin University']]
[u'A microRNA family exerts maternal control on sex determination in C. elegans', ['Katherine McJunkin', 'Victor Ambros'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Gene expression in early animal embryogenesis is in large part controlled post-transcriptionally. Maternally-contributed microRNAs may therefore play important roles in early development. We have elucidated a major biological role of the nematode mir-35 family of maternally-contributed, essential microRNAs. We show that this microRNA family regulates the sex determination pathway at multiple levels, acting both upstream and downstream of her-1 to prevent aberrantly activated male developmental programs in hermaphrodite embryos. The predicted target genes that act downstream of the mir-35 family in this process, sup-26 and nhl-2, both encode RNA binding proteins, thus delineating a previously unknown post-transcriptional regulatory subnetwork within the well-studied sex determination pathway of C. elegans. Genome-wide profiling of SUP-26 binding targets reveals 775 mRNAs, most of which have no known role in sex determination, suggesting that the mir-35 family may modulate numerous other pathways via regulation of sup-26. Since sex determination in C. elegans requires zygotic gene expression to read the sex chromosome karyotype, early embryos must remain gender-na\xefve; our findings show that the mir-35 family microRNAs act in the early embryo to function as a developmental timer that preserves na\xefvet\xe9 and prevents premature deleterious developmental decisions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/083949', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Massachusetts Medical School']]
[u'Structural and Functional analysis of the GABARAP Interaction Motif (GIM).', ['Vladimir V Rogov', 'Alexandra Stolz', 'Arvind C. Ravicahandran', 'Alexander Law', 'Hironori Suzuki', 'Andreas Kniss', 'Diana O. Rios-Szwed', 'Frank Loehr', 'Soichi Wakatsuki', 'Volker Doetsch', 'Ivan Dikic', 'Renwick C.J. Dobson', 'David McEwan'], u'October 28, 2016.', u'Through the canonical LC3 interaction motif (LIR), [W/F/Y]-X1-X2-[I/L/V], protein complexes are recruited to autophagosomes to perform their functions as either autophagy adaptors or receptors. How these adaptors/receptors selectively interact with either LC3 or GABARAP families remains unclear. Herein, we determine the range of selectivity of 30 known core LIR motifs towards LC3s and GABARAPs. From these, we define a GABARAP Interaction Motif (GIM) sequence (W/F-V-X2-V) that the adaptor protein PLEKHM1 tightly conforms to. Using biophysical and structural approaches, we show that the PLEKHM1-LIR is indeed eleven-fold more specific for GABARAP than LC3B. Selective mutation of the X1 and X2 positions either completely abolished the interaction with all LC3 and GABARAPs or increased PLEKHM1-GIM selectivity 20-fold towards LC3B. Finally, we show that conversion of the canonical p62/SQSTM1-LIR into our newly defined GIM, by introducing two valine residues, enhances p62/SQSTM1 interaction with endogenous GABARAP over LC3B. The identification of a GABARAP-specific interaction motif will aid the identification and characterization of the continually expanding array of autophagy receptor and adaptor proteins and their in vivo functions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/28/083659', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Institute of Biophysical Chemistry and Center for Biomolecular Magnetic Resonance;', u'Institute of Biochemistry II;', u'Biomolecular Interaction Centre;', u'Biomolecular Interaction Centre & Structural Biology Research Center;', u'Division of Cell Signalling & Immunology, School of Life Sciences;', u'Structural Biology (School of Medicine), Beckman Center;', u'Biomolecular Interaction Centre, School of Biological Sciences;', u'University of Dundee']]
