[u'Dynamics Affecting the Risk of Silent Circulation When Oral Polio Vaccination Is Stopped', ['James S Koopman', 'Christopher J Henry', 'Joonha Park', 'Joseph Eisenberg', 'Marisa Eisenberg', 'Edward L Ionides'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Silent circulation of polioviruses without poliomyelitis cases could threaten eradication when oral polio vaccine (OPV) use is stopped worldwide.  Waning immunity promotes silent circulation by increasing poliovirus transmission from individuals not at risk of paralytic polio.  There is limited data on temporal patterns of waning.  Accordingly, we modeled a range of waning patterns, scaled from fast but shallow to slow but deep, while keeping constant the overall effect of waning on transmission dynamics before vaccination begins.  Besides waning, we varied overall transmissibility, the delay from beginning vaccination to reaching specified vaccination levels and type specific virus characteristics.  We observed that the width of the range of vaccination levels that resulted in long periods of silent circulation after eliminating paralytic polio cases increased as the delay in reaching final vaccination levels increased.  The extent of silent circulation was higher when waning was slower and deeper, when transmissibility was higher, and when virus was type 3.  In our model, modest levels of vaccination of adults reduce silent circulation risks.  These modeled patterns are consistent with very long silent circulation mainly emerging as a threat to OPV cessation in the last places from which polio cases are eliminated.  Our analyses indicate why previous modeling studies have not found the threat of silent circulation that we find.  They either used fast and shallow waning patterns that seem unlikely, and/or they depended on fitting models to paralytic polio case counts.  Our analyses found that nearly identical polio case count patterns over time are consistent with a range of waning patterns that generate diverse silent circulation risks.  We conclude that studies assessing immunity waning dynamics are needed before OPV is stopped.  We also conclude that vaccinating adults before stopping OPV will help insure against persisting silent circulation when OPV use is stopped.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058099', [], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Tandem  duplication events in the expansion of the small heat shock protein gene family in Solanum lycopersicum (cv. Heinz 1706)', ['Flavia J Krsticevic', 'Debora P Arce', 'Joaquin Ezpeleta', 'Elizabeth Tapia'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'In plants, fruit maturation and oxidative stress can induce small heat shock protein (sHSP) synthesis to maintain cellular homeostasis. Although the tomato reference genome was published in 2012, the actual number and functionality of sHSP genes remain unknown. Using a transcriptomic (RNA-seq) and evolutionary genomic approach, putative sHSP genes in the  Solanum lycopersicum (cv. Heinz 1706) genome are investigated. A sHSP gene family of 33 members is established. Remarkably, roughly half of the members of this family can be explained by nine independent tandem duplication events that evolutionarily determined their functional fates. Within a mitochondrial class subfamily, only one duplicated member, Solyc08g078700, retained its ancestral chaperone function, while the others, Solyc08g078710 and Solyc08g078720, likely degenerated under neutrality and lack ancestral chaperone function. Functional conservation occurred within a cytosolic class I subfamily, whose four members, Solyc06g076570, Solyc06g076560, Solyc06g076540 and Solyc06g076520, support ~57% of the total sHSP RNAm in the red ripe fruit. Sub-functionalization occurred within a new subfamily, whose two members, Solyc04g082720 and Solyc04g082740, show heterogeneous differential expression profiles during fruit ripening. These findings, involving the birth/death of some genes or the preferential/plastic  expression of some others during fruit ripening, highlight the importance of tandem duplication events in the expansion of the sHSP gene family in the tomato genome. Despite its evolutionary diversity, the sHSP gene family in the tomato genome seems to be endowed with a core set of four homeostasis genes: Solyc05g014280, Solyc03g082420, Solyc11g020330 and Solyc06g076560, which appear to provide a baseline protection during both fruit ripening and heat shock stress in different tomato tissues.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057182', [], [u'CIFASIS - CONICET;', u'Universidad Technol\xf3gica Nacional']]
[u'Drosophila sensory cilia lacking MKS-proteins exhibit striking defects during development but only subtle defects in adults', ['Metta B. Pratt', 'Joshua S. Titlow', 'Ilan Davis', 'Amy R. Barker', 'Helen R. Dawe', 'Jordan W. Raff', 'Helio Roque'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Cilia are conserved organelles that have important motility, sensory and signalling roles. The transition zone (TZ) at the base of the cilium is critical for cilia function, and defects in several TZ proteins are associated with human congenital ciliopathies such as Nephronophthisis (NPHP) and Meckel Gruber syndrome (MKS). In several species, MKS and NPHP proteins form separate complexes that cooperate with Cep290 to assemble the TZ, but flies lack an\nobvious NPHP complex. We show that MKS proteins in flies are spatially separated from Cep290 at the TZ, and that flies mutant for individual MKS\ngenes fail to recruit other MKS proteins to the TZ, while Cep290 appears to be recruited  normally. Although there are abnormalities in microtubule and membrane organisation in developing MKS mutant cilia, these defects are\nless apparent in adults, where sensory cilia and sperm flagella function quite normally. Thus, surprisingly, MKS proteins are not essential for cilia or flagella function in flies.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058081', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Exeter']]
[u'The impact of structural variation on human gene expression', ['Colby Chiang', 'Alexandra J Scott', 'Joe R Davis', 'Emily K Tsang', 'Xin Li', 'Yungil Kim', 'Farhan N Damani', 'Liron Ganel', 'Stephen B Montgomery', 'Alexis Battle', 'Donald F Conrad', 'Ira M Hall'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Structural variants (SVs) are an important source of human genetic diversity but their contribution to traits, disease, and gene regulation remains unclear. The Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project presents an unprecedented opportunity to address this question due to the availability of deep whole genome sequencing (WGS) and multi-tissue RNA-seq data from 147 individuals. We used comprehensive methods to identify 24,157 high confidence SVs, and mapped cis expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) in 13 tissues via joint analysis of SVs, single nucleotide (SNV) and short insertion/deletion (indel) variants. We identified 24,801 eQTLs affecting the expression of 10,101 distinct genes. Based on haplotype structure and heritability partitioning, we estimate that SVs are the causal variant at 3.3-7.0% of eQTLs, which is nearly an order of magnitude higher than prior estimates from low coverage WGS and represents a 26- to 54-fold enrichment relative to their scarcity in the genome. Expression-altering SVs also have significantly larger effect sizes than SNVs and indels. We identified 787 putatively causal SVs predicted to directly alter gene expression, most of which (88.3%) are noncoding variants that show significant enrichment at enhancers and other regulatory elements. By evaluating linkage disequilibrium between SVs, SNVs and indels, we nominate 49 SVs as plausible causal variants at published genome-wide association study (GWAS) loci. Remarkably, 29.9% of the common SV-eQTLs are not well tagged by flanking SNVs, and we observe a notable abundance (relative to SNVs and indels) of rare, high impact SVs associated with aberrant expression of nearby genes. These results suggest that comprehensive WGS-based SV analyses will increase the power of both common and rare variant association studies.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/055962', [], [u'Washington University;', u'Stanford University;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Perturbing HIV-1 genomic RNA subcellular localization inhibits virus particle production', ['Jordan T Becker', 'Nathan M Sherer'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'mRNA subcellular localization is a crucial determinant of eukaryotic gene expression. For retroviruses including HIV-1, the unspliced genomic RNA (gRNA) serves both as the mRNA encoding Gag/Gag-Pol capsid proteins and the genetic material packaged by Gag into virions assembling at the plasma membrane. Gag is sufficient to drive the assembly of virus-like particles in the absence of gRNA binding. Thus, what role gRNA cytoplasmic trafficking plays during assembly is unknown. Here we demonstrate that aberrantly tethering HIV-1 gRNAs to membranes or the actin cytoskeleton alters Gag subcellular distribution and reduces virus particle production. This block was restricted to gRNAs competent for Gag synthesis and mapped to the Rev response element; a cis-acting RNA structure that regulates gRNA nuclear export. These results expose an unexpected mechanistic link between HIV-1 gRNA nuclear history, cytoplasmic trafficking, and Gag assembly. Perturbing viral mRNA subcellular distribution could represent a novel antiviral strategy.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057299', [], [u'University of Wisconsin - Madison']]
[u'Actomyosin Dynamics Determine the Extension and Retraction of Filopodia on Neuronal Dendrites', ['Olena O Marchenko', 'Sulagna Das', 'Ji Yu', 'Igor L Novak', 'Vladimir I Rodionov', 'Nadia Efimova', 'Tatiana Svitkina', 'Charles W Wolgemuth', 'Leslie M Loew'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Dendritic filopodia are actin-filled dynamic subcellular structures that sprout on neuronal dendrites during neurogenesis. The exploratory motion of the filopodia is crucial for synaptogenesis but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. To study the filopodial motility, we collected and analyzed image data on filopodia in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. We hypothesized that mechanical feedback among the actin retrograde flow, myosin activity and substrate adhesion gives rise to various filopodial behaviors. We have formulated a minimal one-dimensional partial differential equation model that reproduced the range of observed motility. To validate our model, we systematically manipulated experimental correlates of parameters in the model: substrate adhesion strength, actin polymerization rate, myosin contractility and the integrity of the putative microtubule-based barrier at the filopodium base. The model predicts the response of the system to each of these experimental perturbations, supporting the hypothesis that our actomyosin-driven mechanism controls dendritic filopodia dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057919', [], [u'Uconn Health Center;', u'Albert Einsten College of Medicine;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of Arizona']]
[u'Human germline mutation and the erratic molecular clock', ['Priya Moorjani', 'Ziyue Gao', 'Molly Przeworski'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Our understanding of the chronology of human evolution relies on the "molecular clock" provided by the steady accumulation of substitutions on an evolutionary lineage. This understanding has been called into question by recent analyses of human pedigrees, suggesting that mutations accrue more slowly than previously believed. Translating mutation rates estimated from pedigrees into substitution rates is not as straightforward as it may seem, however. In this Unsolved Mystery, we dissect the steps involved, emphasizing that dating evolutionary events requires not "a mutation rate", but a precise characterization of how germline mutations accumulate in development, in males and females--knowledge that remains elusive.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058024', [], [u'Columbia University;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Behavioural effects of temperature on ectothermic animals: unifying thermal physiology and behavioural plasticity', ['Paul K. Abram', 'Guy Boivin', 'Joffrey Moiroux', 'Jacques Brodeur'], u'June 9, 2016.', u"Temperature imposes significant constraints on ectothermic animals, and these organisms have evolved numerous adaptations to respond to these constraints. While the impacts of temperature on the physiology of ectotherms have been extensively studied, there are currently no frameworks available that outline the multiple and often simultaneous pathways by which temperature can affect behaviour. Drawing from the literature on insects, we propose a unified framework that should apply to all ectothermic animals, generalizing temperature's behavioural effects into (1) Kinetic effects, resulting from temperature's bottom-up constraining influence on metabolism and neurophysiology over a range of timescales (from short- to long-term), and (2) Integrated effects, where the top-down integration of thermal information intentionally initiates or modifies a behaviour (behavioural thermoregulation, thermal orientation, thermosensory behavioural adjustments). We discuss the difficulty in distinguishing adaptive behavioural changes due to temperature from behavioural changes that are the products of constraints, and propose two complementary approaches to help make this distinction and class behaviours according to our framework: (i) behavioural kinetic null modeling and (ii) behavioural ecology experiments using temperature-insensitive mutants. Our framework should help to guide future research on the complex relationship between temperature and behaviour in ectothermic animals.", u'/content/early/2016/06/09/056051', [], [u'Institut de Recherche en Biologie Vegetale, Universite de Montreal;', u'Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu Research and Development Centre']]
[u'Theta-burst transcranial magnetic stimulation to the prefrontal or parietal cortex does not impair metacognitive visual awareness', ['Daniel Bor', 'David J Schwartzman', 'Adam B Barrett', 'Anil K Seth'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Neuroimaging studies commonly associate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and posterior parietal cortex with conscious perception. However, such studies only investigate correlation, rather than causation. In addition, many studies conflate objective performance with subjective awareness. In an influential recent paper, Rounis and colleagues addressed these issues by showing that theta burst transcranial magnetic stimulation (tbs-TMS) applied to the DLPFC impaired metacognitive (subjective) awareness for a perceptual task, while objective performance was kept constant. We attempted to replicate this finding, with minor modifications, including an active tbs-TMS control site. Using a between-subjects design for both DLPFC and posterior parietal cortices, we found no evidence of a tbs-TMS-induced metacognitive impairment. In a second experiment, we devised a highly rigorous within-subjects tbs-TMS design for DLPFC, but again failed to find any evidence of metacognitive impairment. One crucial difference between our results and the Rounis study is our strict exclusion of data deemed unsuitable for a signal detection theory analysis. Indeed, when we included this unstable data, a significant, though invalid, metacognitive impairment was found. These results cast doubt on previous findings relating metacognitive awareness to DLPFC, and inform the current debate concerning whether or not prefrontal regions are preferentially implicated in conscious perception.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058032', [], [u'University of Sussex']]
[u'CellProfiler Analyst: interactive data exploration, analysis, and classification of large biological image sets', ['David Dao', 'Adam N Fraser', 'Jane Hung', 'Vebjorn Ljosa', 'Shantanu Singh', 'Anne E. Carpenter'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Summary: CellProfiler Analyst allows the exploration and visualization of image-based data, together with the classification of complex biological phenotypes, via an interactive user interface designed for biologists and data scientists. CellProfiler Analyst 2.0, completely rewritten in Python, builds on these features and adds enhanced supervised machine learning capabilities (in Classifier), as well as visualization tools to overview an experiment (Plate Viewer and Image Gallery). \n\nAvailability and implementation: CellProfiler Analyst 2.0 is free and open source, available at http://www.cellprofiler.org and from GitHub (https://github.com/CellProfiler/CellProfiler-Analyst) under the BSD license. It is available as a packaged application for Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows and can be compiled for Linux. We implemented an automatic build process which supports nightly updates and regular release cycles for the software.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057976', [], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT']]
[u'Centrosome centering and decentering by microtubule network rearrangement', ['Gaelle Letort', 'Francois Nedelec', 'Laurent Blanchoin', 'Manuel Thery'], u'June 9, 2016.', u"The centrosome is positioned at the cell center by pushing and pulling forces transmitted by microtubules (MTs). Centrosome decentering is often considered to result from asymmetric, cortical pulling forces exerted in particular by molecular motors on MTs, and controlled by external cues affecting the cell cortex locally. Here we used numerical simulations to investigate the possibility that it could equally result from the redistribution of pushing forces due to a reorientation of MTs. We first showed that MT gliding along cell edges and pivoting around the centrosome regulate MT rearrangement and thereby direct the spatial distribution of pushing forces, while the number, dynamics and stiffness of MTs determine the magnitude of these forces. By modulating these parameters, we identified different regimes, involving both pushing and pulling forces, characterized either by robust centrosome centering, robust off-centering or 'reactive' positioning. In those latter conditions weak asymmetric cues can induce a misbalance of pushing and pulling forces resulting in an abrupt transition from a centered to an off-centered position. Altogether these results point at the central role played by the configuration of the MTs on the distribution of pushing forces that position the centrosome. We suggest that asymmetric external cues should not be seen as direct driver of centrosome decentering and cell polarization, but rather as inducers of an effective reorganization of the MT network, fostering centrosome motion to the cell periphery.", u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057968', [], [u'CEA;', u'EMBL']]
[u'Comparison of 3.0 T PAC versus 1.5 T ERC MRI in Detecting Local Prostate Carcinoma.', ['Xin Ye', 'Udochukwu Oyoyo', 'Albert Lu', 'Jed Dixon', 'Heather Rojas', 'Samuel Randolph', 'Thomas Kelly'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Increased utilization of prostate-specific antigen screening and prostate imaging has led to detection of smaller indolent tumors that traditional brachytherapy and prostectomy may be too aggressive for.  New targeted techniques require greater locational accuracy of tumor detection to guide treatment.  Prostate MRIs can be important for initial staging and for guiding targeted biopsies and treatments.   We compared the accuracy of local staging of prostate cancer using 1.5 Tesla MRI with endorectal coil (ERC) versus 3 Tesla MRI with pelvic array coil (PAC) to the gold standard of trans-rectal US guided biopsies (TRUS).  ERC is uncomfortable and has many imaging artifacts that may limit detection, so we hypothesize that 3 T MRI with PAC will have improved performance. 72 patients underwent prostate MRIs and TRUS prostate biopsies from 2008-2011 (33 were excluded due to prior radiation therapy, 24 patients underwent 1.5 T ERC and 15 underwent 3.0 T PAC.)  3.0 T PAC was trending towards greater sensitivity although we lack the statistical power for significance.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058123', [], [u'Loma Linda University Medical Center']]
[u'Genome-wide specificity profiles of CRISPR-Cas Cpf1 nucleases in human cells', ['Benjamin P Kleinstiver', 'Shengdar Q Tsai', 'Michelle S Prew', 'Nhu T Nguyen', 'Moira M Welch', 'Jose M Lopez', 'Zachary R McCaw', 'Martin J Aryee', 'J. Keith Joung'], u'June 9, 2016.', u"CRISPR-Cas Cpf1 nucleases have recently been described as an alternative genome-editing platform, yet their activities and genome-wide specificities remain largely undefined. Here we show that two Cpf1 nucleases function robustly in human cells with on-target efficiencies comparable to those of the widely used Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 (SpCas9). We also demonstrate that four to six bases at the 3' end of the short CRISPR RNA (crRNA) used to program Cpf1 are insensitive to single base mismatches but that many of the other bases within the crRNA targeting region are highly sensitive to single or double substitutions. Consistent with these results, GUIDE-seq and targeted deep sequencing analyses of two Cpf1 nucleases revealed no detectable off-target cleavage for over half of 20 different crRNAs we examined. Our results suggest that the two Cpf1 nucleases we characterized generally possess high specificities in human cells, a finding that should encourage broader use of these genome editing enzymes.", u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057802', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Harvard School of Public Health']]
[u'Haplotype block dynamics in hybrid populations', ['Thijs Janzen', 'Arne W. Nolte', 'Arne Traulsen'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'When species originate through hybridization, the genomes of the ancestral species are blended together. Over time genomic blocks that originate from either one of the ancestral species accumulate in the hybrid genome through genetic recombination. Modeling the accumulation of ancestry blocks can elucidate processes and patterns of genomic admixture. However, previous models have ignored ancestry block dynamics for chromosomes that consist of a discrete, finite number of chromosomal elements. Here we present an analytical treatment of the dynamics of the mean number of blocks over time, for continuous and discrete chromosomes, in finite and infinite populations. We describe the mean number of haplotype blocks as a universal function dependent on population size, the number of genomic elements per chromosome, the number of recombination events, and the initial relative frequency of the ancestral species.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058107', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Germany']]
[u'Genetic Mapping by Bulk Segregant Analysis in Drosophila: Experimental Design and Simulation-Based Inference', ['John E Pool'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Identifying the genomic regions that underlie complex phenotypic variation is a key challenge in modern biology.  Many approaches to quantitative trait locus mapping in animal and plant species suffer from limited power and genomic resolution.  Here, I investigate whether bulk segregant analysis (BSA), which has been successfully applied for yeast, may have utility in the genomic era for trait mapping in Drosophila (and other organisms that can be experimentally bred in similar numbers).  I perform simulations to investigate the statistical signal of a quantitative trait locus (QTL) in a wide range of BSA and introgression mapping (IM) experiments.  BSA consistently provides more accurate mapping signals than IM (in addition to allowing the mapping of multiple traits from the same experimental population).  The performance of BSA and IM is maximized by having multiple independent crosses, more generations of interbreeding, larger numbers of breeding individuals, and greater genotyping effort, but is less affected by the proportion of individuals selected for phenotypic extreme pools.  I also introduce a prototype analysis method for Simulation-based Inference for BSA Mapping (SIBSAM).  This method identifies significant QTLs and estimates their genomic confidence intervals and relative effect sizes.  Importantly, it also tests whether overlapping peaks should be considered as two distinct QTLs.  This approach will facilitate improved trait mapping in Drosophila and other species for which hundreds or thousands of offspring (but not millions) can be studied.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057984', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States']]
[u'Genome-wide characterization of genetic and functional dysregulation in autism spectrum disorder', ['Arjun Krishnan', 'Ran Zhang', 'Victoria Yao', 'Chandra L Theesfeld', 'Aaron K Wong', 'Alicja Tadych', 'Natalia Volfovsky', 'Alan Packer', 'Alex Lash', 'Olga G Troyanskaya'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a range of major neurodevelopmental disabilities with a strong genetic basis. Yet, owing to extensive genetic heterogeneity, multiple modes of inheritance and limited study sizes, sequencing and quantitative genetics approaches have had limited success in characterizing the complex genetics of ASD. Currently, only a small fraction of potentially causal genes -about 65 genes out of an estimated several hundred- are known based on strong genetic evidence. Hence, there is a critical need for complementary approaches to further characterize the genetic basis of ASD, enabling development of better screening and therapeutics. Here, we use a machine-learning approach based on a human brain-specific functional gene interaction network to present a genome-wide prediction of autism-associated genes, including hundreds of candidate genes for which there is minimal or no prior genetic evidence. Our approach is validated in an independent case-control sequencing study of approximately 2,500 families. Leveraging these genome-wide predictions and the brain-specific network, we demonstrate that the large set of ASD genes converges on a smaller number of key cellular pathways and specific developmental stages of the brain. Specifically, integration with spatiotemporal transcriptome expression data implicates early fetal and midfetal stages of the developing human brain in ASD etiology. Likewise, analysis of the connectivity of top autism genes in the brain-specific interaction network reveals the breadth of autism-associated functional modules, processes, and pathways in the brain. Finally, we identify likely pathogenic genes within the most frequent autism-associated copy-number-variants (CNVs) and propose genes and pathways that are likely mediators of autism across multiple CNVs. All the predictions, interactions, and functional insights from this work are available to biomedical researchers at asd.princeton.edu. NOTE: The first two authors AK and RZ are co-first authors and are listed alphabetically. The last two authors AL and OGT are co-corresponding authors.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057828', [u'Genomics'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Princeton University; Simons Foundation;', u'Simons Foundation']]
[u'Binding of synGAP to PDZ Domains of PSD-95 is Regulated by Phosphorylation and Shapes the Composition of the Postsynaptic Density', ['Ward G Walkup', 'Tara L Mastro', 'Leslie T Schenker', 'Jost Vielmetter', 'Rebecca Hu', 'Ariella Iancu', 'Meera Reghunathan', 'Barry D Bannon', 'Mary B Kennedy'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'SynGAP is a Ras/Rap GTPase-activating protein (GAP) present in high concentration in postsynaptic densities (PSDs) from mammalian forebrain where it binds to all three PDZ (PSD-95, Discs-large, ZO-1) domains of PSD-95. We show that phosphorylation of synGAP by Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) decreases its affinity for the PDZ domains as much as 10-fold, measured by surface plasmon resonance. SynGAP is abundant enough in postsynaptic densities (PSDs) to occupy about one third of the PDZ domains of PSD-95. Therefore, we hypothesize that phosphorylation by CaMKII reduces synGAP\u2032s ability to restrict binding of other proteins to the PDZ domains of PSD-95. We support this hypothesis by showing that three critical postsynaptic signaling proteins that bind to the PDZ domains of PSD-95 are present at a higher ratio to PSD-95 in PSDs isolated from synGAP heterozygous mice.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058016', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'Characterizing the Non-Normal Distribution of Flow Cytometry Measurements from Transiently Expressed Constructs in Mammalian Cells', ['Peter F McLean', 'Christina D Smolke', 'Marc Salit'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'In mammalian cells, transient gene expression (TGE) is a rapid, minimal-investment alternative to single-copy integrations for testing of transgenic constructs. However, transient gene expression, as measured by flow cytometry with a fluorescent reporter, typically displays a broad, asymmetric distribution with a left-tail that is convolved with background signal. Common approaches for deriving a summary statistic for transiently expressed gene products impose a normal distribution on gated or ungated data. Summary statistics derived from these models are heavily biased by experimental conditions and instrument settings that are difficult to replicate and insufficient to accurately describe the underlying data. Here, we present a convolved gamma distribution as a superior model for TGE datasets. The 4-6 parameters of this model are sufficient to accurately describe the entire, ungated distribution of transiently transfected HEK cells expressing monomeric fluorescent proteins, that operates consistently across a range of transfection conditions and instrument settings. Based on these observations, a convolved gamma model of TGE distributions has the potential to significantly improve the accuracy and reproducibility of genetic device characterization in mammalian cells.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/057950', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'National Institute of Standards and Technology;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Oligogenic Adaptation, Soft Sweeps, and Parallel Melanic Evolution in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Heloise Bastide', 'Jeremy D Lange', 'Justin B Lack', 'Amir Yassin', 'John E Pool'], u'June 9, 2016.', u'Unraveling the genetic architecture of adaptive phenotypic divergence is a fundamental quest in evolutionary biology. In Drosophila melanogaster, high-altitude melanism has evolved in separate mountain ranges in sub-Saharan Africa, potentially as an adaptation to UV intensity. We investigated the genetic basis of this melanism in three populations using a new bulk segregant analysis mapping method. Although hundreds of genes are known to affect cuticular pigmentation in D. melanogaster, we identified only 19 distinct QTLs from 9 mapping crosses, with several QTL peaks being shared among two or all populations. Surprisingly, we did not find wide signals of genetic differentiation (FST) between lightly and darkly pigmented populations at these QTLs, in spite of the pronounced phenotypic difference in pigmentation. Instead, we found small numbers of highly differentiated SNPs at the probable causative genes. A simulation analysis showed that these patterns of polymorphism are consistent with selection on standing genetic variation (leading to "soft sweeps"). Our results thus support a role for oligogenic selection on standing genetic variation in driving parallel ecological adaptation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/09/058008', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
