[u'Evaluating Methods of Updating Training Data in Long-Term Genomewide Selection', ['Jeffrey L Neyhart', 'Tyler Tiede', 'Aaron J Lorenz', 'Kevin P Smith'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Genomewide selection is hailed for its ability to facilitate greater genetic gains per unit time. Over breeding cycles, the requisite linkage disequilibrium (LD) between quantitative trait loci (QTL) and markers is expected to change as a result of recombination, selection, and drift, leading to a decay in prediction accuracy. Previous research has identified the need to update the training population using data that may capture new LD generated over breeding cycles, however optimal methods of updating have not been explored. In a barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) breeding simulation experiment, we examined prediction accuracy and response to selection when updating the training population each cycle with the best predicted lines, the worst predicted lines, random lines, criterion-selected lines, or no lines. In the short-term, we found that updating with the best predicted lines resulted in greater prediction accuracy and genetic gain, but in the long-term, all methods (besides not updating) performed similarly. We also examined the impact of including all data in the training population or only the most recent data. Though patterns among update methods were similar, using a smaller, but more recent training population provided a slight advantage in prediction accuracy and genetic gain. In an actual breeding program, a breeder might desire to gather phenotypic data on lines predicted to be the best, perhaps to evaluate possible cultivars. Therefore, our results suggest that the most optimal method of updating the training population is also the most practical.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087163', [], [u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Y-RNA and tRNA Cleavage by RNase L Mediates Terminal dsRNA Response', ['Jesse Donovan', 'Sneha Rath', 'David Kolet-Mandrikov', 'Alexei Korennykh'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) is a danger signal that triggers endonucleolytic degradation of RNA inside infected and stressed mammalian cells. This mechanism inhibits growth and ultimately removes problematic cells via apoptosis. To elucidate the molecular functions of this program and understand the connection between RNA cleavage and programmed cell death, we visualized dsRNA-induced degradation of human small RNAs using RtcB ligase-assisted RNA sequencing (RtcB RNA-seq). RtcB RNA-seq revealed strong cleavage of select transfer RNAs (tRNAs) and autoantigenic Y-RNAs, and identified the innate immune receptor RNase L as the responsible endoribonuclease. RNase L cleaves the non-coding RNA (ncRNA) targets site-specifically, releasing abundant ncRNA fragments, and downregulating full-length tRNAs and Y-RNAs. The depletion of a single Y-RNA, RNY1, appears particularly important and the loss of this Y-RNA is sufficient to initiate apoptosis. Site-specific cleavage of small ncRNA by RNase L thus emerges as an important terminal step in dsRNA surveillance.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087106', [], [u'Princeton University']]
[u"Genome-scale transcriptional regulatory network models for the mouse and human striatum predict roles for SMAD3 and other transcription factors in Huntington's disease", ['Seth A Ament', 'Jocelynn R Pearl', 'Robert Bragg', 'Peter J Skene', 'Sydney Coffey', 'Dani E Bergey', 'Christopher Plaisier', 'Vanessa Wheeler', 'Marcy MacDonald', 'Nitin S Baliga', 'Jim Rosinski', 'Leroy E Hood', 'Jeffrey B Carroll', 'Nathan D Price'], u'November 10, 2016.', u"Transcriptional changes occur presymptomatically and throughout Huntington's Disease (HD), motivating the study of transcriptional regulatory networks (TRNs) in HD. We reconstructed a genome-scale model for the target genes of 718 TFs in the mouse striatum by integrating a model of the genomic binding sites with transcriptome profiling of striatal tissue from HD mouse models. We identified 48 differentially expressed TF-target gene modules associated with age- and Htt allele-dependent gene expression changes in the mouse striatum, and replicated many of these associations in independent transcriptomic and proteomic datasets. Strikingly, many of these predicted target genes were also differentially expressed in striatal tissue from human disease. We experimentally validated a key model prediction that SMAD3 regulates HD-related gene expression changes using chromatin immunoprecipitation and deep sequencing (ChIP-seq) of mouse striatum.  We found Htt allele-dependent changes in the genomic occupancy of SMAD3 and confirmed our model's prediction that many SMAD3 target genes are down-regulated early in HD.  Importantly, our study provides a mouse and human striatal-specific TRN and prioritizes a hierarchy of transcription factor drivers in HD.", u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087114', [], [u'University of Maryland School of Medicine;', u'University of Washington;', u'Western Washington University;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Institute for Systems Biology;', u'Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School;', u'CHDI Foundation;', u'Behavioral Neuroscience Program, Department of Psychology, Western Washington University']]
[u'Learning enhances sensory processing in mouse V1 before improving behavior', ['Ovidiu Jurjut', 'Petya Georgieva', 'Laura Busse', 'Steffen Katzner'], u'November 10, 2016.', u"A fundamental property of visual cortex is to enhance the representation of those stimuli that are relevant for behavior, but it remains poorly understood how such enhanced representations arise during learning. Using classical conditioning in mice, we show that orientation discrimination is learned in a sequence of distinct behavioral stages, in which animals first rely on stimulus appearance before exploiting its orientation to guide behavior. After confirming that orientation discrimination under classical conditioning requires primary visual cortex (V1), we measured, during learning, response properties of V1 neurons. Learning improved neural discriminability, sharpened orientation tuning and led to higher contrast sensitivity. Remarkably, these learning-related improvements in the V1 representation were fully expressed before successful orientation discrimination was evident in the animals' behavior. We propose that V1 plays a key role early in discrimination learning to enhance behaviorally relevant sensory information.", u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087130', [], [u'Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tuebingen;', u'Division of Neurobiology, Department Biology II, LMU Munich']]
[u'Interpreting deep mutational scanning data resulting from selections on solid media', ['Justin R. Klesmith', 'Sarah Thorwall', 'Timothy A. Whitehead'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Deep mutational scanning is now used in directed evolution experiments to quantify the change in frequency of a cellular variant in a mixed population. A key concern is the extent to which the enrichment of a variant in a population corresponds to a fitness metric like relative growth rate or survival percentage. We present here analytical equations converting the enrichment of a variant to fitness metrics for plate-based selections. Using isogenic and mixed cultures we show that growth rates and survival percentages correlate for antibiotic plate-based selections. These results are important for proper interpretation of data resulting from deep sequencing.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087072', [], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Computing structure-based lipid accessibility of membrane proteins with mp_lipid_acc in RosettaMP', ['Julia Koehler Leman', 'Sergey Lyskov', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Background: Membrane proteins are vastly underrepresented in structural databases, which has led to a lack of computational tools and the corresponding inappropriate use of tools designed for soluble proteins. For membrane proteins, lipid accessibility is an essential property. Even though programs are available for sequence-based prediction of lipid accessibility and structure-based identification of solvent-accessible surface area, the latter does not distinguish between water accessible and lipid accessible residues in membrane proteins.  Results: Here we present mp_lipid_acc, the first method to identify lipid accessible residues from the protein structure, implemented in the RosettaMP framework and available as a webserver. Our method uses protein structures transformed in membrane coordinates, for instance from PDBTM or OPM databases, and a defined membrane thickness to classify lipid accessibility of residues. mp_lipid_acc is applicable to both -helical and -barrel membrane proteins of diverse architectures with or without water-filled pores and uses a concave hull algorithm for classification. We further provide a manually curated benchmark dataset, on which our method achieves prediction accuracies of 90%.  Conclusion: We present a novel tool to classify lipid accessibility from the protein structure, which is applicable to proteins of diverse architectures and achieves prediction accuracies of 90% on a manually curated database. mp_lipid_acc is part of the Rosetta software suite, available at www.rosettacommons.org. The webserver is available at http://rosie.graylab.jhu.edu/mp_lipid_acc/submit and the benchmark dataset is available at http://tinyurl.com/mp-lipid-acc-dataset.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086579', [], [u'Simons Foundation / NYU;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Fast and accurate differential splicing analysis across multiple conditions with replicates', ['Juan C Entizne', 'Juan L Trincado', 'Gerald Hysenaj', 'Babita Singh', 'Miha Skalic', 'David J Elliott', 'Eduardo Eyras'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Multiple approaches have been proposed to study differential splicing from RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) data, including the analysis of transcript isoforms, clusters of splice-junctions, alternative splicing events and exonic regions. However, many challenges remain unsolved, including the limitation in speed, the computing capacity and storage requirements, the constraints in the number of reads needed to achieve sufficient accuracy, and the lack of robust methods to account for variability between replicates and for analyses across multiple conditions. We present here a significant extension of SUPPA to enable streamlined analysis of differential splicing across multiple conditions, taking into account biological variability. We show that SUPPA differential splicing analysis achieves high accuracy using extensive experimental and simulated data compared to other methods; and shows higher accuracy at low sequencing depth, with short read lengths, and using replicas with unbalanced depth, which has important implications for the cost-effective use of RNA-seq data for splicing analysis. We also validate the analysis of multiple conditions with SUPPA by studying differential splicing during iPS-cell to neuron differentiation and during erythroblast differentiation, providing support for the applicability of SUPPA for the robust analysis of differential splicing beyond binary comparisons.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086876', [], [u'Pompeu Fabra University;', u'Newcastle University;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Influenza C incidence and herd immunity in Lancaster, UK, in the winter of 2014-2015', ['Kate V Atkinson', 'Lisa A Bishop', 'Glenn Rhodes', 'Nico Salez', 'Neil R McEwan', 'Matthew J Hegarty', 'Julie Robey', 'Nicola Harding', 'Simon Wetherell', 'Robert Macmillan M Lauder', 'Roger William W Pickup', 'Mark Wilkinson', 'Derek Gatherer'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Influenza C is not included in the annual seasonal influenza vaccine, and has historically been regarded as a minor respiratory pathogen.  However, recent work has highlighted its potential role as a cause of pneumonia in infants.  We performed nasopharyngeal or nasal swabbing and/or serum sampling (n=148) in Lancaster, UK, over the winter of 2014-2015.  Using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), we estimated a seropositivity of 77%.  By contrast, only 2 individuals, both asymptomatic adults, were influenza C-positive by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).  Deep sequencing of nasopharyngeal samples produced partial sequences for 4 genome segments in one of these patients.  Bayesian phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the influenza C genome from this individual is evolutionarily distant to those sampled in recent years and represents a novel genome constellation, indicating that it is a product of a decades-old reassortment event.  Although we find no evidence that influenza C was a significant respiratory pathogen during the winter of 2014-2015 in Lancaster, we confirm previous observations of seropositivity in the majority of the population.  We calculate that this level of herd immunity would be sufficient to suppress epidemics of influenza C and restricts the virus to sporadic endemic spread.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/061705', [], [u'Lancaster University;', u'UHMB NHS Foundation Trust;', u'Centre for Ecology and Hydrology;', u'Aix-Marseille University;', u'Aberystwyth University;', u'Queen Square Medical Practice']]
[u'lncRNA-screen: an interactive platform for computationally screening long non-coding RNAs in large genomics datasets', ['Yixiao Gong', 'Hsuan-Ting Huang', 'Yu Liang', 'Thomas Trimarchi', 'Ioannis Aifantis', 'Aristotelis Tsirigos'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as a class of factors that are important for regulating development and cancer. Computational prediction of lncRNAs from ultra-deep RNA sequencing has been successful in identifying candidate lncRNAs. However, the complexity of handling and integrating different types of genomics data poses significant challenges to experimental laboratories that lack extensive genomics expertise. To address this issue, we have developed lncRNA-screen, a comprehensive pipeline for computationally screening putative lncRNA transcripts over large multimodal datasets. The main objective of this work is to facilitate the computational discovery of lncRNA candidates to be further examined by functional experiments. lncRNA-screen provides a fully automated easy-to-run pipeline which performs data download, RNA-seq alignment, assembly, quality assessment, transcript filtration, novel lncRNA identification, coding potential estimation, expression level quantification, histone mark enrichment profile integration, differential expression analysis, annotation with other type of segmented data (CNVs, SNPs, Hi-C, etc.) and visualization. Importantly, lncRNA-screen generates an interactive report summarizing all interesting lncRNA features including genome browser snapshots and lncRNA-mRNA interactions based on Hi-C data. In summary, our pipeline provides a comprehensive solution for lncRNA discovery and an intuitive interactive report for identifying promising lncRNA candidates. lncRNA-screen is available as free open-source software on GitHub.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087080', [], [u'New York University Langone Medical Center;', u'University of Miami;', u'Goldman Sachs Group Inc']]
[u'Mouse T cell repertoires as statistical ensembles: overall characterization and age dependence', ['Zachary Sethna', 'Yuval Elhanati', 'Crissy S Dudgeon', 'Curtis G. Callan', 'Arnold Levine', 'Thierry Mora', 'Aleksandra Walczak'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'The ability of the adaptive immune system to respond to arbitrary pathogens stems from the broad diversity of immune cell surface receptors (TCRs). This diversity originates in a stochastic DNA editing process (VDJ recombination) that acts each time a new immune cell is created from a stem cell. By analyzing T cell sequence repertoires taken from the blood and thymus of mice of different ages, we quantify the significant changes in this process that occur in development from embryo to young adult. We find a rapid increase with age in the number of random insertions in the VDJ recombination process, leading to a dramatic increase in diversity. Since the blood accumulates thymic output over time, blood repertoires are mixtures of different statistical recombination processes and, by unraveling the mixture statistics, we can obtain a clear picture of the time evolution of the early immune system.  Sequence repertoire analysis also allows us to detect the effect of selection on the output of the VDJ recombination process. The effects we find are nearly identical between thymus and blood, suggesting that they mainly reflect selection for proper folding of the TCR receptor protein.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086884', [u'Immunology'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Ecole normale superieure;', u'Cancer Institute of New Jersey;', u'Institute for Advanced Study']]
[u'Antidepressant-like effects of P2 purinergic antagonist PPADS is dependent on serotonergic and noradrenergic integrity', ['Cassiano R A F Diniz', 'Murilo Rodrigues', 'Plinio C Casarotto', 'Vitor S Pereira', 'Carlos C Crestani', 'Samia R L Joca'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Depression is a common mental disorder affecting around 350 million of individuals globally. The available antidepressant drug monotherapy is far from ideal since it has an efficiency of approximately 60% and takes around 3-4 week to achieve clinical improvement. Attention has been paid to the purinergic signaling regarding neuropathological mechanisms, since it might be involved in psychiatric disorders, such as depression. In fact, blockade of purinergic P2X receptors induces antidepressant-like effects in preclinical models. However, the mechanisms involved in this effect are not yet completely understood. The present work investigated the interplay between a P2X receptor antagonist (PPADS) and clinically used antidepressant drugs on the forced swimming test, an animal model predictive of antidepressant effect. We observed significant synergistic effect of PPADS combined with sub-effective doses of fluoxetine or reboxetine in the FST. Moreover, depletion of serotonergic or noradrenergic systems, with PCPA and DSP-4 treatment, respectively, blocked the antidepressant-like effect of PPADS. No increase in locomotion, a possible source of confusion on FST data, was detected in any of the treated groups. Our results indicate the antidepressant-like effect of PPADS depends on the integrity of serotonergic and noradrenergic transmission.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086983', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'University of Sao Paulo;', u'University of Helsinki;', u'Aarhus University;', u'Universidade Estadual Paulista']]
[u'The NDE1 Genomic Locus Affects Treatment of Psychiatric Illness through Gene Expression Changes Related to MicroRNA-484', ['Nicholas J Bradshaw', 'Maiju Pankakoski', 'Liisa Ukkola-Vuoti', 'Amanda B Zheutlin', 'Alfredo Ortega-Alonso', 'Minna Torniainen-Holm', 'Vishal Sinha', 'Sebastian Therman', 'Tiina Paunio', 'Jaana Suvisaari', 'Jouko Lonnqvist', 'Tyrone D Cannon', 'Jari Haukka', 'William Hennah'], u'November 10, 2016.', u"Previous studies in a Finnish family cohort for schizophrenia found significant association with five genes within the DISC1 network; DISC1, NDE1, NDEL1, PDE4B and PDE4D. Here, in sub-samples of these families, we utilised gene expression and psychoactive medication use, in order to translate the role of the DISC1 network into biological consequences and potential treatment implications. Gene expression levels were determined in 63 individuals from 18 families, whilst prescription medication information has been collected over a ten year period for all 931 affected individuals. Replication of the observed changes was sought from the GTEx database and from a Finnish twin cohort ascertained for schizophrenia. We demonstrated that the NDE1 SNP rs2242549 associates with changes in a large number of probes (n=2,908), and with 214 genes that could be replicated in independent cohorts. A significant number of the genes altered (347 out of 2,510, p=3.0x10-8) were predicted targets of microRNA-484, which is located on a 5' non-coding exon of NDE1. Variants within the NDE1 locus also displayed significant association to early cessation of psychoactive medications, specifically a genotype by gender interaction with use of CYP2C19 metabolised medications. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-484 can affect the expression of CYP2C19 in a cell culture system. Thus, mutations at the NDE1 locus may alter risk to mental illness, in part through functional modification of miR-484, and that such modification also alters treatment response to specific psychoactive medications, leading to the potential for the NDE1 locus to be used in targeting of treatment for psychiatric illness.", u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087007', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Neuropathology, Heinrich Heine University, Dusseldorf, Germany;', u'Department of Health, Mental Health Unit, National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki;', u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland FIMM, University of Helsinki, Finland;', u'Department of Psychology, Yale University, USA;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University Hospital, Finland']]
[u'Spike interval coding of translatory optic flow and depth from motion in the fly visual system', ['Kit D. Longden', 'Martina Wicklein', 'Benjamin J. Hardcastle', 'Stephen J. Huston', 'Holger G. Krapp'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Many animals use the visual motion generated by travelling straight, the translatory optic flow, to successfully navigate obstacles: near objects appear larger and to move quickly than distant ones. Flies are experts at navigating cluttered environments, and while their visual processing of rotatory optic flow is understood in exquisite detail, how they process translatory optic flow remains a mystery. Here, we present novel cell types that have motion receptive fields matched to translation self-motion, the vertical translation (VT) cells. One of these, the VT1 cell, encodes forwards sideslip self-motion, and fires action potentials in clusters of spikes, spike bursts. We show that the spike burst coding is size and speed-tuned, and is selectively modulated by parallax motion, the relative motion experienced during translation. These properties are spatially organized, so that the cell is most excited by clutter rather than isolated objects. When the fly is presented with a simulation of flying past an elevated object, the spike burst activity is modulated by the height of the object, and the single spike rate is unaffected. When the moving object alone is experienced, the cell is weakly driven. Meanwhile, the VT2-3 cells have motion receptive fields matched to the lift axis. In conjunction with previously described horizontal cells, the VT cells have the properties required for the fly to successfully navigate clutter and encode its movements along near cardinal axes of thrust, lift and forward sideslip.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086934', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Dept Bioengineering, Imperial College London']]
[u'Recent progress in multi-electrode spike sorting methods', ['Baptiste Lefebvre', 'Pierre Yger', 'Olivier Marre'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'In recent years, arrays of extracellular electrodes have been developed and manufactured to record simultaneously from hundreds of electrodes packed with a high density. These recordings should allow neuroscientists to reconstruct the individual activity of the neurons spiking in the vicinity of these electrodes, with the help of signal processing algorithms. Algorithms need to solve a source separation problem, also known as spike sorting. However, these new devices challenge the classical way to do spike sorting. Here we review different methods that have been developed to sort spikes from these large-scale recordings. We describe the common properties of these algorithms, as well as their main differences. Finally, we outline the issues that remain to be solved by future spike sorting algorithms.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086991', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'INSERM']]
[u'Response variability and population coupling of cortical synaptic inputs are strongly influenced by network properties', ['Nathaniel C. Wright', 'Mahmood S. Hoseini', 'Tansel Baran Yasar', 'Ralf Wessel'], u'November 10, 2016.', u"The highly variable spiking of a cortical neuron is 'coupled' to that of other neurons in the network.  This has implications for sensory coding, and appears to represent a fundamental property of cortical sensory processing.  To date, most studies of population coupling have focused on recorded spiking activity, an approach that suffers from several confounding issues.  Moreover, the contributions of various network properties to population coupling are largely unexplored.  To this end, we recorded the membrane potential (V) and the nearby LFP in the visual cortex of the turtle ex vivo wholebrain preparation during ongoing and visually-evoked activity.  We used an algorithm to infer the excitatory conductance (g) from V, and calculated the g-LFP coupling.  We found that g-LFP coupling was highly variable across neurons, and increased following visual stimulation before relaxing to intermediate values.  To investigate the role of the network, we implemented a driven small-world network of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons. This model reproduces the large across-trial response variability and g-LFP coupling dynamic, and suggests crucial roles for anatomical and emergent network properties.", u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087031', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Spatial tuning shifts increase the discriminability and fidelity of population codes in visual cortex', ['Vy Ai Vo', 'Thomas Sprague', 'John Serences'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Selective visual attention enables organisms to enhance the representation of behaviorally relevant stimuli by altering the encoding properties of single receptive fields (RFs). Yet we know little about how the attentional modulations of single RFs contribute to the encoding of an entire visual scene. Addressing this issue requires (1) measuring a group of RFs that tile a continuous portion of visual space, (2) constructing a population-level measurement of spatial representations based on these RFs, and (3) linking how different types of RF attentional modulations change the population-level representation. To accomplish these aims, we used fMRI to characterize the responses of thousands of voxels in retinotopically organized human cortex. First, we found that the response modulations of voxel RFs (vRFs) depend on the spatial relationship between the RF center and the visual location of the attended target. Second, we used two analyses to assess the spatial encoding quality of a population of voxels. We found that attention increased fine spatial discriminability and representational fidelity near the attended target. Third, we linked these findings by manipulating the observed vRF attentional modulations and recomputing our population measures. Surprisingly, we discovered that attentional enhancements of population-level representations largely depend on position shifts of vRFs, rather than changes in size or gain. Our data suggest that position shifts of single RFs are a principal mechanism by which attention enhances population-level representations in visual cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086892', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'New York University']]
[u'Adaptation modulates correlated response variability in visual cortex', ['Nathaniel C. Wright', 'Mahmood S. Hoseini', 'Ralf Wessel'], u'November 10, 2016.', u"Cortical sensory responses are highly variable across stimulus presentations.  This variability can be correlated across neurons (due to some combination of dense intracortical connectivity, cortical activity level, and cortical state), with fundamental implications for population coding.  Yet the interpretation of correlated response variability (or 'noise correlation') has remained fraught with difficulty, in part because of the restriction to extracellular neuronal spike recordings.  Here, we measured response variability and its correlation at the most microscopic level of electrical neural activity, the membrane potential, by obtaining dual whole-cell recordings from pairs of cortical pyramidal neurons during visual processing.  We found that during visual stimulation, correlated variability adapts towards an intermediate level and that this correlation dynamic is mediated by intracortical mechanisms.  A model network with external inputs, synaptic depression, and structure reproduced the observed dynamics of correlated variability.  These results establish that intracortical adaptation self-organizes cortical circuits towards a balanced regime at which network coordination maintains an intermediate level.", u'/content/early/2016/11/10/087049', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Millstone: Software for Multiplex Microbial Genome Analysis and Engineering', ['Daniel B Goodman', 'Gleb Kuznetsov', 'Marc J. Lajoie', 'Brian W. Ahern', 'Michael G. Napolitano', 'Kevin Y. Chen', 'Changping Chen', 'George M. Church'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Inexpensive DNA sequencing and advances in genome editing have made computational analysis a major rate-limiting step in adaptive laboratory evolution and microbial genome engineering. We describe Millstone, a web-based platform which automates genotype comparison and visualization for projects with up to hundreds of genomic samples. To enable iterative genome engineering, Millstone allows users to design oligonucleotide libraries and create successive versions of reference genomes. Millstone is open source and easily deployable to a cloud platform, local cluster, or desktop, making it a scalable solution for any lab.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086868', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Wyss Institute for Bioinspired Engineering;', u'Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Multi-omic analysis of urothelial cancer patients treated with PD-L1 blockade demonstrates the contribution of both systemic and somatic factors to the biology of response and resistance', ['Alexandra Snyder', 'Tavi Nathanson', 'Samuel Funt', 'Arun Ahuja', 'Jacqueline Buros Novik', 'Matthew D. Hellmann', 'Eliza Chang', 'Bulent Arman Aksoy', 'Hikmat Al-Ahmadie', 'Erik Yusko', 'Marissa Vignali', 'Sharon Benzeno', 'Mariel Boyd', 'Meredith Moran', 'Gopa Iyer', 'Harlan S. Robins', 'Elaine R. Mardis', 'Taha Merghoub', 'Jeff Hammerbacher', 'Jonathan Rosenberg', 'Dean Bajorin'], u'November 10, 2016.', u'Background: Inhibition of programmed death-ligand one (PD-L1) with atezolizumab can induce durable clinical benefit (DCB) in patients with metastatic urothelial cancers, including complete remissions in patients with chemotherapy refractory disease. Although mutation load and PD-L1 immune cell (IC) staining have been associated with response, they lack sufficient sensitivity and specificity for clinical use. Thus, there is a need to evaluate the peripheral blood immune environment and to conduct detailed analyses of mutation load, predicted neoantigens and immune cellular infiltration in tumors to enhance our understanding of the biologic underpinnings of response and resistance.  Methods and Findings: We performed whole exome sequencing (WES), RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and T cell receptor sequencing (TCR-seq) of pre-treatment tumor samples as well as TCR sequencing of matched, serially collected peripheral blood pre- and post-treatment with atezolizumab. These parameters were assessed for correlation with DCB (defined as progression free survival (PFS) > 6 months) and overall survival (OS), both alone and in the context of clinical and intratumoral parameters known to be predictive of survival in this disease state.  Patients with DCB displayed a higher proportion of tumor infiltrating T lymphocytes (TIL) (n=24, Mann-Whitney p=0.047). Pre-treatment peripheral blood TCR clonality below the median was associated with improved PFS (n=29, log-rank p=0.048) and OS (n=29, log-rank p=0.011). Patients with DCB also demonstrated more substantial expansion of tumor-associated TCR clones in the peripheral blood 3 weeks after starting treatment (n=22, Mann-Whitney p=0.022). The combination of high pre-treatment peripheral blood TCR clonality with elevated PD-L1 IC staining in tumor tissue was strongly associated with poor clinical outcomes (n=10, HR=86.22, 95% CI (2.55, 491.65)). Marked variations in mutation loads were seen with different somatic variant calling methodologies, which in turn impacted associations with clinical outcomes. Missense mutation load, predicted neoantigen load and expressed neoantigen load did not demonstrate significant association with DCB (n=25, Mann-Whitney p=0.22, n=25, Mann-Whitney p=0.55, and n=25, Mann-Whitney p=0.29 respectively). Instead, we found evidence of time-varying effects of somatic mutation load on progression-free survival in this cohort (n=25, p=0.044).  Conclusions: These results demonstrate the complex nature of immune response to checkpoint blockade and the compelling need for greater interrogation and data integration of both host and tumor factors. Incorporating these variables in prospective studies will facilitate identification and treatment of resistant patients.', u'/content/early/2016/11/10/086843', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Adaptive Biotechnologies;', u'Adaptive Biotechnologies; Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'The Ohio State University College of Medicine']]
