[u'Strong and Fluctuating Sequence Constraints Drive Alu Evolution', ['Aaron C Wacholder', 'David Pollock'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Though Alu elements are the most common and well-studied transposable elements in the primate genome, Alu evolutionary dynamics remain poorly understood. To better understand these dynamics, we improved our recently introduced Bayesian transposable element ancestral reconstruction method to incorporate automated alignment and be more computationally efficient. We then used it to reconstruct the relationships among almost 800,000 Alu elements in the human genome. We identified the phylogenetic network relating 154 ancestral replicative Alu sequences, and found that the aligned ancestors vary at only 56 out of ~300 sites. We show that the limited number of variable sites among replicative Alu ancestors is best explained by strong sequence constraints on Alu replicative capacity. Moreover, the pattern of variation suggests that sequence constraints fluctuated over the course of Alu evolution, driving the extinction of older Alu subfamilies and the birth of newer ones. Previous analyses have taken the tight clustering of Alu sequences with age as evidence that all Alu sequences are descended from a small number of "master elements." Our results imply instead that the clustering of Alu sequences with age results from fluctuating sequence constraints, and that there were over 4,000 replicative loci during the course of Alu evolution, most of which were disabled by mutation before mutating to new replicative sequences. We also predict which sites have been functionally important for replication, and how these sites have changed over time. The newly clarified dynamics of Alu evolution invalidate assumptions used in common methods of transposable element classification and phylogenetics.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094326', [u'Genomics'], [u'UC Denver School of Medicine']]
[u'Stabilized supralinear network dynamics account for stimulus-induced changes of noise variability in the cortex', ['Guillaume Hennequin', 'Yashar Ahmadian', 'Daniel B Rubin', 'Mate Lengyel', 'Kenneth D Miller'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Variability and correlations in cortical activity are ubiquitously modulated by stimuli. Correlated variability is quenched following stimulus onset across multiple cortical areas, suppressing low-frequency components of the LFP and of Vm-LFP coherence. Modulation of Fano factors and correlations in area MT is tuned for stimulus direction. What circuit mechanisms underly these behaviors? We show that a simple model circuit, the stochastic Stabilized Supralinear Network (SSN), robustly explains these results. Stimuli modulate variability by modifying two forms of effective connectivity between activity patterns that characterize excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) circuits. Increases in the strength with which activity patterns inhibit themselves reduce correlated variability, while increases in feedforward connections between patterns (transforming E/I imbalance into balanced fluctuations) increase variability. These results suggest an operating regime of cortical dynamics that involves fast fluctuations and fast responses to stimulus changes, unlike previous models of variability suppression through suppression of chaos or networks with multiple attractors.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094334', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Oregon;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Magnitude and mechanism of siderophore-mediated competition in bacterial interactions', ['Konstanze Schiessl', 'Elisabeth M.-L. Janssen', 'Stephan M Kraemer', 'Kristopher McNeill', 'Martin Ackermann'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Whether microbial interactions are predominantly cooperative or competitive is a central question in microbial ecology, and determines the composition and stability of microbial communities. The secretion of iron chelators called siderophores is a model system for cooperative interactions, even though these chelators can also mediate competition by depriving competitors of iron. Using a genetically engineered experimental system based on the Pseudomonas aeruginosa siderophore pyochelin, we found that secreting siderophores to inhibit a competitor can lead to higher benefits than secreting siderophores to make iron available. Based on thermodynamic modeling, we propose that competitive inhibition by siderophores is efficient in kinetically controlled saturated systems, where dissolution of precipitated iron phases is slow. Under these conditions, met in many natural environments, secreted siderophores temporarily reduce the concentration of available iron and can thus induce growth inhibition in a competing strain, even at high iron concentrations. These findings give insight into the function of siderophores: In addition to its cooperative nature, siderophore secretion could also be a widespread mechanism for mediating competitive interactions. Our functional investigation reveals a complexity in microbial interaction networks that would remain hidden when focusing on genomic information alone.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094094', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Columbia University;', u'Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich);', u'University of Vienna, Austria']]
[u'A theory of working memory without consciousness or sustained activity', ['Darinka Trubutschek', 'Sebastien Marti', 'Andres Ojeda', 'Jean-Remi King', 'Yuanyuan Mi', 'Misha Tsodyks', 'Stanislas Dehaene'], u'December 14, 2016.', u"Working memory and conscious perception are thought to share similar brain mechanisms, yet recent reports of non-conscious working memory challenge this view. Combining visual masking with magnetoencephalography, we demonstrate the reality of non-conscious working memory and dissect its neural mechanisms. In a spatial delayed-response task, participants reported the location of a subjectively unseen target above chance-level after a long delay. Conscious perception and conscious working memory were characterized by similar signatures: a sustained desynchronization in the alpha/beta band over frontal cortex, and a decodable representation of target location in posterior sensors. During non-conscious working memory, such activity vanished. Our findings contradict models that identify working memory with sustained neural firing, but are compatible with recent proposals of 'activity-silent' working memory. We present a theoretical framework and simulations showing how slowly decaying synaptic changes allow cell assemblies to go dormant during the delay, yet be retrieved above chance-level after several seconds.", u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093815', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Inserm-CEA Cognitive Neuroimaging Unit;', u'University of Oxford;', u'New York University;', u'Institute of Basic Medical Sciences;', u'Weizmann Institute of Science;', u'College de France']]
[u'Domain prediction with probabilistic directional context', ['Alejandro Ochoa', 'Mona Singh'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Motivation: Protein domain prediction is one of the most powerful approaches for sequence-based function prediction. While domain instances are typically predicted independently of each other, newer approaches have demonstrated improved performance by rewarding domain pairs that frequently co-occur within sequences. However, most of these approaches have ignored the order in which domains preferentially co-occur and have also not modeled domain co-occurrence probabilistically.\nResults: We introduce a probabilistic approach for domain prediction that models "directional" domain context. Our method is the first to score all domain pairs within a sequence while taking their order into account, even for non-sequential domains. We show that our approach extends a previous Markov model-based approach to additionally score all pairwise terms, and that it can be interpreted within the context of Markov random fields. We formulate our underlying combinatorial optimization problem as an integer linear program, and demonstrate that it can be solved quickly in practice. Finally, we perform extensive evaluation of domain context methods and demonstrate that incorporating context increases the number of domain predictions by ~15%, with our approach dPUC2 (Domain Prediction Using Context) outperforming all competing approaches.\nAvailability: dPUC2 is available at http://github.com/alexviiia/dpuc2 .', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094284', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Ancient recombination events between human herpes simplex viruses', ['Sonia Burrel', 'David Boutolleau', 'Diane Ryu', 'Henri Agut', 'Kevin Merkel', 'Fabian Leendertz', 'Sebastien Calvignac-Spencer'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and HSV-2) are seen as close relatives but also unambiguously considered as evolutionary independent units. Here, we sequenced the genomes of 18 HSV-2 isolates characterized by divergent UL30 gene sequences to further elucidate the evolutionary history of this virus. Surprisingly, genome-wide recombination analyses showed that all HSV-2 genomes sequenced to date comprise HSV-1 fragments. Using phylogenomic analyses, we could also show that two main HSV-2 lineages exist. One lineage is mostly restricted to sub-Saharan Africa while the other has reached a global distribution. Interestingly, only the worldwide lineage is characterized by ancient recombination events with HSV-1. Our findings highlight the complexity of HSV-2 evolution, a virus of likely zoonotic origin which later recombined with its human-adapted relative. They also suggest that co-infections with HSV-1 and 2 may have genomic and potentially functional consequences and should therefore be monitored more closely.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093641', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University Hospital La Pitie-Salpetriere - Charles Foix;', u'Robert Koch-Institut']]
[u'Reversible metamorphosis in a bacterium', ['Karina Ramijan', 'Joost Willemse', 'Eveline Ultee', 'Joeri Wondergem', 'Anne van der Meij', 'Ariane Briegel', 'Doris Heinrich', 'Gilles van Wezel', 'Dennis Claessen'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'The cell wall is a shape-defining and protective structure that envelops virtually all bacteria. Wall-less variants, called L-forms, have been generated in laboratories for many decades under highly specialized conditions, invariably aimed at interrupting cell wall synthesis. As such, the relevance of these cells has remained obscure. Here we show that the filamentous actinomycete Kitasatospora viridifaciens has the natural ability to switch between a wall-less state and the canonical mycelial mode-of-growth. We show that this organism thrives in a cell wall-less form, and identify the polar growth determinant DivIVA as an essential regulator required for reversible metamorphosis. This is the first report of a reversible metamorphosis in a bacterium that includes wall-less cells as a natural stage in bacterial development.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094037', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Leiden University']]
[u'The contribution of area MT to visual motion perception depends on training', ['Liu Liu', 'Christopher Pack'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Perceptual decisions require the transformation of raw sensory inputs into cortical representations suitable for stimulus discrimination. One of the best-known examples of this transformation involves the middle temporal area (MT) of the primate visual cortex. Area MT provides a robust representation of stimulus motion, and previous work has shown that it contributes causally to performance on motion discrimination tasks. Here we report that the strength of this contribution can be highly plastic: Depending on the recent training history, pharmacological inactivation of MT can severely impair motion discrimination, or it can have no effect whatsoever. Similarly, depending on training, microstimulation can bias motion perception or simply introduce noise. Further analysis of neural and behavioral data suggests that training shifts the readout of motion information flexibly between MT and lower-level cortical areas. These results show that the contribution of individual brain regions to conscious perception can be dramatically altered by sensory experience.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094128', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'McGill University']]
[u'A systematic cell size screen uncovers coupling of growth to division by the p38/HOG network in Candida albicans', ['Adnane Sellam', 'Julien Chaillot', 'Jaideep Mallick', 'Faiza Tebbji', 'Julien Richard Albert', 'Michael A Cook', 'Mike Tyers'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Cell size is a complex trait that responds to developmental and environmental cues. Quantitative analysis of the size phenome in the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans uncovered 195 genes that markedly altered cell size, few of which overlapped with known size genes in other yeast species. A potent size regulator specific to C. albicans was the conserved p38/HOG MAPK module that mediates the osmotic stress response. Basal HOG activity inhibited the SBF G1/S transcription factor complex in a stress-independent fashion to delay the G1/S transition. The HOG network also governed ribosome biogenesis through the master transcriptional regulator Sfp1. Hog1 bound to the promoters and cognate transcription factors for both the G1/S and ribosome biogenesis regulons and thereby directly linked cell growth and division. These results illuminate the evolutionary plasticity of size control and identify the HOG module as a nexus of cell cycle and growth regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094144', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University Laval;', u'University of Montreal;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Creating a universal SNP and small indel variant caller with deep neural networks', ['Ryan Poplin', 'Dan Newburger', 'Jojo Dijamco', 'Nam Nguyen', 'Dion Loy', 'Sam Gross', 'Cory Y. McLean', 'Mark DePristo'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is a rapidly evolving set of technologies that can be used to determine the sequence of an individual\'s genome by calling genetic variants present in an individual using billions of short, errorful sequence reads. Despite more than a decade of effort and thousands of dedicated researchers, the hand-crafted and parameterized statistical models used for variant calling still produce thousands of errors and missed variants in each genome. Here we show that a deep convolutional neural network can call genetic variation in aligned next-generation sequencing read data by learning statistical relationships (likelihoods) between images of read pileups around putative variant sites and ground-truth genotype calls. This approach, called DeepVariant, outperforms existing tools, even winning the "highest performance" award for SNPs in a FDA-administered variant calling challenge. The learned model generalizes across genome builds and even to other species, allowing non-human sequencing projects to benefit from the wealth of human ground truth data. We further show that, unlike existing tools which perform well on only a specific technology, DeepVariant can learn to call variants in a variety of sequencing technologies and experimental designs, from deep whole genomes from 10X Genomics to Ion Ampliseq exomes. DeepVariant represents a significant step from expert-driven statistical modeling towards more automatic deep learning approaches for developing software to interpret biological instrumentation data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/092890', [u'Genomics'], [u'Google Inc;', u'Verily Life Sciences;', u'Google']]
[u'First record of double-edged sword effect of caterpillar-induced plant volatiles in nature', ['Ashraf El Sayed', 'David Max Suckling'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Plants release volatiles in response to caterpillar feeding that attract natural enemies of the herbivores, a tri-trophic interaction which has been considered an indirect plant defence against herbivores. The caterpillar-induced plant volatiles have been reported to repel or attract conspecific adult herbivores. Apple seedlings infested with Pandemis pyrusana larvae uniquely release five compounds (benzyl alcohol, benzyl nitrile, phenylacetaldehyde, indole, and (E)-nerolidol). These compounds and other known caterpillar-induced plant volatiles were tested to investigate the response of both herbivores and natural enemies. In field tests, binary blends of benzyl nitrile and acetic acid or 2-phenylethanol and acetic acid attracted a large number of conspecific male and female adult moths. On the other hand, a ternary blend of benzyl nitrile, 2-phenylethanol and acetic acid attracted the largest numbers of the general predator, the common green lacewing, Chrysoperla carnea. This study provides the first record of caterpillar-induced plant volatile attraction to conspecific adult herbivores as well as predators under natural conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093963', [u'Ecology'], [u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant & Food Research Limited']]
[u'Deep learning is effective for the classification of OCT images of normal versus Age-related Macular Degeneration', ['Cecilia S Lee', 'Doug M Baughman', 'Aaron Y Lee'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Objective:  The advent of Electronic Medical Records (EMR) with large electronic imaging databases along with advances in deep neural networks with machine learning has provided a unique opportunity to achieve milestones in automated image analysis. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is the most commonly obtained imaging modality in ophthalmology and represents a dense and rich dataset when combined with labels derived from the EMR. We sought to determine if deep learning could be utilized to distinguish normal OCT images from images from patients with Age-related Macular Degeneration (AMD).\n\nDesign: EMR and OCT database study\n\nSubjects: Normal and AMD patients who had a macular OCT.\n\nMethods: Automated extraction of an OCT imaging database was performed and linked to clinical endpoints from the EMR. OCT macula scans were obtained by Heidelberg Spectralis, and each OCT scan was linked to EMR clinical endpoints extracted from EPIC. The central 11 images were selected from each OCT scan of two cohorts of patients: normal and AMD. Cross-validation was performed using a random subset of patients. Receiver operator curves (ROC) were constructed at an independent image level, macular OCT level, and patient level. \n\nMain outcome measure: Area under the ROC.\n\nResults: Of a recent extraction of 2.6 million OCT images linked to clinical datapoints from the EMR, 52,690 normal macular OCT images and 48,312 AMD macular OCT images were selected. A deep neural network was trained to categorize images as either normal or AMD. At the image level, we achieved an area under the ROC of 92.78% with an accuracy of 87.63%. At the macula level, we achieved an area under the ROC of 93.83% with an accuracy of 88.98%. At a patient level, we achieved an area under the ROC of 97.45% with an accuracy of 93.45%. Peak sensitivity and specificity with optimal cutoffs were 92.64% and 93.69% respectively.\n\nConclusions: Deep learning techniques achieve high accuracy and is effective as a new image classification technique. These findings have important implications in utilizing OCT in automated screening and the development of computer aided diagnosis tools in the future.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094276', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Localizing hidden regularities with known temporal structure in the EEG evoked response data', ['Aleksandra Kuznetsova', 'Elena Krugliakova', 'Alexei Ossadtchi'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'In this paper we describe a novel data driven spatial filtering technique that can be applied to the ERP analysis in order to find statistically significant hidden differential activations in the EEG data.\nThe technique is based on the known morphological characteristics of the response. Underlying optimization problem is formulated as a generalized Rayleigh quotient maximization problem. \nWe supply our technique with a relevant randomization-based statistical test to assess the significance of the discovered phenomenon. \nFurthermore, we describe an application of the proposed method to the EEG data acquired in the study devoted to the analysis of the auditory neuroplasticity. \nWe show how the mismatch negativity component, a tiny and short-lasting negative response that hallmarks the novel stimuli activating primary error-detection mechanisms, can be detected after filtration.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093922', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Centre for Cognition and Decision Making, National Research University Higher School of Economics']]
[u'Rapid identification of optimal drug combinations for personalized cancer therapy using microfluidics', ['Federica Eduati', 'Ramesh Utharala', 'Dharanija Madhavan', 'Ulf Peter Neumann', 'Thorsten Cramer', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez', 'Christoph A. Merten'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Functional screening of live patient cancer cells holds great potential for personalized medicine and allows to overcome the limited translatability of results from existing in-vitro and ex-vivo screening models. Here we present a plug-based microfluidics approach enabling the testing of drug combinations directly on cancer cells from patient biopsies.  The entire procedure takes less than 48 hours after surgery and does not require ex vivo cultivation. We screened more than 1100 samples for different primary human tumors (each with 56 conditions and at least 20 replicates), and obtained highly specific sensitivity profiles. This approach allowed us to derive optimal treatment options which we further validated in two different pancreatic cancer cell lines. This workflow should pave the way for rapid determination of optimal personalized cancer therapies at assay costs of less than US$ 150 per patient.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093906', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI);', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL);', u'RWTH University Hospital, Aachen;', u'RWTH Aachen University, Aachen;', u'RWTH Aachen University']]
[u'Exosomes purified from a single cell type have diverse morphology and composition', ['Davide Zabeo', 'Aleksander Cvjetkovic', 'Cecilia Lasser', 'Martin Schorb', 'Jan Lotvall', 'Johanna L Hoog'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are produced by all known organisms and have important roles in cell communication and physiology. Exosomes are known in the literature to be small round EVs (40 to 100 nm in diameter) and are commonly purified with a serial ultracentrifugation protocol followed by density gradient floatation. Great morphological diversity has been described before regarding EVs found in body fluids such as blood plasma, breast milk and ejaculate. However, a detailed morphological analysis has never been performed on exosomes purified from a single cell type.\nTherefore, the aim of this study was to analyze and quantify via multiple electron microscopy techniques the morphology of exosomes purified from the human mast cell line HMC-1. The results revealed a novel spectrum of diversity in exosomes, which suggests that subpopulations of exosomes with different and specific functions might also exist. Our findings therefore argue that a new and more efficient way of defining exosome subpopulations is necessary. A system was proposed where exosomes were classified into nine different categories according to their size and shape. Three additional morphological features could also be found in exosomes regardless of their classification.\nThese findings show that morphological diversity is found among exosomes purified from a single cell line, similarly to what was previously observed for EVs in body fluids. This knowledge can help improving the interpretation of experimental results and widening our general understanding of the biological functions of exosomes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094045', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Gothenburg;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratories']]
[u'Machine-learning annotation of human splicing branchpoints', ['Bethany Signal', 'Brian S Gloss', 'Marcel E Dinger', 'Timothy R Mercer'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Background: The branchpoint element is required for the first lariat-forming reaction in splicing. However due to difficulty in experimentally mapping at a genome-wide scale, current catalogues are incomplete.\nResults: We have developed a machine-learning algorithm trained with empirical human branchpoint annotations to identify branchpoint elements from primary genome sequence alone. Using this approach, we can accurately locate branchpoints elements in 85% of introns in current gene annotations. Consistent with branchpoints as basal genetic elements, we find our annotation is unbiased towards gene type and expression levels. A major fraction of introns was found to encode multiple branchpoints raising the prospect that mutational redundancy is encoded in key genes. We also confirmed all deleterious branchpoint mutations annotated in clinical variant databases, and further identified thousands of clinical and common genetic variants with similar predicted effects.\nConclusions: We propose the broad annotation of branchpoints constitutes a valuable resource for further investigations into the genetic encoding of splicing patterns, and interpreting the impact of common- and disease-causing human genetic variation on gene splicing.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094003', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Garvan Institute of Medical Research']]
[u'Impact of gray matter signal regression in resting state and language task functional networks', ['Luis C. T. Herrera', 'Ana Coan', 'Ludwing Marenco', 'Carlos Lenz Cesar', 'Gabriela Castellano'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'A network analysis of the resting state (RS) and language task (LT) of fRMI data sets is presented. Specifically, the analysis compares the impact of the global signal regression of gray matter signal on the graph parameters and community structure derived of functional data. It was found that, without gray matter signal regression (GSR), the group comparison showed no significant changes of the global metrics between the two conditions studied. With gray matter signal regression, significant differences between the global (local) metrics for the conditions were obtained. The mean degree, the clustering coefficient of the network and the mean value of the local efficiency were metrics with significant changes. The community structure of group connectivity matrices was explored for both conditions (RS and LT) and for different preprocessing steps. When gray matter signal regression was performed, small changes of the community structure were observed. Approximately, the same regions were classified in the same communities before and after GSR. This means, that the community structure of the data is weakly affected by this preprocessing step. The modularity index presented significant changes between conditions (RS and LT) and between different preprocessing pipeline.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094078', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Neurophysics Group, IFGW, UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil;', u'Neurology Department, School of Medical Sciences, UNICAMP, Campinas, SP;', u'Department of Quantum Electronics, IFGW, UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil']]
[u'On expert curation and sustainability: UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot as a case study', ['Sylvain Poux', 'Cecilia N. Arighi', 'Michele Magrane', 'Alex Bateman', 'Chih-Hsuan Wei', 'Zhiyong Lu', 'Emmanuel Boutet', 'Hema Bye-A-Jee', 'Maria Livia Famiglietti', 'Bernd Roechert'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Biological knowledgebases, such as UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, constitute an essential component of daily scientific research by offering distilled, summarized, and computable knowledge extracted from the literature by expert curators. While knowledgebases play an increasingly important role in the scientific community, the question of their sustainability is raised due to the growth of biomedical literature. By using UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot as a case study, we address this question by using different literature triage approaches. With the assistance of the PubTator text-mining tool, we tagged more than 10,000 articles to assess the ratio of papers relevant for curation. We first show that curators read and evaluate many more papers than they curate, and that measuring the number of curated publications is insufficient to provide a complete picture. We show that a large fraction of published papers found in PubMed is not relevant for curation in UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and demonstrate that, despite appearances, expert curation is sustainable.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094011', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics;', u'Protein Information Resource, University of Delaware;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI);', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), US National Library of Medicine']]
[u'Repliscan: a tool for classifying replication timing regions', ['Gregory J Zynda', 'Jawon Song', 'Lorenzo Concia', 'Emily E Wear', 'Linda Hanley-Bowdoin', 'William F Thompson', 'Matthew W Vaughn'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Background\nReplication timing experiments that use label incorporation and high throughput sequencing produce peaked data similar to ChIP-Seq experiments. However, the differences in experimental design, coverage density, and possible results make traditional ChIP-Seq analysis methods inappropriate for use with replicating timing.\n\nResults\nTo accurately detect and classify regions of replication across the genome, we present Repliscan. Repliscan robustly normalizes, automatically removes outlying and uninformative data points, and classifies Repli-seq signals into discrete combinations of replication signatures. The quality control steps and self-fitting methods makes Repliscan generally applicable and superior to previous methods with thresholds inapplicable to different genomes.\n\nConclusions\nRepliscan is simple and effective to use on organisms with different magnitude genome sizes and sequencing coverage as low as 2.4x.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094177', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Texas Advanced Computing Center, University of Texas at Austin;', u'Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, North Carolina State University']]
[u'Individual- versus group-optimality in the production of secreted bacterial compounds', ['Konstanze Schiessl', 'Adin Ross-Gillespie', 'Daniel M Cornforth', 'Michael Weigert', 'Colette Bigosch', 'Sam P Brown', 'Martin Ackermann', 'Rolf Kummerli'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'How unicellular organisms optimize the production of compounds (enzymes and metabolites) is a fundamental biological question. While it is typically thought that this production is optimized at the individual cell level, we examine whether it can also be optimized at the group level instead, through specialization, where a fraction of cells secretes and shares compounds with the other group members. Using mathematical modeling, we show that within-group division of labor is promoted if (1) the per-compound production costs diminish with higher production volumes, and (2) compound sharing is sufficiently high. Experiments with pyoverdine, a shareable compound secreted by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, indeed revealed diminishing costs, yet instead of dividing labor, all cells engage in pyoverdine production. We conclude that even when diminishing costs ostensibly favor phenotypic specialization, its evolution can either be hindered by factors limiting reliable compound sharing in the natural environment or mechanistic constraints impeding stochastic or signal-induced heterogeneity to arise. Thus, shifts in the level of selection, from individuals to groups, might be restricted in loose microbial groups.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094086', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Columbia University;', u'University of Z\xfcrich, Switzerland;', u'University of Texas, Austin, USA;', u'Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology (Eawag);', u'University of Edinburgh, UK;', u'Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich)']]
[u'Diffusion or advection? Mass transfer and diffusive boundary layer landscapes of the brown alga Fucus vesiculosus', ['Mads Lichtenberg', 'Rasmus Dyrmose Noerregaard', 'Michael Kuhl'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'The role of hyaline hairs on the thallus of brown-algae in the genus Fucus is long debated and several functions have been proposed. We used a novel motorized setup for 2D- and 3D-mapping with O2-microsensors to investigate the spatial heterogeneity of the diffusive boundary layer (DBL) and O2 flux around single and multiple tufts of hyaline hairs on the thallus of Fucus vesiculosus. Flow was a major determinant of DBL thickness, where higher flow decreased DBL thickness and increased O2 flux between algal thallus and the surrounding seawater. However, the topography of the DBL varied and did not directly follow the contour of the underlying thallus. Areas around single tufts of hyaline hairs exhibited both increased and decreased DBL thickness as compared to areas over smooth thallus surfaces. Over thallus areas with several hyaline hair tufts, the overall effect was a local increase in the DBL thickness. We also found indications for advective O2 transport driven by pressure gradients or vortex-shedding downstream from dense tufts of hyaline hairs alleviating local mass-transfer resistance imposed by thickened DBL. Mass-transfer dynamics around hyaline hair tufts are thus more complex than hitherto assumed and may have important implications for algal physiology and plant-microbe interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094052', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Copenhagen, Marine Biological Section, Department of Biology;', u'Aarhus University, Arctic Research Center, Department of Bioscience']]
[u'Fractone bulbs derive from ependymal cells and their laminin composition affects cell proliferation in the subventricular zone', ['Marcos Assis Nascimento', 'Tatiana Coelho-Sampaio', 'Lydia Sorokin'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Fractones are extracellular matrix structures in the neural stem cell niche of the subventricular zone (SVZ). Their cellular origin and what determines their localization at this site is poorly studied and it remains unclear whether they influence neural stem and progenitor cells (NSPCs) formation, proliferation and/or maintenance. To address these questions, we analyzed whole mount preparations of the lateral ventricle by confocal microscopy using different extracellular matrix and cell markers, revealing laminin \u03b15 as a major component of fractones, which were profusely distributed throughout the SVZ and appeared at the center of pinwheels, a critical site for adult neurogenesis. We demonstrate that fractones appear at the apical membrane of ependymal cells at the end of the first week after birth, and the use of transgenic mice lacking laminin \u03b15 gene expression (Lama5) in endothelium and in FoxJ1-expressing ependymal cells, revealed ependymal cells as the source of laminin \u03b15-containing fractones. Loss of laminin \u03b15 from fractone bulbs correlated with an aberrant upregulation of laminin \u03b12 and a two-fold increase in the proliferation of NSPCs, as determined by PH3 staining. These results indicate that fractones are a key component of the SVZ and that the laminin isoform composition at this site affects NSPC numbers.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093351', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Muenster / Federal University of Rio de Janeiro;', u'Federal University of Rio de Janeiro;', u'University of Muenster']]
[u'Novel chromosome organization pattern in actinomycetales-overlapping replication cycles combined with diploidy', ['Kati Boehm', 'Fabian Meyer', 'Agata Rhomberg', 'Joern Kalinowski', 'Catriona Donovan', 'Marc Bramkamp'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Bacteria regulate chromosome replication and segregation tightly with cell division to ensure faithful segregation of DNA to daughter generations. The underlying mechanisms have been addressed in several model species. It became apparent that bacteria have evolved quite different strategies to regulate DNA segregation and chromosomal organization. We have investigated here how the actinobacterium Corynebacterium glutamicum organizes chromosome segregation and DNA replication. Unexpectedly, we find that C. glutamicum cells are at least diploid under all conditions tested and that these organisms have overlapping C-periods during replication with both origins initiating replication simultaneously. Based on experimentally obtained data we propose growth rate dependent cell cycle models for C. glutamicum.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094169', [u'Microbiology'], [u'LMU Munich;', u'Bielefeld University']]
[u'Benefits of siderophore release lie in mediating diffusion limitation at low iron solubility', ['Gabriel Leventhal', 'Martin Ackermann', 'Konstanze Schiessl'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Siderophores are chelators released by many bacteria to take up iron. In contrast to iron receptors located at the cell surface, released siderophores are at risk of being lost to environmental sinks. Here, we asked the question whether the release itself is essential for the function of siderophores, which could explain why such a risky strategy is widespread. We developed a reaction-diffusion model to determine the impact of siderophore release on overcoming iron limitation caused by poor solubility in aerobic, pH-neutral environments. We found that secretion of siderophores can efficiently accelerate iron uptake at low solubility, since secreted siderophores solubilize slowly diffusing large iron aggregates to small, quickly diffusing iron-siderophore complexes.\nAt high iron solubility, however, when the iron-siderophore complex is no longer considerably smaller than the iron source itself, siderophore secretion can also slow down iron uptake. In addition, we found that cells can synergistically share their siderophores, depending on their distance and the level of iron aggregation. Overall, our study helps understand why siderophore secretion is so widespread: Even though a large fraction of secreted siderophores is lost, the solubilization of iron through secreted siderophores can efficiently increase iron uptake, especially if siderophores are produced cooperatively by several cells.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093948', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA;', u'Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, Switzerland;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'The value of prior knowledge in machine learning of complex network systems', ['David Craft', 'Dana Ferranti', 'David Krane'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Our overall goal is to develop machine learning approaches based on genomics and other relevant accessible information for use in predicting how a patient will respond to a given proposed drug or treatment. Given the complexity of this problem, we begin by developing, testing, and analyzing learning methods using data from simulated systems, which allows us access to a known ground truth. We examine the benefits of using prior system knowledge and investigate how learning accuracy depends on various system parameters as well as the amount of training data available. The simulations are based on Boolean networks--directed graphs with 0/1 node states and logical node update rules--which are the simplest computational systems that can mimic the dynamic behavior of cellular systems. Boolean networks can be generated and simulated at scale, have complex yet cyclical dynamics, and as such provide a useful framework for developing machine learning algorithms for modular and hierarchical networks such as biological systems in general and cancer in particular. We demonstrate that utilizing prior knowledge (in the form of network connectivity information)--even without detailed state equations--greatly increases the power of machine learning algorithms to predict network steady state node values ("phenotypes") and perturbation responses ("drug effects").', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094151', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Williams College']]
[u'Searching for Principles of Brain Computation', ['Wolfgang Maass'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Experimental methods in neuroscience, such as calcium-imaging and recordings with multielectrode arrays, are advancing at a rapid pace. They produce insight into the simultaneous\nactivity of large numbers of neurons, and into plasticity processes in the brains of awake and\nbehaving animals. These new data constrain models for neural computation and network plasticity that underlie perception, cognition, behavior, and learning. I will discuss in this short article four such constraints: Inherent recurrent network activity and heterogeneous dynamic properties of neurons and synapses, stereotypical spatio-temporal activity patterns in networks of neurons, high trial-to-trial variability of network responses, and functional stability in spite of permanently ongoing changes in the network. I am proposing that these constraints provide hints to underlying principles of brain computation and learning.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094102', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Graz University of Technology']]
[u'Disentangled Long-Read De Bruijn Graphs via Optical Maps', ['Bahar Alipanahi', 'Leena Salmela', 'Simon Puglisi', 'Martin Muggli', 'Christina Boucher'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Pacific Biosciences (PacBio), the main third generation sequencing technology can produce scalable, high-throughput, unprecedented sequencing results through long reads with uniform coverage. Although these long reads have been shown to increase the quality of draft genomes in repetitive regions, fundamental computational challenges remain in overcoming their high error rate and assembling them efficiently. In this paper we show that the de Bruijn graph built on the long reads can be efficiently and substantially disentangled using optical mapping data as auxiliary information. Fundamental to our approach is the use of the positional de Bruijn graph and a succinct data structure for constructing and traversing this graph. Our experimental results show that over 97.7% of directed cycles have been removed from the resulting positional de Bruijn graph as compared to its non-positional counterpart. Our results thus indicate that disentangling the de Bruijn graph using positional information is a promising direction for developing a simple and efficient assembly algorithm for long reads.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094235', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Florida;', u'Helsinki Institute for Information Technology HIIT, University of Helsinki;', u'Colorado State University']]
[u'HICL table can manipulate all proteins in human complete proteome', ['Zhenhua Xie'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Background\nThe data of human complete proteome in the databases of Universal Protein Resource (UniProt) or National Center for Biotechnology Information(NCBI) were disorderly organized and hardly handled by an ordinary biologist.      \nResults\nThe HICL table enable an ordinary biologist efficiently to handle the human complete proteome with 67911 entries, to get an overview on the distribution of the physicochemical features of all proteins in the human complete proteome, to perceive the details of the distribution patterns of the physicochemical features in some protein family members and protein variants, to find some particular proteins. \nMoreover, two discoveries were made via the HICL table: (1) The amino aicds(Asp,Glu) have symmetrical trend of the distributions versus pI, but the amino aicds(Arg, Lys) have local asymmetrical trend of the distributions versus pI in human complete proteome. (2) Protein sequence, besides amino acid properties, can in theory influence the modal distribution of protein isoelectric points. \nConclusion\nI has created the HICL table as a robust tool for orderly managing 67911 proteins in human complete proteome by their physicochemical features, the names and sequences. Any proteins with the particular physicochemical features can be screened out from the human complete proteome via the HICL table. In addition, the unbalanced distribution of the amino aicds(Arg, Lys) in high pI proteins of human complete proteome and the effect of protein sequence on modal distribution of protein isoelectric points have been discovered through the HICL table.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093971', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Graduate School at Shenzhen, Tsinghua University']]
[u'The sharing of open data: a game-theoretic approach', ['Bradly Alicea'], u'December 14, 2016.', u"Participation in Open Data initiatives require two semi-independent actions: the sharing of data produced by a researcher or group, and a consumer of shared data. Consumers of shared data range from people interested in validating the results of a given study to transformers of the data. These transformers can add value to the dataset by extracting new relationships and information. The relationship between producers and consumers can be modeled in a game-theoretic context, namely by using a Prisoners' Dilemma (PD) model to better understand potential barriers and benefits of sharing. In this paper, we will introduce the problem of data sharing, consider assumptions about economic versus social payoffs, and provide a game-theoretic model of data sharing. Several variations on the payoff matrix are given for different institutional scenarios, ranging from the ubiquitous acceptance of Open Science principles to a context where the standard is entirely non-cooperative. Implications for building a CC-BY economy are then discussed in context.", u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093518', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Orthogonal Research']]
[u'A simulation-based evaluation of STRUCTURE software for exploring the introduction routes of invasive species', ['Eric Lombaert', 'Thomas Guillemaud', 'Emeline Deleury'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Population genetic methods are widely used to retrace the introduction routes of invasive species. The unsupervised Bayesian clustering algorithm implemented in STRUCTURE is amongst the most frequently use of these methods, but its ability to provide reliable information about introduction routes has never before been assessed. We used computer simulations of microsatellite datasets to evaluate the extent to which the clustering results provided by STRUCTURE were misleading for the inference of introduction routes for two invasive populations independently introduced from a native population. For this simple scenario of independent introductions, the assumption of two clusters (i.e. K=2) would not be expected to result in STRUCTURE assigning the native population to one cluster, with both invasive populations assigned to the second cluster. We investigated the influence of two demographic parameters (effective size and bottleneck severity) and different numbers of loci on the type and frequency of misleading results. We showed that misleading STRUCTURE results were obtained for 10% of our simulated datasets and at a frequency of up to 37% for some combinations of parameters. Our results highlighted two different categories of misleading output. The first occurs in situations in which the native population has a low level of diversity. In this case, the two introduced populations may be very similar, despite their independent introduction histories. The second category results from convergence issues in STRUCTURE for K=2, with strong bottleneck severity and/or large numbers of loci resulting in high levels of differentiation between the three populations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/094029', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'INRA']]
[u'Deconstructing isolation-by-distance: the genomic consequences of limited dispersal', ['Stepfanie Aguillon', 'John W. Fitzpatrick', 'Reed Bowman', 'Stephan J. Schoech', 'Andrew G. Clark', 'Graham Coop', 'Nancy Chen'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Geographically limited dispersal can shape genetic population structure and result in a correlation between genetic and geographic distance, commonly called isolation-by-distance. Despite the prevalence of isolation-by-distance in nature, to date few studies have empirically demonstrated the processes by which it is generated within a pedigreed and genotyped population. Intensive, long-term demographic studies and exhaustive genomic surveys in the Florida Scrub-Jay (Aphelocoma coerulescens) provide an excellent opportunity to investigate the influence of dispersal on genetic structure. Here, we use a panel of genome-wide SNPs and extensive pedigree information to explore the role of limited dispersal in shaping patterns of isolation-by-distance in both sexes, and at an exceedingly fine spatial scale (within ~10 km). Isolation-by-distance patterns were stronger in male-male and male-female comparisons than in female-female comparisons, consistent with observed differences in dispersal propensity between the sexes. Using the pedigree, we demonstrated how various genealogical relationships contribute to fine-scale isolation-by-distance. Simulations using field-observed distributions of male and female natal dispersal distances showed good agreement with the distribution of geographic distances between breeding individuals of different pedigree relationship classes. Furthermore, we can accurately reconstruct observed isolation-by-distance patterns in autosomal and Z-linked SNPs using coalescent simulations parameterized by the observed dispersal curve, population density, and immigration rate. Therefore, patterns of fine-scale isolation-by-distance can be well understood as a result of limited dispersal over contemporary timescales in the Florida Scrub-Jay.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093989', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Cornell University;', u'Archbold Biological Station;', u'University of Memphis;', u'UC Davis']]
[u'Universal expressions of population change by the Price equation: natural selection, information, and maximum entropy production', ['Steven A. Frank'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'The Price equation shows the unity between the fundamental expressions of change in biology, in information and entropy descriptions of populations, and in aspects of thermodynamics. The Price equation partitions the change in the average value of a metric between two populations. A population may be composed of organisms or particles or any members of a set to which we can assign probabilities. A metric may be biological fitness or physical energy or the output of an arbitrarily complicated function that assigns quantitative values to members of the population. The first part of the Price equation describes how directly applied forces change the probabilities assigned to members of the population when holding constant the metrical values of the members---a fixed metrical frame of reference. The second part describes how the metrical values change, altering the metrical frame of reference. In canonical examples, the direct forces balance the changing metrical frame of reference, leaving the average or total metrical values unchanged. In biology, relative reproductive success (fitness) remains invariant as a simple consequence of the conservation of total probability. In physics, systems often conserve total energy. Nonconservative metrics can be described by starting with conserved metrics, and then studying how coordinate transformations between conserved and nonconserved metrics alter the geometry of the dynamics and the aggregate values of populations. From this abstract perspective, key results from different subjects appear more simply as universal geometric principles for the dynamics of populations subject to the constraints of particular conserved quantities.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093757', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Univ. of California, Irvine']]
[u'Pharmacogenetics of antidepressant response: a polygenic approach', ['Judit Garcia-Gonzalez', 'Katherine E. Tansey', 'Joanna Hauser', 'Neven Henigsberg', 'Wolfgang Maier', 'Ole Mors', 'Anna Placentino', 'Marcella Rietschel', 'Daniel Souery', 'Tina Zagar', 'Piotr M. Czerski', 'Borut Jerman', 'Henriette N. Buttenschn', 'Thomas G. Schulze', 'Astrid Zobel', 'Anne Farmer', 'Katherine J. Aitchison', 'Ian Craig', 'Peter McGuffin', 'Michel Giupponi', 'Nader Perroud', 'Guido Bondolfi', 'David Evans', "Michael O'Donovan", 'Tim J. Peters', 'Jens R. Wendland', 'Glyn Lewis', 'Shitij Kapur', 'Roy Perlis', 'Volker Arolt', 'Katharina Domschke', 'Gerome Breen', 'Charles Curtis', 'Lee Sang-Hyuk', 'Carol Kan', 'Stephen Newhouse', 'Hamel Patel', 'Bernhard T. Baune', 'Rudolf Uher', 'Cathryn M. Lewis', 'Chiara Fabbri'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Background: Major depressive disorder (MDD) has a high personal and socio-economic burden and more than 60% of patients fail to achieve remission with the first antidepressant. The biological mechanisms behind antidepressant response are only partially known but genetic factors play a relevant role. A combined predictor across genetic variants may be useful to investigate this complex trait. \nMethods: Polygenic risk scores (PRS) were used to estimate multi-allelic contribution to: 1) antidepressant efficacy; 2) its overlap with MDD and schizophrenia. We constructed PRS and tested whether these predicted symptom improvement or remission from the GENDEP study (n=736) to the STAR*D study (n=1409) and vice-versa, including the whole sample or only patients treated with escitalopram or citalopram. Using summary statistics from Psychiatric Genomics Consortium for MDD and schizophrenia, we tested whether PRS from these disorders predicted symptom improvement in GENDEP, STAR*D, and five further studies (n=3756). \nResults: No significant prediction of antidepressant efficacy was obtained from PRS in GENDEP/STAR*D but this analysis might have been underpowered. There was no evidence of overlap in the genetics of antidepressant response with either MDD or schizophrenia, either in individual studies or a meta-analysis. Stratifying by antidepressant did not alter the results. \nDiscussion: We identified no significant predictive effect using PRS between pharmacogenetic studies. The genetic liability to MDD or schizophrenia did not predict response to antidepressants, suggesting differences between the genetic component of depression and treatment response. Larger or more homogeneous studies will be necessary to obtain a polygenic predictor of antidepressant response.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093799', [u'Genetics'], [u"Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London;", u'College of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Cardiff University;', u'Laboratory of Psychiatric Genetics, Department of Psychiatry, Poznan University of Medical Sciences;', u'Croatian Institute for Brain Research, Medical School, University of Zagreb;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Bonn;', u'Aarhus University Hospital / The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrative Psychiatric Research;', u'Istituto Di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico, Centro San Giovanni di Dio;', u'Division of Genetic Epidemiology in Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental Health;', u'Universit\xe9 Libre de Bruxelles and Psy Pluriel;', u'Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Slovenia;', u'Laboratory of Psychiatric Genetics, Poznan University of Medical Sciences;', u'Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Slovenia / Jozef Stefan Institute;', u'Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Alberta;', u'Department of Genetic Medicine and Laboratories, University Hospitals of Geneva;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Geneva;', u'Center of Excellence for Drug Discovery in Psychiatry, GlaxoSmithKline Medicines Research Centre;', u'MRC CAiTE Centre, School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol;', u'MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Cardiff University;', u'School of Clinical Sciences, University of Bristol;', u'Pharma Research and Early Development, F. Hoffmann - La Roche;', u'Division of Psychiatry, University College London;', u'Center for Experimental Drugs and Diagnostics, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of M\xfcnster;', u'Department of Psychiatry Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy, University of Wuerzburg;', u'Discipline of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of Adelaide;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Dalhousie University, Halifax;', u"King's College London / University of Bologna"]]
[u'A global co-expression network approach for connecting genes to specialized metabolic pathways in plants', ['Jennifer H Wisecaver', 'Alexander T Borowsky', 'Vered Tzin', 'Georg Jander', 'Daniel Kliebenstein', 'Antonis Rokas'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Plants produce a tremendous diversity of specialized metabolites (SMs) to interact with and manage their environment. A major challenge hindering efforts to tap this seemingly boundless source of pharmacopeia is the identification of SM pathways and their constituent genes. Given the well-established observation that the genes comprising a SM pathway are co-regulated in response to specific environmental conditions, we hypothesized that genes from a given SM pathway would form tight associations (modules) with each other in gene co-expression networks, facilitating their identification. To evaluate this hypothesis, we used 10 global co-expression datasets - each a meta-analysis of hundreds to thousands of expression experiments - across eight plant model organisms to identify hundreds of modules of co-expressed genes for each species. In support of our hypothesis, 15.3-52.6% of modules contained two or more known SM biosynthetic genes (e.g., cytochrome P450s, terpene synthases, and chalcone synthases), and module genes were enriched in SM functions (e.g., glucoside and flavonoid biosynthesis). Moreover, modules recovered many experimentally validated SM pathways in these plants, including all six known to form biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs). In contrast, genes predicted based on physical proximity on a chromosome to form plant BGCs were no more co-expressed than the null distribution for neighboring genes. These results not only suggest that most predicted plant BGCs do not represent genuine SM pathways but also argue that BGCs are unlikely to be a hallmark of plant specialized metabolism. We submit that global gene co-expression is a rich, but largely untapped, data source for discovering the genetic basis and architecture of plant natural products, which can be applied even without knowledge of the genome sequence.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093914', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Vanderbilt University;', u'Ben Gurion University;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of California-Davis']]
[u'Development of 2-phenylethanol plus acetic acid lures to monitor obliquebanded leafroller (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae) under mating disruption', ['Ashraf El Sayed'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'We evaluated the effectiveness of 2-phenylethanol (PET) in combination with acetic acid (AA) as a binary lure for monitoring male and female obliquebanded leafroller, Choristoneura rosaceana (Harris). Studies were conducted in apple, Malus domestica Borkhausen, orchards treated with or without sex pheromone dispensers for mating disruption (MD).  Open polypropylene vials, closed membrane cups, and rubber septa loaded with AA and/or PET in varying amounts were first evaluated in a series of trapping experiments. Membrane cups loaded with 800 mg of PET were as effective as 10-mg septa, but longer lasting, and were comparable to the open vials. A membrane cup AA lure was effective in tests, but further work is needed to increase its release rate and extend its activity. Catches of codling moth, Cydia pomonella (L.), and C. rosaceana were unaffected by combining PET with (E,E)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol, the sex pheromone of codling moth, pear ester, (E,Z)-2,4-ethyl-decadienoate, and AA lures. Adding (E)-4,8-dimethyl-1,3,7-nonatriene to this blend to enhance codling moth catch, significantly reduced catches of C. rosaceana. PET+AA was a more attractive binary lure than AA plus phenylacetonitrile (PAN) for C. rosaceana. The addition of PET or PAN to traps already baited with the sex pheromone of C. rosaceana significantly reduced male catches. Traps baited with PET+AA placed in blocks not treated with MD caught significantly fewer C. rosaceana than traps baited with sex pheromone. In comparison, sex pheromone-baited traps in MD blocks caught < 1 male moth per season which was significantly lower than total moth (> 10) or female moth (> 3) catch in these blocks with PET+AA. A high proportion (> 70%) of trapped females were mated in both untreated and MD-treated orchards. Further refinement of this binary, bisexual lure using membrane cup technology may allow the establishment of action thresholds and improve management timings for C. rosaceana.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093955', [u'Ecology'], [u'Plant and Food Research']]
[u'Cortical excitability controls the strength of mental imagery', ['Rebecca Keogh', 'Johanna Bergmann', 'Joel Pearson'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Mental imagery provides an essential simulation tool for remembering the past and planning the future, and its strength affects both cognition and mental health. Research suggests that neural activity spanning prefrontal, parietal, temporal, and visual areas supports the generation of mental images. However, exactly how this network controls the strength of visual imagery remains unknown. Here, brain imaging and transcranial magnetic phosphene data show that lower resting activity and excitability levels in visual cortex (V1-V3), but higher levels in prefrontal cortex, predict stronger sensory imagery. Unlike visual perception, electrically decreasing visual cortex excitability increases imagery strength, while the inverse pattern emerged for prefrontal cortex. These data suggest a neurophysiological mechanism of network cortical excitability that controls the strength of mental images.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/093690', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of New South Wales;', u'Max Plank Institute for Brain Research']]
[u'NeuroNLP: a natural language portal for aggregated fruit fly brain data', ['Nikul H Ukani', 'Adam Tomkins', 'Chung-Heng Yeh', 'Wesley Bruning', 'Allison L Fenichel', 'Yiyin Zhou', 'Yu-Chi Huang', 'Dorian Florescu', 'Carlos Luna Ortiz', 'Paul Richmond', 'Chung-Chuan Lo', 'Daniel Coca', 'Ann-Shyn Chiang', 'Aurel A Lazar'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'NeuroNLP, is a key application on the Fruit Fly Brain Observatory platform (FFBO, http://fruitflybrain.org), that provides a modern web-based portal for navigating fruit fly brain circuit data. Increases in the availability and scale of fruit fly connectome data, demand new, scalable and accessible methods to facilitate investigation into the functions of the latest complex circuits being uncovered. NeuroNLP enables in-depth exploration and investigation of the structure of brain circuits, using intuitive natural language queries that are capable of revealing the latent structure and information, obscured due to expansive yet independent data sources. \nNeuroNLP is built on top of a database system call NeuroArch that codifies knowledge about the fruit fly brain circuits, spanning multiple sources. Users can probe biological circuits in the NeuroArch database with plain English queries, such as "show glutamatergic local neurons in the left antennal lobe" and "show neurons with dendrites in the left mushroom body and axons in the fan-shaped body". This simple yet powerful interface replaces the usual, cumbersome checkboxes and dropdown menus prevalent in today\'s neurobiological databases. Equipped with powerful 3D visualization, NeuroNLP standardizes tools and methods for graphical rendering, representation, and manipulation of brain circuits, while integrating with existing databases such as the FlyCircuit. The user-friendly graphical user interface complements the natural language queries with additional controls for exploring the connectivity of neurons and neural circuits. Designed with an open-source, modular structure, it is highly scalable/flexible/extensible to additional databases or to switch between databases and supports the creation of additional parsers for other languages. By supporting access through a web browser from any modern laptop or smartphone, NeuroNLP significantly increases the accessibility of fruit fly brain data and improves the impact of the data in both scientific and educational exploration.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/092429', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'The University of Sheffield;', u'National Tsing Hua University']]
[u'The Fruit Fly Brain Observatory: from structure to function', ['Nikul H Ukani', 'Chung-Heng Yeh', 'Adam Tomkins', 'Yiyin Zhou', 'Dorian Florescu', 'Carlos Luna Ortiz', 'Yu-Chi Huang', 'Cheng-Te Wang', 'Paul Richmond', 'Chung-Chuan Lo', 'Daniel Coca', 'Ann-Shyn Chiang', 'Aurel A Lazar'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'The Fruit Fly Brain Observatory (FFBO) is a collaborative effort between experimentalists, theorists and computational neuroscientists at Columbia University, National Tsing Hua University and Sheffield University with the goal to (i) create an open platform for the emulation and biological validation of fruit fly brain models in health and disease, (ii) standardize tools and methods for graphical rendering, representation and manipulation of brain circuits, (iii) standardize tools for representation of fruit fly brain data and its abstractions and support for natural language queries, (iv) create a focus for the neuroscience community with interests in the fruit fly brain and encourage the sharing of fruit fly brain structural data and executable code worldwide. NeuroNLP and NeuroGFX, two key FFBO applications, aim to address two major challenges, respectively: i) seamlessly integrate structural and genetic data from multiple sources that can be intuitively queried, effectively visualized and extensively manipulated, ii) devise executable brain circuit models anchored in structural data for understanding and developing novel hypotheses about brain function. NeuroNLP enables researchers to use plain English (or other languages) to probe biological data that are integrated into a novel database system, called NeuroArch, that we developed for integrating biological and abstract data models of the fruit fly brain. With powerful 3D graphical visualization, NeuroNLP presents a highly accessible portal for the fruit fly brain data. NeuroGFX provides users highly intuitive tools to execute neural circuit models with Neurokernel, an open-source platform for emulating the fruit fly brain, with full data support from the NeuroArch database and visualization support from an interactive graphical interface. Brain circuits can be configured with high flexibility and investigated on multiple levels, e.g., whole brain, neuropil, and local circuit levels. The FFBO is publicly available and accessible at http://fruitflybrain.org from any modern web browsers, including those running on smartphones.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/092288', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'The University of Sheffield;', u'National Tsing Hua University']]
[u'NeuroGFX: a graphical functional explorer for fruit fly brain circuits', ['Chung-Heng Yeh', 'Yiyin Zhou', 'Nikul H Ukani', 'Aurel A Lazar'], u'December 14, 2016.', u'Recently, multiple focused efforts have resulted in substantial increase in the availability of connectome data in the fruit fly brain. Elucidating neural circuit function from such structural data calls for a scalable computational modeling methodology. We propose such a methodology that includes i) a brain emulation engine, with an architecture that can tackle the complexity of whole brain modeling, ii) a database that supports tight integration of biological and modeling data along with support for domain specific queries and circuit transformations, and iii) a graphical interface that allows for total flexibility in configuring neural circuits and visualizing run-time results, both anchored on model abstractions closely reflecting biological structure. Towards the realization of such a methodology, we have developed NeuroGFX and integrated it into the architecture of the Fruit Fly Brain Observatory (http://fruitflybrain.org). The computational infrastructure in NeuroGFX is provided by Neurokernel, an open source platform for the emulation of the fruit fly brain, and NeuroArch, a database for querying and executing fruit fly brain circuits. The integration of the two enables the algorithmic construction/manipulation/revision of executable circuits on multiple levels of abstraction of the same model organism. The power of this computational infrastructure can be leveraged through an intuitive graphical interface that allows visualizing execution results in the context of biological structure. This provides an environment where computational researchers can present configurable, executable neural circuits, and experimental scientists can easily explore circuit structure and function ultimately leading to biological validation. With these capabilities, NeuroGFX enables the exploration of function from circuit structure at whole brain, neuropil, and local circuit level of abstraction. By allowing for independently developed models to be integrated at the architectural level, NeuroGFX provides an open plug and play, collaborative environment for whole brain computational modeling of the fruit fly.', u'/content/early/2016/12/14/092437', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
