[u'Fast Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing (FASTest) based on single cell growth rate measurements.', ['Ozden BALTEKIN', 'Alexis Boucharin', 'Dan I Andersson', 'Johan Elf'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'The emergence and spread of multidrug resistant bacteria is a global threat to human health. The problem is aggravated as a result of unnecessary and incorrect use of broad-spectrum antibiotics. One way to assure correct antibiotic use and reduce the development of antibiotic resistance is to assay the susceptibility profile of the infection before treatment is initiated. However, the current methods for Antibiotics Susceptibility Testing (AST) are too slow to be used for routine screening. Here we present a fast AST test, FASTest, that captures bacterial cells in individual nanofluidics channels and monitor their response to different antibiotics based on direct imaging. By averaging the growth rate over a few hundred cells we can determine the susceptibility to several antibiotics in less than 30 min even at cell densities as low as 104 CFU/mL of sample. This is a time scale and concentration that makes the FASTest practically useful for guiding the primary antibiotic treatment of several types of infections.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071407', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Uppsala University']]
[u'Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4-mediated lipotoxicity provokes mitochondrial damage in peroxisome-deficient pex19 mutants', ['Margret Helene Buelow', 'Julia Sellin', 'Christian Wingen', 'Deniz Senyilmaz', 'Dominic Gosejacob', 'Aurelio A Teleman', 'Michael Hoch'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Peroxisomes are important metabolic organelles involved in the catabolism of several lipid classes, e.g. very-long-chain fatty acids. Malfunction or absence of peroxisomes leads to accumulation of educts for peroxisomal \u03b2-oxidation and mitochondrial damage, resulting in fatal perturbation of metabolism. The impact of peroxisome deficiency on mitochondria is not elucidated yet. Here we present a model of Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 (Hnf4)-induced lipotoxicity and accumulation of non-esterified fatty acids (NEFA) as the cause for mitochondrial damage in consequence of peroxisome loss in a Peroxin19 (pex19) mutant. Hyperactive Hnf4 signaling leads to upregulation of lipase 3 and enzymes for mitochondrial \u03b2-oxidation. This results in enhanced lipolysis, elevated concentrations of NEFA, maximal \u03b2-oxidation and mitochondrial swelling. NEFA are ligands for Hnf4 and further enhance its activity. By genetic removal of Hnf4 in pex19 mutants, lipotoxicity and mitochondrial swelling are reduced and their survival is rescued.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071787', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Bonn;', u'DKFZ']]
[u'Mycobacterium ulcerans low infectious dose and atypical mechanical transmission support insect bites and puncturing injuries in the spread of Buruli ulcer.', ['John R. Wallace', 'Kirstie M. Mangas', 'Jessica L. Porter', 'Renee Marcsisin', 'Sacha J. Pidot', 'Brian O. Howden', 'Till F. Omansen', 'Weiguang Zeng', 'Jason K. Axford', 'Paul D. R. Johnson', 'Timothy Stinear'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Addressing the transmission enigma of the neglected disease Buruli ulcer (BU) is a World Health Organization priority. In Australia, we have been building a hierarchy of evidence implicating mosquitoes in transmission. Here we tested a contaminated skin model of BU transmission by dipping the tails from healthy mice in cultures of the causative agent, Mycobacterium ulcerans. Tails were exposed to mosquito blood feeding or punctured with sterile needles. Two of 11 of mice with M. ulcerans contaminated tails exposed to feeding mosquitoes developed BU. Eighteen of 20 mice subjected to contaminated tail needle puncture developed BU. Mouse tails coated only in bacteria did not develop disease. We observed a low infectious dose-50 of four colony-forming units and a median incubation time of 12 weeks, overlapping data from human infections. We have uncovered a highly efficient and biologically plausible atypical transmission mode of BU via natural or anthropogenic skin punctures.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071753', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Millersville University;', u'University of Melbourne;', u'University of Groningen']]
[u'DNAmod: the DNA modification database', ['Ankur Jai Sood', 'Coby Viner', 'Michael M. Hoffman'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Covalent DNA modifications, such as 5-methylcytosine (5mC), are increasingly the focus of numerous research programs. In eukaryotes, both 5mC and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine are now recognized as stable epigenetic marks, with diverse functions. Bacteria, archaea, and viruses contain various modified DNA nucleobases, including several in which one base is largely or entirely replaced by a particular covalent modification. Numerous databases describe RNA and histone modifications, but no database specifically catalogues DNA modifications, despite their broad importance as an element of epigenetic regulation. To address this need, we have developed DNAmod: the DNA modification database. DNAmod is an open-source database (http://dnamod.hoffmanlab.org) that catalogues DNA modifications and provides a single source to learn about their properties. DNAmod provides a web interface to easily browse and search through its modifications. The database annotates the chemical properties and structures of all curated modified DNA bases, and a much larger list of candidate chemical entities. DNAmod includes manual annotations of available sequencing methods, descriptions of their occurrence in nature, and provides existing and suggested nomenclature. DNAmod enables researchers to rapidly review previous work, select mapping techniques, and track recent developments concerning modified bases of interest.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071712', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada;', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada;', u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada']]
[u'Gender disparity in computational biology research publications', ['Kevin S. Bonham', 'Melanie I. Stefan'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'While women are generally underrepresented in STEM fields, there are noticeable differences between fields. For instance, the gender ratio in biology is more balanced than in computer science. We were interested in how this difference is reflected in the interdisciplinary field of computational/quantitative biology. To this end, we examined the proportion of female authors in publications from the PubMed and arXiv databases. There are fewer female authors on research papers in computational biology, as compared to biology in general. This is true across authorship positions, year, and journal impact factor. A comparison with arXiv shows that quantitative biology papers have a higher ratio of female authors than computer science papers, placing computational biology in between its two parent fields in terms of gender representation. Both in biology and in computational biology, a female last author increases the probability of other authors on the paper being female, pointing to a potential role of female PIs in influencing the gender balance.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/070631', [], [u'Curriculum Fellows Program, Harvard Medical School;', u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Network analysis links genome-wide phenotypic and transcriptional stress responses in a bacterial pathogen with a large pan-genome.', ['Paul A. Jensen', 'Zeyu Zhu', 'Tim van Opijnen'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Background: Bacteria modulate subcellular processes to handle stressful environments. Genome-wide profiling of gene expression (RNA-Seq) and fitness (Tn-Seq) allows two views of the same genetic network underlying these responses. However, it remains unclear how they combine, enabling a bacterium to overcome a perturbation.\n\nResults: Here we generate RNA-Seq and Tn-Seq profiles in three strains of S. pneumoniae in response to stress defined by different levels of nutrient depletion. These profiles show that genes that change their expression and/or become phenotypically important come from a diverse set of functional categories, and genes that are phenotypically important tend to be highly expressed. Surprisingly, we find that expression and fitness changes rarely occur on the same gene, which we confirmed by over 140 validation experiments. To rationalize these unexpected results we built the first genome-scale metabolic model of S. pneumoniae showing that differential expression and phenotypic importance actually correlate between nearest neighbors, although they are distinctly partitioned into small subnetworks. Moreover, a meta-analysis of 234 S. pneumoniae gene expression studies reveals that essential genes and phenotypically important subnetworks rarely change expression, indicating that they are shielded from transcriptional fluctuations and that a clear distinction exists between transcriptional and phenotypic response networks.\n\nConclusions: We present a genome-wide computational/experimental approach that contextualizes changes that occur on transcriptomic and phenomic levels in response to stress.  Importantly, this highlights the need to connect disparate response networks, for instance in antibiotic target identification, where preferred targets are phenotypically important genes that would be overlooked by transcriptomic analyses alone.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071704', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Boston College']]
[u'Individual level predictions of Staphylococcus aureus bacteraemia-associated mortality.', ['Mario Recker', 'Maisem Laabei', 'Michelle Toleman', 'Sandra Reuter', 'Beth Blane', 'Estee Torok', 'Sion Bayliss', 'Sharon Peacock', 'Ruth Massey'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'The bacterium Staphylococcus aureus is a major human pathogen, where the emergence of antibiotic resistance is a global public-health concern. Host factors such as age and the presence of co-morbidities have been implicated in a worse outcome for patient. However, this is complicated by the highly complex and multi-faceted nature of bacterial virulence, which has so far prevented a robust mapping between genotype, phenotype and infection outcome. To investigate the role of bacterial and host factors in contributing to S. aureus bacteraemia-associated mortality we sequenced a collection of clinical isolates (of the MLST clonal complex CC22) from patients with bloodstream infections and quantified specific virulence phenotypes. A genome-wide association scan identified several novel virulence-affecting loci, which we validated using a functional genomics approach. Analysing the data comprising bacterial genotype and phenotype as well as clinical meta-data within a machine-learning framework revealed that mortality associated with CC22 bacteraemia is not only influenced by the interactions between host and bacterial factors but can also be predicted at the individual patient-level to a high degree of accuracy. This study clearly demonstrates the potential of using a combined genomics and data analytic approach to enhance our understanding of bacterial pathogenesis. Considering both host and microbial factors, including whole genome sequence and phenotype data, within a predictive framework could thus pave the way towards personalised medicine and infectious disease management.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071837', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Exeter;', u'University of Bath;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Univeristy of Cambridge;', u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Metazoan ribotoxin genes acquired by Horizontal Gene Transfer', ['Walter Jesus Lapadula', 'Paula Lorena Marcet', 'Maria Laura Mascotti', 'Maria Virginia Sanchez-Puerta', 'Maximiliano Juri Ayub'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs) are RNA N-glycosidases that depurinate a specific adenine residue in the conserved sarcin/ricin loop of 28S rRNA. These enzymes are widely distributed among plants and their presence has also been confirmed in several bacterial species. Recently, we reported for the first time in silico evidence of RIP encoding genes in metazoans, in two closely related species of insects: Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus. Here, we have experimentally confirmed the presence of these genes in mosquitoes and attempted to unveil their evolutionary history. A detailed study was conducted, including evaluation of taxonomic distribution, phylogenetic inferences and microsynteny analyses, indicating that the culicine RIP genes derived from a single Horizontal Gene Transfer (HGT) event, probably from a Cyanobacterial donor species. Moreover, evolutionary analyses show that, after transference, these genes evolved under purifying selection, strongly suggesting that they play functional roles in these organisms. In this work we confirm the presence of RIP genes in Culicinae species, and show solid evidence supporting the hypothesis that these genes are derived from a single prokaryotic transferred gene through HGT. In addition, clear evidence of purifying selection pressure has been recorded, supporting the hypothesis that these genes are functional within this subfamily.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071340', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Universidad Nacional de San Luis;', u'cdc;', u'IBAM CONICET;', u'IMIBIO-SL']]
[u'Mating promotes lactic-acid gut bacteria in a gift-giving insect', ['Chad C Smith', 'Robert B Srygley', 'Emma I Dietrich', 'Ulrich Mueller'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Mating is a ubiquitous social interaction with the potential to influence the microbiome by facilitating transmission, modifying host physiology, and in species where males donate nuptial gifts to females, altering diet. We manipulated mating and nuptial gift consumption in two insects that differ in nuptial gift size, the Mormon cricket Anabrus simplex and the decorated cricket Gryllodes sigillatus, with the expectation that larger gifts are more likely to affect the gut microbiome. Surprisingly, mating, but not nuptial gift consumption, affected bacterial community structure, and only in Mormon crickets. The change in structure was due to a precipitous drop in the abundance of lactic-acid bacteria in unmated females, a taxon known for their beneficial effects on nutrition and immunity. Mating did not affect phenoloxidase or lysozyme-like antibacterial activity in either species, suggesting that any physiological response to mating on host-microbe interactions is decoupled from the systemic immunity. Protein supplementation also did not affect the gut microbiome in decorated crickets, suggesting that insensitivity of gut microbes to dietary protein could contribute to the lack of an effect of nuptial gift consumption. Our study provides experimental evidence that sexual interactions can affect the microbiome and suggests mating can promote beneficial gut bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071001', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'USDA-ARS Northern Plains Area Research Laboratory']]
[u'Characterization of the pscC (Type III secretion) gene of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA01) and assessment of immunogenicity of pscC protein in rats', ['Md Safiul Alam Bhuiyan', 'Daisy V John', 'Fernandes Opook', 'Hafiza Sultana', 'Kenneth Francis Rodrigues'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Proteins associated with the bacterial membrane can be recruited for application as antigens for the development of vaccines. This preliminary study was directed towards evaluating the antigenic properties of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA01) pscC protein which is a component of the Type III secretion system. Gene specific primers were designed to isolate the pscC gene which was isolated, ligated onto the multiple cloning site of vector pGS21(a), cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli (BL21). The molecular weight of the expressed pscC protein was determined by SDS-PAGE (10% sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis) and was found to be around 57 KDa and purified by the size exclusion chromatography. Finally, the purified pscC protein was injected subcutaneously into adult Sprague Dawley rats with a range of concentrations (50, 100 and 150 microgram per rat) respectively. Recombinant pscC antigen induced a specific humoral immune response against the antigen, which was validated by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The results concluded that anti-pscC antibody was elicited in the animal model.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071720', [u'Immunology'], [u'Biotechnology Research Institute, Universiti Malaysia Sabah;', u'Rangpur Medical College, Rangpur, Bangladesh;', u'Biotechnology Research Institute']]
[u'Influence of a mono-frequency sound on bacteria can be a function of the sound-level', ['Vijay Kothari', 'Chinmayi Joshi', 'Pooja Patel', 'Milan Mehta', 'Sashikant Dubey', 'Brijesh Mishra', 'Niral Sarvaiya'], u'August 26, 2016.', u'Chromobacterium violaceum was subjected to sonic stimulation with 300 Hz sound, at five different levels of loudness in the range of 70 to 89.5 dB. Sonic stimulation was found to affect bacterial growth and quorum sensing regulated pigment (violacein) production significantly. Magnitude of this effect was found to be dependent on sound-level. The minimum critical difference required to cause any statistically significant change in bacterial response with respect to sound-level was found to be 13 dB. Growth of C. violaceum was affected more at lower sound intensity, whereas pigment production was affected more at higher sound intensity. Additional experiments with C. violaceum and Serratia marcescens indicated that even a silent speaker emitting no sound can alter bacterial growth and/or pigment production upto a minor extent. Size of the test tube in which bacteria are exposed to sonic stimulation, was not found to affect the results much.', u'/content/early/2016/08/26/071746', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Nirma University;', u'NIrma University;', u'Nirma University (Former student)']]
