[u'Neural differentiation of incorrectly predicted memories', ['Ghootae Kim', 'Kenneth A Norman', 'Nicholas B Turk-Browne'], u'October 24, 2016.', u"When an item is predicted in a particular context but the prediction is violated, memory for that item is weakened (Kim et al., 2014). Here we explore what happens when such previously mispredicted items are later re-encountered. According to prior neural network simulations, this sequence of events - misprediction and subsequent restudy - should lead to differentiation of the item's neural representation from the previous context (on which the misprediction was based). Specifically, misprediction weakens connections in the representation to features shared with the previous context, and restudy allows new features to be incorporated into the representation that are not shared with the previous context. This cycle of misprediction and restudy should have the net effect of moving the item's neural representation away from the neural representation of the previous context. We tested this hypothesis using fMRI, by tracking changes in item-specific BOLD activity patterns in the hippocampus, a key structure for representing memories and generating predictions. In left CA2/3/DG, we found greater neural differentiation for items that were repeatedly mispredicted and restudied compared to items from a control condition that was identical except without misprediction. We also measured prediction strength in a trial-by-trial fashion and found that greater misprediction for an item led to more differentiation, further supporting our hypothesis. Thus, the consequences of prediction error go beyond memory weakening: If the mispredicted item is restudied, the brain adaptively differentiates its memory representation to improve the accuracy of subsequent predictions and to shield it from further weakening.", u'/content/early/2016/10/24/083022', [], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Optimal structure of heterogeneous stem cell niche: The importance of cell migration in delaying tumorigenesis', ['Leili Shahriyari', 'Ali Mahdipour Shirayeh'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Studying the stem cell niche architecture is a crucial step for investigating the process of oncogenesis and obtaining an effective stem cell therapy for various cancers. Recently, it has been observed that there are two groups of stem cells in the stem cell niche collaborating with each other to maintain tissue homeostasis. One group comprises the border stem cells, which is responsible to control the number of non-stem cells as well as stem cells. The other group, central stem cells, regulates the stem cell niche.   In the present study, we develop a bi-compartmental stochastic model for the stem cell niche to study the spread of mutants within the niche. The analytic calculations and numeric simulations, which are in perfect agreement, reveal that in order to delay the spread of mutants in the stem cell niche, a small but non-zero number of stem cell proliferations must occur in the central stem cell compartment. Moreover, the migration of border stem cells to the central stem cell compartment delays the spread of mutants. Furthermore, the fixation probability of mutants in the stem cell niche is independent of types of stem cell division as long as all stem cells do not divide fully asymmetrically.  Additionally, the progeny of central stem cells have a much higher chance than the progeny of border stem cells to take over the entire niche.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082982', [], [u'The Ohio State University;', u'University of Waterloo']]
[u'Characterization of Dependencies Between Growth and Division in Budding Yeast', ['Michael B Mayhew', 'Edwin S Iversen', 'Alexander J Hartemink'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Cell growth and division are processes vital to the proliferation and development of life. Coordination between these two processes has been recognized for decades in a variety of organisms. In the the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, this coordination or size control appears as an inverse correlation between cell size and cell-cycle progression, routinely observed in G1 phase prior to cell division commitment. Beyond this point, cells are presumed to complete S/G2/M at similar rates and in a size-independent manner. As such, studies of dependence between growth and division have focused on G1. Moreover, coordination between growth and division has commonly been analyzed within the cycle of a single cell without accounting for correlations in growth and division characteristics between cycles of related cells. In a comprehensive analysis of three published time-lapse microscopy datasets, we analyze both intra- and inter-cycle dependencies between growth and division, revisiting assumptions about the coordination between these two processes. Interestingly, we find evidence that S/G2/M durations are systematically longer in daughters than in mothers, dependencies between S/G2/M and size at budding that echo the classical G1 dependencies, and, in contrast with recent bacterial studies, negative dependencies between size at birth and size accumulated during the cell cycle. In addition, we develop a novel hierarchical model to uncover inter-cycle dependencies for which we find evidence in cells growing in sugar-poor environments. This analysis highlights the need for both experimentalists and modelers to account for new sources of cell-to-cell variation in growth and division, and our model provides a formal statistical framework for the continued study of dependencies between biological processes.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082735', [], [u'Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Collective epithelial migration drives timely morphogenesis of the retinal neuroepithelium', ['Caren Norden', 'Jaydeep Sidhaye', 'Niklas Ifflaender'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Organ formation is a complex, multi-scale event involving changes at the intracellular, cellular and tissue level. A key step in organogenesis is the formation of characteristically shaped organ precursors. However, the cellular mechanisms driving organ precursor formation are not well understood. Here, we investigate the epithelial rearrangements responsible for the development of the hemispherical retinal neuroepithelium (RNE), a part of the optic cup. We show that, surprisingly, active collective epithelial migration of cells at the rim of the cup is the most prominent player in RNE formation. This rim involution is driven by progressive cell-matrix contacts and actively translocates prospective RNE cells to their correct location before they adopt neuroepithelial fate. Failure of rim migration during neuroepithelium formation leads to ectopic determination of RNE cells and consequently impairs eye formation. Overall, this study illustrates how spatiotemporal coordination between morphogenic movements and fate determination critically influences organogenesis.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082958', [], [u'MPI of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics']]
[u'Energy Conservation as a Measure of Simulation Accuracy', ['Peter Eastman', 'Vijay S. Pande'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Energy conservation is widely used as a measure of accuracy for molecular simulations.  When reporting rates of energy drift, researchers usually assume it is linear in the simulation length, temperature, and system size.  We study these assumptions and find that all three are incorrect.  Energy drift is too complicated to characterize with a single number, and a more sophisticated analysis is needed to identify the effects of systematic versus random drift, and of integration error versus numerical error.  We further argue that energy conservation is not a reliable measure of accuracy.  Having small overall drift on long time scales is not a sufficient condition, and in some cases not a necessary condition, for a simulation to produce meaningful results.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/083055', [], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Inferability of transcriptional networks from large scale gene deletion studies', ['Christopher Frederik Blum', 'Nadia Heramvand', 'Armin S Khonsari', 'Markus Kollmann'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Generating a comprehensive map of molecular interactions in living cells is difficult and\ngreat efforts are undertaken to infer molecular interactions from large scale perturbation experiments. Here, we develop the analytical and numerical tools to quantify the fundamental limits for inferring transcriptional networks from gene knockout screens and introduce\na network inference method that is unbiased and scalable to large network sizes. We show\nthat it is possible to infer gene regulatory interactions with high statistical significance, even\nif prior knowledge about potential regulators is absent.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082925', [], [u'Institute for Mathematical Modeling of Biological Systems, Heinrich Heine University of Duesseldorf']]
[u'Death and rebirth of neural activity in sparse inhibitory networks', ['David Angulo-Garcia', 'Stefano Luccioli', 'Simona Olmi', 'Alessandro Torcini'], u'October 24, 2016.', u"Inhibition is a key aspect of neural dynamics playing a fundamental role for the emergence of neural rhythms\nand the implementation of  various information coding strategies. Inhibitory populations are present in several brain structures and the comprehension of their dynamics is strategical for the understanding of neural processing. In this paper, we clarify the mechanisms underlying a general phenomenon present in pulse-coupled heterogeneous inhibitory networks: inhibition can induce not only  suppression of the neural activity, as expected, but it can also promote neural reactivation. In particular, for globally coupled systems, the number of firing neurons monotonically reduces upon increasing the strength of inhibition (neurons' death). However, the random pruning of the connections is able to reverse the action of inhibition, i.e. in a sparse network a sufficiently strong synaptic strength can surprisingly promote, rather than depress, the activity of the neurons (neurons' rebirth). Thus the number of firing neurons reveals a minimum at some intermediate synaptic strength. We show that this minimum signals a transition from a regime dominated by the neurons with higher firing activity to a phase where all neurons are effectively sub-threshold and  their irregular firing is driven by current fluctuations. We explain the origin of the transition by deriving an analytic mean field formulation of the problem able to provide the fraction of active neurons as well as the first two moments of their firing statistics.  The introduction of a synaptic time scale does not modify the main aspects of the reported phenomenon. However, for sufficiently slow synapses the transition becomes dramatic, the system passes from a perfectly regular evolution to an irregular bursting dynamics. In this latter regime the model provides predictions consistent with experimental findings for a specific class of neurons, namely the medium spiny neurons in the striatum.", u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082974', [], [u'Aix Marseille Universite;', u'CNR - Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche - Istituto dei Sistemi Complessi, 50019 Sesto Fiorentino, I;', u'Weierstrass Institute, Berlin, Germany;', u'Aix-Marseille Universite']]
[u'Searching for the chromatin determinants of human hematopoiesis', ['Enrique Carrillo de Santa Pau', 'David Juan', 'Vera Pancaldi', 'Felipe Were', 'Ignacio Martin-Subero', 'Daniel Rico', 'Alfonso Valencia'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Hematopoiesis is one of the best characterized biological systems but the connection between chromatin changes and lineage differentiation is not yet well understood. We have developed a bioinformatic workflow to generate a chromatin space that allows to classify forty-two human healthy blood epigenomes from the BLUEPRINT, NIH ROADMAP and ENCODE consortia by their cell type. This approach recapitulates the human hematopoietic differentiation tree model from an epigenomic perspective. The analysis of the orthogonal dimension of the chromatin space allows us to identify 32,662 chromatin determinant regions (CDRs), genomic regions with different epigenetic characteristics between the cell types. Functional analysis revealed that these regions are linked with cell identities. The inclusion of leukemia epigenomes in the healthy hematological chromatin sample space gives us insights on the origin of these tumors. Our method provides an analytical approach to study the relationship between epigenomic changes and cell lineage differentiation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082917', [], [u'Spanish National Cancer Research Centre;', u"Institut d'Investigacions Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS);", u'Newcastle University']]
[u'Reconstruction of phylogenetic history to resolve the subspecies anomaly of Pantherine cats', ['Ranajit Das', 'Priyanka Upadhyai'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'All charismatic big cats including tiger (Panthera tigris), lion (Panthera leo), leopard (Panthera pardus), snow leopard (Panthera uncial), and jaguar (Panthera onca) are grouped into the subfamily Pantherinae. Several mitogenomic approaches have been employed to reconstruct the phylogenetic history of the Pantherine cats but the phylogeny has remained largely unresolved till date. One of the major reasons for the difficulty in resolving the phylogenetic tree of Pantherine cats is the small sample size. While previous studies included only 5-10 samples, we have used 43 publically available taxa to reconstruct Pantherine phylogenetic history. Complete mtDNA sequences were used from all individuals excluding the control region (15,489bp). A Bayesian MCMC approach was employed to investigate the divergence times among different Pantherine clades. Both maximum likelihood and Bayesian phylogeny generated a dendrogram: Neofelis nebulosa (Panthera tigris (Panthera onca (Panthera uncia (Panthera leo, Panthera pardus)))), grouping lions with leopards and placing snow leopards as an outgroup to this clade. The phylogeny revealed that lions split from their sister species leopard ~3 Mya and the divergence time between snow leopards and the clade including lions and leopards was estimated to be ~5 Mya. Our study revealed that the morphology-based subspecies designation for both lions and tigers is largely not valid. The estimated tMRCA of 2.9 Mya between Barbary lions and Sub-Saharan African lions depicts the restriction of female-mediated gene flow between the lion populations in the backdrop of the habitat fragmentation taking place from late Pliocene to early to mid-Pleistocene creating islands of forest refugia in central Africa.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082891', [], [u'Manipal University;', u'Kasturba Medical College, Manipal']]
[u'Multivariate EEG analyses support high-resolution tracking of feature-based attentional selection', ['Johannes Jacobus Fahrenfort', 'Anna Grubert', 'Christian N.L. Olivers', 'Martin Eimer'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'The N2pc component is the most-used MEG/EEG signal for tracking feature-based target selection. However, the spatial resolution of the N2pc is limited, because it is based on activity differences between hemispheres. Here we demonstrate that multivariate analyses of raw EEG data provide a much more fine-grained spatial profile of feature-based target selection. Experiment 1 used a visual search task in which colour-defined targets appeared on the horizontal or vertical midline. In Experiment 2, search displays contained a target that appeared at one of eight possible locations among seven distractors. Using pattern classification, we show that information from EEG signals can be used to decode target positions on the vertical midline (above versus below fixation) as well as within the same visual field quadrant, which cannot be achieved using standard N2pc methodology. Classification accuracy increased rapidly from about 200 ms after display onset. To further characterize the spatial precision of this signal, we used a forward encoding model to construct a cortical tuning function that describes the relationship between target position and multivariate EEG. This model is fully invertible, allowing us to construct hypothetical topographic activation maps for targets on the horizontal/vertical midline that were never actually shown during Experiment 2, and that were then tested against the horizontal/vertical position data of Experiment 1. The constructed maps were statistically indistinguishable from the real pattern of neural activity, providing independent validation. Our findings demonstrate the power of multivariate EEG analysis to track feature-based target selection with high spatial and temporal precision.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082818', [], [u'Department of Experimental and Applied Psychology, Vrije Universiteit, The Netherlands;', u'Department of Psychology, Durham University, UK;', u'Department of Psychological Sciences, Birkbeck, University of London, UK']]
[u'p53 dynamically directs TFIID assembly on target gene promoters', ['Robert A Coleman', 'Zhen Qiao', 'Sameer K Singh', 'Chunte S Peng', 'Michael Cianfrocco', 'Zhengjian Zhang', 'Lihua Song', 'Ania Piasecka', 'Hannah Aldeborgh', 'Givi Basishvili', 'William Rice', 'Wei-Li Liu'], u'October 24, 2016.', u"p53 is a central regulator in tumor suppression. In response to various signals, p53 turns on vast gene networks to maintain cellular integrity, in part by aiding promoter recruitment of the TFIID-mediated transcription machinery to stimulate transcription initiation. However, the precise means by which p53 dynamically interacts with TFIID to facilitate assembly on target gene promoters remains elusive. To address this key question, we have undertaken an integrated approach involving single molecule fluorescence microscopy, single particle cryo-electron microscopy, and biochemistry. Our real-time single molecule imaging demonstrated that p53 both delivers and promotes the stable binding of TFIID to DNA. Furthermore, TFIID binds core promoter sequences via distinct modes displaying transient and prolonged stability. Importantly, TFIID's interaction with DNA induces p53 to rapidly dissociate, effectively recycling p53's binding site on the promoter. This notion is further supported by our structural studies. In addition, upstream promoter DNA comprising p53's response elements is highly mobile when bound to TFIID compared to the core promoter DNA. Collectively, these findings indicate that p53 serves as an escort to dynamically recruit and load the basal transcription machinery onto its target promoters by regulating the structural architecture of TFIID.", u'/content/early/2016/10/24/083014', [], [u'Albert Einstein College of Medicine;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Janelia Research Campus;', u'The New York Structural Biology Center']]
[u'Automated remote focusing, drift correction, and photostimulation to evaluate structural plasticity in dendritic spines', ['Michael Sergey Smirnov', 'Paul Robert Evans', 'Tavita R Garrett', 'Long Yan', 'Ryohei Yasuda'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Long-term structural plasticity of dendritic spines plays a key role in synaptic plasticity, the cellular basis for learning and memory. The biochemical step is mediated by a complex network of signaling proteins in spines. Two-photon imaging techniques combined with two-photon glutamate uncaging allows researchers to induce and quantify structural plasticity in single dendritic spines. However, this method is laborious and slow, making it unsuitable for high throughput screening of factors necessary for structural plasticity. Here we introduce a MATLAB-based module built for Scanimage to automatically track, image, and stimulate multiple dendritic spines. We implemented an electrically tunable lens in combination with a drift correction algorithm to rapidly and continuously track targeted spines and correct sample movements. With a straightforward user interface to design custom multi-position experiments, we were able to adequately image and produce targeted plasticity in multiple dendritic spines using glutamate uncaging. Our methods are inexpensive, open source, and provides up to a five-fold increase in throughput for quantifying structural plasticity of dendritic spines.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/083006', [], [u'Max Planck Florida Institute for Neuroscience']]
[u'Phylodynamics on local sexual contact networks', ['David A. Rasmussen', 'Roger Kouyos', 'Huldrych F Gunthard', 'Tanja Stalder'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Phylodynamic models are widely used in infectious disease epidemiology to infer the dynamics and structure of pathogen populations. However, these models generally assume that individual hosts contact one another at random, ignoring the fact that many pathogens spread through highly structured contact networks. We present a new framework for phylodynamics on local contact networks based on pairwise epidemiological models that track the status of pairs of nodes in the network rather than just individuals. Shifting our focus from individuals to pairs leads naturally to coalescent models that describe how lineages move through networks and the rate at which lineages coalesce. These pairwise coalescent models not only consider how network structure directly shapes pathogen phylogenies, but also how the relationship between phylogenies and contact networks changes depending on epidemic dynamics and the fraction of infected hosts sampled. By considering pathogen phylogenies in a probabilistic framework, these coalescent models can also be used to estimate the statistical properties of contact networks directly from phylogenies using likelihood-based inference. We use this framework to explore how much information phylogenies retain about the underlying structure of contact networks and to infer the structure of a sexual contact network underlying a large HIV-1 sub-epidemic in Switzerland.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082966', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'ETH Zurich;', u'University of Zurich']]
[u'Statistical and biological uncertainties associated with vaccine efficacy estimates and their implications for dengue vaccine impact projections', ['Alex Perkins', 'Robert Reiner', 'Quirine ten Bosch', 'Guido Espana', 'Amit Verma', 'Kelly Liebman', 'Valerie Paz-Soldan', 'John Elder', 'Amy Morrison', 'Steven Stoddard', 'Uriel Kitron', 'Gonzalo Vazquez-Prokopec', 'Thomas Scott', 'David Smith'], u'October 24, 2016.', u"Given the limited effectiveness of strategies based solely on vector control to reduce dengue virus transmission, it is expected that an effective vaccine could play a pivotal role in reducing the global disease burden of dengue. Dengvaxia\xae from Sanofi Pasteur recently became the first dengue vaccine to become licensed in select countries and to achieve WHO recommendation for use in certain settings, despite the fact that a number of uncertainties about the vaccine's efficacy and mode of action complicate projections of its potential impact on public health. We used a new stochastic individual-based model for dengue transmission to perform simulations of the impact of Dengvaxia\xae in light of two key uncertainties: statistical uncertainty about the numerical value of the vaccine's efficacy against disease, and biological uncertainty about the extent to which its efficacy against disease derives from the amelioration of symptoms, blocking of dengue infection, or some combination thereof. Our results suggest that projections of the vaccine's public health impact may be far more sensitive to biological details of how the vaccine protects against disease than to statistical details of the extent to which it protects against disease. Under the full range of biological uncertainty that we considered, there was nearly three-fold variation in the population-wide number of disease episodes averted. These differences owe to variation in indirect effects of vaccination arising from uncertainty about the extent of onward transmission of dengue from vaccine recipients. These results demonstrate important limitations associated with the use of symptomatic disease as the primary endpoint of dengue vaccine trials and highlight the importance of considering multiple forms of uncertainty in projections of a vaccine's impact on public health.", u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082396', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Notre Dame;', u'University of Washington;', u'Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics, and Policy;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'Tulane University;', u'San Diego State University;', u'Emory University']]
[u'Signatures of non-neutral processes within the population structure of Streptococcus pneumoniae', ['Jose Lourenco', 'Eleanor R Watkins', 'Uri Obolski', 'Samuel J Peacock', 'Callum Morris', 'Martin CJ Maiden', 'Sunetra Gupta'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Populations of Streptococcus pneumoniae are typically structured into groups of closely related organisms or lineages.  Here, we employ a machine learning technique to try and tease out whether these lineages are maintained by selection or by neutral processes.  Our results indicate that lineages of S. pneumoniae evolved through selection on the groESL operon, an essential component of its survival machinery.  This operon contains genes which encode chaperone proteins that enable a very large range of proteins to fold correctly within the physical environment of the nasopharynx and therefore will be in strong epistasis with several other genes. These features of groESL would explain why lineage structure is so stable within S. pneumoniae despite high levels of horizontal genetic transfer.  S. pneumoniae is also antigenically diverse, exhibiting a variety of distinct capsular serotypes.  We show that associations may arise between lineage and capsular serotype due to immune selection and direct resource competition but these can be more easily perturbed in the presence of external pressures such as vaccination.  Overall, our analyses indicate that the evolution of S. pneumoniae can be conceptualized as the rearrangement of modular functional units occurring on several different timescales under different selection pressures: some patterns have locked in early (such as the epistatic interactions between groESL and a constellation of other genes) and preserve the differentiation of lineages, while others (such as the associations between capsular serotype and lineage) remain in continuous flux.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082990', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Durham']]
[u'Genome-wide association analyses of sleep disturbance traits identify new loci and highlight shared genetics with neuropsychiatric and metabolic traits', ['Jacqueline M Lane', 'Jingjing Liang', 'Irma Vlasac', 'Simon G Anderson', 'David A Bechtold', 'Jack Bowden', 'Richard Emsley', 'Shubhroz Gill', 'Max A Little', 'AnneMarie I Luik', 'Andrew Loudon', 'Frank A.J.L. Scheer', 'Shaun M Purcell', 'Simon D Kyle', 'Deborah A Lawlor', 'Xiaofeng Zhu', 'Susan Redline', 'David W Ray', 'Martin K Rutter', 'Richa Saxena'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Chronic sleep disturbances, associated with cardio-metabolic diseases, psychiatric disorders and all-cause mortality1,2, affect 25-30% of adults worldwide3. While environmental factors contribute importantly to self-reported habitual sleep duration and disruption, these traits are heritable4-9, and gene identification should improve our understanding of sleep function, mechanisms linking sleep to disease, and development of novel therapies.  We report single and multi-trait genome-wide association analyses (GWAS) of self-reported sleep duration, insomnia symptoms including difficulty initiating and/or maintaining sleep, and excessive daytime sleepiness in the UK Biobank (n=112,586), with discovery of loci for insomnia symptoms (near MEIS1, TMEM132E, CYCL1, TGFBI in females and WDR27 in males), excessive daytime sleepiness (near AR/OPHN1) and a composite sleep trait (near INADL and HCRTR2), as well as replication of a locus for sleep duration (at PAX-8). Genetic correlation was observed between longer sleep duration and schizophrenia (rG=0.29, p=1.90x10-13) and between increased excessive daytime sleepiness and increased adiposity traits (BMI rG=0.20, p=3.12x10-09; waist circumference rG=0.20, p=2.12x10-07). \n\nNote: Martin K Rutter and Richa Saxena contributed equally and are joint senior authors on this manuscript.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082792', [u'Genetics'], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital, Broad Institute;', u'Case Western Reserve University;', u'University of Manchester;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Broad Institute;', u'Aston University, MIT;', u'University of Oxford;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u"Brigham and Women's Hospital, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai"]]
[u'Towards an ontology-based recommender system for relevant bioinformatics workflows', ['Ahmed Halioui', 'Petko Valtchev', 'Abdoulaye Banire Diallo'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'With the large and diverse type of biological data, bioinformatic solutions are being more complex and computationally intensive. New specialized data skills need to be acquired by researchers in order to follow this development. Workflow Management Systems rise as an efficient way to automate tasks through abstract models in order to assist users during their problem solving tasks. However, current solutions could have several problems in reusing the developed models for given tasks. The large amount of heterogenous data and the lack of knowledge in using bioinformatics tools could mislead the users during their analyses. To tackle this issue, we propose an ontology-based workflow-mining framework generating semantic models of bioinformatic best practices in order to assist scientists. To this end, concrete workflows are extracted from scientific articles and then mined using a rich domain ontology. \nDiscovered frequent workflows would help to build a robust pattern-based recommender system using relevant concepts and relations of practices.  In this study, we explore the specific topics of phylogenetic analyses. We annotated more than 300 recent articles using different ontological concepts and relations. Relative supports (frequencies) of discovered workflow components in texts show interesting results of relevant resources currently used in the different phylogenetic analysis steps. Mining concrete workflows from texts lead us to discover abstract but relevant patterns of the best combinations of tools, parameters and input data for specific phylogenetic problems.  Extracted patterns would make workflows more intuitive and easy to be reused in similar situations. This could provide a stepping-stone into the identification of best practices and pave the road to a recommender system.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082776', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Universite du Quebec a Montreal']]
[u'The molecular mechanism of the type IVa pilus motors', ['Matthew McCallum', 'Stephanie Tammam', 'Ahmad Khan', 'Lori L. Burrows', 'P. Lynne Howell'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Type IVa pili are protein filaments essential for virulence in many bacterial pathogens; they extend and retract from the surface of bacterial cells to pull the bacteria forward with unprecedented force. They are used for attachment, swarming and twitching motility, biofilm formation, up-regulation of other virulence factors, and natural competence. The pilus is assembled by the motor subcomplex which consists of the inner membrane protein PilC and the cytoplasmic ATPase PilB. How PilB catalyzes this process is unknown, due in part to the lack of high-resolution structural information. Phylogenetic analysis of PilB-like ATPases, including GspE, PilT, BfpD, FlaI, and archaeal GspE2 revealed highly conserved residues essential for function in this family of ATPases. Here we report the structure of the core ATPase domains of Geobacter metalloreducens PilB bound to ADP and the non-hydrolysable ATP analogue, AMP-PNP, at 3.4 and 2.3 \xc5, respectively. Importantly, these structures were determined in non-saturating nucleotide conditions, revealing important differences in nucleotide binding between chains. Analysis of these differences revealed the sequential turnover of nucleotide by the chains, and the corresponding domain movements. Our data indicate a clockwise rotation of movement in PilB, which would support the assembly of a right-handed helical pilus. Conversely, our analysis suggests a counterclockwise rotation in PilT that would enable right-handed pilus disassembly. The proposed model provides insight into how this family of ATPases can power pilus extension and retraction with extraordinary forces.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082750', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Toronto/Hospital for Sick Children;', u'Hospital for Sick Children;', u'University of Toronto;', u'McMaster University;', u'The Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'Mice deficient of Myc super-enhancer region reveal a differential control mechanism between normal and pathological growth', ['Kashyap Dave', 'Inderpreet Sur', 'Jian Yan', 'Jilin Zhang', 'Eevi Kaasinen', 'Fan Zhong', 'Leander Blaas', 'Xiaoze Li', 'Robert Mansson', 'Jussi Taipale'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'The gene desert upstream of the Myc oncogene on chromosome 8q24 contains susceptibility loci for several major forms of human cancer, including cancers of breast, prostate, and colon. The region shows high conservation between human and mouse and contains multiple MYC enhancers that are activated in tumor cells. However, the role of this region in normal development has not been addressed. Here we show that a 538 kb deletion of the entire MYC upstream super-enhancer region in mice results in 50 to 80% decrease in MYC expression in multiple tissues. The mice are viable and show no overt phenotype. However, they are resistant to tumorigenesis, and most normal cells isolated from them grow slowly in culture. Consistently, deletion of the 8q24 super-enhancer region perturbs Myc targets only in cultured cells, but not in vivo. These results reveal that only cells whose Myc activity is increased by serum or oncogenic driver mutations depend on the 8q24 super-enhancer region, and indicate that targeting the activity of this element is a promising strategy of cancer chemoprevention and therapy.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082602', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Karolinska Institute;', u'Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'LR-DNase: Predicting TF binding from DNase-seq data', ['Arjan G van der Velde', 'Michael Purcaro', 'William Stafford Noble', 'Zhiping Weng'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Transcription factors play a key role in the regulation of gene expression. Hypersensitivity to DNase I cleavage has long been used to gauge the accessibility of genomic DNA for transcription factor binding and as an indicator of regulatory genomic locations. An increasing amount of ChIP-seq data on a large number of TFs is being generated, mostly in a small number of cell types. DNase-seq data are being produced for hundreds of cell types. We aimed to develop a computational method that could combine ChIP-seq and DNase-seq data to predict TF binding sites in a wide variety of cell types. We trained and tested a logistic regression model, called LR-DNase, to predict binding sites for a specific TF using seven features derived from DNase-seq and genomic sequence. We calculated the area under the precision-recall curve at a false discovery rate cutoff of 0.5 for the LR-DNase model, a number of logistic regression models with fewer features, and several existing state-of-the-art TF binding prediction methods. The LR-DNase model outperformed existing unsupervised and supervised methods. Additionally, for many TFs, a model that uses only two features, DNase-seq reads and motif score, was sufficient to match the performance of the best existing methods.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082594', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Boston University / University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'University of Massachusetts Medical School;', u'U. Washington']]
[u'GSKB: A gene set database for pathway analysis in mouse', ['Liming Lai', 'Jason Hennessey', 'Valerie Bares', 'Eun Woo Son', 'Yuguang Ban', 'Wei Wang', 'Jianli Qi', 'Gaixin Jiang', 'Arthur Liberzon', 'Steven Ge'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Interpretation of high-throughput genomics data based on biological pathways constitutes a constant challenge, partly because of the lack of supporting pathway database. In this study, we created a functional genomics knowledgebase in mouse, which includes 33,261 pathways and gene sets compiled from 40 sources such as Gene Ontology, KEGG, GeneSetDB, PANTHER, microRNA and transcription factor target genes, etc.  In addition, we also manually collected and curated 8,747 lists of differentially expressed genes from 2,526 published gene expression studies to enable the detection of similarity to previously reported gene expression signatures. These two types of data constitute a Gene Set Knowledgebase (GSKB), which can be readily used by various pathway analysis software such as gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Using our knowledgebase, we were able to detect the correct microRNA (miR-29) pathway that was suppressed using antisense oligonucleotides and confirmed its role in inhibiting fibrogenesis, which might involve upregulation of transcription factor SMAD3. The knowledgebase can be queried as a source of published gene lists for further meta-analysis. Through meta-analysis of 56 published gene lists related to retina cells, we revealed two fundamentally different types of gene expression changes. One is related to stress and inflammatory response blamed for causing blindness in many diseases; the other associated with visual perception by normal retina cells. GSKB is available online at http://ge-lab.org/gs/, and also as a Bioconductor package (gskb, https://bioconductor.org/packages/gskb/). This database enables in-depth interpretation of mouse genomics data both in terms of known pathways and the context of thousands of published expression signatures.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082511', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'South Dakota State University;', u'Boston University;', u'University of Miami;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
[u'Ontology-based workflow extraction from texts using word sense disambiguation', ['Ahmed Halioui', 'Petko Valtchev', 'Abdoulaye Banire Diallo'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'This paper introduces a method for automatic workflow extraction from texts using Process-Oriented Case-Based Reasoning (POCBR). While the current workflow management systems implement mostly different complicated graphical tasks based on advanced distributed solutions e.g. cloud computing and grid computation), workflow knowledge acquisition from texts using case-based reasoning represents more expressive and semantic cases representations. We propose in this context, an ontology-based workflow extraction framework to acquire processual knowledge from texts. Our methodology extends classic NLP techniques to extract and disambiguate tasks in texts. Using a graph-based representation of workflows and a domain ontology, our extraction process uses a context-based approach to recognize workflow components: data and control flows. We applied our framework in a technical domain in bioinformatics: i.e. phylogenetic analyses. An evaluation based on workflow semantic similarities on a gold standard proves that our approach provides promising results in the process extraction domain. Both data and implementation of our framework are available http://labo.bioinfo.uqam.ca/tgrowler.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082784', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Universite du Quebec a Montreal']]
[u'The presence or absence alone of miRNA isoforms (isomiRs) successfully discriminate amongst the 32 TCGA cancer types', ['Aristeidis Telonis', 'Rogan Magee', 'Phillipe Loher', 'Inna Chervoneva', 'Eric Londin', 'Isidore Rigoutsos'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Previously, we demonstrated that miRNA isoforms (isomiRs) are constitutive and their expression profiles depend on tissue, tissue state, and disease subtype. We have now extended our isomiR studies to The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) repository. Specifically, we studied whether isomiR profiles can distinguish amongst the 32 cancers. We analyzed 10,271 datasets from 32 cancers and found 7,466 isomiRs from 807 miRNA hairpin-arms to be expressed above threshold. Using the top 20% most abundant isomiRs, we built a classifier that relied on "binary" isomiR profiles: isomiRs were simply represented as "present" or "absent" and, unlike previous methods, all knowledge about their expression levels was ignored. The classifier could label tumor samples with an average sensitivity of 93% and a False Discovery Rate of 3%. Notably, its ability to classify well persisted even when we reduced the set of used features (=isomiRs) by a factor of 10. A counterintuitive finding of our analysis is that the isomiRs and miRNA loci with the highest ability to classify tumors are not the ones that have been attracting the most research attention in the miRNA field. Our results provide a framework in which to study cancer-type-specific isomiRs and explore their potential uses as cancer biomarkers.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082685', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Thomas Jefferson University']]
[u'QuickStitch for seamless stitching of confocal mosaics through high-pass filtering and recursive normalization', ['Pavel A Brodskiy', 'Paulina M Eberts', 'Cody Narciso', 'Jochen Kursawe', 'Alexander Fletcher', 'Jeremiah J Zartman'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Fluorescence micrographs naturally exhibit darkening around their edges (vignetting), which makes seamless stitching challenging. If vignetting is not corrected for, a stitched image will have visible seams where the individual images (tiles) overlap, introducing a systematic error into any quantitative analysis of the image. Although multiple vignetting correction methods exist, there remains no open-source tool that robustly handles large 2D immunofluorescence-based mosaic images. Here, we develop and validate QuickStitch, a tool that applies a recursive normalization algorithm to stitch large-scale immunofluorescence-based mosaics without incurring vignetting seams. We demonstrate how the tool works successfully for tissues of differing size, morphology, and fluorescence intensity. QuickStitch requires no specific information about the imaging system. It is provided as an open-source tool that is both user friendly and extensible, allowing straightforward incorporation into existing image processing pipelines. This enables studies that require accurate segmentation and analysis of high-resolution datasets when parameters of interest include both cellular-level phenomena and larger tissue-level regions of interest.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/075440', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Notre Dame;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'The demise of the synapse as the locus of memory: A looming paradigm shift?', ['Patrick C. Trettenbrein'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Synaptic plasticity is widely considered to be the neurobiological basis of learning and memory by neuroscientists and researchers in adjacent fields, though diverging opinions are increasingly being recognised. From the perspective of what we might call "classical cognitive science" it has always been understood that the mind/brain is to be considered a computational-representational system. Proponents of the information-processing approach to cognitive science have long been critical of connectionist or network approaches to (neuro-)cognitive architecture, pointing to the shortcomings of the associative psychology that underlies Hebbian learning as well as to the fact that synapses are practically unfit to implement symbols. Recent work on memory has been adding fuel to the fire and current findings in neuroscience now provide first tentative neurobiological evidence for the cognitive scientists\' doubts about the synapse as the (sole) locus of memory in the brain. This paper briefly considers the history and appeal of synaptic plasticity as a memory mechanism, followed by a summary of the cognitive scientists\' objections regarding these assertions. Next, a variety of tentative neuroscientific evidence that appears to substantiate questioning the idea of the synapse as the locus of memory is presented. On this basis, a novel way of thinking about the role of synaptic plasticity in learning and memory is proposed.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082719', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Graz']]
[u'Structure and origin of the White Cap locus and its role in evolution of grain color in maize', ['Bao-Cai Tan', 'Jiahn-Chou Guan', 'Shou Ding', 'Shan Wu', 'Jonathan W Saunders', 'Karen E Koch', 'Donald R McCarty'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Selection for yellow and white grain types has been central to post-domestication improvement of maize. While genetic control of carotenoid biosynthesis in yellow endosperm is attributed primarily to the Yellow1 (Y1) gene for phytoene synthase, far less is known about the role of the dominant white endosperm factor White Cap (Wc). We show that the Wc locus contains multiple copies of a Carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase 1 (Ccd1) gene that encodes a carotenoid-degrading enzyme with broad specificity. The dominant white phenotype would thus result from increased turnover of carotenoids in the endosperm. Wc alleles include from 1 to 23 copies of the Ccd1 gene, a range that gives rise to proportional variation of Ccd1 expression in diverse maize organs. The Wc locus is widely distributed in maize, occurring most often in white inbreds and landraces that also carry recessive y1 alleles and therefore lack effective capacity for synthesis of CCD1 substrates in the endosperm. We show that Wc enhances the white-grain phenotype of y1. Analyses of Wc structure and distribution further indicate that the locus was created in maize shortly after domestication by two Tam3L transposon-mediated steps. First, a chromosome segment containing Ccd1 and several nearby genes duplicated at a position 1.9 Mb proximal to the progenitor Ccd1r locus on chromosome 9. A second interaction of Tam3L transposons at the new locus created a 28-kb tandem duplication setting up further amplification of Ccd1 copy number by unequal crossing over. In this way, transposon-mediated variation in copy number at the Wc locus created phenotypic variation that provided a foundation for breeding and selection of grain color in maize.', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082677', [u'Genetics'], [u'Shandong University;', u'University of Florida']]
[u'CASTOR: A machine learning platform for reproducible viral genome classification', ['Mohamed Amine Remita', 'Ahmed Halioui', 'Abou Abdallah Malick Diouara', 'Bruno Daigle', 'Golrokh Kiani', 'Abdoulaye Banire Diallo'], u'October 24, 2016.', u'Motivation: Advances in cloning and sequencing technology yielded a massive number of genome of virus strains. The classification and annotation of these genomes constitute important assets in the discovery of genomic variability, taxonomic characteristics and disease mechanisms. Existing classification methods are often designed for a well-studied virus. Thus, the viral comparative genomic studies could benefit from more generic, fast and accurate tools for classifying and typing newly sequenced strains of diverse virus families. Results: Here, we introduce a fast, accurate and generic virus classification platform, CASTOR, based on a machine learning approach. CASTOR is inspired by a well-known technique in molecular biology: Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP). It simulates the restriction digestion of genomic material by different enzymes into fragments in-silico. It uses two metrics to construct feature vectors for machine learning algorithms in the classification step. We benchmark CASTOR for the classification of distinct datasets of Human Papillomaviruses (HPV), Hepatitis B Viruses (HBV) and Human Immunodeficiency viruses (HIV). Results reveal true positive rates of 99%, 99% and 98% for HPV Alpha species, HBV genotyping and HIV M group subtyping respectively. Furthermore, CASTOR shows a competitive performance compare to well-known HIV-specific classifier REGA and COMET on whole genome and pol fragments. With such prediction rates, genericity and robustness, as well as rapidity, such approach could constitute a reference in large-scale virus studies. Finally, we developed the CASTOR web platform for open access and reproducible viral machine learning classifiers. Availability: http://castor.bioinfo.uqam.ca', u'/content/early/2016/10/24/082768', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Universite du Quebec a Montreal']]
