[u'RiVIERA-beta: Joint Bayesian inference of risk variants and tissue-specific epigenomic enrichments across multiple complex human diseases', ['Yue Li', 'Manolis Kellis'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Genome wide association studies (GWAS) provide a powerful approach for uncovering disease-associated variants in human, but fine-mapping the causal variants remains a challenge. This is partly remedied by prioritization of disease-associated variants that overlap GWAS-enriched epigenomic annotations. Here, we introduce a new Bayesian model RiVIERA-beta (Risk Variant Inference using Epigenomic Reference Annotations) for inference of driver variants by modelling summary statistics p-values in Beta density function across multiple traits using hundreds of epigenomic annotations. In simulation, RiVIERA-beta promising power in detecting causal variants and causal annotations, the multi-trait joint inference further improved the detection power.} We applied RiVIERA-beta to model the existing GWAS summary statistics of 9 autoimmune diseases and Schizophrenia by jointly harnessing the potential causal enrichments among 848 tissue-specific epigenomics annotations from ENCODE/Roadmap consortium covering 127 cell/tissue types and 8 major epigenomic marks. RiVIERA-beta identified meaningful tissue-specific enrichments for enhancer regions defined by H3K4me1 and H3K27ac for Blood T-Cell specifically in the 9 autoimmune diseases and Brain-specific enhancer activities exclusively in Schizophrenia. Moreover, the variants from the 95% credible sets exhibited high conservation and enrichments for GTEx whole-blood eQTLs located within transcription-factor-binding-sites and DNA-hypersensitive-sites. Furthermore, joint modeling the nine immune traits by simultaneously inferring and exploiting the underlying epigenomic correlation between traits further improved the functional enrichments compared to single-trait models.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059329', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u"The genetic structure of the world's first farmers", ['Iosif Lazaridis', 'Dani Nadel', 'Gary Rollefson', 'Deborah C. Merrett', 'Nadin Rohland', 'Swapan Mallick', 'Daniel Fernandes', 'Mario Novak', 'Beatriz Gamarra', 'Kendra Sirak', 'Sarah Connell', 'Kristin Stewardson', 'Eadaoin Harney', 'Qiaomei Fu', 'Gloria Gonzalez-Fortes', 'Songul Alpaslan Roodenberg', 'Gyorgy Lengyel', 'Fanny Bocquentin', 'Boris Gasparian', 'Janet M. Monge', 'Michael Gregg', 'Vered Eshed', 'Ahuva-Sivan Mizrahi', 'Christopher Meiklejohn', 'Fokke Gerritsen', 'Luminita Bejenaru', 'Matthias Blueher', 'Archie Campbell', 'Gianpero Cavalleri', 'David Comas', 'Philippe Froguel', 'Edmund Gilbert', 'Shona M. Kerr', 'Peter Kovacs', 'Johannes Krause', 'Darren McGettigan', 'Michael Merrigan', 'D. Andrew Merriwether', "Seamus O'Reilly", 'Martin B. Richards', 'Ornella Semino', 'Michel Shamoon-Pour', 'Gheorghe Stefanescu', 'Michael Stumvoll', 'Anke Tonjes', 'Antonio Torroni', 'James F. Wilson', 'Loic Yengo', 'Nelli A. Hovhannisyan', 'Nick Patterson', 'Ron Pinhasi', 'David Reich'], u'June 16, 2016.', u"We report genome-wide ancient DNA from 44 ancient Near Easterners ranging in time between ~12,000-1,400 BCE, from Natufian hunter-gatherers to Bronze Age farmers. We show that the earliest populations of the Near East derived around half their ancestry from a 'Basal Eurasian' lineage that had little if any Neanderthal admixture and that separated from other non-African lineages prior to their separation from each other. The first farmers of the southern Levant (Israel and Jordan) and Zagros Mountains (Iran) were strongly genetically differentiated, and each descended from local hunter-gatherers. By the time of the Bronze Age, these two populations and Anatolian-related farmers had mixed with each other and with the hunter-gatherers of Europe to drastically reduce genetic differentiation. The impact of the Near Eastern farmers extended beyond the Near East: farmers related to those of Anatolia spread westward into Europe; farmers related to those of the Levant spread southward into East Africa; farmers related to those from Iran spread northward into the Eurasian steppe; and people related to both the early farmers of Iran and to the pastoralists of the Eurasian steppe spread eastward into South Asia.", u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059311', [], [u'Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA;', u'The Zinman Institute of Archaeology, University of Haifa, Haifa 3498838, Israel;', u'Dept. of Anthropology, Whitman College, Walla Walla, WA 99362, USA;', u'Dept. of Archaeology, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia V5A 1S6, Canada;', u'School of Archaeology and Earth Institute, Belfield, University College Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland;', u'Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins of Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Dept. of Biology and Evolution, University of Ferrara, Ferrara I-44121, Italy;', u'Independent Researcher, Santpoort-Noord, The Netherlands;', u'Department of Prehistory and Archaeology\u202c, University of Miskolc\u202c;', u'French National Centre for Scientific Research, UMR 7041, 92023 Nanterre Cedex, France;', u'Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology,National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Armenia;', u'University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA;', u'Israel Antiquities Authority, Jerusalem 91710, Israel;', u'Dept. of Anthropology, University of Winnipeg, Winnipeg, Manitoba R3B 2E9, Canada;', u'Netherlands Institute in Turkey, Istiklal Caddesi, Nur-i Ziya Sokak 5, Beyo\u011flu;', u'Alexandru Ioan Cuza University of Iasi, Romania 700505, Romania;', u'Dept. of Internal Medicine and Dermatology, Clinic of Endocrinology and Nephrology, 04103 Leipzig;', u'Generation Scotland, Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Scotland;', u'RCSI Molecular & Cellular Therapeutics, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin 2, Ireland;', u'Inst. de Biologia Evolutiva (CSIC-UPF), Dept. de Ciencies Experimentals i de la Salut, Spain;', u'Univ. Lille, CNRS, Institut Pasteur de Lille, UMR 8199 - EGID, F-59000 Lille, France;', u'Leipzig University Medical Center, IFB AdiposityDiseases, 04103 Leipzig, Germany;', u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, 07745 Jena, Germany;', u'Independent researcher, County Wicklow, Ireland;', u'Genealogical Society of Ireland, Dun Laoghaire, County Dublin, Ireland;', u'Department of Anthropology, Binghamton University, New York 13902, USA;', u'Dept. of Biological Sciences, School of Applied Sciences, University of Huddersfield, UK;', u'Dipartimento di Biologia e Biotecnologie;', u'Institutul de Cercetari Biologice, Ia\u015fi 700505, Romania;', u'Usher Institute for Population Health Sciences and Informatics, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh;', u'Dept. of Ecology and Nature Protection, Yerevan State University, 0025 Yerevan, Republic of Armenia;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, USA']]
[u'In situ replication rates for uncultivated bacteria in microbial communities', ['Christopher T Brown', 'Matthew R Olm', 'Brian C Thomas', 'Jillian F Banfield'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Culture-independent microbiome studies have revolutionized our understanding of the complexity and metabolic potential of microbial communities, but information about in situ growth rates has been lacking. Here, we show that bacterial replication rates can be determined using genome-resolved metagenomics without requirement for complete genome sequences. In human infants, we detected elevated microbial replication rates following administration of antibiotics, and bacterial growth rate anomalies prior to the onset of necrotizing enterocolitis. We studied microorganisms in subsurface communities and determined that a diverse group of groundwater-associated bacteria typically exhibit slow growth rates, despite significant changes in geochemical conditions. All microbiome studies will be advanced by measurements of replication rates that can identify actively growing populations, track organism responses to changing conditions, and provide growth rate information needed for modeling.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/057992', [], [u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'Characterizing the epigenetic signatures of the human regulatory elements: A pilot study', ['Sawyer L Clement', 'Hani Z Girgis'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Background: Chromatin modifications have provided promising clues on how cells that share the same copy of the genome can perform distinct functions. It is believed that enhancers and promoters are marked by a single chromatin mark each, H3K4me1 and H3K4me3, respectively. However, other studies have indicated that enhancers and promoters share multiple chromatin marks, including H3K4me1/2/3 and H3K27ac. Therefore, we asked whether the epigenetic signatures of these regulatory elements consist of a single mark or multiple marks. Repetitive regions, repeats, are usually ignored. However, we found, in public data, that repeats include about 25% of active enhancers. Thus, we asked how the epigenetic signatures of repetitive and non-repetitive enhancers differ. We studied the four marks in IRM90 (human lung fibroblast) and H1 (human embryonic stem cell). \n\nResults: Our results show that enhancers and promoters are enriched significantly with the four marks, which form pyramidal signatures. However, the relative lengths of the marks are different. The promoter signature is directional; H3K4me2/3 and H3K27ac tend to be present downstream of the transcription start site; H3K4me1 tends to be present upstream. H1-specific enhancers have a similar signature to IRM90-specific enhancers; however, it is not the case for active promoters of the two cell types. Interestingly, inactive enhancers show a residual signature that resembles the signature of active enhancers. Finally, the epigenetic signature of enhancers found in repeats is identical to that of enhancers found in non-repetitive regions. \n\nConclusions: In this study, we characterized the epigenetic signatures of active and inactive enhancers (pyramidal) as well as active promoters (directional-pyramidal) in two cell types. These signatures consist of four chromatin marks that have been reported to be associated with enhancers and promoters. Interestingly, about one quarter of active enhancers are found in repeats. Active enhancers within repeats and those outside repeats have the same epigenetic signature. These results have great potential to change the way Molecular Biologists think of repeats, and to expand our understanding of gene regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059394', [], [u'University of Tulsa']]
[u'microRNA-mRNA interaction identification in Wilms tumor using principalcomponent analysis based unsupervised feature extraction', ['Y-h. Taguchi'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Wilms tumor is one of lethal child renal cancers,\nfor which no known disease causing mechanisms exist.\nIn this paper, we tried to identify possible disease causing\nmicroRNA(miRNA)-mRNA pairs (interactions) by analyzing\n(partially matched) miRNA/mRNA gene expression profiles\nwith the recently proposed principal component analysis based\nunsupervised feature extraction. It successfully identified multiple\nmiRNA-mRNA pairs whose biological natures are convincing.\nCorrelation coefficients between miRNA and mRNA\nexpression in matched parts of profiles turned out to be significantly\nnegative. Constructed miRNA-mRNA network will\nbe a key to understand Wilms tumor causing mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059295', [], [u'Chuo University']]
[u'Scanning the Horizon: Future challenges for neuroimaging research', ['Russell Poldrack', 'Chris I Baker', 'Joke Durnez', 'Krzysztof Gorgolewski', 'Paul M Matthews', 'Marcus Munafo', 'Thomas Nichols', 'Jean-Baptiste Poline', 'Edward Vul', 'Tal Yarkoni'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Neuroimaging has transformed our ability to probe the neurobiological basis of behaviour. As neuroimaging technologies become more widely available, they are increasingly being applied by the wider neuroscience community. However, concerns have recently been raised that the conclusions drawn from many human neuroimaging studies are either spurious or not generalizable. Problems such as low statistical power, analytical flexibility, and lack of direct replication apply to many fields, but perhaps particularly to neuroimaging. In this Opinion article, we discuss these problems, outline current and suggested best practices to improve the quality and reproducibility of neuroimaging findings, and describe how we think the field should evolve if it is to produce the most meaningful answers to current and future research questions.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059188', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'National Institute of Mental Health;', u'Hammersmith Hospital;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Warwick University;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Distinct Cellular States Determine Calcium Signaling Response', ['Jason Yao', 'Roy Wollman'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'The heterogeneity in mammalian cells signaling response is largely a result of preexisting cell-to-cell variability. It is unknown whether cell-to-cell variability rises from biochemical stochastic fluctuations or distinct cellular states. Here we utilize calcium response to ATP as a model for investigating the structure of heterogeneity within a population of cells and analyze whether distinct cellular response states co-exist. We use a functional definition of cellular state that is based on a mechanistic dynamical systems model of calcium signaling. Using Bayesian parameter inference we obtain high confidence parameter value distributions for several hundred cells, each fitted individually. Clustering the inferred parameter distributions revealed three major distinct cellular states within the population. The existence of distinct cellular states raises the possibility that the observed variability in response is a result of structured heterogeneity between cells. Our work shows how mechanistic models and single-cell parameter fitting can uncover hidden population structure and demonstrate the need for parameter inference at the single-cell level.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059287', [], [u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Do Regional Brain Volumes and Major Depressive Disorder Share Genetic Architecture: a study in Generation Scotland (n=19,762), UK Biobank (n=24,048) and the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (n=5,766)', ['Eleanor M Wigmore', 'Toni-Kim Clarke', 'Mark J Adams', 'Ana M Fernandez-Pujals', 'Jude Gibson', 'Gail Davies', 'Lynsey S Hall', 'Yanni Zeng', 'Philippa A Thomson', 'Caroline Hayward', 'Blair H Smith', 'Lynne J Hocking', 'Sandosh Padmanabhan', 'Ian J Deary', 'David J Porteous', 'Kristin K Nicodemus', 'Andrew M McIntosh'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a highly debilitating and heritable disorder. It is commonly associated with subcortical volumetric abnormalities, the most replicated of these being reduced hippocampal volume. Using the most recent published data from ENIGMA consortiums genome-wide association study (GWAS) of regional brain volume, we sought to test whether there is shared genetic architecture between subcortical brain volumes and MDD. Using LD score regression utilising summary statistics from ENIGMA and the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium, we demonstrated that hippocampal volume was genetically correlated with MDD (rG=0.46, P=0.02), although this did not survive multiple comparison testing. None of other six regions were genetically correlated and amygdala volume heritability was too low for analysis. We also generated polygenic risk scores (PRS) to assess potential pleiotropy on regional brain volumes and MDD in three cohorts (Generation Scotland; Scottish Family Health Study (n=19,762), UK Biobank (n=24,048) and the English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (n=5,766)). We used logistic regression to examine volumetric PRS and MDD and performed a meta-analysis across the three cohorts. No regional volumetric PRS demonstrated any significant association with lifetime MDD or recurrent MDD. In this study we provide evidence that hippocampal volume and MDD have a shared genetic architecture providing further evidence of the potential mechanistic importance of the hippocampus in depression. We found no evidence to support a shared genetic architecture for MDD with any other subcortical region.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059352', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Aberdeen;', u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Monogamy promotes worker sterility in insect societies', ['Nicholas G Davies', 'Andy Gardner'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Inclusive-fitness theory highlights monogamy as a key driver of altruistic sib-rearing. Accordingly, monogamy should promote the evolution of worker sterility in social insects when sterile workers make for better helpers. However, a recent population-genetics analysis (Olejarz et al. 2015) found no clear effect of monogamy on worker sterility. Here, we revisit this analysis. First, we relax genetic assumptions, considering not only alleles of extreme effect--encoding either no sterility or complete sterility--but also alleles with intermediate worker-sterility effects. Second, we broaden the stability analysis--which focused on the invasibility of populations where either all workers are fully-sterile or all workers are fully-reproductive--to identify where intermediate pure or mixed evolutionarily-stable states may occur. Finally, we consider additional, demographically-explicit ecological scenarios relevant to worker non-reproduction. This extended analysis demonstrates that an exact population-genetics approach strongly supports the prediction of inclusive-fitness theory that monogamy promotes sib-directed altruism in social insects.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059154', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of St. Andrews']]
[u'Reduced order modeling and analysis of the human complement system', ['Adithya Sagar', 'Wei Dai', 'Mason Minot', 'Jeffrey D Varner'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Complement is an important pathway in innate immunity, inflammation, and many disease processes. However, despite its importance, there have been few validated mathematical models of complement activation. In this study, we developed an ensemble of experimentally validated reduced order complement models. We combined ordinary differential equations with logical rules to produce a compact yet predictive complement model. The model, which described the lectin and alternative pathways, was an order of magnitude smaller than comparable models in the literature. We estimated an ensemble of model parameters from in vitro dynamic measurements of the C3a and C5a complement proteins. Subsequently, we validated the model on unseen C3a and C5a measurements not used for model training. Despite its small size, the model was surprisingly predictive. Global sensitivity and robustness analysis suggested complement was robust to any single therapeutic intervention. Only the knockdown of both C3 and C5 consistently reduced C3a and C5a formation from all pathways. Taken together, we developed a reduced order complement model that was computationally inexpensive, and could easily be incorporated into pre-existing or new pharmacokinetic models of immune system function. The model described experimental data, and predicted the need for multiple points of therapeutic intervention to fully disrupt complement activation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059386', [], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'RiVIERA-MT: A Bayesian model to infer risk variants in related traits using summary statistics and functional genomic annotations', ['Yue Li', 'Manolis Kellis'], u'June 16, 2016.', u'Fine-mapping causal variants is challenging due to linkage disequilibrium and the lack of interpretation of noncoding mutations. Existing fine-mapping methods do not scale well on inferring multiple causal variants per locus and causal variants across multiple related diseases. Moreover, many complex traits are not only genetically related but also potentially share causal mechanisms. We develop a novel integrative Bayesian fine-mapping model named RiVIERA-MT. The key features of RiVIERA-MT include 1) ability to model epigenomic covariance of multiple related traits; 2) efficient posterior inference of causal configuration; 3) efficient full Bayesian inference of enrichment parameters, allowing incorporation of large number of functional annotations; 4) simultaneously modeling the underlying heritability parameters. We conducted a comprehensive simulation studies using 1000 Genome and ENCODE/Roadmap epigenomic data to demonstrate that RiVIERA-MRiVIERA-MTT compares quite favorably with existing methods. In particular, the efficient inference of multiple causal variants per locus led to significantly improved estimation of causal posterior and functional enrichments compared to the state-of-the-art fine-mapping methods. Furthermore, joint modeling multiple traits confers further improvement over the single-trait mode of the same model, which is attributable to the more robust estimation of the enrichment parameters especially when the annotation measurements (i.e., ChIP-seq) themselves are noisy. We  applied RiVIERA-MT to separately and jointly model 7 well-powered GWAS traits including body mass index, coronary artery disease, four lipid traits, and type 2 diabetes. To leverage potential tissue-specific epigenomic co-enrichments among these traits, we harness 52 baseline functional annotations and 220 tissue-specific epigenomic annotations from well-characterized cell types compiled from ENCODE/Roadmap consortium. Overall, we observed an improved enrichments for GTEx whole blood and tissue-specific eQTL SNPs based on the prioritized SNPs by RiVIERA-MT compared to existing methods.', u'/content/early/2016/06/16/059345', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
