[u'Discovering event structure in continuous narrative perception and memory', ['Christopher Baldassano', 'Janice Chen', 'Asieh Zadbood', 'Jonathan W Pillow', 'Uri Hasson', 'Kenneth A Norman'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'During realistic, continuous perception, humans automatically segment experiences into discrete events. Using a novel model of neural event dynamics, we investigate how cortical structures generate event representations during continuous narratives, and how these events are stored and retrieved from long-term memory. Our data-driven approach enables identification of event boundaries and event correspondences across datasets without human-generated stimulus annotations, and reveals that different regions segment narratives at different timescales. We also provide the first direct evidence that narrative event boundaries in high-order areas (overlapping the default mode network) trigger encoding processes in the hippocampus, and that this encoding activity predicts pattern reinstatement during recall. Finally, we demonstrate that these areas represent abstract, multimodal situation models, and show anticipatory event reinstatement as subjects listen to a familiar narrative. Our results provide strong evidence that brain activity is naturally structured into semantically meaningful events, which are stored in and retrieved from long-term memory.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081018', [], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'BioBlocks: Programming protocols in biology made easier', ['Vishal Gupta', 'Jesus Irimia', 'Ivan Pau', 'Alfonso Rodriguez-Paton'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"The methods to execute biological experiments are evolving. Affordable fluid handling robots and on-demand biology enterprises are making automating entire experiments a reality. Automation offers the benefit of high-throughput experimentation, rapid prototyping and improved reproducibility of results. However, learning to automate and codify experiments is a difficult task as it requires programming expertise. Here, we present a web-based visual development environment called BioBlocks for describing experimental protocols in biology. It is based on Google's Blockly and Scratch, and requires little or no experience in computer programming to automate the execution of experiments. The experiments can be specified, saved, modified and shared between multiple users in an easy manner. BioBlocks is open-source and can be customized to execute protocols on local robotic platforms or remotely i.e. in the cloud. It aims to serve as a 'de facto' open standard for programming protocols in Biology.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081075', [], [u'Universidad Politecnica de Madrid']]
[u'Extrachromosal DNA elements can drive disease evolution in glioblastoma', ['Ana C deCarvalho', 'Hoon Kim', 'Laila M Poisson', 'Mary E Winn', 'Claudius Mueller', 'David Cherba', 'Julie Koeman', 'Sahil Seth', 'Alexei Protopopov', 'Michelle Felicella', 'Siyuan Zheng', 'Jianhua Zhang', 'Emmanuel F Petricoin', 'Lynda Chin', 'Tom Mikkelsen', 'Roel Verhaak'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'To understand how genomic heterogeneity of glioblastoma (GBM) contributes to the poor response to therapy which is characteristic of this disease, we performed DNA and RNA sequencing on primary GBM, neurospheres and orthotopic xenograft models derived from the same parental tumor. We used these data to show that somatic driver alterations were in majority propagated from tumor to model systems. In contrast, we found that amplifications of MET, a proto-oncogene coding for a receptor tyrosine kinase, were detected in three of thirteen primary GBM, largely discarded in neurospheres cultures, but resurfaced in xenografts . We inferred the clonal evolution dynamics of all models using somatic single nucleotide variants (sSNVs) and were unable to find sSNVs replicating the pattern delineated by the MET amplification event despite its strong selective effect. FISH analysis showed that most copies of MET resided on extrachromosomal DNA elements commonly referred to as double minutes. Long range Pacific Biosciences sequencing recovered the MET containing circular double minute structure. The evolutionary propagation patterns suggested that MET double minutes and sSNVs were disjointly inherited. The context-dependent re-emergence of MET amplifiations suggests that the microenvironmental milieu was a critical regulator of extrachromosomal MET driven cell proliferation. Our analysis shows that extrachromosomal elements are able to drive tumor evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081158', [], [u'Henry Ford Hospital;', u'The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine;', u'Van Andel Research Institute;', u'George Mason University;', u'University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine']]
[u'Protected corridors preserve tiger genetic diversity and minimize extinction into the next century', ['Prachi Thatte', 'Aditya Joshi', 'Srinivas Vaidyanathan', 'Uma Ramakrishnan'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Maintaining connectivity among tiger populations is critical for their long-term survival in the wild. Population genetic data at 12 microsatellite loci from 116 individuals in Central India reveals connectivity is negatively impacted by dense human settlements and high-traffic roads, features likely to increase in the future with population growth and economic development. In order to investigate how populations, connectivity and genetic variation can be maintained, we simulated the impacts of future development scenarios over the next century. Unplanned development results in significant loss of genetic variation (35% lower) and an average extinction probability of 56% across protected areas. Persistence of populations will require increasing the number of tigers along with careful land-use planning to establish corridors between populations. Our approach allows quantitative evaluation of the effect of different land-use policies on connectivity and extinction, linking basic science to policy decisions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081117', [], [u'National Center for Biological Sciences;', u'Wildlife Conservation Trust;', u'Foundation for Ecological Research, Advocacy and Learning']]
[u'Putting bandits into context: How function learning supports decision making', ['Eric Schulz', 'Emmanouil Konstantinidis', 'Maarten Speekenbrink'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"We introduce the contextual multi-armed bandit task as a framework to investigate learning and decision making in uncertain environments. In this novel paradigm, participants repeatedly choose between multiple options in order to maximise their rewards. The options are described by a number of contextual features which are predictive of the rewards through initially unknown functions. From their experience with choosing options and observing the consequences of their decisions, participants can learn about the functional relation between contexts and rewards and improve their decision strategy over time. In three experiments, we find that participants' behaviour is surprisingly adaptive to the learning environment. We model participants' behaviour by context-blind (mean-tracking, Kalman filter) and contextual (Gaussian process regression parametrized with different kernels) learning approaches combined with different choice strategies. While participants generally learn about the context-reward functions, they tend to rely on a local learning strategy which generalizes previous experience only to highly similar instances. In a relatively simple task with binary features, they mostly combine this local learning with an \u201cexpected improvement\u201d decision strategy which focuses on alternatives that are expected to improve the most upon a current favourite option. In a task with continuous features that are linearly related to the rewards, they combine local learning with a \u201cupper confidence bound\u201d decision strategy that  more explicitly balances exploration and exploitation. Finally, in a difficult learning environment where the relation between features and rewards is non-linear, most participants learn locally as before, whereas others regress to more context-blind strategies.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081091', [], [u'University College London;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u"Temporal order of Alzheimer's disease-related cognitive marker changes in BLSA and WRAP longitudinal studies", ['Murat Bilgel', 'Rebecca L Koscik', 'Yang An', 'Jerry L Prince', 'Susan M Resnick', 'Sterling C Johnson', 'Bruno M Jedynak'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"Investigation of the temporal trajectories of currently used neuropsychological tests is critical to identifying earliest changing measures on the path to dementia due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). We used the Progression Score (PS) method to characterize the temporal trajectories of measures of verbal memory, executive function, attention, processing speed, language, and mental state using data spanning normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and AD from 1661 participants with a total of 7839 visits (age at last visit 77.6 SD 9.2) in the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging and 1542 participants with a total of 4467 visits (age at last visit 59.9 SD 7.3) in the Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention. This method aligns individuals in time based on the similarity of their longitudinal measurements to reveal temporal trajectories. As a validation of our methodology, we explored the associations between the individualized cognitive progression scores (Cog\u2011PS) computed by our method and clinical diagnosis. Digit span tests were the first to show declines in both data sets, and were detected mainly among cognitively normal individuals. These were followed by tests of verbal memory, which were in turn followed by Trail Making Tests, Boston Naming Test, and Mini-Mental State Examination. Differences in Cog-PS across the clinical diagnosis groups were statistically significant, highlighting the potential use of Cog-PS as individualized indicators of disease progression. Identifying cognitive measures that are changing in preclinical AD can lead to the development of novel cognitive tests that are finely tuned to detecting earliest changes.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081174', [], [u'National Institute on Aging;', u'University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Portland State University']]
[u'The coevolution of social learning and sensitivity to changing environments', ['Richard McElreath'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'There is widespread agreement that social and individual learning are adaptations to  varying environments. However, existing theory assumes that organisms cannot detect changes in the environment and instead adapt to averages. This paper develops the first analytical model that allows for the simultaneous coevolution of socially learned traditions, reliance on social learning, and signal detection for environmental change. There are numerous conditions under which detection can be stable once common but cannot invade the population when rare. When signal detection is maintained by selection, it always leads to pure separating equilibria at which organisms always learn individually when they believe the environment has recently changed and otherwise always learn socially. Detection can increase mean fitness at equilibrium, but it may also reduce it.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080507', [], [u'MPI for Evolutionary Anthropology']]
[u'ALTRE: workflow for defining ALTered Regulatory Elements using chromatin accessibility data', ['Elizabeth Baskin', 'Rick Farouni', 'Ewy A. Math&egrave'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Regulatory elements regulate gene transcription, and their location and accessibility is cell-type specific, particularly for enhancers. Mapping and comparing chromatin accessibility between different cell types may identify mechanisms involved in cellular development and disease progression. To streamline and simplify differential analysis of regulatory elements genome-wide using chromatin accessibility data (e.g. DNase-seq, ATAC-seq), we developed ALTRE (ALTered Regulatory Elements), an R-package and associated R Shiny web app. ALTRE makes such analysis accessible to a wide range of users - from novice to practiced computational biologists.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080564', [], [u'The Ohio State University']]
[u"Motivational, proteostatic and transcriptional deficits precede synapse loss, gliosis and neurodegeneration in the B6.HttQ111/+ model of Huntington's disease", ['Robert M Bragg', 'Sydney R Coffey', 'Rory M Weston', 'Seth A Ament', 'Jeffrey P Cantle', 'Shawn Minnig', 'Cory C Funk', 'Dominic D Shuttleworth', 'Emily L Woods', 'Bonnie R Sullivan', 'Lindsey Jones', 'Anne Glickenhaus', 'John S Anderson', 'Michael D Anderson', 'Stephen B Dunnett', 'Vanessa C Wheeler', 'Marcy E MacDonald', 'Simon P Brooks', 'Nathan D Price', 'Jeffrey Bryan Carroll'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"We investigated the appearance and progression of disease-relevant signs in the B6.HttQ111/+ mouse, a genetically precise model of the mutation that causes Huntington's disease (HD). We find that B6.HttQ111/+ mice are healthy, show no overt signs of central or peripheral inflammation, and no gross motor impairment as late as 12 months of age.  Behaviorally, we find that 4-9 month old B6.HttQ111/+ mice have normal activity levels and show no clear signs of anxiety or depression, but do show clear signs of reduced motivation. The neuronal density, neuronal size, synaptic density and number of glia is normal in B6.HttQ111/+ striatum, the most vulnerable brain region in HD, up to 12 months of age.  Despite this preservation of the synaptic and cellular composition of the striatum, we observe clear progressive, striatal-specific, transcriptional dysregulation and accumulation of neuronal intranuclear inclusions (NIIs).  Simulation studies suggest these molecular endpoints are sufficiently robust for future preclinical studies, and that B6.HttQ111/+ mice are a useful tool for modeling disease-modifying or neuroprotective strategies for disease processes before the onset of overt phenotypes.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081109', [], [u'Behavioral Neuroscience Program, Department of Psychology, Western Washington University, Bellingham;', u'Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA;', u'Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'The Brain Repair Group, Cardiff University School of Biosciences, Cardiff, Wales, UK;', u'Center for Human Genetic Research, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston;', u'Western Washington University']]
[u'Benchmarking substrate-based kinase activity inference using phosphoproteomic data', ['Claudia Hernandez-Armenta', 'David Ochoa', 'Emanuel Goncalves', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez', 'Pedro Beltrao'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Motivation: Phosphoproteomic experiments are increasingly used to study the changes in signalling occurring across different conditions. It has been proposed that changes in phosphorylation of kinase target sites can be used to infer when a kinase activity is under regulation. However, these approaches have not yet been benchmarked due to a lack of appropriate benchmarking strategies. \n\nResults: We curated public phosphoproteomic experiments to identify a gold standard dataset containing a total of 184 kinase-condition pairs where regulation is expected to occur. A list of kinase substrates was compiled and used to estimate changes in kinase activities using the following methods: Z-test, Kolmogorov Smirnov test, Wilcoxon rank sum test, gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), and a multiple linear regression model (MLR). We also tested weighted variants of the Z-test, and GSEA that include information on kinase sequence specificity as proxy for affinity. Finally, we tested how the number of known substrates and the type of evidence (in vivo, in vitro or in silico) supporting these influence the predictions. \n\nConclusions: Most models performed well with the Z-test and the GSEA performing best as determined by the area under the ROC curve (Mean AUC=0.722). Weighting kinase targets by the kinase target sequence preference improves the results only marginally. However, the number of known substrates and the evidence supporting the interactions has a strong effect on the predictions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080978', [], [u'EMBL-EBI;', u'RWTH Aachen, Faculty of Medicine']]
[u'Field Potential Reflects the Balance of Synaptic Excitation and Inhibition', ['Richard D Gao', 'Erik J Peterson', 'Bradley Voytek'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Neural circuits sit in a dynamic balance between excitation (E) and inhibition (I). Fluctuations in this E:I balance have been shown to influence neural computation, working memory, and information processing. While more drastic shifts and aberrant E:I patterns are implicated in numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders, current methods for measuring E:I dynamics require invasive procedures that are difficult to perform in behaving animals, and nearly impossible in humans. This has limited the ability to examine the full impact that E:I shifts have in neural computation and disease. In this study, we develop a computational model to show that E:I ratio can be estimated from the power law exponent (slope) of the electrophysiological power spectrum, and validate this relationship using previously published datasets from two species (rat local field potential and macaque electrocorticography). This simple method--one that can be applied retrospectively to existing data--removes a major hurdle in understanding a currently difficult to measure, yet fundamental, aspect of neural computation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081125', [], [u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Sexually dimorphic differentiation of a C. elegans hub neuron is cell-autonomously controlled by a conserved transcription factor', ['Esther Serrano Saiz', 'Meital Oren-Suissa', 'Emily Ann Bayer', 'Oliver Hobert'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Functional and anatomical sexual dimorphisms in the brain are either the result of cells that are generated only in one sex, or a manifestation of sex-specific differentiation of neurons present in both sexes. The PHC neurons of the nematode C. elegans differentiate in a strikingly sex-specific manner. While in hermaphrodites the PHC neurons display a canonical pattern of synaptic connectivity similar to that of other sensory neurons, PHC differentiates into a densely connected hub sensory/interneuron in males, integrating a large number of male-specific synaptic inputs and conveying them to both male-specific and sex-shared circuitry. We describe that the differentiation into such a hub neuron involves the sex-specific scaling of several components of the synaptic vesicle machinery, including the vesicular glutamate transporter eat-4/VGLUT, induction of neuropeptide expression, changes in axonal projection morphology and a switch in neuronal function. We demonstrate that these molecular and anatomical remodeling events are controlled cell-autonomously by the phylogenetically conserved Doublesex homolog dmd-3, which is both required and sufficient for sex-specific PHC differentiation. Cellular specificity of dmd-3 action is ensured by its collaboration with non-sex specific terminal selector-type transcription factors whereas sex-specificity of dmd-3 action is ensured by the hermaphrodite-specific master regulator of hermaphroditic cell identity, the Gli-like transcription factor tra-1, which transcriptionally represses dmd-3 in hermaphrodite PHC. Taken together, our studies provide mechanistic insights into how neurons are specified in a sexually dimorphic manner.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081083', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Rapid and consistent evolution of colistin resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa during morbidostat culture', ['Bianca Regenbogen', 'Matthias Willmann', 'Matthias Steglich', 'Boyke Bunk', 'Ulrich Nubel', 'Silke Peter', 'Richard A Neher'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Colistin is a last resort antibiotic commonly used against multidrug-resistant strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. To investigate the potential for in-situ evolution of resistance against colistin and map the molecular targets of colistin resistance, we exposed two P. aeruginosa isolates to colistin using a continuous culture device known as morbidostat. Colistin resistance emerged within two weeks along with highly stereotypic yet strain specific mutation patterns. The majority of mutations hit the prmAB two component signaling system and genes involved in lipopolysaccharide synthesis, including lpxC, pmrE, and migA. In seven out of 18 cultures, we observed mutations in mutS along with a mutator phenotype that seemed to facilitate resistance evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080960', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology, Tuebingen;', u'Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, University of Tuebingen;', u'Leibniz  Institute  DSMZ, Braunschweig']]
[u'Grow with the flow: a latitudinal cline in physiology is associated with more variable precipitation in Mimulus cardinalis', ['Christopher D Muir', 'Amy L Angert'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Local adaptation is one of the most ubiquitous observations in nature: organisms perform well in their natal environment, but poorly outside it. Correlation between traits and latitude, or latitudinal clines, are among the most common pieces of evidence for local adaptation, but identifying the traits under selection and the selective agents are challenging. Here, we investigated a latitudinal cline in growth and photosynthesis across 16 populations of the perennial herb Mimulus cardinalis (Phrymaceae). Using machine learning methods, we identify interannual variation in precipitation as a likely selective agent: Southern populations from more variable environments had higher photosynthetic rates and grew faster. We hypothesize that selection may favor a more annualized life history -- grow now rather than save for next year -- in environments where severe droughts occur more often. Thus our study provides insight into how species may adapt if Mediterranean climates become more variable due to climate change.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080952', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Loss of the habenula neuromodulator Kisspeptin1 disrupts learning', ['Charlotte Lupton', 'Mohini Sengupta', 'Ruey-Kuang Cheng', 'Joanne Chia', 'Vatsala Thirumalai', 'Suresh Jesuthasan'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Learning how to actively avoid a predictable aversive stimulus involves two steps: recognizing the cue that predicts upcoming punishment, and learning a behavioral response that will lead to avoidance. In zebrafish, ventral habenula (vHb) neurons have been proposed to participate in both steps by encoding the expected aversiveness of a stimulus. vHb neurons increase their firing rate as expectation of punishment grows, but reduce their activity as avoidance learning occurs. How the change in vHb activity occurs is not known. Here, we ask whether the neuromodulator kisspeptin1, which is expressed in the ventral habenula, could be involved. Kiss1 mutants were generated with Cas9 using guide RNAs targeted to the signal sequence. Mutants, which have a stop codon upstream of the kisspeptin1 peptide, have a deficiency in learning to avoid a shock that is predicted by light. Electrophysiology indicates that kisspeptin1 has a concentration-dependent effect on vHb neurons: depolarizing at low concentrations and hyperpolarizing at high concentrations. These data suggest that as the fish learns to cope with a threat, kisspeptin1 may differentially modulate vHb neurons. This implies that learning a behavioral strategy to overcome a stressor is accompanied by physiological change in habenula neurons.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080994', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Sheffield;', u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, NTU;', u'National University of Singapore;', u'National Centre for Biological Sciences, India.;', u'Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine']]
[u'Proteus: A Random Forest Classifier to Predict disorder-to-order Transitioning Binding Regions in Intrinsically Disordered Proteins.', ['Sankar Basu', 'Fredrik Soderquist', 'Bjorn Wallner'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"The focus of the computational structural biology community has taken a dramatic shift over the past one-and-a-half decade from the classical protein structure prediction problem to the possible understanding of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDP) or proteins containing regions of disorder (IDPR). The current interest lies in the unraveling of a disorder-to-order transitioning code embedded in the amino acid sequences of IDPs overtaking the well established sequence to structure paradigm. Disordered proteins are characterized by enormous amount of structural plasticity which makes them promiscuous in binding to different partners, multi-functional in cellular activity and atypical in folding energy landscapes resembling partially folded molten globules. Also, their involvement in several human diseases including cancer, cardiovascular, and neurodegenerative  diseases makes them both attractive as drug targets, as well as important for a biochemical understanding of the diseases. The study the structural ensemble of IDPs is rather difficult, in particular for transient interactions. When bound to a partner the IDPRs adapt to an  an ordered structure in the complex. The residues that undergo this disorder-to-order transition are called protean residues, and the first step in understanding the interaction with a disordered partner would be to predict the residues that are responsible for the interaction and will undergo disorder-to-order transition, i.e. the protean residues. There are a few available methods which predict these protean segments given their amino acid sequences, however, their performance reported in the literature leaves clear room for improvement. In this background, the current study presents 'Proteus', a random-forest-based protean predictor that predicts the likelihood of a residue to undergo disorder-to-order transition upon binding to a partner protein. The prediction is based on features that can be calculated using the amino acid sequence alone. Proteus compares favorably with existing methods predicting twice as many true positives as the second best method (55% vs. 27%) at a much higher precision on an independent data set. The current study also shades some light on a possible 'disorder-to-order' transitioning consensus, untangled, yet embedded in the amino acid sequence of IDPs. Some guidelines have also been suggested to proceed for a real-life structural modeling of an IDPR using Proteus.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080788', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Linkoping University']]
[u'Gist: an ensemble approach to the taxonomic classification of metatranscriptomic sequence data.', ['Samantha Halliday', 'John Parkinson'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'The study of whole microbial communities through RNA-seq, or metatranscriptomics, offers a unique view of the relative levels of activity for different genes across a large number of species simultaneously. To make sense of these sequencing data, it is necessary to be able to assign both taxonomic and functional identities to each sequenced read. High-quality identifications are important not only for community profiling, but to also ensure that functional assignments of sequence reads are correctly attributed to their source taxa. Such assignments allow biochemical pathways to be appropriately allocated to discrete species, enabling the capture of cross-species interactions. Typically read annotation is performed by a single alignment-based search tool such as BLAST. However, due to the vast extent of bacterial diversity, these approaches tend to be highly error prone, particularly for taxonomic assignments. Here we introduce a novel program for generating taxonomic assignments, called Gist, which integrates information from a number of machine learning methods and the Burrows-Wheeler Aligner. Uniquely Gist establishes the most appropriate weightings of methods for individual genomes, facilitating high classification accuracy on next-generation sequencing reads. We validate our approach using a synthetic metatranscriptome generator based on Flux Simulator, termed Genepuddle. Further, unlike previous taxonomic classifiers, we demonstrate the capacity of composition-based techniques to accurately inform on taxonomic origin without resorting to longer scanning windows that mimic alignment-based methods. Gist is made freely available under the terms of the GNU General Public License at compsysbio.org/gist.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081026', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'Cell Dynamics in the Wound Healing Process in Tumor Environment After Treatments', ['Leili Shahriyari'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"Although the failure of cancers treatments has been mostly linked with the existence of resistant cells or cancer stem cells, new findings show a significant correlation between circulating inflammatory biomarkers and treatment failures. Most cancer treatments cause necrotic cell deaths in the tumor environment. Necrotic cells send signals to the immune cells to start the wound healing process in the tissue. Therefore, we assume after stopping treatments there is a wound that needs to be healed. The stochastic simulations of epithelial cell dynamics after a treatment, which only kills cells without changing the tumor's inflammatory environment, show that higher fitness of cancer cells causes earlier relapses. Moreover, the tumor returns even if a single cancer cell with high fitness remains in the wound's boundary after such treatments. Although the involvement of cancer cells in the wound healing after treatments leads to the fast relapse, the cancer cells outside of the wound can also cause a slow recurrence of the tumor.  Therefore, the absence of relapse after such treatments implies a slow-developing tumor that might not reach an observable size in the patient's lifetime. Conversely, a large solid tumor in a young patient suggests the presence of high fitness cancer cells and therefore a high likelihood of relapse after conventional therapies. Additionally, the location of remaining cancer cells after treatments is a very important factor in the recurrence time. The fastest recurrence happens when a high fitness cancer cell is located in the middle of the wound. However, the longest time to recurrence corresponds to cancer cells located outside of the wound's boundary.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080895', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'The Ohio State University']]
[u"Measurements of morphological and biochemical alterations in individual neuron cells associated with early neurotoxic effects in Parkinson's disease using optical diffraction tomography", ['Su-A Yang', 'Jonghee Yoon', 'Kyoohyun Kim', 'YongKeun Park'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease. However, therapeutic methods of PD are still limited due to complex pathophysiology in PD. Here, we present optical measurements of individual neurons from in vitro PD model using optical diffraction tomography (ODT). By measuring 3-D refractive index distribution of neurons, morphological and biochemical alterations in in-vitro PD model are quantitatively investigated. We found that neurons show apoptotic features in early PD progression. The present approach will open up new opportunities for quantitative investigation of the pathophysiology of various neurodegenerative diseases.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080937', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology']]
[u'Evolutionary rescue in randomly mating, selfing, and clonal populations', ['Hildegard Uecker'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Severe environmental change can drive a population extinct unless the population adapts in time to the new conditions ("evolutionary rescue"). How does bi-parental sexual reproduction influence the chances of population persistence compared to clonal reproduction or selfing? In this paper, we set up a one-locus two-allele model for adaptation in diploid species, where rescue is contingent on the establishment of the mutant homozygote.  Reproduction can occur by random mating, selfing, or clonally. Random mating generates and destroys the rescue mutant; selfing is efficient at generating it but at the same time depletes the heterozygote, which can lead to a low mutant frequency in the standing genetic variation and also affects the establishment probability of the mutation. Due to these antagonistic effects, we find a non-trivial dependence of population survival on the rate of sex/selfing, which is strongly affected by the dominance coefficient of the mutation before and after the environmental change. Importantly, since mating with the wildtype breaks the mutant homozygote up, a slow decay of the wildtype population size can impede rescue in randomly mating populations.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081042', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'Dynamics of the bacterial community associated with Phaeodactylum tricornutum cultures', ['Fiona Wanjiku Moejes', 'Ovidiu Popa', 'Antonella Succurro', 'Julie Maguire', 'Oliver Ebenhoeh'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'The pennate diatom Phaeodactylum tricornutum is a model organism able to synthesise industrially-relevant molecules. Large-scale monocultures are prone to bio-contamination, however, little is known about the identity of the invading organisms. To gain insight into the bacterial community associated with diatoms, we translated the complexity of a natural system into reproducible experiments where we investigated the microbiome of P. tricornutum cultures. The results revealed a dynamic bacterial community that changed over time and in differing media conditions. We propose a network of putative interactions between P. tricornutum and the main bacterial factions, which is translated into a set of ordinary differential equations constituting a computational dynamic model. The proposed mathematical model is able to capture the population dynamics, further supporting the hypothesised interactions. The interdisciplinary approach implemented provides a framework for understanding the dynamics of diatom-associated microbial communities, and provides a foundation for further systematic investigations of host-microbe interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/077768', [u'Ecology'], [u'Heinrich Heine University Dusseldorf;', u"Daithi O'Murchu Marine Research Station"]]
[u'A shielded irradiation assay to investigate mechanisms of in vivo stem cell migration in planarians', ['Prasad Abnave', 'Ellen Aboukhatwa', 'Nobuyoshi Kosaka', 'James Thompson', 'Mark Hill', 'Aziz Aboobaker'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'The migration of stem cells is an essential process underpinning the physiology of all metazoan animals. In order for tissues to be maintained, homeostatic signaling mechanisms must allow stem cells or their progeny to arrive at the correct position and differentiate into replacement cells. This need is even more acute after tissue damage by wounding or pathogenic infections. Inappropriate migration of tumorigenic cancer stem cells and their progeny in adults also underpins the formation of metastases. Despite this, few mechanistic studies address stem cell migration during repair after injury in adult tissues. Here we present a shielded X-ray irradiation assay that allows us to watch cell migration in the highly regenerative planarian model system. We demonstrate that we can carefully observe migratory behavior and reveal new phenomena concerning migration, not previously observed in planarians. These include observation of cell migration specifically in an anterior direction in the absence of injury. We demonstrate that this homeostatic migration requires the polarity determinant notum. The morphology and distribution of migrating stem cells implicates mechanisms associated with epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). In agreement with this we find that a planarian Snail family transcription factor is necessary for stem cell and stem cell progeny migration to wound sites and for the establishment of migratory morphology. Overall our data establish planarians as a suitable model for further in depth study of cell migration, with the potential to yield novel insights relevant to human biology including hyperplasia during cancer progression.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080853', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'A cryptography-based approach for movement decoding', ['Eva L Dyer', 'Mohammad Gheshlaghi Azar', 'Hugo L Fernandes', 'Matthew Perich', 'Stephanie Naufel', 'Lee Miller', 'Konrad Kording'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"Brain decoders use neural recordings to infer a user's activity or intent. To train a decoder, we generally need  infer the variables of interest (covariates) using simultaneously measured neural activity. However, there are many cases where this approach is not possible. Here we overcome this problem by introducing a fundamentally new approach for decoding called distribution alignment decoding (DAD). We use the statistics of movement, much like cryptographers use the statistics of language, to find a mapping between neural activity and motor variables.  DAD learns a linear decoder which aligns the distribution of its output with the typical distribution of motor outputs by minimizing their KL-divergence. We apply our approach to a two datasets collected from the motor cortex of non-human primates (NHPs): a reaching task and an isometric force production task. We study the performance of DAD and find regimes where DAD provides comparable and in some cases, better performance than a typical supervised decoder. As DAD does not rely on the ability to record motor-related outputs, it promises to broaden the set of potential applications of brain decoding.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080861', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Measuring and Modeling Transformations of Information Between Brain Regions with fMRI', ['Stefano Anzellotti', 'Evelina Fedorenko', 'Alfonso Caramazza', 'Rebecca Saxe'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Investigating how information is transformed from brain region to brain region is a crucial step\nto understand the neural foundations of cognitive processes. This investigation requires a\ncharacterization of the representations encoded in different regions, and models of how they are\ntransformed that can match the complexity of neural processes. We introduce an approach in\nwhich representations are characterized as points in multidimensional spaces, and processes\ntransforming representations from region to region are modeled as nonlinear functions using\nartificial neural networks. Across multiple experiments with different stimuli and tasks, we show\nthat this approach reveals functionally relevant network structure and outperforms comparable\nlinear models at predicting independent data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/074856', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MIT;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Low plastic ingestion rate in Atlantic Cod (Gadus morhua) from Newfoundland destined for human consumption collected through citizen science methods', ['Max Liboiron', 'France Liboiron', 'Emily Wells', 'Natalie Richard', 'Alexander Zahara', 'Charles Mather', 'Hillary Bradshaw', 'Judyannet Murichi'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'Marine microplastics are a contaminant of concern because their small size allows ingestion by a wide range of marine life. Using citizen science during the Newfoundland recreational cod fishery, we sampled 205 Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua) destined for human consumption and found that 5 had eaten plastic, an ingestion prevalence rate of 2.4%. This ingestion rate for Atlantic cod is the second lowest recorded rate in the reviewed published literature (the lowest is 1.4%), and the lowest for any fish in the North Atlantic. This is the first report for plastic ingestion in fish in Newfoundland, Canada, a province dependent on fish for sustenance and livelihoods.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080986', [u'Ecology'], [u'Memorial University of Newfoundland']]
[u'AGFusion: annotate and visualize gene fusions', ['Charlie Murphy', 'Olivier Elemento'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'The discovery of novel gene fusions in tumor samples has rapidly accelerated with the rise of next-generation sequencing. A growing number of tools enable discovery of gene fusions from RNA-seq data. However it is likely that not all gene fusions are driving tumors.  Assessing the potential functional consequences of a fusion is critical to understand their driver role. It is also challenging as gene fusions are described by chromosomal breakpoint coordinates that need to be translated into an actual amino acid fusion sequence and predicted domain architecture of the fusion proteins. Currently there are no easy-to-use tools that can automatically reconstruct and visualize fusion proteins from genomic breakpoints. To facilitate the functional interpretation of gene fusions, we developed AGFusion, available as an online web tool that can be readily used by non-computational researchers as well as a python package that can be built into computational pipelines. With minimal input from the user, AGFusion predicts the cDNA, CDS, and protein sequences of all gene fusion products based on all combinations of gene isoforms. For protein coding fusions, AGFusion can annotate and visualize the protein domain architecture. AGFusion currently supports Homo sapiens (genome builds GRCh37 and GRCh38) and Mus musculus (genome build GRCm38) and new genomes can easily be added.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080903', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine']]
[u'High precision registration between zebrafish brain atlases using symmetric diffeomorphic normalization', ['Gregory D. Marquart', 'Kathryn M. Tabor', 'Eric J. Horstick', 'Mary Brown', 'Harold A. Burgess'], u'October 14, 2016.', u"Atlases provide a framework for information from diverse sources to be spatially mapped and integrated into a common reference space. In particular, brain atlases allow regional annotation of gene expression, cell morphology, connectivity and activity. In larval zebrafish, advances in genetics, imaging and computational methods have enabled the collection of large datasets providing such information on a whole-brain scale. However, datasets from different sources may not be aligned to the same spatial coordinate system, because technical considerations may necessitate use of different reference templates. Two recent brain atlases for larval zebrafish exemplify this problem. The Z-Brain atlas contains information on gene expression, neural activity and neuroanatomical segmentation acquired using immunohistochemical staining of fixed tissue. In contrast, the Zebrafish Brain Browser (ZBB) atlas was constructed from live scans of fluorescent reporter genes in transgenic larvae. Although different reference brains were used, the two atlases included several transgene patterns in common that provided potential 'bridges' for transforming each into the other's coordinate space. We therefore tested multiple bridging channels and registration algorithms. The symmetric diffeomorphic normalization (SyN) algorithm in ANTs improved the precision of live brain registration while better preserving cell morphology than the previously used B-spline elastic registration algorithm. SyN could also be calibrated to correct for tissue distortion introduced during fixation and permeabilization. Finally, multi-reference channel optimization provided a transformation matrix that enabled Z-Brain and ZBB to be co-aligned with acceptable precision and minimal perturbation of cell and tissue morphology. This study demonstrates the feasibility of integrating whole brain datasets, despite disparate acquisition protocols and reference templates, when sufficient information is present for bridging.", u'/content/early/2016/10/14/081000', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National Institute of Child Health and Human Development']]
[u'Mcmdc2, a minichromosome maintenance (MCM) paralog, is required for repair of meiotic DNA breaks and homolog pairing in mouse meiosis', ['Adrian J McNairn', 'Vera D Rinaldi', 'John C Schimenti'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'The mammalian Mcm-domain containing 2 (Mcmdc2) gene encodes a protein of unknown function that is homologous to the mini-chromosome maintenance family of DNA replication licensing and helicase factors. Drosophila melanogaster contains two separate genes, the "Mei-MCMs," that appear to have arisen from a single ancestral Mcmdc2 gene. The Mei-MCMs are involved in promoting meiotic crossovers by blocking the anti-crossover activity of BLM helicase, a function performed by MSH4 and MSH5 in metazoans. Here, we report that MCMDC2-deficient mice of both sexes are viable but sterile. Males fail to produce spermatozoa, and formation of primordial follicles is disrupted in females. Histology and immunocytological analyses of mutant testes revealed that meiosis is arrested in Prophase I, and is characterized by persistent meiotic double-stranded DNA breaks (DSBs), failure of homologous chromosome synapsis and XY body formation, and an absence of crossing over. These phenotypes essentially phenocopy those of MSH4/5 deficient meiocytes. The data indicate that MCMDC2 is essential for invasion of homologous sequences by RAD51- and DMC1-coated ssDNA filaments, or stabilization of recombination intermediates following strand invasion, both of which are needed to drive stable homolog pairing and DSB repair via recombination in mice.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080887', [u'Genetics'], [u'Cornell Univ, United States;', u'Cornell Univ., United States']]
[u'Confronting preferential sampling in wildlife surveys: diagnosis and model-based triage', ['Paul B Conn', 'James T Thorson', 'Devin S Johnson'], u'October 14, 2016.', u'1.  Wildlife surveys are often used to estimate the density, abundance, or distribution of animal populations. Recently, model-based approaches to analyzing survey data have become popular because one can more readily accommodate departures from pre-planned survey routes and construct more detailed maps than one can with design-based procedures.\n\n2. Species distribution models fitted to wildlife survey data often make the implicit assumption that locations chosen for sampling and animal abundance at those locations are conditionally independent given modeled covariates.  However, this assumption is likely violated in many cases when survey effort is non-randomized, leading to preferential sampling.\n\n3. We develop a hierarchical statistical modeling framework for detecting and alleviating the biasing effects of preferential sampling in species distribution models fitted to count data.  The approach works by jointly modeling wildlife state variables and the locations selected for sampling, and specifying a dependent correlation structure between the two models.\n\n4. Using simulation, we show that moderate levels of preferential sampling can lead to large (e.g. 40%) bias in estimates of animal density, and that our modeling approach can considerably reduce this bias.\n\n5. We apply our approach to aerial survey counts of bearded seals (Erignathus barbatus) in the eastern Bering Sea. Models that included a preferential sampling effect led to lower estimates of abundance than models without, but the effect size of the preferential sampling parameter decreased in models that included explanatory environmental covariates.\n\n6. When wildlife surveys are conducted without a well-defined sampling frame, ecologists should recognize the potentially biasing effects of preferential sampling. Joint models, such as those described in this paper, can be used to test and correct for such biases.  Predictive covariates are also useful for bias reduction, but ultimately the best way to avoid preferential sampling bias is to incorporate design-based principles such as randomization and/or systematic sampling into survey design.', u'/content/early/2016/10/14/080879', [u'Ecology'], [u'NOAA/AFSC Marine Mammal Lab;', u'NOAA/NWFSC']]
