[u'Exploratory bioinformatics analysis reveals importance of "junk" DNA in early embryo development', ['Steven Xijin Ge'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'Background: Instead of testing predefined hypotheses, the goal of exploratory data analysis (EDA) is to find what data can tell us. Following this strategy, we re-analyzed a large body of genomic data to investigate how the early mouse embryos develop from fertilized eggs through a complex, poorly understood process.  Results: Starting with a single-cell RNA-seq dataset of 259 mouse embryonic cells from zygote to blastocyst stages, we reconstructed the temporal and spatial dynamics of gene expression. Our analyses revealed similarities in the expression patterns of regular genes and those of retrotransposons, and the enrichment of transposable elements in the promoters of corresponding genes. Long Terminal Repeats (LTRs) are associated with transient, strong induction of many nearby genes at the 2-4 cell stages, probably by providing binding sites for Obox and other homeobox factors. The presence of B1 and B2 SINEs (Short Interspersed Nuclear Elements) in promoters is highly correlated with broad upregulation of intracellular genes in a dosage- and distance-dependent manner. Such enhancer-like effects are also found for human Alu and bovine tRNA SINEs. Promoters for genes specifically expressed in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) are rich in B1 and B2 SINEs, but low in CpG islands.  Conclusions: Our results provide evidence that transposable elements may play a significant role in establishing the expression landscape in early embryos and stem cells. This study also demonstrates that open-ended, exploratory analysis aimed at a broad understanding of a complex process can pinpoint specific mechanisms for further study.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079921', [], [u'South Dakota State University']]
[u'Of cats and men: the paleogenetic history of the dispersal of cats in the ancient world', ['Claudio Ottoni', 'Wim van Neer', 'Bea De Cupere', 'Julien Daligault', 'Silvia Guimaraes', 'Joris Peters', 'Nikolai Spassov', 'Mary E. Pendergast', 'Nicole Boivin', 'Arturo Morales-Muniz', 'Adrian Balasescu', 'Cornelia Becker', 'Norbert Benecke', 'Adina Boronenant', 'Hijlke Buitenhuis', 'Jwana Chahoud', 'Alison Crowther', 'Laura Llorente', 'Nina Manaseryan', 'Herve Monchot', 'Vedat Onar', 'Marta Osypinska', 'Olivier Putelat', 'Jacqueline Studer', 'Ursula Wierer', 'Ronny Decorte', 'Thierry Grange', 'Eva-Maria Geigl'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'The origin and dispersal of the domestic cat remain elusive despite its importance to human societies around the world. Archaeological evidence for domestication centers in the Near East and in Egypt is contested, and genetic data on modern cats show that Felis silvestris lybica, the subspecies of wild cat inhabiting at present the Near East and Northern Africa, is the only ancestor of the domestic cat. Here we provide the first broad geographic and chronological dataset of ancient cat mtDNA sequences, drawing on archaeological specimens from across western Eurasia and northern and eastern Africa, dating from throughout the Holocene and spanning ~9,000 years. We characterized the ancient phylogeography of F. s. lybica, showing that it expanded up to southeastern Europe prior to the Neolithic, and reconstructed the subsequent movements that profoundly transformed its distribution and shaped its early cultural history. We found that maternal lineages from both the Near East and Egypt contributed to the gene pool of the domestic cat at different historical times, with the Near Eastern population providing the first major contribution during the Neolithic and the Egyptian cat spreading efficiently across the Old World during the Classical period. This expansion pattern and range suggest dispersal along maritime and terrestrial routes of trade and connectivity. Late trait selection is suggested by the first occurrence in our dataset of the major allele for blotched-tabby body marking not earlier than during the Late Middle Ages.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/080028', [], [u'KU Leuven - University of Leuven, Department of Imaging and Pathology, Leuven, Belgium;', u'Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, Brussels, Belgium;', u'Institut Jacques Monod, CNRS-University Paris Diderot, Paris, France;', u'Ludwigs-Maximilians-University, Institute of Palaeoanatomy, Munich, Germany;', u'National Museum of Natural History at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Sofia, Bulgaria;', u'Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena, Germany;', u'Laboratorio de Arquezoologia, Universidad Autonoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain;', u'National History Museum of Romania, Bucharest, Romania;', u'Institute of Prehistoric Archaeology, Free University Berlin, D-14195 Berlin, Germany;', u'German Archaeological Institute, Berlin, Germany;', u'Vasile Parvan Institute of Archaeology of the Romanian Academy, Bucharest, Romania;', u'Groningen Institute of Archaeology, University of Groningen, The Netherlands;', u'Archeorient; CNRS/UMR 5133, University Lumiere Lyon II, Lyon, France;', u'School of Social Science, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia;', u'Institute of Zoology, National Academy of Sciences of Armenia, Yerevan, Armenia;', u'Labex Resmed, University Paris IV la Sorbonne, Paris, France;', u'Istanbul University, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine Avcilar-Istanbul, Turkey;', u'Institute of Archaeology and Ethnology, Polish Academy of Sciences, Poznan, Poland;', u"Pole d'Archeologie Interdepartemental Rhenan, F-67600 Selestat, France;", u'Natural History Museum of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland;', u'Soprintendenza Archeologia della Toscana, Firenze, Italy;', u'University of Leuven, Department of Imaging and Pathology, Leuven, Belgium;', u'Institut Jacques Monod, UMR 7592, CNRS and University Paris Diderot, Paris, France']]
[u'Programming mRNA decay to modulate synthetic circuit resource allocation', ['Ophelia S Venturelli', 'Mika Tei', 'Stefan Bauer', 'Leanne Jade G. Chan', 'Christopher J Petzold', 'Adam P Arkin'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'Synthetic biomolecular networks embedded in host-cells compete with cellular processes for limited intracellular resources. Resource utilization is a major variable that impacts synthetic circuit behavior. Here we show that intracellular resources could be diverted from cellular operations to a synthetic circuit by programming global mRNA decay using the sequence-dependent endoribonuclease MazF. Synthetic circuit genes were protected from MazF activity by recoding the gene sequence to eliminate recognition sites, while preserving the amino acid sequence. The expression of a protected fluorescent reporter and the metabolic flux of a high-value metabolite gluconate were significantly enhanced using this genome-scale control strategy. Proteomics measurements discovered a key host translation factor in need of protection to optimize the resource redistribution activity. A dynamic computational model demonstrated that the MazF mRNA-decay feedback loop achieved proportional control of MazF levels in an optimal operating regime. RNA-seq time-series measurements of MazF-induced cells elucidated the dynamic shifts in the transcript abundance and discovered regulatory design elements that could be used to expand the control mechanisms of the MazF resource allocator. Together, these results demonstrated that manipulation of resource allocation is a tunable parameter that can be used to redirect resources away from cellular processes to synthetic circuits to enhance target functions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079939', [], [u'University of California Berkeley;', u'Energy Biosciences Institute, University of California Berkeley;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory']]
[u'The Chd1 chromatin remodeler shifts hexasomes unidirectionally', ['Robert F Levendosky', 'Anton Sabantsev', 'Sebastian Deindl', 'Gregory D Bowman'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'Despite their canonical two-fold symmetry, nucleosomes in biological contexts are often asymmetric: functionalized with post-translational modifications (PTMs), substituted with histone variants, and even lacking H2A/H2B dimers. Here we show that the Widom 601 nucleosome positioning sequence can be used to produce hexasomes in a specific orientation on DNA, which provide a useful tool for interrogating chromatin enzymes and allow for the generation of precisely defined asymmetry in nucleosomes. Using this methodology, we demonstrate that the Chd1 chromatin remodeler requires H2A/H2B on the entry side for sliding, and thus, unlike the back-and-forth sliding observed for nucleosomes, Chd1 shifts hexasomes unidirectionally. Chd1 takes part in chromatin reorganization surrounding transcribing RNA polymerase II (Pol II), and using asymmetric nucleosomes we show that ubiquitin-conjugated H2B on the entry side stimulates nucleosome sliding by Chd1. We speculate that biased nucleosome and hexasome sliding due to asymmetry contributes to the packing of arrays observed in vivo.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/080010', [], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Uppsala University']]
[u'2b or not 2b: Experimental evolution of functional exogenous sequences in a plant RNA virus', ['Anouk Willemsen', 'Mark Peter Zwart', 'Silvia Ambros', 'Jose Luis Carrasco', 'Santiago F. Elena'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) is pervasive in viruses, and thought to be a key mechanism in their evolution.  On the other hand, strong selective constraints against increasing genome size are an impediment for HGT, rapidly purging horizontally transferred sequences and thereby potentially hindering evolutionary innovation.  Here we explore experimentally the evolutionary fate of viruses with simulated HGT events, using the plant RNA virus Tobacco etch virus (TEV), by separately introducing two functional, exogenous sequences to its genome.  One of the events simulates the acquisition of a new function though HGT of a conserved AlkB domain, responsible for the repair of alkylation or methylation damage in many organisms.  The other event simulates the acquisition of a sequence that duplicates an existing function, through HGT of the 2b RNA silencing suppressor from Cucumber mosaic virus (CMV).  We then evolved these two viruses, tracked the maintenance of the horizontally transferred sequences over time, and for the final virus populations, sequenced their genome and measured viral fitness.  We found that the AlkB domain was rapidly purged from the TEV genome, restoring fitness to wild-type levels.  Conversely, the 2b gene was stably maintained and did not have a major impact on viral fitness.  Moreover, we found that 2b is functional in TEV, as it provides a replicative advantage when the RNA silencing suppression domain of HC-Pro is mutated.  These observations suggest a potentially interesting role for HGT of short functional sequences in ameliorating evolutionary constraints on viruses, through the duplication of functions.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079970', [], [u'Instituto de Biolog\xeda Molecular y Celular de Plantas;', u'Institute of Theoretical Physics']]
[u'Optimal foraging models reveal barriers and stepping stones to the evolution of host-range generalism in bacteriophage', ['Jeremy Draghi'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'The nature and stability of coexistence of specialist species with more generalized competitors present theoretical questions that have been difficult to resolve. Recent surveys of bacteriophage host-ranges suggest that generalist phage often coexistent with specialists. However, previous theoretical work has explained this coexistence only in terms of strict genetic trade-offs, which are not consistently observed when phage are challenged to evolve to multiple hosts in laboratory environments. Here we use the framework of optimal foraging to identify conditions that might prevent generalists from outcompeting specialist relatives. Our analysis shows that heterogeneities in phage life-history properties make host-range specialist more viable, and that endogenous fluctuations in host density permit a narrow window of stable coexistence between specialists and generalists without the need for genetic trade-offs. These results are especially relevant for understanding the barriers to the evolution of broader host-ranges in bacteriophage and other pathogens with similar life-cycles.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079889', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Brooklyn College--CUNY']]
[u'GW-CALL: Accurate Genome-Wide Variant Caller', ['Maryam Ghareghani', 'Seyed Abolfazl Motahari', 'Shahram Khazaei', 'Mostafa Tavassolipour'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'The main challenge in reliable variant calling using DNA reads is to extract information from reads mappable to multiple locations on the reference genome. Conventional approaches ignore these reads and rely on reads mappable uniquely to the reference genome. These approaches fail to perform satisfactorily in variant calling within repeat regions which are abundant in many species including homo sapiens. This, in turn, lowers the reliability of any downstream analysis including poor performance in genome-wide association studies. GW-CALL, a fast and accurate variant caller, is proposed. GW-CALL exploits information of all reads in a genome-wide decision making process. In particular, it partitions the genome into several independent regions called clusters and incorporates an efficient algorithm to use all reads belonging to a cluster in calling variants within that cluster. Availability: GW-CALL is implemented in C++ and is freely avail- able at URL: brl.ce.sharif.edu/gwcall.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079905', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Sharif University of Technology']]
[u'Comparative transcriptome analysis by deep RNA sequencing at early stage of skin pigmentation in goats (Capra hircus)', ['Hangxing Ren', 'Gaofu Wang', 'Jing Jiang', 'Liangjia Liu', 'Nianfu Li', 'Jie Li', 'Lin Fu', 'Haiyan Zhang', 'Risu Na', 'Yongfu Huang', 'Li Zhang', 'Lei Chen', 'Yong Huang', 'Peng Zhou'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'Although specific genes have been found to be associated with skin pigmentation, the global gene expression profile for the early stage of skin pigmentation and development in mammals is still not well understood. Here we reported a rare natural group of goat (Youzhou dark goat) featuring the dark skin of body including the visible mucous membranes, which may be an exclusive kind of large mammalian species with this special phenotype so far. In the present study, we characterized the 100-day-old fetal skin transcriptome in hyperpigmented (dark-skinned) and wild-type (white-skinned) goats using deep RNA-sequencing. A total of 923,013,870 raw reads from 6 libraries were obtained, and a large number of alternative splicing events were identified in the transcriptome of fetal skin, including the well-known melanogenic genes ASIP, TYRP1, and DCT, which were differentially expressed in the skin between the dark-skinned and white-skinned goats. Further analysis demonstrated that differential genes including ASIP, TYRP1, DCT, WNT2, RAB27A, FZD4, and CREB3L1 were significantly overrepresented in the melanogenesis pathway and several biological process associated with pigmentation. On the other hand, we identified 1616 novel transcripts in goat skin based on the characteristics of their expression level and gene composition. These novel transcripts may represent two distinct groups of nucleic acid molecules. Our findings contribute to the understanding of the characteristics of global gene expression at early stages of skin pigmentation and development, as well as describe an animal model for human diseases associated with pigmentation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079871', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Chongqing Academy of Animal Sciences, China;', u'Youyang Animal Husbandry Bureau, China;', u'Southwest University, China']]
[u'NGS based molecular characterization of a region affecting 5alphaandrost-16-en-3-one', ['Rahul Agarwal'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'Background: Castration of male piglets is performed by the pig industry to eliminate an undesirable smell and taste (boar taint) generated during the cooking of meat from intact male pigs, however this practice is ineffiecent and alternative strategies including genetic improvement are being investigated. Androstenone is a major contributor responsible for boar taint, and a significant quantitative trait loci (QTL) for this sex hormone has been reported on SSC5, the main objective of this study was to fine map this QTL and explore the relationship between androstone levels and the seven candidate genes [1] found within this region. We began by identifying novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) using whole genome resequencing of 23 Norwegian Duroc pigs. This was followed by genotyping 192 SNPs in 834 animals and performing association studies to better define the QTL region. A large, significant haplotype block was identified that included three candidate genes. By improving our understanding of the molecular pathways connected to androstenone and identifying mutations showing significant associations it is hoped that this information can be used by industy in selection programs for reducing boar taint.  Results: Whole genome resequencing of 23 Norwegian Duroc boars produced ~4.9 billion 2x100bp paired-end (PE) Illumina reads. The reads were subsequently mapped to a latest Sus scrofa build 10.2 reference sequence embracing the QTL region (22.6 - 24.8 Mb of SSC5). Using a variety of filters 64,117 putative SNPs were reduced to a more manageable subset of 192 which were genotyped in 834 Norwegian Duroc sires with known phenotypes. Of these, 168 (87%) were successfully assayed, and 132 were significantly associated with androstenone levels in fat (p<0.001). Due to extensive linkage disequilibrium (LD) among the significantly associated SNPs we were unable to detect single mutations with large effects, but a large and significantly associated haplotype block (p<0.001) composed of 69 SNPs was identified. This block includes three interesting candidate genes; (i) all trans retinol dehydrogenase 16 (RDH16/SRD9C8), (ii) short chain dehydrogenase/reductase family 9C, member 7 (SDR9C7)  and (iii) 17 beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 6 homolog (HSD17B6). A SNP of RDH16 and SDR9C7 genes was predicted to be non-synonymous. Finally, a single non-synonymous SNP and two synonymous SNPs in 11-cis/9-cis retinol dehydrogenase 5 (RDH5), located outside the block, were found to be highly significant during SNP association mapping. Conclusions: Close examination of the QTL revealed a number of highly significant nonsynonymous and synonymous SNPs in four of seven candidate genes. A large and significant haplotype block of 69 SNPs for fat androstenone levels in Norwegian Duroc boars was identified and the amount of the phenotypic variance explained by single non-synonymous SNPs within this block ranged from 5.3-5.4 %. These finding have particular value since this QTL has been reported to not significantly affect other important sex hormones, estrogens or testosterone', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079855', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Animal and Aquacultural Sciences (IHA), Norwegian University of Life Sciences']]
[u'Single Cell Expression Data Reveal Human Genes that Escape X-Chromosome Inactivation', ['Kerem Wainer-Katsir', 'Michal Linial'], u'October 9, 2016.', u"Sex chromosomes pose an inherent genetic imbalance between genders. In mammals, one of the female\u2019s X-chromosomes undergoes inactivation (Xi). Indirect measurements estimate that about 20% of Xi genes completely or partially escape inactivation. The identity of these escapee genes and their propensity to escape inactivation remain unsolved. A direct method for identifying escapees was applied by quantifying differential allelic expression from single cells. RNA-Seq fragments were assigned to informative SNPs which were labeled by the appropriate parental haplotype. This method was applied for measuring allelic specific expression from Chromosome-X (ChrX) and an autosomal chromosome as a control. We applied the protocol for measuring biallelic expression from ChrX to 104 primary fibroblasts. Out of 215 genes that were considered, only 13 genes (6%) were associated with biallelic expression. The sensitivity of escapees' identification was increased by combining SNP mapping for parental diploid genomes together with RNA-Seq from clonal single cells (25 lymphoblasts). Using complementary protocols, referred to as strict and relaxed, we confidently identified 25 and 31escapee genes, respectively. When pooled versions of 30 and 100 cells were used, <50% of these genes were revealed. We assessed the generality of our protocols in view of an escapee catalog compiled from indirect methods. The overlap between the escapee catalog and the genes\u2019 list from this study is statistically significant (P-value of E-07). We conclude that single cells\u2019 expression data are instrumental for studying X-inactivation with an improved sensitivity. Finally, our results support the emerging notion of the non-deterministic nature of genes that escape X-chromosome inactivation.", u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079830', [u'Genetics'], [u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel']]
[u'Frequency of mosaicism points towards mutation-prone early cleavage cell divisions.', ['Chad Harland', 'Carole Charlier', 'Latifa Karim', 'Nadine Cambisano', 'Manon Deckers', 'Erik Mullaart', 'Wouter Coppieters', 'Michel Georges'], u'October 9, 2016.', u'It has recently become possible to directly estimate the germ-line de novo mutation (DNM) rate by sequencing the whole genome of father-mother-offspring trios, and this has been conducted in human, chimpanzee, birds and fish.  In these studies DNMs are defined as variants that are heterozygous in the offspring while being absent in both parents.  They are assumed to have occurred in the germ-line of a parent and to have been transmitted to the offspring via the sperm or oocyte.  This definition assumes that detectable mosaicism in the individual in which the mutation occurred is negligible.  However, instances of mosaicism are well-documented in humans and other organisms, including ruminants.  We herein take advantage of the unique pedigree structure of cattle to show that mosaicism associated with DNMs is a common occurrence, and that this should be taken into account to accurately estimate the mutation rate in this and possibly other species.  It suggests that early cleavage cell divisions are particularly mutation-prone, and that the recurrence risk of DNM-dependent disorders in sibs may be higher than generally assumed.', u'/content/early/2016/10/09/079863', [u'Genetics'], [u'Unit of Animal Genomics, GIGA-R & Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Liege, Belgium;', u'GIGA Genomics Platform, University of Liege, Belgium;', u'CRV, Arnhem, The Netherlands;', u'GIGA Genomics Platform, University of Liege, Belgium.;', u'Unit of Animal Genomics, GIGA-R & Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Liege, Belgium.']]
