[u'Impact of type 2 diabetes on cardiorespiratory function and exercise performance', ['Joanie Caron', 'Gregory R duManoir', 'Lawrence Labrecque', 'Audrey Chouinard', 'Annie Ferland', 'Sylvie Legault', 'Paul Poirier', 'Patrice Brassard'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'The aim of this study was to examine the impact of well-controlled uncomplicated type 2 diabetes (T2D) on exercise performance. Six obese sedentary men with T2D and 7 control participants without diabetes matched for age, sex and body mass index were recruited. Anthropometric characteristics, blood samples, resting cardiac and pulmonary functions and maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) and ventilatory threshold were measured on a first visit. On the four subsequent visits, participants performed step transitions (6 min) of moderate-intensity exercise on an upright cycle ergometer from unloaded pedaling to 80 % of ventilatory threshold. VO2 (\u03c4VO2) and HR (\u03c4HR) kinetics were characterized with a mono-exponential model. VO2max (27.8\xb14.0 vs. 27.5\xb15.3 ml kg-1 min-1; p=0.95), \u03c4VO2 (43\xb16 vs. 43\xb110 s; p=0.73) and \u03c4HR (42\xb117 vs. 43\xb113 s; p=0.94) were similar between diabetics and controls respectively. The remaining variables were also similar between groups. These results suggest that well-controlled T2D is not associated with a reduction in VO2max or slower VO2 and HR.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073205', [], [u'Department of Kinesiology, Faculty of Medicine, Universite Laval, Quebec, Canada;', u'School of Health & Exercise Sciences, University of British Columbia Okanagan, Kelowna;', u'Centre de recherche - Institut universitaire de cardiologie et de pneumologie de Quebec, Quebec,']]
[u'Comparative genomics and metagenomics analyses of endangered P\xe8re David\u2019s deer (Elaphurus davidianus) provide insights into population recovery', ['Lifeng Zhu', 'Xuejing Zhang', 'Cao Deng', 'Jingjing Ding', 'Yi Ren', 'Xiang Zhao', 'Shishang Qin', 'Shilin Zhu', 'Zhiwen Wang', 'Xiaoqiang Chai', 'Huasheng Huang', 'Yuhua Ding', 'Guoqing Lu'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'The milu (P\xe8re David\u2019s deer, Elaphurus davidianus) has become a classic example of how highly endangered animal species can be rescued. However, the mechanisms that underpinned this population recovery remain largely unknown. As part of this study, we sequenced and analyzed whole genomes from multiple captive individuals. Following this analysis, we observed that the milu experienced a prolonged population decline over the last 200,000 years, which led to an elongated history of inbreeding. This protracted inbreeding history facilitated the purging of deleterious recessive alleles, thereby ameliorating associated threats to population viability. Because of this phenomenon, milu are now believed to be less susceptible to future inbreeding depression occurrences. SNP distribution patterns confirmed inbreeding history and also indicated sign of increased and increasing diversity in the recovered milu population. A selective sweep analysis identified two outlier genes (CTSR2 and GSG1) that were related to male fertility. Furthermore, we observed strong signatures of selection pertaining to the host immune system, including six genes (SERPINE1, PDIA3, CD302, IGLL1, VPREB3, and CD53 antigen), which are likely to strengthen resistance to pathogens. We also identified several adaptive features including the over-representation of gene families encoding for olfactory receptor activity, a high selection pressure pertaining to DNA repair and host immunity, and tolerance to high-salt swamp diets. Moreover, glycan biosynthesis, lipid metabolism, and cofactor and vitamin metabolism were all significantly enriched in the gut microbiomes of milu. We speculate that these characteristics play an important role in milu energy metabolism, immunity, development, and health. In conclusion, our findings provide a unique insight into animal population recovery strategies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073528', [], [u'Nanjing Normal University;', u'PubBio-Tech Services Corporation, Wuhan;', u'Jiangsu Academy of Forestry, Nanjing, China;', u'Shanghai Majorbio Bio-pharm Biotechnology Co. Ltd., Shanghai;', u'DNA Stories Bioinformatics Center, Chengdu;', u'Jiangsu Dafeng Milu National Nature Reserve, Dafeng;', u'University of Nebraska at Omaha']]
[u'Semi-Automated Identification of Ontological Labels in the Biomedical Literature with goldi', ['Christopher B. Cole', 'Sejal Patel', 'Jo Knight'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Recent growth in both the scale and the scope of large publicly available ontologies has spurred the development of computational methodologies which can leverage structured information to answer important questions. However, ontological labels, or "terms" have thus far proved difficult to use in practice; text mining, one crucial aspect of electronically understanding and parsing the biomedical literature, has historically had difficulty identifying terms in literature. In this article, we present goldi, an open source R package whose goal it is to identify terms of variable length in free form text. It is available at https://github.com/Chris1221/goldi. The algorithm works through identifying words or synonyms of words present in individual terms and comparing the number of present words to an acceptance function for decision making. In this article we present the theoretical rationale behind the algorithm, as well as practical advice for its usage applied to Gene Ontology term identification and quantification. We additionally detail the options available and describe their respective computational efficiencies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073460', [], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'Centre for Addiction and Mental Health;', u'Lancaster University']]
[u'Measuring MEG closer to the brain: Performance of on-scalp sensor arrays', ['Joonas Iivanainen', 'Matti Stenroos', 'Lauri Parkkonen'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Optically-pumped magnetometers (OPMs) have recently reached sensitivity levels required for magnetoencephalography (MEG). OPMs do not need cryogenics and can thus be placed within millimetres from the scalp into an array that adapts to the invidual head size and shape, thereby reducing the distance from cortical sources to the sensors. Here, we quantified the improvement in recording MEG with hypothetical on-scalp OPM arrays compared to a 306-channel state-of-the-art SQUID array (102 magnetometers and 204 planar gradiometers). \n\nWe simulated OPM arrays that measured either normal (nOPM; 102 sensors), tangential (tOPM; 204 sensors), or all components (aOPM; 306 sensors) of the magnetic field. We built forward models based on magnetic resonance images of 10 adult heads; we employed a three-compartment boundary element model and distributed current dipoles evenly across the cortical mantle. \n\nCompared to the SQUID magnetometers, nOPM and tOPM yielded 7.5 and 5.3 times higher signal power, while the correlations between the field patterns of source dipoles were reduced by factors of 2.8 and 3.6, respectively. Values of the field-pattern correlations were similar across nOPM, tOPM and SQUID gradiometers. The information capacities of the OPM arrays were clearly higher than that of the SQUID array. The dipole-localization accuracies of the arrays were similar while the minimum-norm-based point-spread functions were on average 2.4 and 2.5 times more spread for the SQUID array compared to nOPM and tOPM arrays, respectively.\n\nThe results indicate that on-scalp MEG arrays offer clear benefits over a traditional SQUID array in several aspects of performance.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073585', [], [u'Aalto University']]
[u'Improving the temporal accuracy of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging', ['Niels Janssen', 'Juan A Hernandez-Cabrera', 'Laura Ezama Foronda'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'A major drawback of functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) concerns the lack of temporal accuracy of the measured signal. Although this limitation stems in part from the neuro-vascular nature of the fMRI signal, it also reflects particular methodological decisions in the fMRI data analysis pathway. Here we show that the temporal accuracy of fMRI is affected by the specific way in which whole-brain volumes are created from individually acquired brain slices. Specifically, we show how the current volume creation method leads to whole-brain volumes that contain within-volume temporal distortions and that are available at a low temporal resolution. To address these limitations, we propose a new framework for fMRI data analysis. The new framework creates whole-brain volumes from individual brain slices that are all acquired at the same point in time relative to a presented stimulus. These whole-brain volumes contain no temporal distortions, and are available at a high temporal resolution. Statistical signal extraction occurs on the basis of a novel time point-by-time point approach. We evaluated the temporal characteristics of the extracted signal in the standard and new framework with simulated and real-world fMRI data. The new slice-based data-analytic framework yields greatly improved temporal accuracy of fMRI signals.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073437', [], [u'Universidad de La Laguna;', u'University of La Laguna']]
[u'Precise label-free quantitative proteomes in high-throughput by microLC and data-independent SWATH acquisition', ['Jakob Vowinckel', 'Aleksej Zelezniak', 'Artur Kibler', 'Roland Bruderer', 'Michael Muelleder', 'Lukas Reiter', 'Markus Ralser'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'While quantitative proteomics is a key technology in biological research, the routine industry and diagnostics application is so far still limited by a moderate throughput, data consistency and robustness. In part, the restrictions emerge in the proteomics dependency on nanolitre/minute flow rate chromatography that enables a high sensitivity, but is difficult to handle on large sample series, and on the stochastic nature in data-dependent acquisition strategies. We here establish and benchmark a label-free, quantitative proteomics platform that uses microlitre/minute flow rate chromatography in combination with data-independent SWATH acquisition. Being able to largely compensate for the loss of sensitivity by exploiting the analytical capacities of microflow chromatography, we show that microLC-SWATH-MS is able to precisely quantify up to 4000 proteins in an hour or less, enables the consistent processing of sample series in high-throughput, and gains quantification precisions comparable to targeted proteomic assays. MicroLC-SWATH-MS can hence routinely process  hundreds to thousands of samples to systematically create precise, label free quantitative proteomes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073478', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Biognosys AG']]
[u'Intrinsic brain connectivity after partial sleep deprivation in young and older adults: results from the Stockholm Sleepy Brain study', ['Gustav Nilsonne', 'Sandra Tamm', 'Johanna Schwarz', 'Rita Almeida', 'Hakan Fischer', 'Goran Kecklund', 'Mats Lekander', 'Peter Fransson', 'Torbjorn Akerstedt'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Background: Sleep deprivation has been reported to affect intrinsic brain connectivity, notably in the default mode network, but studies to date have shown inconsistent effects and have largely included young participants.\nAims: We aimed to investigate effects of partial sleep deprivation on intrinsic brain connectivity in young and older participants. \nMethods: Participants aged 20-30 (n = 30) and 65-75 (n = 23) years underwent partial sleep deprivation (3 h sleep) in a cross-over design, with two resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) runs in each session. We assessed intrinsic brain connectivity using independent components analysis (ICA) as well as seed-region analyses of functional connectivity, and also analysed global signal variability, regional homogeneity, and the amplitude of low-frequency fluctuations.\nResults: Sleep deprivation caused increased global signal variability. In contrast to previous smaller studies, sleep deprivation did not cause major changes in investigated resting state networks, nor did it cause changes in regional homogeneity. Younger participants had higher functional connectivity in most examined resting state networks, as well as higher regional homogeneity in brain areas including anterior and posterior cingulate cortex.\nConclusion: We show for the first time that partial sleep deprivation caused increased global signal variability. This outcome should be examined as a potential biomarker for sleepiness using independent data.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073494', [], [u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'Stockholm University']]
[u'Specific excitatory connectivity for feature integration in mouse primary visual cortex', ['Dylan Muir', 'Patricia Molina-Luna', 'Morgane M Roth', 'Fritjof Helmchen', 'Bjoern Kampa'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'In mouse primary visual cortex (V1), local excitatory connections are more prevalent, stronger and larger between neurons that share similar functional response features. However, the extent to which rules for local cortical connection specificity shape visual responses, as well as full details relating structure and function both remain unknown. We considered whether complex responses to plaid stimuli in mouse V1 could be explained by one of two alternative connectivity schemes: whether local connections are aligned with simple feedforward visual properties, or whether local connections group across feedforward visual properties. Using a combined experimental and computational approach, we found that responses to plaid stimuli in mouse V1 were best explained by a connectivity scheme which binds multiple feedforward visual properties. Our results show that feature binding can occur through a recurrent mechanism not requiring feedforward convergence; such a mechanism is consistent with visual responses in mouse V1.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/072595', [], [u'University of Basel;', u'RWTH Aachen University;', u'University of Zurich']]
[u'Behavioral syndromes can reduce population density: behavior and demographic heterogeneity', ['Bruce Kendall', 'Gordon A Fox', 'Joseph P Stover'], u'September 5, 2016.', u"Behavioral syndromes are widely recognized as important for ecology and evolution, but most predictions about ecological impacts are based on conceptual models and are therefore imprecise. Borrowing insights from the theory of demographic heterogeneity, we derived insights about the population-dynamic effects of behavioral syndromes. If some individuals are consistently more aggressive than others, not just in interspecific contests, but also in foraging, mating, and anti-predator behavior, then population dynamics could be affected by the resulting heterogeneity in demographic rates. We modeled a population with a boldness-aggressiveness syndrome (with the individual's trait constant through life), showing that the mortality cost of boldness causes aggressive individuals to die earlier, on average, than their non-aggressive siblings. The equilibrium frequency of the aggressive type is strongly affected by the mortality cost of boldness, but not directly by the reproductive benefit of aggressiveness. Introducing aggressive types into a homogeneous non-aggressive population increases the average per-capita mortality rate at equilibrium; under many conditions, this reduces the equilibrium density. One such condition is that the reproductive benefit of aggression is frequency dependent and the population has evolved to equalize the expected fitness of the two types. Finally, if the intensity of aggressiveness can evolve, then the population is likely to evolve to an evolutionarily stable trait value under biologically reasonable assumptions. This analysis shows how a formal model can predict both how a syndrome affects population dynamics and how the population processes constrain evolution of the trait; we suggest some concrete predictions.", u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073262', [], [u'University of California, Santa Barbara;', u'University of South Florida;', u'Lyon College']]
[u'Investigating resting-state functional connectivity in the cervical spinal cord at 3T', ['Falk Eippert', 'Yazhuo Kong', 'Anderson M Winkler', 'Jesper L Andersson', 'Jurgen Finsterbusch', 'Christian Buchel', 'Jonathan CW Brooks', 'Irene Tracey'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'The study of spontaneous fluctuations in the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal has recently been extended from the brain to the spinal cord. Two ultra-high field functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies in humans have provided evidence for reproducible resting-state connectivity between the dorsal horns as well as between the ventral horns, and a study in non-human primates has shown that these resting-state signals are impacted by spinal cord injury. As these studies were carried out at ultra-high field strengths using region-of-interest (ROI) based analyses, we investigated whether such resting-state signals could also be observed at the clinically more prevalent field strength of 3T. In a reanalysis of a sample of 20 healthy human participants who underwent a resting-state fMRI acquisition of the cervical spinal cord, we were able to observe significant dorsal horn connectivity as well as ventral horn connectivity, but no consistent effects for connectivity between dorsal and ventral horns, thus replicating the human 7T results. These effects were not only observable when averaging along the acquired length of the spinal cord, but also when we examined each of the acquired spinal segments separately, suggesting that the technique has good spatial sensitivity at 3T. Finally, we investigated the robustness of these resting-state signals against variations in the analysis pipeline by varying the type of ROI creation, temporal filtering, nuisance regression and connectivity metric. We observed that - apart from the effects of band-pass filtering - ventral horn connectivity showed excellent reproducibility, whereas dorsal horn connectivity showed moderate reproducibility. Together, our results demonstrate that spinal cord resting-state connectivity is a robust and spatially consistent phenomenon that could be a valuable tool for investigating the effects of pathology, disease progression, and treatment response in neurological conditions with a spinal component, such as spinal cord injury.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073569', [], [u'FMRIB Centre, Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences,  University of Oxford;', u'Department of Systems Neuroscience, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf;', u'Clinical Research and Imaging Centre, University of Bristol']]
[u'Retroviral origins of the Caenorhabditis elegans orphan gene F58H7.5.', ['Wadim J Kapulkin'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'This work describes the results of the genome-scale analysis of endogenous retrovirus insertions in two C. elegans isolates: the prototype N2 (Bristol) and CB4856  (Hawaii). In total thirteen, identification of potentially replication competent, endogenous retroviral elements is described. Ten elements were identified as conserved between N2 and CB4856 by the reciprocal match of paired LTRs. The description focuses on the particular endogenous retrovirus insertion wich is identified on the  proximal arm of the chromosome IV (located at positions IV: 912,948..921,658 and IV: 899,767..908,485 of the N2 and CB4856 respectively). In both isolates the inserted provirus is flanked by the predicted long terminal repeats (LTR)s of the length of 415 bp and of identical sequence. Provided the absolute LTR sequence identity this particular provirus represents insertion acquired prior to split from the common ancestor, suggesting this insertion event is evolutionary recent. The identified insertion of the endogenous retrovirus embeds the orphan gene F58H7.5, specific to C. elegans lineage. This unprecedented example establishes that in the evolutionary past C. elegans, had acquired the gene of the retroviral origins presumably via mechanisms involving the RNA intermediate.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073510', [], [u'Veterinary Consultancy, Conrada 16/65, 01-922 Warsaw, Poland']]
[u'An efficient extension of N-mixture models for multi-species abundance estimation', ['Juan Pablo Gomez', 'Scott K. Robinson', 'Jose Miguel Ponciano'], u'September 5, 2016.', u"1. In this paper, through an extension of the N-mixture family of models, we achieve a significant improvement of the statistical properties of the rare species abundance estimators when sample sizes are low, yet of typical size in neotropical bird studies.  The proposed method harnesses information from other species in the targeted ecological community to correct each species' estimator.  We provide guidance to determine the sample size required to estimate accurately the abundance of rare neotropical bird species.\n\n2. We evaluate the proposed methods using an assumption of 50m fixed radius point count and perform simulations comprising a broad range of sample sizes, true abundances and detectability values. The extension of the N-mixture model is achieved by assuming that the detection probabilities of a set of species are all drawn at random from a beta distribution.  This hierarchical model avoids having to specify one detection probability parameter per species in the targeted community. Parameter estimation is done via Maximum Likelihood using data cloning. \n\n3. We compared our methodology with standard N-mixture models, which we show here are severely biased and highly variable when the true abundances of species in the community are less than seven individuals per 100ha.  For more common species, the number of point counts and replicates needed to reduce the bias of N-mixture model estimators estimation is high. The beta N-mixture model proposed here outperforms the traditional N-mixture model thus allowing the estimation of organisms at lower densities and control of the bias in the estimation. \n\n4. We illustrate how our methodology can be used to determine the sample size required to estimate the abundance of organisms. We also give practical advice for researchers seeking to propose reliable sampling designs for single species' studies. When the interest is full communities, our model and estimation methodology can be seen as a practical solution to estimate organism densities from rapid inventories datasets. The statistical inferences with this model can also inform differences in ecology and behavior of species when they violate the assumption of a single distribution of detectabilities.", u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073577', [], [u'University of Florida;', u'Florida Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Improved assemblies and comparison of two ancient Yersinia pestis genomes', ['Nina Luhmann', 'Daniel Doerr', 'Cedric Chauve'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Yersinia pestis is the causative agent of the bubonic plague, a disease responsible for several dramatic historical pandemics. Progress in ancient DNA (aDNA) sequencing rendered possible the sequencing of whole genomes of important human pathogens, including the ancient Yersinia pestis strains responsible for important outbreaks of the bubonic plague in London in the 14th century and in Marseille in the 18th century among others. However, aDNA sequencing data are still characterized by short reads and non-uniform coverage, so assembling ancient pathogen genomes remains challenging and prevents in many cases a detailed study of genome rearrangements. It has recently been shown that comparative scaffolding approaches can improve the assembly of ancient Yersinia pestis genomes at a chromosome level. In the present work, we address the last step of genome assembly, the gap- filling stage. We describe an optimization-based method AGapEs (Ancestral Gap Estimation) to fill in inter-contig gaps using a combination of a template obtained from related extant genomes and aDNA reads. We show how this approach can be used to refine comparative scaffolding by selecting contig adjacencies supported by a mix of unassembled aDNA reads and evolutionary parsimony signal. We apply our method to two ancient Yersinia pestis genomes from the London and Marseilles outbreaks of the bubonic plague. We obtain highly improved genome assemblies for both the London strain and Marseille strain genomes, comprised of respectively five and six scaffolds, with 95% of the assemblies supported by ancient reads. We analyze the genome evolution between both ancient genomes in terms of genome rearrangements, and observe a high level of synteny conservation between these two strains.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073445', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Bielefeld University;', u'Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne;', u'Simon Fraser University']]
[u'Differential Expression Analysis for RNAseq using Poisson Mixed Models', ['Shiquan Sun', 'Michelle Hood', 'Laura Scott', 'Qinke Peng', 'Sayan Mukherjee', 'Jenny Tung', 'Xiang Zhou'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Identifying differentially expressed (DE) genes from RNA sequencing (RNAseq) studies is one of the most common analyses in genomics. DE analysis often represents the first step towards understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying disease susceptibility and phenotypic variation. However, identifying DE genes from RNAseq presents statistical and computational challenges that arise from several unique properties of the sequencing data. Specifically, gene expression estimates in RNAseq experiments are based on read counts that often display over-dispersion. In addition, gene expression levels are heritable and are influenced by the genetic structure of the study samples. Previous count-based methods for identifying DE genes rely on simple hierarchical Poisson models (e.g., negative binomial) to model over-dispersion, which is assumed to be independent among samples. However, these methods fail to account for the gene expression similarity induced by relatedness and/or population structure, which can cause inflation of test statistics and/or loss of power. To address this problem, we present a Poisson mixed model with two random effects terms to account for both independent over-dispersion and sample relatedness in RNAseq DE analysis. To make our method scalable, we develop a novel sampling-based inference algorithm, taking advantage of recently developed innovations in efficient mixed model optimization and a latent variable representation of the Poisson model. With simulations, we show that, in the presence of population structure, our method properly controls for type I error and is more powerful than several widely used approaches. We apply our method to identify DE genes associated with sex in a baboon data set and DE genes associated with type 2 diabetes status as well as fasting glucose levels in a human data set. In both data sets, our method detects at least 40% more DE genes compared with the next best approach while properly controlling for type I error. Our method is implemented in the MACAU software package, freely available at www.xzlab.org/software.html.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073403', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'Xian Jiaotong University;', u'Duke University']]
[u'LoRTE: Detecting transposon-induced genomic variants using low coverage PacBio long read sequences', ['Jonathan Filee', 'Eric Disdero'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Motivation: Population genomic analysis of transposable elements has greatly benefited from  recent advances of sequencing technologies. However, the propensity of transposable elements to nest in highly repeated regions of  genomes limits the efficiency of bioinformatic tools when short read sequences technology is used.  Results: LoRTE is the first tool able to use PacBio long read sequences to identify transposon deletions and insertions between a reference genome and genomes of different strains or populations. Tested against Drosophila melanogaster PacBio datasets, LoRTE appears to be a reliable and broadly applicable tools to study the dynamic and evolutionary impact of transposable elements using low coverage, long read sequences.  Availability and Implementation: LoRTE is available at http://www.egce.cnrs-gif.fr/?p=6422. It is written in Python 2.7 and only requires the NCBI BLAST + package. LoRTE can be used on standard computer with limited RAM resources and reasonable running time even with large datasets.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073551', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CNRS / Paris Saclay University']]
[u'Ultrasensitive detection of TCR hypervariable region in solid-tissue RNA-seq data', ['Bo Li', 'Taiwen Li', 'Binbin Wang', 'Ruoxu Dou', 'Jean-Chrisophe Pignon', 'Toni K Choueiri', 'Sabina Signoretti', 'Jun S Liu', 'Xiaole Shirley Liu'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Characterization of tissue-infiltrating T cell repertoire is critical to understanding tumor-immune interactions and autoimmune disease etiology. We present TRUST, an open source algorithm for calling the TCR transcript hypervariable CDR3 regions using unselected RNA-seq data profiled from solid tissues. TRUST achieved high sensitivity in CDR3 calling even for samples with low sequencing depth and has demonstrated utilities in its application to large tumor cohorts.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073395', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Dana Farber Cancer Institute;', u'Sichuan University;', u'Tongji University;', u'Sun Yat-sen University;', u"Brigham and Women's hospital;", u'Harvard University']]
[u'A Multi-Crystal Method for Extracting Obscured Signal from Crystallographic Electron Density', ['Nicholas Pearce', 'Anthony Richard Bradley', 'Patrick Collins', 'Tobias Krojer', 'Radoslaw Nowak', 'Romain Talon', 'Brian D Marsden', 'Sebastian Kelm', 'Jiye Shi', 'Charlotte Deane', 'Frank von Delft'], u'September 5, 2016.', u'Macromolecular crystallography is relied on to reveal subtle atomic difference between samples (e.g. ligand binding); yet their detection and modelling is subjective and ambiguous density is experimentally common, since molecular states of interest are generally only fractionally present. The existing approach relies on careful modelling for maximally accurate maps to make contributions of the minor fractions visible; in practice, this is time-consuming and non-objective. Instead, our PanDDA method automatically reveals clear electron density for only the changed state, even from poor models and inaccurate maps, by subtracting a proportion of the confounding ground state, accurately estimated by averaging many ground state crystals. Changed states are objectively identifiable from statistical distributions of density values; arbitrarily large searches are thus automatable. The method is completely general, implying new best practice for all changed-state studies. Finally, we demonstrate the incompleteness of current atomic models, and the need for new multi-crystal deconvolution paradigms.', u'/content/early/2016/09/05/073411', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Diamond Light Source;', u'UCB Pharma']]
[u'Recent advances in the study of fine-scale population structure in humans', ['John Novembre', 'Benjamin M Peter'], u'September 4, 2016.', u"Empowered by modern genotyping and large samples, population structure can be accurately described and quantified even when it only explains a fraction of a percent of total genetic variance.  This is especially relevant and interesting for humans, where fine-scale population structure can both confound disease-mapping studies and reveal the history of migration and divergence that shaped our species' diversity. Here we review notable recent advances in the detection, use, and understanding of population structure.  Our work addresses multiple areas where substantial progress is being made: improved statistics and models for better capturing differentiation, admixture, and the spatial distribution of variation; computational speed-ups that allow methods to scale to modern data; and advances in haplotypic modeling that have wide ranging consequences for the analysis of population structure.   We conclude by outlining four important open challenges: The limitations of discrete population models, uncertainty in individual origins, the incorporation of both fine-scale structure and ancient DNA in parametric models, and the development of efficient computational tools, particularly for haplotype-based methods.", u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073221', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'A Scalable Algorithm for Structure Identification of Complex Gene Regulatory Network from Temporal Expression Data', ['Shupeng Gui', 'Rui Chen', 'Liang Wu', 'Ji Liu', 'Hongyu Miao'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Motivation: Gene regulatory interactions are of fundamental importance to various biological functions and processes. However, only a few previous computational studies have claimed success in revealing genome-wide regulatory landscapes from temporal gene expression data, especially for complex eukaryotes like human. Moreover, recent work suggests that these methods still suffer from the curse of dimensionality if network size increases to 100 or higher. \n\nResult: We present a novel scalable algorithm for identifying genome-wide regulatory network structures. The highlight of our method is that its superior performance does not degenerate even for a network size on the order of $10^4$, and is thus readily applicable to large-scale complex networks. Such a breakthrough is achieved by considering both prior biological knowledge and multiple topological properties (i.e., sparsity and hub gene structure) of complex networks in the regularized formulation. We also illustrate the application of our algorithm in practice using the time-course expression data from an influenza infection study in respiratory epithelial cells. \n\nAvailability and Implementation: The algorithm described in this article is implemented in MATLAB\xae. The source code is freely available from https://github.com/Hongyu-Miao/DMI.git. \n\nContact: jliu@cs.rochester.edu; hongyu.miao@uth.tmc.edu \n\nSupplementary information: Supplementary data are available online.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073296', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Rochester;', u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston']]
[u'Pitfalls in Inferring Human Microbial Dynamics from Temporal Metagenomics Data', ['Hong-Tai Cao', 'Travis Gibson', 'Amir Bashan', 'Yang-Yu Liu'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Human gut microbiota is a very complex and dynamic ecosystem that plays a crucial role in our health and well-being. Inferring microbial community structure and dynamics directly from time-resolved metagenomics data is key to understanding the community ecology and predicting its temporal behavior. Many methods have been proposed to perform the inference. Yet, we point out that there are several pitfalls along the way, from uninformative temporal measurements to the compositional nature of the relative abundance data, focusing on highly abundant species by ignoring or grouping low-abundance species, and implicit assumptions in various regularization methods. These issues have to be seriously considered in ecological modeling of human gut microbiota.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073254', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Southern California;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Bar-Ilan University']]
[u'Wolbachia infections in Aedes aegypti differ markedly in their response to cyclical heat stress', ['Perran A Ross', 'Itsanun Wiwatanaratanabutr', 'Jason K Axford', 'Vanessa L White', 'Nancy M Endersby-Harshman', 'Ary A Hoffmann'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Aedes aegypti mosquitoes infected with Wolbachia bacteria are currently being released for arbovirus suppression around the world. Their potential to invade populations and persist will depend on interactions with environmental conditions, particularly as larvae are often exposed to fluctuating and extreme temperatures in the field. We reared Ae. aegypti larvae infected with different types of Wolbachia (wMel, wAlbB and wMelPop) under diurnal cyclical temperatures. Rearing wMel and wMelPop-infected larvae at 26-37\xb0C reduced the expression of cytoplasmic incompatibility, a reproductive manipulation induced by Wolbachia. We also observed a sharp reduction in the density of Wolbachia in adults. Furthermore, exposure to 26-37\xb0C over two generations eliminated both the wMel and wMelPop infections. In contrast, the wAlbB infection was maintained at a high density, exhibited complete cytoplasmic incompatibility, and was transmitted from mother to offspring with a high fidelity under this temperature cycle. These findings have implications for the success of Wolbachia interventions across different environments and highlight the importance of temperature control in rearing.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073106', [u'Ecology'], [u'The University of Melbourne;', u"King Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang"]]
[u'High throughput sequencing of multiple amplicons for barcoding and integrative taxonomy', ['Perrine Cruaud', 'Jean-Yves Rasplus', 'Lillian Jennifer Rodriguez', 'Astrid Cruaud'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Until now, the potential of NGS has been seldom realised for the construction of barcode reference libraries. Using a two-step PCR approach and MiSeq sequencing, we tested a cost-effective method and developed a custom workflow to simultaneously sequence multiple markers (COI, Cytb and EF, altogether 2kb) from hundreds of specimens. Interestingly, primers and PCR conditions used for Sanger sequencing did not require optimisation to construct MiSeq library. After completion of quality controls, 87% of the species and 76% of the specimens had valid sequences for the three markers. Nine specimens (3%) exhibited two divergent (up to 10%) sequence clusters. In 95% of the species, MiSeq and Sanger sequences obtained from the same samplings were similar. For the remaining 5%, species were paraphyletic or the sequences clustered into two divergent groups (>7%) on the final trees (Sanger + MiSeq). These problematic cases are difficult to explain but may represent coding NUMTS or heteroplasms. These results highlight the importance of performing quality control steps, working with expert taxonomists and using more than one marker for DNA-taxonomy or species diversity assessment. The power and simplicity of this method appears promising to build on existing experience, tools and resources while taking advantage of NGS.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073304', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'INRA']]
[u'GPhase: Greedy Approach for Accurate Haplotype Inferencing', ['Kshitij Tayal', 'Naveen Sivadasan', 'Rajgopal Srinivasan'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'We consider the computational problem of phasing an individual genotype sample given a collection of known haplotypes in the population. We give a fast and accurate algorithm GPhase for reconstructing haplotype pair consistent with input genotype. It uses the coalescent based mutation model of Stephens and Donnelly (2000). Computing optimal solution under this model is expensive and our algorithm uses a greedy approximation for fast and accurate estimation. Our algorithm is simple, efficient and has linear time and space complexity. Experiments on real datasets revealed improved gene level phasing accuracy for GPhase tool compared to other widely used tools such as SHAPEIT, Beagle, MaCH and Impute2. On simulated data, GPhase tool was able to phase samples each containing more than 1700 markers with high accuracy. GPhase can be used for gene level phasing of individual samples using publicly available haplotype datasets such as HapMap data or 1000 genome data. This finds applications in studies on recessive Mendelian disorders where parent data is lacking. GPhase is freely available for download and use from https://github.com/kshitijtayal/GPhase/.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073379', [u'Genomics'], [u'TCS Innovation Lab']]
[u'Fossils matter: improved estimates of divergence times in Pinus reveal older diversification', ['Bianca Saladin', 'Andrew B Leslie', 'Rafael O Wueest', 'Glenn Litsios', 'Elena Conti', 'Nicolas Salamin', 'Niklaus E Zimmermann'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'Background: The taxonomy of the genus Pinus is widely accepted and a well-resolved phylogeny based on entire plastome sequences exists. However, there is a large discrepancy in estimated divergence times of major pine clades among existing studies mainly due to differences in fossil placement and dating methods used. We currently lack a dated molecular pine phylogeny that makes full usage of the rich fossil record in pines. This study is the first to estimate the divergence dates of pines based on a large number of fossils (21) evenly distributed across all major clades in combination with applying the most novel dating method.\nResults: We present a range of molecular phylogenetic trees of Pinus generated within a Bayesian framework using both the novel fossilized birth-death and the traditional node dating method with different fossil sets. We find the origin of pines likely to be up to 30 Myr older (Early Cretaceous) than inferred in most previous studies (Late Cretaceous) and propose generally older divergence times for major clades within Pinus than previously thought. Our age estimates vary significantly between the different dating approaches but the results generally agree on older divergence times. We present a revised list of 21 fossils that are suitable to use in dating or comparative analyses of pines. \nConclusions: An accurate timescale for the divergence times in pines is essential if we are to link diversification processes and functional adaptation of this genus to geological events or to changing climates. Next to older divergence times in Pinus, our results indicate that node age estimates in pines depend on dating approaches and fossil sets used due to different inherent characteristics of dating approaches. Our set of dated phylogenetic trees of pines presented herein provide the basis to account for uncertainties in age estimations when applying comparative phylogenetic methods, which will improve our understanding of the evolutionary and ecological history in pines.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073312', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL;', u'Brown University;', u'Federal Office for the Environment FOEN;', u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Range stability predicts lineage persistence in a morphologically cryptic ground squirrel species complex', ['Mark A Phuong', 'Ke Bi', 'Craig Moritz'], u'September 4, 2016.', u'The processes responsible for patterns of cytonuclear discordance remain unclear. Here, we employ an exon capture dataset, demographic methods, and species distribution modeling to elucidate the impact of historical demography on patterns of genealogical concordance and discordance in ground squirrel lineages from the Otospermophilus beecheyi species complex. Previous studies in O. beecheyi revealed three morphologically cryptic and highly divergent mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) lineages (named the Northern, Central, and Southern lineages based on geography) with only the Northern lineage exhibiting concordant divergence in nuclear markers. We show that these mtDNA lineages likely formed in allopatry during the Pleistocene, but responded differentially to climatic changes that occurred since the last interglacial (~120,000 years ago). We find that the Northern lineage maintained a stable range throughout this period, correlating with genetic distinctiveness among all genetic markers and low migration rates between the other lineages. In contrast, our results support a scenario where the Southern lineage expanded from Baja California Sur during the Late Pleistocene and hybridized with the Central lineage, eventually driving the Central lineage to extinction. While high intraspecific gene flow among newly colonized populations eroded significant signals of Central ancestry from autosomal markers, male sex-biased dispersal in this system preserved signals of this past hybridization and introgression event in matrilineal-biased X-chromosome and mtDNA markers. Our results highlight the importance of range stability in maintaining the persistence of phylogeographic lineages, whereas unstable range dynamics can increase the tendency for lineages to interact and collapse upon secondary contact.', u'/content/early/2016/09/04/073320', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of California, Berkeley; The Australian National University']]
