[u'Beyond the myosin mesa: a potential unifying hypothesis on the underlying molecular basis of hyper-contractility caused by a majority of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy mutations', ['Suman Nag', 'Darshan V Trivedi', 'Saswata S Sarkar', 'Shirley Sutton', 'Kathleen M Ruppel', 'James A Spudich'], u'July 24, 2016.', u'Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), the most commonly occurring inherited cardiovascular disease, is primarily caused by mutations in human \u03b2-cardiac myosin and myosin binding protein-C.  It has been thought that such mutations in myosin increase the intrinsic force of the motor, its velocity of contraction, or its ATPase activity, giving rise to hyper-contractility.  We hypothesize that while these parameters are mildly affected by most myosin HCM-causing mutations, a major effect of a majority of myosin HCM mutations is likely to involve an increase in the number of myosin heads that are functionally accessible (Na) for interaction with actin in the sarcomere.  We consider a model involving three types of interactions involving the myosin mesa and the converter domain of the myosin motor that hold myosin heads in a sequestered state, likely to be released in a graded manner as the demands on the heart increase: 1) the two myosin heads binding to one another, 2) one head binding to its own coiled-coil tail, and 3) the other head binding to myosin binding protein-C. In addition there is clear evidence of interaction between the coiled-coil tail of myosin and myosin binding protein-C. Experimentally, here we focus on myosin head binding to its own coiled-coil tail and to myosin binding protein-C.  We show that phosphorylation of the myosin regulatory light chain and myosin binding protein-C weaken these respective associations, consistent with known enhancements of sarcomere function by these phosphorylations.  We show that these interactions are weakened as a result of myosin HCM mutations, in a manner consistent with our structural model.  Our data suggests a potential unifying hypothesis for the molecular basis of hyper-contractility caused by human hypertrophic cardiomyopathy myosin mutations, whereby the mutations give rise to an increase in the number of myosin heads that are functionally accessible for interaction with actin in the sarcomere, causing the hyper-contractility observed clinically.', u'/content/early/2016/07/24/065508', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine']]
[u'PHARMACOLOGY OF W-18 AND W-15', ['Xi-Ping Huang', 'Tao Che', 'Thomas Mangano', 'Valerie Le Rouzic', 'Ying-Xian Pan', 'Susruta Majumdar', 'Michael Cameron', 'Michael Bauman', 'Gavril Pasternak', 'Bryan L Roth'], u'July 24, 2016.', u'W-18 (1-(4-Nitrophenylethyl)piperidylidene-2-(4-chlorophenyl)sulfonamide)  and W-15 (4-chloro-N-[1-(2-phenylethyl)-2-piperidinylidene]-benzenesulfonamide) represent two emerging drugs of abuse chemically related to the potent opioid agonist fentanyl (N-(1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidinyl)-N-phenylpropanamide).  Here we describe the comprehensive pharmacological profiles of W-18 and W-15.  Although W-18 and W-15 have been described as having potent anti-nociceptive activity and are presumed to interact with opioid receptors, we found them to be without detectible opioid activity at \u03bc, \u03b4, \u03ba and nociception opioid receptors in a variety of assays.  We also tested W-18 and W-15 for activity as allosteric modulators at opioid receptors and found them devoid of significant positive or negative allosteric modulatory activity.  Comprehensive profiling at essentially all the druggable G-protein coupled receptors in the human genome using the PRESTO-Tango platform revealed no significant activity.  In silico predictions using the Similarity Ensemble Approach suggested activity for W-18 only weakly at H3-histamine receptors, which was not confirmed in radioligand binding studies. Weak activity at the sigma receptors and the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor were found for W-18 (Ki=271 nM); W-15 displayed weak antagonist activity at 5-HT2-family serotonin receptors. W-18 is extensively metabolized, but its metabolites also lack opioid activity. W-18 and W-15 did inhibit hERG binding suggesting possible cardiovascular side-effects with high doses.  Thus although W-18 and W-15 have been suggested to be potent opioid agonists, our results reveal no significant activity at these or other known targets for psychoactive drugs.', u'/content/early/2016/07/24/065623', [], [u'UNC Chapel Hill Medical School;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering;', u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u'NIDA']]
[u'Transformation and model choice for RNA-seq co-expression analysis', ['Andrea Rau', 'Cathy Maugis-Rabusseau'], u'July 24, 2016.', u'Although a large number of clustering algorithms have been proposed to identify groups of co-expressed genes from microarray data, the question of if and how such methods may be applied to RNA-seq data remains unaddressed. In this work, we investigate the use of data transformations in conjunction with Gaussian mixture models for RNA-seq co-expression analyses, as well as a penalized model selection criterion to select both an appropriate transformation and number of clusters present in the data. This approach has the advantage of accounting for per-cluster correlation structures among samples, which can be quite strong in real RNA-seq data. In addition, it provides a rigorous statistical framework for parameter estimation, an objective assessment of data transformations and number of clusters, and the possibility of performing diagnostic checks on the quality and homogeneity of the identified clusters. We analyze four varied RNA-seq datasets to illustrate the use of transformations and model selection in conjunction with Gaussian mixture models. Finally, we propose an R package coseq (co-expression of RNA-seq data) to facilitate implementation and visualization of the recommended RNA-seq co-expression analyses.', u'/content/early/2016/07/24/065607', [], [u'INRA;', u'IMT / INSA Toulouse']]
[u'Defining the risk of Zika and chikungunya virus transmission in human population centers of the eastern United States', ['Carrie Manore', 'Richard Ostfeld', 'Folashade Agusto', 'Holly Gaff', 'Shannon LaDeau'], u'July 24, 2016.', u'The recent spread of mosquito-transmitted viruses and associated disease to the Americas motivates a new, data-driven evaluation of risk in temperate population centers. Temperate regions are generally expected to pose low risk for significant mosquito-borne disease, however, the spread of the Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus) across densely populated urban areas has established a new landscape of risk. We use a model informed by field data to assess the conditions likely to facilitate local transmission of chikungunya and Zika viruses from an infected traveler to Ae. albopictus and then to other humans in USA cities with variable human densities and seasonality.\n\nMosquito-borne disease occurs when specific combinations of conditions maximize virus-to-mosquito and mosquito-to-human contact rates. We develop a mathematical model that captures the epidemiology and is informed by current data on vector ecology from urban sites. The model predicts that one of every two infectious travelers arriving at peak mosquito season could initiate local transmission and > 10% of the introductions could generate a disease outbreak of at least 100 people. Despite Ae. albopictus propensity for biting non-human vertebrates, we also demonstrate that local virus transmission and human outbreaks may occur when vectors feed from humans even just 40% of the time. This work demonstrates how a conditional series of non-average events can result in local arbovirus transmission and outbreaks of disease in humans, even in temperate cities.', u'/content/early/2016/07/24/061382', [], [u'Tulane University;', u'Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies;', u'University of Kansas;', u'Old Dominion University']]
