[u'Task demands affect spatial reference frame weighting during tactile localization in sighted and congenitally blind adults', ['Jonathan T. W. Schubert', 'Stephanie Badde', 'Brigitte Roeder', 'Tobias Heed'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Task demands modulate tactile localization in sighted humans, presumably through weight adjustments in the spatial integration of anatomical, skin-based, and external, posture-based information. In contrast, previous studies suggested that congenitally blind humans, by default, localize touch based on skin-based information and refrain from automatic spatial integration. Accordingly, task context should not affect blind participants\' tactile localization performance in tasks that do not require external coding. Here, sighted and congenitally blind participants localized tactile targets on the palm or back of one hand, while ignoring simultaneous tactile distractors at congruent or incongruent locations on the other hand. Hand posture was varied either blockwise or trial-by-trial, to probe the interplay of anatomical and external location codes for spatial congruency effects: either both palms faced down, or one faced down and one up. In the latter posture, externally congruent target and distractor locations were anatomically incongruent. Target locations had to be reported either anatomically ("palm" or "back" of the hand), or externally ("up" or "down" in space). Under anatomical instructions, performance was better for anatomically congruent than incongruent target-distractor pairs. In contrast, under external instructions, performance was best when target-distractor pairs were externally congruent. These modulations were comparable in sighted and blind individuals, even if effects were smaller in the latter. Whether posture was changed blockwise or trial-by-trial did not significantly modulate congruency effects. These results suggest that blind individuals, like the sighted, automatically integrate anatomical and external information during tactile localization, and that integration is modulated by top-down information - here, task instruction. Thus, the integration of anatomical and external spatial information in tactile processing is flexibly adapted to current task demands even in the absence of developmental vision.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/056515', [], [u'University of Hamburg;', u'Department of Psychology, New York University, New York, USA']]
[u'Video-rate volumetric functional imaging of the brain at synaptic resolution', ['Rongwen Lu', 'Wenzhi Sun', 'Yajie Liang', 'Aaron Kerlin', 'Jens Bierfeld', 'Johannes Seelig', 'Daniel E. Wilson', 'Benjamin Scholl', 'Boaz Mohar', 'Masashi Tanimoto', 'Minoru Koyama', 'David Fitzpatrick', 'Michael B. Orger', 'Na Ji'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Neurons and neural networks often extend hundreds to thousands of micrometers in three dimensions. To capture all the calcium transients associated with their activity, we need volume imaging methods with sub-second temporal resolution. Such speed is challenging for conventional two-photon laser scanning microscopy (2PLSM) to achieve, because of its dependence on serial focal scanning in 3D and the limited brightness of indicators. Here we present an optical module that can be easily integrated into standard 2PLSMs to generate an axially elongated Bessel focus. Scanning the Bessel focus in 2D turned frame rate into volume rate and enabled video-rate volumetric imaging. Using Bessel foci designed to maintain synaptic-level lateral resolution in vivo, we demonstrated the power of this approach in enabling discoveries for neurobiology by imaging the calcium dynamics of volumes of neurons and synapses in fruit flies, zebrafish larvae, mice, and ferrets in vivo.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058495', [], [u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute;', u'Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown;', u'Max Planck Florida Institute for Neuroscience']]
[u'Learning from critical care management of sheep receiving extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation for smoke-induced acute lung injury as a tool for processing large clinical datasets', ['Saul Chemonges'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Background: Many successful therapies developed for human medicine involve animal experimentation. With competition for public research funding and career advancement opportunities, animal studies focused on the translational potential may not sufficiently document unexpected outcomes. Such studies often have hastily developed methods with ad hoc modifications including the use of additional animals, leading to considerable amounts of idle, unprocessed data that could be used to advance veterinary science, or to refine the base animal model. Sheep, for example, are poorly understood models of intensive care and therefore, any experimental data arising from them should be interpreted with care. The hypothesis was that there is little information describing the development of methods of physiological data processing in multifaceted sheep models of intensive care and the author aimed to develop a suitable data processing method and to analyse the data, once processed.\nMethods: Data from 19 adult mechanically ventilated ewes undergoing intensive care in a previous study evaluating a form of extracorporeal life support (treatment) for acute lung injury were used to develop a comprehensive method for processing manual and electronically gathered clinical observations. Eight sheep were injured by acute smoke inhalation prior to treatment (injured/treated), while another eight were not injured but treated (uninjured/treated). Two sheep were injured but not treated (injured/untreated), while one received room air instead of smoke as the injury, and was not treated (placebo/untreated). The data were then analysed for 11 physiological categories and compared between the two treated groups.\nResults: The analysis revealed that compared with the baseline, treatment contributed to and exacerbated the deterioration of pulmonary pathology by reducing lung compliance and PaO2/FiO2 ratio. The oxygen extraction index changes mirrored those of the PaO2/FiO2 ratio. Decreasing coronary perfusion pressure predicted the severity of cardiopulmonary injury. \nConclusions: These novel observations could help in understanding similar pathology such as that which occurs in smoke inhalation animal victims of house and bush fires. A similar data processing method could be used when evaluating the effectiveness of other clinical interventions such as potentially reversible aspiration pneumonia secondary to tick paralysis in veterinary patients.\nKeywords: Sheep, critical care, smoke-induced acute smoke inhalation injury, extra-corporeal life support, lung compliance, PaO2/FiO2 ratio', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058511', [], [u'The University of Queensland & Queensland University of Technology']]
[u'Comment on Smaers et al. (2016): A nonviable phylogenetic comparative method hampered by circularity, inaccuracy, and bias', ['Randi H Griffin', 'Gabriel S Yapuncich'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Smaers, Mongle & Kandler (2016) (Biological Journal of the Linnean Society, 118: 78-94) introduced a new phylogenetic comparative method, multiple variance Brownian motion (mvBM), for reconstructing ancestral states given a phylogenetic tree and continuous trait data. The authors conducted a simulation study and argued that mvBM outperforms constant variance Brownian motion (BM) when rates of evolution vary across the phylogeny. In this comment, we argue that mvBM is not a viable statistical method because it is fundamentally a circular analysis that overfits phylogenetic branch lengths to the data. We further argue that the comparison of mvBM to BM under conditions where the assumptions of BM are clearly violated is not an informative performance analysis, and that the simulation study of Smaers et al. (2016) exaggerates the performance of mvBM by focusing on a narrow range of simulation conditions and reporting aggregated accuracy metrics that obscure severe inaccuracy and bias in its ancestral state estimates. Our arguments are supported by simulation results. We conclude that mvBM is not a viable phylogenetic comparative method.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058420', [], [u'Duke Univesity;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Familiarity Facilitates Feature-based Face Processing', ['Matteo Visconti di Oleggio Castello', 'Kelsey G. Wheeler', 'Maria Ida Gobbini'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Recognition of personally familiar faces is remarkably efficient, effortless and robust. We asked if feature-based face processing drives facilitated detection of familiar faces by testing the effect of face inversion on a visual search task for familiar and unfamiliar faces. Because face inversion disrupts configural and holistic face processing, we hypothesized that inversion would diminish the familiarity advantage to the extent that it is mediated by such processes. Subjects detected personally familiar and stranger target faces in arrays of two, four, or six face images. Subjects showed significant facilitation of personally familiar face detection for both upright and inverted faces, in terms of reaction times for target present trials and both reaction times and search rate for target absent trials. The effect of familiarity on target absent trials suggests that familiarity facilitates rejection of unfamiliar distractors as well as detection of familiar targets. The preserved familiarity effect for inverted faces suggests that facilitation of face detection afforded by familiarity reflects mostly feature-based processes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058537', [], [u'Dartmouth College;', u'Dartmouth College, University of Bologna']]
[u'Drift barriers for the proofreading of genes expressed at different levels', ['Kun Xiong', 'Jay P McEntee', 'David Porfirio', 'Joanna Masel'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Gene expression is imperfect, sometimes leading to toxic products. Solutions take two forms: globally reducing error rates, or ensuring that the consequences of erroneous expression are relatively harmless. The latter is optimal, but because it must evolve independently at so many loci, it is subject to a stringent \u201cdrift barrier\u201d \u2014 a limit to how weak the effects of a deleterious mutation s can be, while still being effectively purged by selection, expressed in terms of the population size N of an idealized population such that purging requires s < -1/N. In previous work, only large populations evolved the optimal local solution, small populations instead evolved globally low error rates, and intermediate populations were bistable, with either solution possible. Here we take into consideration the fact that the effectiveness of purging varies among loci, because of variation in gene expression level and variation in the intrinsic vulnerabilities of different gene products to error. The previously found dichotomy between the two kinds of solution breaks down, replaced by a gradual transition as a function of population size. In the extreme case of a small enough population, selection fails to maintain even the global solution against deleterious mutations, explaining recent experimental findings of similarly high transcriptional error rates in large-Ne and small-Ne species. As expected from previous work, the evolvability of a population tracks the number of loci at which erroneous expression is tolerated.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058453', [], [u'University of Arizona, United States']]
[u'Accurate Predictions of Postmortem Interval Using Linear Regression Analyses of Gene Meter Expression Data', ['M Colby Hunter', 'Alexander Pozhitkov', 'Peter Anthony Noble'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'In criminal and civil investigations, postmortem interval is used as evidence to help sort out circumstances at the time of human death.  Many biological, chemical, and physical indicators can be used to determine the postmortem interval, but most are not accurate.  Here, we sought to validate an experimental design to accurately predict the time of death by analyzing the expression of hundreds of upregulated genes in two model organisms, the zebrafish and mouse.  In a previous study, the death of healthy adults was conducted under strictly controlled conditions to minimize the effects of confounding factors such as lifestyle and temperature.  A total of 74,179 microarray probes were calibrated using the Gene Meter approach and the transcriptional profiles of 1,063 significantly upregulated genes were assembled into a time series spanning from life to 48 or 96 h postmortem.  In this study, the experimental design involved splitting the gene profiles into training and testing datasets, randomly selecting groups of profiles, determining the modeling parameters of the genes to postmortem time using over- and/or perfectly- defined linear regression analyses, and calculating the fit (R2) and slope of predicted versus actual postmortem times.  This design was repeated several thousand to million times to find the top predictive groups of gene transcription profiles.  A group of eleven zebrafish genes yielded R2 of 1 and a slope of 0.99, while a group of seven mouse liver genes yielded a R2 of 0.98 and a slope of 0.97, and seven mouse brain genes yielded a R2 of 0.93 and a slope of 0.85.  In all cases, groups of gene transcripts yielded better postmortem time predictions than individual gene transcripts.  The significance of this study is two-fold: selected groups of upregulated genes provide accurate prediction of postmortem time, and the successfully validated experimental design can now be used to accurately predict postmortem time in cadavers.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058370', [], [u'Alabama State University;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'The heritability of pathogen traits - definitions and estimators', ['Venelin Mitov', 'Tanja Stadler'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Pathogen traits, such as the virulence and the transmissibility of an infection, can vary significantly between patients. A major challenge is to measure the extent to which the genetic differences between infecting strains explain the observed variation of the trait.\nThis is quantified by the so-called broad-sense heritability H2 - a term borrowed from quantitative genetics of sexual species. A recent discrepancy between estimates of HIV- virulence-heritability has opened a debate on the accuracy of the estimators. Here, we show that the discrepancy originates from model limitations and important lifecycle differences between sexually reproducing organisms and transmittable pathogens. In\nparticular, current quantitative genetics methods are prone to underestimate  H2, because they do not account for rapid within-host mutation combined with natural selection on the trait. We introduce two independent approaches correcting these errors: ANOVA-CPP and our POUMM method. Empirical analyses reveal that at least 20% of the variation in virulence is explained by the virus genome both for European and African data. These results should terminate the ongoing discussion whether the virus affects virulence at all, and should motivate further genome-wide association studies on the virus, as well as studies on the interaction between host- and viral factors for virulence. Beyond HIV, we discuss that ANOVA-CPP is ideal for slowly evolving protozoa, bacteria and DNA-viruses, while POUMM is ideal for rapidly evolving RNA-viruses, thus, enabling heritability estimation for a broad range of pathogens.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058503', [], [u'ETH Zurich, SIB']]
[u'Vibrio natriegens, a new genomic powerhouse', ['Henry H Lee', 'Nili Ostrov', 'Brandon G Wong', 'Michaela A Gold', 'Ahmad Khalil', 'George M Church'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'Recombinant DNA technology has revolutionized biomedical research with continual innovations advancing the speed and throughput of molecular biology. Nearly all these tools, however, are reliant on Escherichia coli as a host organism, and its lengthy growth rate increasingly dominates experimental time. Here we report the development of Vibrio natriegens, a free-living bacteria with the fastest generation time known, into a genetically tractable host organism. We systematically characterize its growth properties to establish basic laboratory culturing conditions. We provide the first complete Vibrio natriegens genome, consisting of two chromosomes of 3,248,023 bp and 1,927,310 bp that together encode 4,578 open reading frames. We reveal genetic tools and techniques for working with Vibrio natriegens. These foundational resources will usher in an era of advanced genomics to accelerate biological, biotechnological, and medical discoveries.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058487', [], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Boston University;', u'Tufts University']]
[u'Deciphering the wisent demographic and adaptive histories from individual whole-genome sequences', ['Mathieu Gautier', 'Katayoun Moazami-Goudarzi', 'Leveziel Hubert', 'Hugues Parinello', 'Cecile Grohs', 'Stephanie Rialle', 'Rafal Kowalczyk', 'Laurence Flori'], u'June 12, 2016.', u'As the largest European herbivore, the wisent (Bison bonasus) is emblematic of the continent wildlife but has unclear origins. Here, we infer its demographic and adaptive histories from two individual whole genome sequences via a detailed comparative analysis with bovine genomes. We estimate that the wisent and bovine species diverged from 1.7x106 to 850,000 YBP through a speciation process involving an extended period of limited gene flow. Our data further support the occurrence of more recent secondary contacts, posterior to the Bos taurus and Bos indicus divergence (ca. 150,000 YBP), between the wisent and (European) taurine cattle lineages. Although the wisent and bovine population sizes experienced a similar sharp decline since the Last Glacial Maximum, we find that the wisent demography remained more fluctuating during the Pleistocene. This is in agreement with a scenario in which wisents responded to successive glaciations by habitat fragmentation rather than southward and eastward migration as for the bovine ancestors.\nWe finally detect 423 genes under positive selection between the wisent and bovine lineages, which shed a new light on the genome response to different living conditions (temperature, available food resource and pathogen exposure) and on the key gene functions altered by the domestication process.', u'/content/early/2016/06/12/058446', [], [u'INRA;', u'IGF;', u'Polish Academy of Science']]
[u'Evolution of resistance against CRISPR/Cas9 gene drive', ['Robert L Unckless', 'Andrew G Clark', 'Philipp W Messer'], u'June 11, 2016.', u"The idea of driving genetically modified alleles to fixation in a population has fascinated scientists for over 40 years. Potential applications are broad and ambitious, including the eradication of disease vectors, the control of pest species, and the preservation of endangered species from extinction. Until recently, these possibilities have remained largely abstract due to the lack of an effective drive mechanism. CRISPR/Cas9 gene drive (CGD) now promise a highly adaptable approach for driving even deleterious alleles to high population frequency, and this approach was recently shown to be effective in small laboratory populations of insects. However, it remains unclear whether CGD will also work in large natural populations in the face of potential resistance mechanisms. Here we show that resistance against CGD will inevitably evolve unless populations are small and repair of CGD-induced cleavage via nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) can be effectively suppressed, or resistance costs are on par with those of the driver. We specifically calculate the probability that resistance evolves from variants at the target site that are not recognized by the driver's guide RNA, either because they are already present when the driver allele is introduced, arise by de novo mutation, or are created by the driver itself when NHEJ introduces mutations at the target site. Our results shed light on strategies that could facilitate the engineering of a successful drive by lowering resistance potential, as well as strategies that could promote resistance as a possible mechanism for controlling a drive. This study highlights the need for careful modeling of CGD prior to the actual release of a driver construct into the wild.", u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058438', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Vision and locomotion shape the interactions between neuron types in mouse visual cortex', ['Mario Dipoppa', 'Adam Ranson', 'Michael Krumin', 'Marius Pachitariu', 'Matteo Carandini', 'Kenneth D Harris'], u'June 11, 2016.', u'Locomotion profoundly changes sensory responses in mouse primary visual cortex. These changes are thought to arise from a disinhibitory circuit, whereby interneurons expressing vasoactive intestinal peptide (Vip) inhibit those expressing somatostatin (Sst), thus disinhibiting pyramidal cells (Pyr). We studied the effect of locomotion on these cell types and on interneurons expressing parvalbumin (Pvalb) in layer 2/3 of mouse V1, and found inconsistencies with the disinhibitory model. Locomotion increased Sst cell responses to large stimuli and to full field gray screen, without decreasing them in Vip cells. Moreover, it increased Vip cell responses to small stimuli, without decreasing them in Sst cells. Signal and noise correlations between cell types provided further evidence against the disinhibitory model. Our data resolve apparent contradictions in the literature and suggest an alternative to the disinhibitory model, where Vip and Sst cells inhibit each other in a circuit whose effect depends on stimulus and behavioral state.', u'/content/early/2016/06/11/058396', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London']]
