[u'Intrinsic K-Ras dynamics: A novel molecular dynamics data analysis method shows causality between residue pairs', ['Sezen Vatansever', 'Zeynep Gumus', 'Burak Erman'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'While mutant K-Ras is an important therapeutic target for human cancers, there are still no drugs that directly target it. Recent promising studies emphasize the significance of dynamics data to selectively target its active/inactive states. However, despite tremendous information on K-Ras, the direction of information flow in the allosteric regulation of its dynamics has not yet been elucidated. Here, we present a novel approach that identifies causality in correlated motions of proteins and apply it to K-Ras dynamics. Specifically, we analyze molecular dynamics simulations data and comprehensively investigate nucleotide-dependent intrinsic K-Ras activity. We show that GTP binding leads to characteristic residue correlations with relatively long decay times by stabilizing K-Ras motions. Furthermore, we identify for the first time driver-follower relationships of correlated motions in the regulation of K-Ras activity. Our results can be utilized for directly targeting mutant K-Ras in future studies.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067496', [], [u'koc university;', u'Icahn Institute for Genomics and Multiscale Biology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai']]
[u'NUCLEAR FACTOR Y, subunit C (NF-YC) transcription factors are positive regulators of photomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Zachary A Myers', 'Roderick W Kumimoto', 'Chamindika L Siriwardana', 'Krystal K Gayler', 'Jan R Risinger', 'Daniela Pezzetta', 'Ben F Holt'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Recent reports suggested that NF-Y transcription factors are positive regulators of skotomorphogenesis in Arabidopsis thaliana. Three NF-YC genes (NF-YC3, NF-YC4, and NF-YC9) are known to have overlapping functions in photoperiod dependent flowering and previous studies demonstrated that they interact with basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors. This included ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL 5 (HY5), which has well-demonstrated roles in photomorphogenesis. Similar to hy5 mutants, we report that nf-yc3 nf-yc4 nf-yc9 triple mutants failed to inhibit hypocotyl elongation in all tested light wavelengths. Surprisingly, nf-yc3 nf-yc4 nf-yc9 hy5 mutants had synergistic defects in light perception, suggesting that NF-Ys represent a parallel light signaling pathway. As with other photomorphogenic transcription factors, nf-yc3 nf-yc4 nf-yc9 triple mutants also partially suppress the short hypocotyl and dwarf rosette phenotypes of CONSTITUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENIC 1 (cop1) mutants. Thus, our data strongly suggest that NF-Y transcription factors have important roles as positive regulators of photomorphogenesis, and in conjunction with other recent reports implies that the NF-Y are multifaceted regulators of early seedling development.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067462', [], [u'University of Oklahoma;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'Invitae Corporation, San Francisco;', u'Freie Universitat, Berlin']]
[u'Experimental estimation of the effects of all amino-acid mutations to HIV Env', ['Hugh K Haddox', 'Adam S Dingens', 'Jesse Bloom'], u'August 2, 2016.', u"HIV is notorious for its capacity to evade immunity and anti-viral drugs through rapid sequence evolution. Knowledge of the functional effects of mutations to HIV is critical for understanding this evolution. HIV's most rapidly evolving protein is its envelope (Env). Here we use deep mutational scanning to experimentally estimate the effects of all amino-acid mutations to Env on viral replication in cell culture. Most mutations are under purifying selection in our experiments, although a few sites experience strong selection for mutations that enhance HIV's growth in cell culture. We compare our experimental measurements of each site's preference for each amino acid to the actual frequencies of these amino acids in naturally occurring HIV sequences. Our measured amino-acid preferences correlate with amino-acid frequencies in natural sequences for most sites. However, our measured preferences are less concordant with natural amino-acid frequencies at surface-exposed sites that are subject to pressures absent from our experiments such as antibody selection. We show that some regions of Env have a high inherent tolerance to mutation, whereas other regions (such as epitopes of broadly neutralizing antibodies) have a significantly reduced capacity to tolerate mutations.  Overall, our results help disentangle the role of inherent functional constraints and external selection pressures in shaping Env's evolution.", u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067470', [], [u'University of Washington / Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Cancer treatment scheduling and dynamic heterogeneity in social dilemmas of tumour acidity and vasculature', ['Artem Kaznatcheev', 'Robert Vander Velde', 'Jacob G Scott', 'David Basanta'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Background: Tumours are diverse ecosystems with persistent heterogeneity in various cancer hallmarks like self-sufficiency of growth factor production for angiogenesis and reprogramming of energy-metabolism for aerobic glycolysis. This heterogeneity has consequences for diagnosis, treatment, and disease progression.\n\nMethods: We introduce the double goods game to study the dynamics of these traits using evolutionary game theory. We model glycolytic acid production as a public good for all tumour cells and oxygen from vascularization via VEGF production as a club good benefiting non-glycolytic tumour cells. This results in three viable phenotypic strategies: glycolytic, angiogenic, and aerobic non-angiogenic.\n\nResults: We classify the dynamics into three qualitatively distinct regimes: (1) fully glycolytic, (2) fully angiogenic, or (3) polyclonal in all three cell types. The third regime allows for dynamic heterogeneity even with linear goods, something that was not possible in prior public good models that considered glycolysis or growth-factor production in isolation.\n\nConclusion: The cyclic dynamics of the polyclonal regime stress the importance of timing for anti-glycolysis treatments like lonidamine. The existence of qualitatively different dynamic regimes highlights the order effects of treatments. In particular, we consider the potential of vascular renormalization as a neoadjuvant therapy before follow up with interventions like buffer therapy.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067488', [], [u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute;', u'University of South Florida;', u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute and University of Oxford;', u'H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute']]
[u'Coupled Nos\xe9-Hoover equations of motions without time scaling', ['Ikuo Fukuda', 'Kei Moritsugu'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'The Nos\xe9-Hoover (NH) equation of motion is widely used in molecular dynamics simulations. It enables us to set a constant temperature and produce the canonical distribution for a target physical system. For the purpose of investigating the physical system under fluctuating temperature, we have introduced a coupled Nos\xe9-Hoover equation in our previous work [J. Phys. A 48 455001 (2015)]. The coupled NH equation implements a fluctuating heat-bath temperature in the NH equation of the physical system, and also keeps a statistically complete description via an invariant measure of the total system composed of the physical system and a "temperature system". However, a difficulty lies in that the time development of the physical system may not correspond to the realistic physical process, because of the need of a scaled time average to compute thermodynamical quantities. The current work gives a solution by presenting a new scheme, which is free from the scaled time but retains the statistical description. By use of simple model systems, we validate the current scheme and compare with the original scheme. The sampling property of the current scheme is also clarified to investigate the effect of function setting used for the distribution of the total system.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067397', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Osaka University;', u'Yokohama City University']]
[u'The intertwined metabolism of Medicago truncatula and its nitrogen fixing symbiont Sinorhizobium meliloti elucidated by genome-scale metabolic models.', ['Thomas Pfau', 'Nils Christian', 'Shyam K. Masakapalli', 'Lee J. Sweetlove', 'Mark G. Poolman', 'Oliver Ebenhoeh'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Genome-scale metabolic network models can be used for various analyses including the prediction of\nmetabolic responses to changes in the environment. Legumes are well known for their rhizobial symbiosis\nthat introduces nitrogen into the global nutrient cycle. Here, we describe a fully compartmentalised, mass\nand charge-balanced, genome-scale model of the clover Medicago truncatula, which has been adopted as a\nmodel organism for legumes. We employed flux balance analysis to demonstrate that the network is capable\nof producing biomass (amino acids, nucleotides, lipids, cell wall) in experimentally observed proportions,\nduring day and night. By connecting the plant model to a model of its rhizobial symbiont, Sinorhizobium\nmeliloti, we were able to investigate the effects of the symbiosis on metabolic fluxes and plant growth and\ncould demonstrate how oxygen availability influences metabolic exchanges between plant and symbiont,\nthus elucidating potential benefits of amino acid cycling. We thus provide a modelling framework, in which\nthe interlinked metabolism of plants and nodules can be studied from a theoretical perspective.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067348', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Luxembourg;', u'University of Aberdeen;', u'Indian Institute of Technology Mandi;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Oxford Brookes University;', u'Heinrich Heine University Duesseldorf']]
[u'Dendrites of DG granule cells contribute to pattern separation by controlling sparsity', ['Spyridon Chavlis', 'Panagiotis C Petrantonakis', 'Panayiota Poirazi'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'The hippocampus plays a key role in pattern separation, namely the process of transforming similar incoming information to highly dissimilar, non-overlapping representations. Sparse firing granule cells in the dentate gyrus have been proposed to undertake this computation, but little is known about which of their properties influence pattern separation. Dendritic atrophy and spine loss have been reported in diseases associated with pattern separation deficits, suggesting a possible role for dendrites in this phenomenon. To investigate whether and how the dendrites of granule cells contribute to pattern separation, we build a simplified, biologically relevant, computational model of the dentate gyrus. Our model suggests that the presence of granule cell dendrites is associated with high pattern separation efficiency while their atrophy leads to increased excitability and performance impairments that cannot be explained by input resistance changes. These impairments, however, can be rescued by a range of manipulations that restore network sparsity to control levels. Thus, our model suggests that the contribution of dendrites to pattern separation amounts to one of many ways for controlling sparsity. We provide a number of testable predictions that can help investigate this proposition experimentally.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067389', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Foundation for Research and Technology Hellas (FORTH);', u'Foundation for Research and Technology-Hellas (FORTH)']]
[u'Beyond Brownian motion and the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process: Stochastic diffusion models for the evolution of quantitative characters.', ['Simon Phillip Blomberg'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Gaussian processes such as Brownian motion and the Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process have been popular models for the evolution of quantitative traits and are widely used in phylogenetic comparative methods. However, they have drawbacks which limit their utility. Here we describe new, non-Gaussian stochastic differential equation (diffusion) models of quantitative trait evolution. We present general methods for deriving new diffusion models, and discuss possible schemes for fitting non-Gaussian evolutionary models to trait data. The theory of stochastic processes provides a mathematical framework for understanding the properties of current, new and future phylogenetic comparative methods. Attention to the mathematical details of models of trait evolution and diversification may help avoid some pitfalls when using stochastic processes to model macroevolution.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067363', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Queensland']]
[u'High-Quality Assembly of an Individual of Yoruban Descent', ['Karyn Meltz Steinberg', 'Tina Graves-Lindsay', 'Valerie A Schneider', 'Mark J.P. Chaisson', 'Chad Tomlinson', 'John L Huddleston', 'Patrick Minx', 'Milinn Kremitzki', 'Derek Albrecht', 'Vincent Magrini', 'Sean McGrath', 'Archana Raja', 'Carl Baker', 'Lana Harshman', 'LaDeana W Hillier', 'Francoise Thibaud-Nissen', 'Nathan Bouk', 'Amy Ly', 'Chris Amemiya', 'Joyce Tang', 'Evan E Eichler', 'Robert S Fulton', 'Wesley C Warren', 'Deanna M Church', 'Richard K Wilson'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'De novo assembly of human genomes is now a tractable effort due in part to advances in sequencing and mapping technologies. We use PacBio single-molecule, real-time (SMRT) sequencing and BioNano genomic maps to construct the first de novo assembly of NA19240, a Yoruban individual from Africa. This chromosome-scaffolded assembly of 3.08 Gb with a contig N50 of 7.25 Mb and a scaffold N50 of 78.6 Mb represents one of the most contiguous high-quality human genomes. We utilize a BAC library derived from NA19240 DNA and novel haplotype-resolving sequencing technologies and algorithms to characterize regions of complex genomic architecture that are normally lost due to compression to a linear haploid assembly. Our results demonstrate that multiple technologies are still necessary for complete genomic representation, particularly in regions of highly identical segmental duplications. Additionally, we show that diploid assembly has utility in improving the quality of de novo human genome assemblies.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067447', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Washington University;', u'NIH;', u'University of Washington;', u'Benaroya Research Institute;', u'10x Genomics']]
[u'Fungi exposed to chronic nitrogen enrichment are less able to decay leaf litter', ['Linda van Diepen', 'Serita Frey', 'Elizabeth Landis', 'Eric Morrison', 'Anne Pringle'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Saprotrophic fungi are the primary decomposers of plant litter in temperate forests, and their activity is critical for carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) cycling. Simulated atmospheric N deposition is associated with reduced fungal biomass, shifts in fungal community structure, slowed litter decay, and soil C accumulation. Although rarely studied, N deposition may also result in novel selective pressures on fungi, affecting evolutionary trajectories. To directly test if long-term N enrichment reshapes fungal behaviors, we isolated decomposer fungi from a long-term (28 year) N addition experiment and used a common garden approach to compare growth rates and decay abilities of isolates from control and N amended plots. Both growth and decay were significantly altered by long-term exposure to N enrichment. Changes in growth rates were idiosyncratic, but litter decay by N isolates was generally lower compared to control isolates of the same species, a response not readily reversed when N isolates were grown in control (low N) environments. Changes in fungal behaviors accompany and perhaps drive previously observed N-induced shifts in fungal diversity, community composition, and litter decay dynamics.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067306', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Wyoming;', u'University of New Hampshire;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'The role of vertical symbiont transmission in altering cooperation and fitness of coral-Symbiodinium symbioses', ['Carly D Kenkel', 'Line K Bay'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Cooperation between species is regularly observed in nature, but understanding of what promotes, maintains and strengthens these relationships is limited. We used a phylogenetically controlled design to investigate one potential driver in reef-building corals: variation in symbiont transmission mode. Two of three species pairs conformed to theoretical predictions stating that vertical transmission (VT) should maximize whole-organism fitness. Montipora aequituburculata (VT) exhibited greater net photosynthetic function, calcification rate and bleaching tolerance than its horizontally transmitting (HT) sister taxa Acropora millepora. Similar performance was observed in Porites lobata (VT) and Goniopora columna (HT), with the VT species showing higher fitness. However, Galaxea archelia (VT) was consistently out-performed by its HT congener G. astreata. Cooperation, quantified with radioisotope tracing of carbon sharing, was more variable across pairs, perhaps reflecting different optimization strategies necessary to maximize holobiont fitness. Variation in fitness patterns between VT and HT corals was not explained by differences in Symbiodinium communities among species; however, reproductive mode may play a role as both M. aequituburculata and P. lobata transmit symbionts transovarially whereas G. archelia broods larvae. Taken together, transmission mode may be an important driver of symbiosis evolution in some corals, but additional evolutionary mechanisms should be investigated.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067322', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The Australian Institute of Marine Science']]
[u'A Scalable Data Access Layer to Manage Structured Heterogeneous Biomedical Data', ['Giovanni Delussu', 'Luca Lianas', 'Francesca Frexia', 'Gianluigi Zanetti'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'This work presents a scalable data access layer, called PyEHR, intended for building data management systems for secondary use of structured heterogeneous biomedical and clinical data. PyEHR adopts openEHR formalisms to guarantee the decoupling of data descriptions from implementation details and exploits structures indexing to speed up searches. The persistence is guarantee by a driver layer with a common driver interface. Presently, are implemented the interfaces with two NoSQL DBMS: MongoDB and Elasticsearch. The scalability of PyEHR has been evaluated experimentally through two types of tests, namely constant load and constant number of records, with queries of increasing complexity on a two synthetic datasets of ten millions records each, containing very complex openEHR archetype structures, distributed on up to ten working nodes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067371', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'crs4']]
[u'Transcriptome-wide association study of schizophrenia and chromatin activity yields mechanistic disease insights', ['Alexander Gusev', 'Nick Mancuso', 'Hilary K Finucane', 'Yakir Reshef', 'Lingyun Song', 'Alexias Safi', 'Edwin Oh', 'Steven McCaroll', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Roel Ophoff', "Michael C O'Donovan", 'Nicholas Katsanis', 'Gregory E Crawford', 'Patrick F Sullivan', 'Bogdan Pasaniuc', 'Alkes L Price'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified over 100 risk loci for schizophrenia, but the causal mechanisms remain largely unknown. We performed a transcriptome-wide association study (TWAS) integrating expression data from brain, blood, and adipose tissues across 3,693 individuals with schizophrenia GWAS of 79,845 individuals from the Psychiatric Genomics Consortium. We identified 157 genes with a transcriptome-wide significant association, of which 35 did not overlap a known GWAS locus; the largest number involved alternative splicing in brain. 42/157 genes were also associated to specific chromatin phenotypes measured in 121 independent samples (a 4-fold enrichment over background genes). This high-throughput connection of GWAS findings to specific genes, tissues, and regulatory mechanisms is an essential step toward understanding the biology of schizophrenia and moving towards therapeutic interventions.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067355', [u'Genomics'], [u'Harvard TH Chan School of Public Health;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Harvard University;', u'Duke University;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Cardiff University;', u'University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill']]
[u'Mutations in the catalytic domain of human \u03b2-cardiac myosin that cause early onset hypertrophic cardiomyopathy significantly increase the fundamental parameters that determine ensemble force and velocity', ['Arjun S Adhikari', 'Kristina B Kooiker', 'Chao Liu', 'Saswata S Sarkar', 'Daniel Bernstein', 'James A Spudich', 'Kathleen M Ruppel'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a heritable cardiovascular disorder that affects 1 in 500 people. In infants it can be particularly severe and it is the leading cause of sudden cardiac death in pediatric populations. A high percentage of HCM is attributed to mutations in \u03b2-cardiac myosin, the motor protein that powers ventricular contraction. This study reports how two mutations that cause early-onset HCM, D239N and H251N, affect the mechanical output of human \u03b2-cardiac myosin at the molecular level. We observe extremely large increases (25% - 95%) in the actin gliding velocity, single molecule intrinsic force, and ATPase activity of the two mutant myosin motors compared to wild type myosin. In contrast to previous studies of HCM-causing mutations in human \u03b2-cardiac myosin, these mutations were striking in that they caused changes in biomechanical parameters that were both greater in magnitude and more uniformly consistent with a hyper-contractile phenotype. In addition, S1-S2 binding studies revealed a significant decrease in affinity of the H251N motor for S2, suggesting that this mutation may further increase hyper-contractility by releasing active motors from a sequestered state. This report shows, for the first time, a clear and significant gain in function for all tested molecular biomechanical parameters due to HCM mutations in human \u03b2-cardiac myosin.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067066', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford University School of Medicine']]
[u'One tagger, many uses - Illustrating the power of ontologies in dictionary-based named entity recognition', ['Lars Juhl Jensen'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Automatic annotation of text is an important complement to manual annotation, because the latter is highly labour intensive. We have developed a fast dictionary-based named entity recognition (NER) system and addressed a wide variety of biomedical problems by applied it to text from many different sources. We have used this tagger both in real-time tools to support curation efforts and in pipelines for populating databases through bulk processing of entire Medline, the open-access subset of PubMed Central, NIH grant abstracts, FDA drug labels, electronic health records, and the Encyclopedia of Life. Despite the simplicity of the approach, it typically achieves 80-90% precision and 70-80% recall. Many of the underlying dictionaries were built from open biomedical ontologies, which further facilitate integration of the text-mining results with evidence from other sources.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067132', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Spherical: an iterative workflow for assembling metagenomic datasets', ['Thomas Hitch', 'Chris Creevey'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'The consensus emerging from microbiome studies is that they are far more complex than previously thought, requiring deep sequencing. As deep sequenced datasets provide greater coverage than previous datasets, recovering a higher proportion of reads to the assembly is still a challenge.  To tackle this issue, we set of to identify if multiple iterations of assembly would allow for otherwise lost contigs to be formed and studied and if so, how successful is such an avenue at improving the current methodology.\nA simulated metagenomic dataset was initially used to identify if multiple iterations of assembly produce useable contigs or mis-assembled artefacts were produced. Once we had confirmed that the secondary iterations were producing both accurate contigs without a reduction in contig quality we applied this methodology in the form of Spherical to 3 metagenomic studies.\nThe additional contigs produced by Spherical increased the number of reads aligning to an identified gene by 11-109% compared to the initial iterations assembly. As the size of the dataset increased, as did the amount of data multiple iterations were able to add.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067256', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences (IBERS), Aberystwyth University, Aberystwy']]
[u'RECRUITMENT OF GROUPER BROODSTOCK ON THE BASIS OF SINGLE LOCUS DNA MARKERS', ['Kennth Francis Rodrigues', 'Syarul Nataqain Baharum', 'Ahmad Zaidi Tani'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Scientific breeding programs are founded on the screening and recruitment of genetically diverse broodstock, with the ultimate aim of developing heterogeneous breeding populations that host a collection of desirable traits. Single locus DNA markers can be applied to facilitate the process of selection as they are species specific, reliable, reproducible and easy to use. This study set forth to develop a library of single locus DNA markers for two commercially cultured species of groupers, Epinephelus fuscoguttatus and E. corallicola.  DNA was isolated from one representative specimen of each species and utilized to construct shotgun genomic libraries. DNA sequences derived from the library were selected for the development of 42 and 41 single locus DNA markers for E. fuscoguttatus and E. corallicola respectively. The markers were then tested against randomly selected specimens obtained from the wild. Genotyping results revealed that the species specific primers demonstrated the ability to distinguish between individuals from the same species into distinct operational taxonomic units (OTUs) on the basis of their differential DNA profiles, thus establishing a basis for selection based on genetic heterogeneity. The findings of this study present a strong case for the application of single locus DNA markers as molecular tools for the selection of broodstock on the basis of genotyping.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067231', [u'Genetics'], [u'Universiti Malaysia Sabah;', u'Institute of Systems Biology, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia']]
[u'Modeling translation elongation dynamics by deep learning reveals new insights into the landscape of ribosome stalling', ['Sai Zhang', 'Hailin Hu', 'Jingtian Zhou', 'Xuan He', 'Jianyang Zeng'], u'August 2, 2016.', u"Translation elongation plays a central role in multiple aspects of protein biogenesis, e.g., differential expression, cotranslational folding and secretion. However, our current understanding on the regulatory mechanisms underlying translation elongation dynamics and the functional roles of ribosome stalling in protein synthesis still remains largely limited. Here, we present a deep learning-based framework, called ROSE, to effectively decipher the contextual regulatory code of ribosome stalling and reveal its functional connections to translational control of protein expression from ribosome profiling data. Our validation results on both human and yeast datasets have demonstrated superior performance of ROSE over conventional prediction models. With high prediction accuracy, ROSE provides a precise index to estimate the translation elongation rate at codon resolution. We have demonstrated that ROSE can successfully decode diverse regulatory factors of ribosome stalling, including codon usage bias, tRNA adaptation, codon cooccurrence bias, proline codons, N6-methyladenosine (m6A) modification, mRNA secondary structure and protein-nucleotide binding. In addition, our comprehensive genome-wide in silico studies based on ROSE have revealed notable functional interplay between elongation dynamics and several cotranslational events in protein biogenesis, including protein targeting by the signal recognition particle (SRP) and protein secondary structure formation. Furthermore, our intergenic analysis suggests that the enriched ribosome stalling events at the 5' end of the coding sequences (also referred to as the ramp sequences) can be involved in the modulation of translation efficiency. These findings indicate that ROSE can offer a powerful tool to analyze the large-scale ribosome profiling data and provide novel insights into the landscape of ribosome stalling, which will further expand our understanding on translation elongation dynamics.", u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067108', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute for Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Tsinghua University;', u'School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tsinghua University']]
[u'Improved long read correction for de novo assembly using an FM-index', ['James M Holt', 'Jeremy R Wang', 'Corbin D Jones', 'Leonard McMillan'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'Long read sequencing is changing the landscape of genomic research, especially de novo assembly. Despite the high error rate inherent to long read technologies, increased read lengths dramatically improve the continuity and accuracy of genome assemblies. However, the cost and throughput of these technologies limits their application to complex genomes. One solution is to decrease the cost and time to assemble novel genomes by leveraging \u201chybrid\u201d assemblies that use long reads for scaffolding and short reads for accuracy. To this end, we describe a novel application of a multi-string Burrows-Wheeler transform with auxiliary FM-index to correct errors in long read sequences using a set of complementary short reads. We show that our method efficiently produces significantly higher quality corrected sequence than existing hybrid error-correction methods. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our method compared to state-of-the-art hybrid and long-read only de novo assembly methods.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067272', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Advances in the recovery of haplotypes from the metagenome', ['Samuel M Nicholls', 'Wayne Aubrey', 'Kurt de Grave', 'Leander Schietgat', 'Chris J Creevey', 'Amanda Clare'], u'August 2, 2016.', u'High-throughput DNA sequencing has enabled us to look beyond consensus reference sequences to the variation observed in sequences within organisms; their haplotypes. Recovery, or assembly of haplotypes has proved computationally difficult and there exist many probabilistic heuristics that attempt to recover the original haplotypes for a single organism of known ploidy. However, existing approaches make simplifications or assumptions that are easily violated when investigating sequence variation within a metagenome. \n\nWe propose the "metahaplome" as the set of haplotypes for any particular genomic region of interest within a metagenomic data set and present Hansel and Gretel, a data structure and algorithm that together provide a proof of concept framework for the recovery of true haplotypes from a metagenomic data set. The algorithm performs incremental haplotype recovery, using smoothed Naive Bayes - a simple, efficient and effective method.\n\nHansel and Gretel pose several advantages over existing solutions: the framework is capable of recovering haplotypes from metagenomes, does not require a priori knowledge about the input data, makes no assumptions regarding the distribution of alleles at variant sites, is robust to error, and uses all available evidence from aligned reads, without altering or discarding observed variation.\nWe evaluate our approach using synthetic metahaplomes constructed from sets of real genes and show that up to 99% of SNPs on a haplotype can be correctly recovered from short reads that originate from a metagenomic data set.', u'/content/early/2016/08/02/067215', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Aberystwyth University;', u'Flanders Make;', u'KU Leuven']]
[u'Bayesian Inference of Two-Dimensional Contrast Sensitivity Functions', ['Xiaoxiao Wang', 'Huan Wang', 'Jinfeng Huang', 'Tzvetomir Tzvetanov', 'Yifeng Zhou'], u'August 1, 2016.', u"The contrast sensitivity function (CSF) is crucial in predicting functional vision both in research and clinical areas. Recently, a group of novel strategies, multi-dimensional adaptive methods, were proposed and allowed more rapid measurements when compared to usual methods such as \u03a8 or staircase. Our study further presents a multi-dimensional Bayesian framework to estimate parameters of the CSF from experimental data obtained by classical sampling. We extensively simulated the framework's performance as well as validated the results in a psychophysical experiment. The results showed that the Bayesian framework significantly improves the accuracy and precision of parameter estimates from usual strategies, and requires about the same number of observations as the novel methods to obtain reliable inferences. Additionally, the improvement with the Bayesian framework was maintained when the prior poorly matched the observer's CSFs. The results indicated that the Bayesian framework is flexible and sufficiently precise for estimating CSFs.", u'/content/early/2016/08/01/067116', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CAS Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Diseases and School of Life Sciences']]
[u'Polo kinase phosphorylation determines C. elegans centrosome size and density by biasing SPD-5 toward an assembly-competent conformation', ['Oliver Wueseke', 'David Zwicker', 'Anne Schwager', 'Yao Liang Wong', 'Karen Oegema', 'Frank Julicher', 'Anthony A Hyman', 'Jeffrey Woodruff'], u'August 1, 2016.', u'Centrosomes are major microtubule-organizing centers composed of centrioles surrounded by an extensive proteinacious layer called the pericentriolar material (PCM). In C. elegans  embryos, the mitotic PCM expands by Polo-kinase (PLK-1) phosphorylation-accelerated assembly of SPD-5 molecules into supramolecular scaffolds. However, how PLK-1 phosphorylation regulates SPD-5 assembly is not known. We found that a mutant version of SPD-5 that is insensitive to PLK-1 phosphorylation (SPD-54A) could localize to PCM but was unable to rescue the reduction in PCM size and density when wild-type SPD-5 levels were decreased. In vitro, purified SPD-54A self-assembled into functional supramolecular scaffolds over long time scales, suggesting that phosphorylation only controls the rate of SPD-5 scaffold assembly. Furthermore, the SPD-5 scaffold, once assembled, remained intact and supported microtubule nucleation in the absence of PLK-1 activity in vivo. We conclude that Polo Kinase is required for rapid assembly of the PCM scaffold but not for scaffold maintenance or function. Based on this idea, we developed a theoretical model that adequately predicted PCM growth rates in different mutant conditions in vivo. We propose that PLK-1 phosphorylation-dependent conversion of SPD-5 into an assembly-competent form underlies PCM formation in vivo and that the rate of this conversion determines final PCM size and density.', u'/content/early/2016/08/01/067223', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Institute of Molecular Biotechnology;', u'School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Harvard University;', u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics;', u'Dept. of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, University of Cal;', u'Max Planck Institute for the Physics of Complex Systems']]
[u'Different combinations of ErbB receptor dimers generate opposing signals that regulate cell proliferation in cardiac valve development', ['Ryo Iwamoto', 'Naoki Mine', 'Hiroto Mizushima', 'Eisuke Mekada'], u'August 1, 2016.', u'HB-EGF plays an indispensable role in suppression of cell proliferation in mouse valvulogenesis. However, ligands of the EGF receptor (EGFR/ErbB1), including HB-EGF, are generally considered as growth-promoting factors, as shown in cancers. HB-EGF binds to and activates ErbB1 and ErbB4. We investigated the role of ErbB receptors in valvulogenesis in vivo using ErbB1- and ErbB4-deficient mice, and an ex vivo model of endocardial cushion explants. We show that HB-EGF suppresses valve mesenchymal cell proliferation through a heterodimer of ErbB1 and ErbB4, and an ErbB1 ligand(s) promotes cell proliferation through a homodimer of ErbB1. Moreover, a rescue experiment with cleavable or uncleavable isoforms of ErbB4 in ERBB4 null cells suggests that the cytoplasmic intracellular domain of ErbB4, rather than the membrane-anchored tyrosine kinase, achieves this suppression. Our study demonstrates that opposing signals generated by different ErbB dimer combinations function in the same cardiac cushion mesenchymal cells for proper cardiac valve formation.', u'/content/early/2016/08/01/067249', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Osaka University;', u'CanBas Co., Ltd.;', u'Department of Cell Biology, Research Institute for Microbial Diseases, Osaka University']]
[u'Aging increases lateral but not local inhibition of orientation processing in primary visual cortex', ['Zhengchun Wang', 'Shan Yu', 'Yu Fu', 'Yifeng Zhou', 'Tzvetomir Tzvetanov'], u'August 1, 2016.', u'Aging-related declines in vision can decrease well-being of the elder. Concerning early sensory changes as in the primary visual cortex, physiological and behavioral reports seem contradictory. Neurophysiological studies on orientation tuning properties suggested that neuronal changes might come from decreased cortical local inhibition. However, behavioral results either showed no clear deficits in orientation processing in the elder, or proposed stronger surround suppression. Through psychophysical experiments conducted on old and young human subjects combined with computational modeling, we resolved these discrepancies by demonstrating stronger lateral inhibition in the elder while neuronal orientation tuning widths, related to local inhibition, stayed globally intact across age. We confirmed this later finding by re-analyzing published neurophysiological data from rhesus monkeys, which showed no systematic tuning width changes, but instead a higher neuronal noise with aging. These results suggest a stronger lateral inhibition and mixed effects on local inhibition during aging, revealing a more complex picture of age-related effects in the central visual system than previously thought.', u'/content/early/2016/08/01/067264', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Science and Technology of China;', u'Institute of Automation;', u'Kunming University of Science and Technology']]
