[u'Pavian: Interactive analysis of metagenomics data for microbiomics and pathogen identification', ['Florian P Breitwieser', 'Steven L Salzberg'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Pavian is a web application for exploring metagenomics classification results, with a special focus on infectious disease diagnosis. Pinpointing pathogens in metagenomics classification results is often complicated by host and laboratory contaminants as well as many non-pathogenic microbiota. With Pavian, researchers can analyze, display and transform results from the Kraken, Centrifuge and MetaPhlAn using interactive tables and plots.  Pavian further provides an alignment viewer for validation of matches to a particular genome.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084715', [], [u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'16S rRNA Gene Sequencing as a Clinical Diagnostic Aid for Gastrointestinal-related Conditions', ['Daniel E Almonacid', 'Laurens Kraal', 'Francisco J Ossandon', 'Yelena V Budovskaya', 'Juan Pablo Cardenas', 'Jessica Richman', 'Zachary S Apte'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Accurate detection of the microorganisms underlying gut dysbiosis in the patient is critical to initiate the appropriate treatment. However, most clinical microbiology techniques used to detect gut bacteria were developed over a century ago and rely on culture-based approaches that are often laborious, unreliable, and subjective. Further, culturing does not scale well for multiple targets and detects only a minority of the microorganisms in the human gastrointestinal tract. Here we present a clinical test for gut microorganisms based on targeted sequencing of the prokaryotic 16S rRNA gene. We tested 46 clinical prokaryotic targets in the human gut, 28 of which can be identified by a bioinformatics pipeline that includes sequence analysis and taxonomic annotation. Using microbiome samples from a cohort of 897 healthy individuals, we established a reference range defining clinically relevant relative levels for each of the 28 targets. Our assay accurately quantified all 28 targets and correctly reflected 38/38 verification samples of real and synthetic stool material containing known pathogens. Thus, we have established a new test to interrogate microbiome composition and diversity, which will improve patient diagnosis, treatment and monitoring. More broadly, our test will facilitate epidemiological studies of the microbiome as it relates to overall human health and disease.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084657', [], [u'uBiome;', u'uBiome, UCSF']]
[u'Latitudinal metacommunity gradients in New Zealand stream invertebrates', ['Jonathan D Tonkin', 'Russell G Death', 'Timo Muotka', 'Anna Astorga', 'David A Lytle'], u'October 31, 2016.', u"That biodiversity declines with latitude is well known, but whether a metacommunity process is behind this gradient has received limited attention. We tested the hypothesis of a shift from dispersal limitation to mass effects with increasing latitude, along with a series of related hypotheses. We explored these hypotheses by examining metacommunity structuring in stream invertebrate metacommunities spanning the length of New Zealand (~1300 km), further disentangling the role of dispersal by deconstructing assemblages into strong and weak dispersers. Given the highly dynamic nature of New Zealand streams, our alternative hypothesis was that these systems are so unpredictable (at different stages of post-flood succession) that metacommunity structuring is highly context dependent from region to region. We rejected all of our primary hypotheses, pinning this lack of fit on the strong unpredictability of New Zealand's dynamic stream ecosystems and unique fauna that has evolved to cope with these conditions. While local community structure turned over predictably along this latitudinal gradient, metacommunity structure was highly context dependent and dispersal traits did not elucidate patterns. Moreover, the emergent metacommunity types exhibited no trends, nor did the important environmental variables. These results provide a cautionary tale for examining singular metacommunities. The considerable level of unexplained context dependency suggests that any inferences drawn from one-off snapshot sampling may be misleading and further points to the need for more studies on temporal dynamics of metacommunity processes.", u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084673', [], [u'Oregon State University;', u'Massey University;', u'University of Oulu;', u'P. Universidad Catolica de Chile & Centro de Investigacion de Ecosistemas de la Patagoni']]
[u'Metabolic and spatio-taxonomic response of uncultivated seafloor bacteria following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill', ['Kim M Handley', 'Piceno M Yvette', 'Ping Hu', 'Lauren M Tom', 'Olivia U Mason', 'Gary L Andersen', 'Janet K Jansson', 'Jack A Gilbert'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'The release of 700 million liters of oil into the Gulf of Mexico over a few months in 2010 produced dramatic changes in the microbial ecology of the water and sediment. Previous studies have examined the phylogeny and function of these changes, but until now a fundamental examination of the extant hydrocarbon metabolisms that supported these changes had not been performed. Here, we reconstructed the genomes of 57 widespread uncultivated bacteria from post spill sediments, and recovered their gene expression pattern across the seafloor. These genomes comprised a common collection of bacteria that were highly enriched in heavily affected sediments around the wellhead. While rare in distal sediments, some members were still detectable at sites up to 60 km away. Many of these genomes exhibited phylogenetic clustering indicative of common trait selection by the environment, and within half we identified 264 genes associated with hydrocarbon degradation. Observed alkane degradation ability was near ubiquitous among candidate hydrocarbon degraders, while just 3 harbored elaborate gene inventories for the degradation of alkanes and (poly)aromatic hydrocarbons. Differential gene expression profiles revealed a spill-promoted microbial sulfur cycle alongside gene up-regulation associated with polyaromatic hydrocarbon degradation. Gene expression associated with alkane degradation was widespread, although active alkane degrader identities changed along the pollution gradient. The resulting analysis suggests a broad metabolic capacity to respond to oil exists across a large array of usually rare bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084707', [], [u'University of Auckland;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Florida State University;', u'Pacific Northwest National Laboratory;', u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Can you catch Ebola from a stork bite? Inductive reasoning influences on zoonosis risk perception', ['Tyler Davis', 'Micah B Goldwater', 'Molly E Ireland', 'Nicholas Gaylord', 'Jason Van Allen'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Emerging zoonoses are a prominent global health threat. Human beliefs are central to drivers of emerging zoonoses, yet little is known about the factors that influence perceived risks of animal contact. We present an inductive account of zoonosis risk perception, suggesting that beliefs about the range of animals that are able to transmit diseases to each other influence zoonosis risk perception. Consistent with our account, in Study 1, we find that participants who endorse higher likelihoods of cross-species disease transmission have stronger intention to report animal bites. In Study 2, using real world descriptions of Ebola virus from the WHO and CDC, we find that communications conveying a broader range of animals as susceptible increase intentions to report animal bites and decrease perceived safety of wild game meat. These results suggest that cognitive factors may be harnessed to modulate zoonosis risk perception and combat emerging infectious diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084590', [], [u'Texas Tech University;', u'University of Sydney;', u'Gaylord Research']]
[u'Enterovirus A119 in a child with Acute Flaccid Paralysis, Nigeria', ['Johnson A. Adeniji', 'Arthur O. Oragwa', 'Uwem E. George', 'Ukeme I. Ibok', 'TEMITOPE O. C. FALEYE', 'Moses O. Adewumi'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'The oldest EV-A119 record was in 2008 in a chimpanzee in Cameroon and subsequently in more non-human primates and healthy children. Here we report for the first time the detection of EV-A119 in a child with Acute Flaccid Paralysis, thus suggesting possible association with a clinical condition in humans.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084566', [], [u'University of Ibadan, Nigeria;', u'University of Jos, Nigeria;', u'Ekiti State University;', u'University of Ibadan']]
[u'netDx: Patient classification using integrated patient similarity networks', ['Shraddha Pai', 'Shirley Hui', 'Ruth Isserlin', 'Hussam Kaka', 'Gary Bader'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Patient classification has widespread biomedical and clinical applications, including diagnosis, prognosis, disease subtyping and treatment response prediction. A general purpose and clinically relevant prediction algorithm should be accurate, generalizable, be able to integrate diverse data types (e.g. clinical, genomic, metabolomic, imaging), handle sparse data and be intuitive to interpret. We describe netDx, a supervised patient classification framework based on patient similarity networks that meets the above criteria. netDx models input data as patient networks and uses the GeneMANIA machine learning algorithm for network integration and feature selection. We demonstrate the utility of netDx by integrating gene expression and copy number variants to classify breast cancer tumours as being of the Luminal A class (N=348 tumours). In a simplified comparison using gene expression, netDx performed as well as or better than established state of the art machine learning methods, achieving a mean accuracy of 89% (2% s.d.) in classifying Luminal A. netDx uses pathway features to aid biological interpretability and results can be visualized as an integrated patient similarity network to aid clinical interpretation. Upon publication, netDx will be made publicly available via github.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084418', [], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Chromosome interactome inferred from mitosis-G1 transition', ['Yuri Eidelman', 'Svetlana Slanina', 'Alina Aleshchenko', 'Sergey Andreev'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'The progress in experimental techniques aimed at 3D genome study is yet to bring about revelation of basic principles of genome folding. Chromosome conformation capture Hi-C technologies provide genome wide mapping of genomic loci interactions but spatial organization of chromosomes remains unknown. Here, we develop a polymer modeling approach to generate the ensemble of 3D chromosome conformations for mapping genetic loci contacts and the positions of megabase chromosomal domains in interphase chromosome at different time of mitosis-interphase transition. We demonstrate that (*) whole chromosome contact map (interactome) generated for mouse chromosome 18 structure and (**) contact patterns, observed soon after mitotic decondensation and remaining similar during G1, correlate well with the experimental Hi-C contact data. The results suggest that contact map formation and spatial compartmentalization of an interphase chromosome are driven by interactions between different types of domains during formation of globular chromosome state at the end of mitotis-G1 transition.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084608', [], [u'Institute of Biochemical Physics (Russian Academy of Sciences);', u'Institute of Biochemical Physics (Russian Academy of Sciences); National Research Nuclear University']]
[u'Fine-scale temporal analysis of genotype-dependent mortality at settlement in the Pacific oyster Crassostrea gigas', ['Louis V. Plough'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Settlement and metamorphosis mark a critical transition in the life cycle of marine invertebrates, during which larvae undergo substantial morphological, sensory, and genetic changes. High mortality during or after metamorphosis is commonly observed in both wild and hatchery settings, however, the underlying causes of this mortality remain poorly understood. Previous pair-crossing experiments with the Pacific oyster, Crassostrea gigas showed that substantial genotype-dependent mortality (GDM) occurs around metamorphosis, but, owing to sparse temporal sampling, it remains unknown whether mortality occurs just before, during, or after settlement.  In this laboratory study, microsatellite marker segregation ratios were followed daily throughout the settlement and metamorphosis of an inbred, F2 cross of the Pacific oyster to examine the fine-scale patterns of GDM in larvae and spat.  Genetic control of settlement timing was also examined using a quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping approach.  Settlement occurred over nine days (day 18 to day 27 post-fertilization) with 68% of individuals settling on an early (day 19) and a late (day 24) time point. Tracking the survival of spat for 40 days after initial settlement revealed almost no post-settlement mortality.  Temporal analysis revealed that three of 11 loci exhibited segregation distortion at metamorphosis, one of which (Cg205) was followed throughout settlement.  Alternative temporal patterns of selection against each homozygote at Cg205 suggest possible defects in both the competency pathway (inability to initiate metamorphosis) and the morphogenesis pathway (mortality during the metamorphic transition).  QTL mapping of settlement timing identified three individual and one epistatic QTL (29% of the variance explained), however, two of these loci were closely linked to markers exhibiting GDM at metamorphosis, thus making it difficult to distinguish between genetic variance in settlement timing and differential mortality early or late in settlement.  Overall, results from this study highlight the complex temporal patterns of viability selection during metamorphosis and show that endogenous mortality during the larval-juvenile transition appears to be focused during or just prior to metamorphosis.  Fine-scale experimental analysis of settlement can reveal important genetic insights into larval settlement behavior and the sources of larval mortality, and future studies should be able to further dissect the functional targets of selection during metamorphosis.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084616', [], [u'University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science']]
[u'The natural selection of metabolism and mass selects allometric transitions from prokaryotes to mammals', ['Lars Witting'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Inter-specific body mass allometries can evolve from the natural selection of mass, with +-1/4 and +-3/4 exponents following from the geometry of intra-specific interactions when density dependent foraging occurs in two spatial dimensions (2D, Witting, 1995). The corresponding values for three dimensional interactions (3D) are +-1/6 and +-5/6. \n\t\nBut the allometric exponents in mobile organisms are more diverse than the prediction. The exponent for mass specific metabolism tends to cluster around -1/4 and -1/6 in terrestrial and pelagic vertebrates, but it is strongly positive in prokaryotes with an apparent value around 5/6 (DeLong et al., 2010). And a value around zero has been reported in protozoa, and on the macro evolutionary scale from prokaryotes over larger unicells to multicellular vertebrates (Makarieva et al., 2005, 2008).\n\nI show that mass specific metabolism can be selected as the pace of the resource handling that generates net energy for self-replication and the selection of mass, and that this selection of metabolism and mass is sufficient to explain metabolic exponents that decline from 5/6 over zero to -1/6 in 3D, and from 3/4 over zero to -1/4 in 2D. The decline follows from a decline in the importance of mass specific metabolism for the selection of mass, and it suggests i) that the body mass variation in prokaryotes is selected from primary variation in mass specific metabolism, ii) that the variation in multicellular animals are selected from primary variation in the handling and/or densities of the underlying resources, iii) that protozoa are selected as an intermediate lifeform between prokaryotes and multicellular animals, and iv) that macro evolution proceeds along an upper bound on mass specific metabolism.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084624', [], [u'Greenland Institute of Natural Resources']]
[u'Visual processing mode switching regulated by VIP cells', ['Jung Hoon Lee', 'Stefan Mihalas'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'The responses of neurons in mouse primary visual cortex (V1) to visual stimuli depend on behavioral states. Specifically, surround suppression is reduced during locomotion. Although locomotion-induced vasoactive intestinal polypeptide positive (VIP) interneuron depolarization can account for the reduction of surround suppression, the functions of VIP cell depolarization are not fully understood. Here we utilize a firing rate model and a computational model to elucidate the potential functions of VIP cell depolarization during locomotion. Our analyses suggest 1) that surround suppression sharpens the visual responses in V1 to a stationary scene, 2) that depolarized VIP cells enhance V1 responses to moving objects by reducing self-generated surround suppression and 3) that during locomotion V1 neuron responses to some features of the moving objects can be selectively enhanced. Thus, VIP cells regulate surround suppression to allow pyramidal neurons to optimally encode visual information independent of behavioral state.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084632', [], [u'Allen Institute for Brain Science']]
[u'Phenopolis: an open platform for harmonization and analysis of sequencing and phenotype data', ['Nikolas Pontikos', 'Jing Yu', 'Fiona Blanco-Kelly', 'Tom Vulliamy', 'Tsz Lun Wong', 'Cian Murphy', 'Valentina Cipriani', 'Alessia Fiorentino', 'Gavin Arno', 'Daniel Greene', 'Julius OB Jacobsen', 'Tristan Clark', 'David S Gregory', 'Andrea Nemeth', 'Stephanie Halford', 'Susan Downes', 'Graeme C Black', 'Andrew R Webster', 'Alison Hardcastle', 'Vincent Plagnol'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Summary:  Phenopolis is an open-source web server which provides an intuitive interface to genetic and phenotypic databases. It integrates analysis tools which include variant filtering and gene prioritisation based on phenotype. The Phenopolis platform will accelerate clinical diagnosis, gene discovery and encourage wider adoption of the Human Phenotype Ontology in the study of rare disease.  Availability and Implementation:  A demo of the website is available at http://phenopolis.github.io (username: demo, password: demo123). If you wish to install a local copy, souce code and installation instruction are available at https://github.com/pontikos/phenopolis. The software is implemented using Python, MongoDB, HTML/Javascript and various bash shell scripts.  Contact: n.pontikos@ucl.ac.uk  Supplementary information: http://phenopolis.github.io', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084582', [], [u'University College London;', u'Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford;', u'UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London;', u'Barts and The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London;', u'UCL Genetics Institute, University College London;', u'University of Cambridge, NHS Blood and Transplant, Cambridge Biomedical Campus;', u"Barts and The London, Queen Mary's School of Medicine and Dentistry;", u'Computer Science Department, University College London;', u'Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences University of Oxford;', u'Oxford Eye Hospital, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford;', u'Manchester Royal Eye Hospital, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust;', u'Moorfields Eye Hospital, London']]
[u'Ploidy tug-of-war: evolutionary and genetic environments influence the rate of ploidy drive in a human fungal pathogen', ['Aleeza Gerstein', 'Heekyung Lim', 'Judith Berman', 'Meleah Hickman'], u'October 31, 2016.', u"Variation in baseline ploidy is seen throughout the tree of life, yet the factors that determine why one ploidy level is selected over another remain poorly understood. Experimental evolution studies using asexual fungal microbes with manipulated initial genome sizes intriguingly reveals a propensity to return to the historical baseline ploidy level, a phenomenon that we term here as 'ploidy drive'. To assess whether evolution under nutrient limitation, an environmental condition hypothesized to select for low ploidy levels, could counteract ploidy drive, we evolved haploid, diploid and polyploid strains of the human fungal pathogen Candida albicans. We found that strains indeed tended to maintain or acquire smaller genome sizes in a minimal medium and under phosphorus depletion compared to in a complete medium, yet tended to maintain or acquire increased genome sizes under nitrogen depletion. Genetic background also contributed to ploidy drive dynamics, as one diploid and one polyploid genotype were markedly less stable than others. Combined, this work demonstrates a role for both the environment and genotype in determination of the rate of ploidy drive.", u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084467', [], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'Tel Aviv University;', u'Emory University']]
[u'Power calculator for instrumental variable analysis in pharmacoepidemiology', ['Venexia M Walker', 'Neil M Davies', 'Frank Windmeijer', 'Stephen Burgess', 'Richard M Martin'], u'October 31, 2016.', u"Background: Instrumental variable analysis, for example with physicians' prescribing preferences as an instrument for medications issued in primary care, is an increasingly popular method in the field of pharmacoepidemiology. Existing power calculators for studies using instrumental variable analysis, such as Mendelian randomisation power calculators, do not allow for the structure of research questions in this field. This is because the analysis in pharmacoepidemiology will typically have stronger instruments and detect larger causal effects than in other fields. Consequently, there is a need for dedicated power calculators for pharmacoepidemiological research. \n\nMethods and results: The formula for calculating the power of a study using instrumental variable analysis in the context of pharmacoepidemiology is derived before being validated by a simulation study. The formula is applicable for studies using a single binary instrument to analyse the causal effect of a binary exposure on a continuous outcome. A web application is provided for the implementation of the formula by others. \n\nConclusions: The statistical power of instrumental variable analysis in pharmacoepidemiological studies to detect a clinically meaningful treatment effect is an important consideration. Research questions in this field have distinct structures that must be accounted for when calculating power.", u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084541', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Bristol;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'EuMicrobedbLite: A lightweight genomic resource and analytic platform for draft oomycete genomes', ['Arijit Panda', 'Diya Sen', 'Arup Ghosh', 'Akash Gupta', 'Mathu Malar C', 'Gyan Prakash Mishra', 'Deeksha Singh', 'Wenwu Ye', 'Brett M. Tyler', 'Sucheta Tripathy'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'We have developed EuMicrobedbLite  A light weight comprehensive genome resource and sequence analysis platform for oomycete organisms. EuMicrobedbLite is a successor of the VBI Microbial Database (VMD) that was built using the Genome Unified Schema (GUS). In this version, the GUS schema has been greatly simplified with removal of many obsolete modules and redesign of others to incorporate contemporary data. Several dependencies such as perl object layers used for data loading in VMD have been replaced with independent light weight scripts. EumicrobedbLite now runs on a powerful annotation engine developed at our lab called Genome Annotator Lite. Currently this database has 26 publicly available genomes and 10 EST datasets of oomycete organisms. The browser page has dynamic tracks presenting comparative genomics analyses, coding and non-coding data, tRNA genes, repeats and EST alignments. In addition, we have defined 44,777 core conserved proteins from twelve oomycete organisms that form 2974 clusters. Synteny viewing is enabled by incorporation of the Genome Synteny Viewer (GSV) tool. The user interface has undergone major changes for ease of browsing. Queryable comparative genomics information, conserved orthologous genes and pathways are among the new key features updated in this database. The browser has been upgraded to enable user upload of GFF files for quick view of genome annotation comparisons. The toolkit page integrates the EMBOSS package and has a gene prediction tool. Annotations for the organisms are updated once every six months to ensure quality. The database resource is available at www.eumicrobedb.org.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084483', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Indian Institute of Chemical Biology;', u'Oregon State University,Nanjing Agricultural University;', u'Oregon State University']]
[u'A modified FASP protocol for high-throughput preparation of protein samples for mass spectrometry', ['Jeremy Potriquet', 'Marut Laohaviroj', 'Jeffery Bethony', 'Jason Mulvenna'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'To facilitate high-throughput proteomic analyses we have developed a modified FASP protocol which improves the rate at which protein samples can be processed prior to mass spectrometry. Adapting the original FASP protocol to a 96-well format necessitates extended spin times for buffer exchange due to the low centrifugation speeds tolerated by these devices. However, by using 96-well plates with a more robust polyethersulfone molecular weight cutoff membrane, instead of the cellulose membranes typically used in these devices, we could use isopropanol as a wetting agent, decreasing spin times required for buffer exchange from an hour to 30 minutes. In a typical work flow used in our laboratory this equates to a reduction of 3 hours per plate. To test whether our modified protocol produced similar results to FASP and other FASP-like protocols we compared the performance of our modified protocol to the original FASP and the more recently described eFASP and MStern-blot. We show that all FASP-like methods, including our modified protocol, display similar performance in terms of proteins identified and reproducibility. Our results show that our modified FASP protocol is an efficient method for the high-throughput processing of protein samples for mass spectral analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084533', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'QIMR Berghofer MRI;', u'Khon Kaen University;', u'George Washington University']]
[u'Bayesian mapping reveals that attention boosts neural responses to predicted and unpredicted stimuli', ['Marta Garrido', 'Elise Rowe', 'Veronika Halasz', 'Jason Mattingley'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Predictive coding posits that the human brain continually monitors the environment for regularities and detects inconsistencies. It is unclear, however, what effect attention has on expectation processes, as there have been relatively few studies and the results of these have yielded contradictory findings. Here, we employed Bayesian model comparison to adjudicate between two alternative computational models. The Opposition model states that attention boosts neural responses equally to predicted and unpredicted stimuli, whereas the Interaction model assumes that attentional boosting of neural signals depends on the level of predictability. We designed a novel, audiospatial attention task that orthogonally manipulated attention and prediction by playing oddball sequences in either the attended or unattended ear. We observed sensory prediction error responses, with electroencephalography, across all attentional manipulations. Crucially, posterior probability maps revealed that, overall, the Opposition model better explained scalp and source data, suggesting that attention boosts responses to predicted and unpredicted stimuli equally. Furthermore, Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) showed that these Opposition effects were expressed in plastic changes within the mismatch negativity network. Our findings provide empirical evidence for a computational model of the opposing interplay of attention and expectation in the brain.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084517', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Queensland']]
[u'Vertically transmitted rhabdoviruses are found across three insect families and have dynamic interactions with their hosts', ['Ben Longdon', 'Jon Day', 'Nora Schulz', 'Philip T Leftwich', 'Maaike A de Jong', 'Casper J Breuker', 'Melanie Gibbs', 'Darren J Obbard', 'Lena Wilfert', 'Sophia CL Smith', 'John E McGonigle', 'Thomas M Houslay', 'Lucy I Wright', 'Luca Livraghi', 'Luke C Evans', 'Lucy A Friend', 'Tracey Chapman', 'John Vontas', 'Natasa Kambouraki', 'Francis M Jiggins'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'A small number of free-living viruses have been found to be obligately vertically transmitted, but it remains uncertain how widespread vertically transmitted viruses are and how quickly they can spread through host populations. Recent metagenomic studies have found several insects to be infected with sigma viruses (Rhabdoviridae). Here, we report that sigma viruses that infect Mediterranean fruit flies (Ceratitis capitata), Drosophila immigrans, and speckled wood butterflies (Pararge aegeria) are all vertically transmitted. We find patterns of vertical transmission that are consistent with those seen in Drosophila sigma viruses, with high rates of maternal transmission, and lower rates of paternal transmission. This mode of transmission allows them to spread rapidly in populations, and using viral sequence data we found the viruses in D. immigrans and C. capitata had both recently swept through host populations. The viruses were common in nature, with mean prevalences of 12% in C. capitata, 38% in D. immigrans and 74% in P. aegeria.  We conclude that vertically transmitted rhabdoviruses may be widespread in insects, and that these viruses can have dynamic interactions with their hosts.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084558', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Exeter;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Westfalische Wilhelms-Universitat Munster;', u'University of East Anglia;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Oxford Brookes University;', u'Centre for Ecology and Hydrology;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Zoological Society of London;', u'Agricultural University of Athens;', u'fmj1001@cam.ac.uk']]
[u'Minimal-assumption inference from population-genomic data', ['Daniel B Weissman', 'Oskar Hallatschek'], u'October 31, 2016.', u"Samples of multiple complete genome sequences contain vast amounts of information about the evolutionary history of populations, much of it in the associations among polymorphisms at different loci. Current methods that take advantage of this linkage information rely on models of recombination and coalescence, limiting the sample sizes and populations that they can analyze. We introduce a method, Minimal-Assumption Genomic Inference of Coalescence (MAGIC), that reconstructs key features of the evolutionary history, including the distribution of coalescence times, by integrating information across genomic length scales without using an explicit model of recombination, demography or selection. Using simulated data, we show that MAGIC's performance is comparable to PSMC' on single diploid samples generated with standard coalescent and recombination models. More importantly, MAGIC can also analyze arbitrarily large samples and is robust to changes in the coalescent and recombination processes. Using MAGIC, we show that the inferred coalescence time histories of samples of multiple human genomes exhibit inconsistencies with a description in terms of an effective population size based on single-genome data.", u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084459', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Emory University;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'High temporal resolution of gene expression dynamics in developing mouse embryonic stem cells', ['Brian S Gloss', 'Bethany Signal', 'Seth W Cheetham', 'Franziska Gruhl', 'Dominik Kaczorowski', 'Andrew C Perkins', 'Marcel E Dinger'], u'October 31, 2016.', u'Investigations of transcriptional responses during developmental transitions typically use time courses with intervals that are not commensurate with the timescales of known biological processes. Moreover, such experiments typically focus on protein-coding transcripts, ignoring the important impact of long noncoding RNAs. We evaluated coding and noncoding expression dynamics at high temporal resolution (6-hourly) in differentiating mouse embryonic stem cells and report the effects of increased temporal resolution on the characterization of the underlying molecular processes. We present a refined resolution of global transcriptional alterations, including regulatory network interactions, coding and noncoding gene expression changes as well as alternative splicing events, many of which cannot be resolved by existing coarse developmental time-courses. We describe novel short lived and cycling patterns of gene expression and temporally dissect ordered gene expression at bidirectional promoters and responses to transcription factors. These findings demonstrate the importance of temporal resolution for understanding gene interactions in mammalian systems.', u'/content/early/2016/10/31/084442', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Garvan Institute of Medical Research;', u'Gurdon Institute;', u'University of Lausanne;', u'Mater-UQ Research Insitute']]
