[u'Histone code and higher-order chromatin folding: A hypothesis', ['Kirti Prakash', 'David Fournier'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'Histone modifications alone or in combination are thought to modulate chromatin structure and function; a concept termed histone code. By combining evidence from several studies, we investigated if the histone code can play a role in higher-order folding of chromatin. Firstly using genomic data, we analyzed associations between histone modifications at the nucleosome level. We could dissect the composition of individual nucleosomes into five clusters of functionally different histone modifications. Secondly, by assembling the raw reads of histone modifications at various length scales, we noticed that the histone mark relationships that exist at nucleosome level tend to be maintained at higher orders of chromatin folding. Recently, a high-resolution imaging study showed that three histone marks belonging to three of the five predicted clusters show structurally distinct and anti-correlated chromatin domains at the level of chromosomes. This made us think that the histone code can have a significant impact in the overall compaction of DNA: at the level of nucleosomes, at the level of the genes, and finally at the level chromosomes. In this article, we put forward a theory where the histone code drives not only the functionality but also the higher-order folding and compaction of chromatin.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085860', [], [u'Department of Embryology, Carnegie Institution for Science, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA;', u'Faculty of Biology and Center for Computational Sciences, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, 55128']]
[u'Pharmaceutical efficacy of human epiphyseal chondrocytes with differential replication numbers for cellular therapy products', ['Michiyo Nasu', 'Shinichiro Takayama', 'AKIHIRO UMEZAWA'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'The cell-based therapy for cartilage or bone requires a large number of cells serial passages of chondrocytes are, therefore, needed. However, fates of expanded chondrocytes from extra fingers remains unclarified. The chondrocytes from human epiphyses morphologically changed from small polygonal cells, to bipolar elongated spindle cells and to large polygonal cells with degeneration at early passages. Gene of type II collagen was expressed in the cells only at a primary culture (Passage 0) and Passage 1 (P1) cells. The nodules by implantation of P0 to P8 cells were composed of cartilage and perichondrium. The cartilage consisted of chondrocytes with round nuclei and type II collagen-positive matrix, and the perichondrium consisted of spindle cells with type I collage-positive matrix. The cartilage and perichondrium developed to bone with marrow cavity through enchondral ossification. Chondrogenesis and osteogenesis by epiphyseal chondrocytes depended on replication number in culture. It is noteworthy to take population doubling level in correlation with pharmaceutical efficacy into consideration when we use chondrocytes for cell-based therapies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085688', [], [u'National Research Institute for Child Health and Development']]
[u'Gentle, fast and effective crystal soaking by acoustic dispensing', ['Patrick M Collins', 'Jia Tsing Ng', 'Romain Talon', 'Karolina Nekrosiute', 'Tobias Krojer', 'Alice Douangamath', 'Jose Brandao-Neto', 'Nathan Wright', 'Nicholas M Pearce', 'Frank von Delft'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'Abstract\tBright light sources, agile robotics, and fast detectors are continually reducing the time it takes to perform an X-ray diffraction experiment, making high throughput experiments more feasible than ever. But this is also pushing the upstream bottleneck towards sample preparation, even for robust and well characterised crystal systems. Crystal soaking is routinely used to generate protein-ligand complex structures, yet protein crystals are often sensitive to changes in solvent composition, and frequently require gentle or careful stepwise soaking techniques, limiting overall throughput. Here, we describe the use of acoustic droplet ejection for soaking of protein crystals with small molecules, and show that it is both gentle on crystals and allows very high throughput, with 1000 unique soaks easily performed in under 10 minutes. In addition to having very low compound consumption (tens of nanolitres per sample), the positional precision of acoustic droplet ejection enables targeted placement of the compound/solvent away from crystals and towards drop edges, allowing for gradual diffusion of solvent across the drop. This ensures both an improvement in reproducibility of X-ray diffraction and an increased solvent tolerance of the crystals, thus enabling higher effective compound soaking concentrations. We detail the technique here with examples from the protein target JMJD2D, a histone lysine demethylase, having roles in cancer and the focus of active structure based drug design efforts.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085712', [], [u'Diamond Light Source;', u'Structural Genomics Consortium (SGC)']]
[u'Impaired lexical selection with competing distractors: Evidence from left temporal and left prefrontal lesions', ['Vitoria Piai', 'Robert T Knight'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'According to the competition account of lexical selection in word production, conceptually driven word retrieval involves the activation of a set of candidate words in left temporal cortex, and competitive selection of the intended word from this set, regulated by frontal cortical mechanisms. However, the relative contribution of these brain regions to competitive lexical selection has remained unclear. In the present study, five patients with left prefrontal-cortex lesions (overlapping in ventral and dorsal lateral cortex), eight patients with left lateral temporal-cortex lesions (overlapping in middle temporal gyrus), and 13 matched controls performed a picture-word interference task. Distractor words were the picture name itself (congruent condition), semantically related or unrelated to the picture. Semantic interference (related vs unrelated), tapping into competitive lexical selection, was examined. An overall semantic interference effect was observed for the control and left-temporal groups separately. The left-frontal patients did not show a robust semantic interference effect as a group. The left-temporal patients had increased semantic interference in the error rates relative to controls. Error distribution analyses indicated that these patients had more hesitant responses for the related than for the unrelated condition. We argue that left middle temporal lesions affect the lexical activation component, making lexical selection more susceptible to errors. By contrast, the top-down regulation over competitive lexical selection in picture-word interference does not seem to be dependent on the left lateral prefrontal cortex.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085670', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Radboud University & Radboud UMC;', u'Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute & Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Phylogenetic analysis suggests joint control of transmission mode in a grass-endophyte symbiosis', ['Alexandra Lynne Brown', 'Erol Akcay'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'How symbionts are transmitted between hosts is key to determining whether symbioses evolve to be harmful or beneficial. Vertical transmission favors mutualistic symbionts, and horizontal transmission more virulent ones. Transmission mode evolution itself depends on whether the host or symbiont can respond to selection on transmission mode. When hosts control the transmission mode, vertical transmission should evolve under more restrictive circumstances than when symbionts are in control. We take a phylogenetic approach to determine whether the host, symbiont, or both control transmission mode using the pooid grass-epichloid endophyte symbiosis as a model system. This study is the first to investigate control of transmission mode evolution in a phylogenetic context. We find a signal of host phylogeny but only in conjunction with symbiont identity. This pattern suggests joint control of transmission mode by the host and symbiont. It also suggests that non-genetic or non-conserved symbiont traits may determine whether host traits lead to vertical or horizontal transmission.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085746', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'RNA-seq library preparation from single pancreatic acinar cells', ['Damian Wollny', 'Sheng Zhao', 'Ana Martin-Villalba'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'Single cell RNA sequencing technology has emerged as a promising tool to uncover previously neglected cellular heterogeneity. Multiple methods and protocols have been developed to apply single cell sequencing to different cell types from various organs. However, library preparation for RNA sequencing remains challenging for cell types with high RNAse content due to rapid degradation of endogenous RNA molecules upon cell lysis. To this end, we developed a protocol based on the SMART-seq2 technology for single cell RNA sequencing of pancreatic acinar cells, the cell type with one of the highest ribonuclease concentration measured to date. This protocol reliably produces high quality libraries from single acinar cells reaching a total of 5x10^6 reads / cell and ~ 80% transcript mapping rate with no detectable 3 \u0301end bias. Thus, our protocol makes single cell transcriptomics accessible to cell type with very high RNAse content.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085696', [u'Genomics'], [u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ)']]
[u'A modification-specific peptide-based immunization approach using CRM197 carrier protein: Development of a selective vaccine against pyroglutamate A\u03b2 peptides', ['Valerie Vingtdeux', 'Haitian Zhao', 'Pallavi Chandakkar', 'Christopher Acker', 'Peter Davies', 'Philippe Marambaud'], u'November 4, 2016.', u"Strategies aimed at reducing cerebral accumulation of the amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) peptides have therapeutic potential in Alzheimer's disease (AD).  A\u03b2 immunization has proven to be effective at promoting A\u03b2 clearance in animal models but adverse effects have hampered its clinical evaluation. The first anti-A\u03b2 immunization clinical trial, which assessed a full-length A\u03b21-42 vaccine, increased the risk of encephalitis most likely because of autoimmune pro-inflammatory T helper 1 (Th1) response against all forms of A\u03b2. Immunization against less abundant but potentially more pathologically relevant A\u03b2 products, such as N-terminally-truncated pyroglutamate-3 A\u03b2 (A\u03b2pE3), could provide efficacy and improve tolerability in A\u03b2 immunotherapy. Here, we describe a selective vaccine against A\u03b2pE3 using the diphtheria toxin mutant CRM197 as carrier protein for epitope presentation. CRM197 is currently used in licensed vaccines and has demonstrated excellent immunogenicity and safety in humans. In mice, our A\u03b2pE3:CRM197 vaccine triggered the production of specific anti-A\u03b2pE3 antibodies that did not cross-react with A\u03b21-42, non-cyclized A\u03b2E3, or N-terminally-truncated pyroglutamate-11 A\u03b2 (A\u03b2pE11). A\u03b2pE3:CRM197 antiserum strongly labeled A\u03b2pE3 in insoluble protein extracts and decorated cortical amyloid plaques in human AD brains. Anti-A\u03b2pE3 antibodies were almost exclusively of the IgG1 isotype, suggesting an anti-inflammatory Th2 response bias to the A\u03b2pE3:CRM197 vaccine. To the best of our knowledge, this study shows for the first time that CRM197 has potential as a safe and suitable vaccine carrier for active and selective immunization against specific protein sequence modifications or conformations, such as A\u03b2pE3.", u'/content/early/2016/11/04/084913', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research - Northwell Health']]
[u'Drosophila BEACH domain autophagic adaptor blue cheese shuttles between vesicle populations and is required for an early step in autophagy', ['Joan Sim', 'Kathleen Amy Osborne', 'Irene Argudo Garcia', 'Artur Matysik', 'Rachel Kraut'], u'November 4, 2016.', u"Drosophila melanogaster blue cheese (bchs) encodes a large BEACH (Beige and Chediak-Higashi) family protein that is postulated to function as an adaptor protein with roles in vesicle trafficking. Mutation in bchs leads to the accumulation of ubiquitinated aggregates in aged brains, presumably because of a conserved function with its human homologue Autophagy-Linked FYVE (ALFY), which interacts with Atg5 and p62 to promote the clearance of aggregate-prone proteins. In this study, we present pharmacological and genetic evidence using a well-defined larval motorneuron paradigm that in Drosophila bchs mutants, autophagic deficit contributes to neurodegeneration. Specifically, we show that motorneuron death in larvae is accompanied by the accumulation of prominent ubiquitinated aggregates in synaptic termini, and that these are sensitive to autophagy modulating drugs. In primary bchs neurons, early autophagic compartments increase in number and intensity based on Atg5 expression, but fail to progress to Atg8-labelled compartments, indicating non-clearance. A rescuing transgene encoding the longest Bchs BEACH domain isoform not only reverses this defect, but also greatly increases Atg8 compartment number and rescues neuronal death.  Although only a small fraction of Bchs colocalizes with these markers under wild-type conditions, the population of Bchs that does associate with autophagosomes shuttles between different locations depending on how autophagy is induced. These observations, together with epistatic relationships between bchs mutant alleles and autophagy-modulating drugs and genetic backgrounds, points to a model whereby BEACH domain isoforms of Bchs participate in the early steps of autophagy by recruiting Atg5 to target substrates for clearance, and that Bchs' association with different parts of the autophagy machinery depends upon the type of autophagic stress imposed upon the neuron.", u'/content/early/2016/11/04/084434', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Neuroscience Institute Singapore;', u'Nanyang Technological University']]
[u'Sequence kernel association tests for large sets of markers: tail probabilities for large quadratic forms', ['Thomas Lumley', 'Jennifer A Brody', 'Gina Peloso', 'Kenneth Rice'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'The Sequence Kernel Association Test (SKAT) is widely used to test for associations between a phenotype and a set of (usually rare) genetic variants.  Evaluating tail probabilities or quantiles of the null distribution for SKAT requires computing the eigenvalues of a matrix related to the genotype covariance between markers. Extracting the full set of eigenvalues of this matrix (an n x n matrix, for n subjects) has computational complexity proportional to n^3. As SKAT is used when n>10^4 is common, this step becomes a major bottleneck in its use. We propose fastSKAT, a new computationally-inexpensive but accurate approximations to the tail probabilities, in which the k largest eigenvalues of a weighted genotype covariance matrix or the largest singular values of a weighted genotype matrix are extracted, and a single term based on the Satterthwaite approximation is used for the remaining eigenvalues. While the method is not particularly sensitive to the choice of k, we also describe how to choose its value, and show how fastSKAT can automatically alert users to the rare cases where the choice may affect results. As well as providing faster implementation of SKAT, the new method also enables entirely new applications of SKAT, that were not possible before; we give examples grouping variants by topologically assisted domains, and comparing chromosome-wide association by class of histone marker.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085639', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Statistics, University of Auckland;', u'Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, University of Washington;', u'Boston University, Department of Biostatistics;', u'University of Washington, Department of Biostatistics']]
[u'Secure Wavelet Matrix: Alphabet-Friendly Privacy-Preserving String Search', ['Hiroki Sudo', 'Masanobu Jimbo', 'Koji Nuida', 'Kana Shimizu'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'Motivation: Privacy-preserving substring matching is an important task for sensitive biological/biomedical sequence database searches. It enables a user to obtain only a substring match while his/her query is concealed to a server. The previous approach for this task is based on a linear-time algorithm in terms of alphabet size |\u03a3|. Therefore, a more efficient method is needed to deal with strings with large alphabet size such as a protein sequence, time-series data, and a clinical document.\nResults: We present a novel algorithm that can search a string in logarithmic time of |\u03a3|. In our algorithm, named secure wavelet matrix (sWM), we use an additively homomorphic encryption to build an efficient data structure called a wavelet matrix. In an experiment using a simulated string of length 10,000 whose alphabet size ranges from 4 to 1024, the run time of the sWM was an order of magnitude faster than that of the previous method. We also tested the sWM on all sequences of one protein family in Pfam (9,826 residues in total) and clinical texts written in a natural language (77,712 letters in total). By using a laptop computer for the user and a desktop PC for the server, we found that its run time was \u22482.5 s (user) and \u22486.7 s (server) for the protein sequences and \u224810 s (user) and \u224860 s (server) for the clinical texts.\nAvailability: https://github.com/cBioLab/sWM', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085647', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Waseda University;', u'National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology']]
[u'Phase-coherence classification: a new wavelet-based method to separate local field potentials into local (in)coherent and volume-conducted components', ['Michael von Papen', 'Haidar Dafsari', 'Esther Florin', 'Felix Gerick', 'Lars Timmermann', 'Joachim Saur'], u'November 4, 2016.', u"Local field potentials (LFP) reflect the integrated electrophysiological activity of a large group of neurons. To minimize influence of external activity on the analysis, conventionally bipolar recordings are used to eliminate volume-conducted signals. Here we introduce a novel method, called phase-coherence classification (PCC), to separate LFP in time-frequency domain into a volume-conducted, a local incoherent and local coherent signal. The PCC allows to compute the power spectral densities of each signal and to associate each class with possible locations of electrophysiological activity. In order to test the resolution properties and accuracy of the method we generate composite and non-stationary synthetic time series with similar statistical characteristics as measured LFP. The PCC identifies volume-conducted signals with a phase threshold that is determined from probability density functions of non-phase-shifted synthetic time series. We estimate optimal PCC parameters for the analysis of beta band oscillations in LFP and apply the PCC to a test data set obtained from within the subthalamic nucleus of eight patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). We show that PCC can identify activity of multiple local clusters during a tremor episode and quantify the relative power of local and volume-conducted signals. We further analyze the electrophysiological response to an apomorphine injection during rest and show that incoherent activity in the low beta band shows a significant medication-induced decrease. We further find significant movement-induced changes on medication of the local coherent signal, which increased during an isometric hold task and decreased during phasic wrist movement. This indicates a different role of incoherent and coherent signals possibly related to physiologically different networks. This new PCC method can potentially also be applied to EEG and MEG data in order to minimize the influence of spatial leakage on power spectra and coherence estimates.", u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085605', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cologne;', u'University Hospital Cologne;', u'Heinrich-Heine-University Duesseldorf']]
[u'Genome-wide analysis of human putative transcriptional target genes reveals significant functional enrichments', ['Naoki Osato'], u'November 4, 2016.', u'Functional enrichments of putative transcriptional target genes have been utilized to understand the functions of transcription factors and cascades in a cell. To investigate their features, transcriptional target genes were predicted using open chromatin regions of human immune and ES cells, as well as known transcription factor binding sequences. Gene Ontology annotations showed four times larger numbers of functional enrichments in putative transcriptional target genes than gene expression information alone in the cell types. More than two times larger numbers of functional enrichments in putative target genes was observed using forward-reverse orientation of CTCF-binding sites than without them. These analyses would be useful to find genomic features involved in chromatin interaction and improve the prediction of transcriptional target genes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/04/085654', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Osaka University']]
