[u'Host-selected mutations converging on a global regulator drive an adaptive leap by bacteria to symbiosis', ['M Sabrina Pankey', 'Randi L Foxall', 'Ian M Ster', 'Lauren A Perry', 'Brian M Schuster', 'Rachel A Donner', 'Matthew R Coyle', 'Vaughn S Cooper', 'Cheryl A Whistler'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Even though eukaryote health relies on beneficial symbionts, host defenses targeting pathogens create substantial obstacles for the establishment of these essential partnerships. To reveal mechanisms of symbiotic adaptation, we experimentally evolved ecologically distinct bioluminescent Vibrio fischeri through Euprymna scolopes squid light organs. Serial passaging of V. fischeri populations through squid hosts produced eight distinct mutations in the binK sensor kinase gene that conferred an exceptional selective advantage demonstrated through both empirical and theoretical analysis. Squid-adaptive binK alleles promoted colonization and immune evasion behavior which was mediated by symbiotic polysaccharide (Syp). binK variation also produced metabolic convergence with native symbionts, and altered quorum sensing and luminescence. Preexisting coordination of symbiosis traits facilitated an efficient solution where altered function of a regulator was the key to unlock multiple colonization barriers. These results identify a genetic basis for microbial adaptability and underscore the importance of hosts as selective agents that shape emergent symbiont populations.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/067025', [], [u'University of New Hampshire;', u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'The Preprocessed Connectomes Project Repository of Manually Corrected Skull-stripped T1-weighted Anatomical MRI Data.', ['Benjamin Puccio', 'James P Pooley', 'John S Pellman', 'Elyse C Taverna', 'Richard Cameron Craddock'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Background: Skull-stripping is the procedure of removing non-brain tissue from anatomical MRI data. This procedure is necessary for calculating brain volume and for improving the quality of other image processing steps. Developing new skull-stripping algorithms and evaluating their performance requires gold standard data from a variety of different scanners and acquisition methods. We complement existing repositories with manually-corrected brain masks for 125 T1-weighted anatomical scans from the Nathan Kline Institute Enhanced Rockland Sample Neurofeedback Study.\n\nFindings: Skull-stripped images were obtained using a semi-automated procedure that involved skull-stripping the data using the brain extraction based on non local segmentation technique (BEaST) software and manually correcting the worst results. Corrected brain masks were added into the BEaST library and the procedure was reiterated until acceptable brain masks were available for all images. In total, 85 of the skull-stripped images were hand-edited and 40 were deemed to not need editing. The results are brain masks for the 125 images along with a BEaST library for automatically skull-stripping other data.\n\nConclusion: Skull-stripped anatomical images from the Neurofeedback sample are available for download from the Preprocessed Connectomes Project. The resulting brain masks can be used by researchers to improve their preprocessing of the Neurofeedback data, and as training and testing data for developing new skull-stripping algorithms and evaluating the impact on other aspects of MRI preprocessing. We have illustrated the utility of these data as a reference for comparing various automatic methods and evaluated the performance of the newly created library on independent data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/067017', [], [u'Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research;', u'Child Mind Institute']]
[u"Hypothesis Tests for Neyman's Bias in Case-Control Studies", ['David Swanson', 'Rebecca Betensky', 'Chris Anderson'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Survival bias is a long-recognized problem in case-control studies, and many varieties of bias can come under this umbrella term. We focus on one of them, termed Neyman\'s bias or "prevalence-incidence bias." It occurs in case-control studies when exposure affects both disease and disease-induced mortality, and we give a formula for the observed, biased odds ratio under such conditions. We compare our result with previous investigations into this phenomenon and consider models under which this bias may or may not be important. Finally, we propose three hypothesis tests to identify when Neyman\'s bias may be present in case-control studies. We apply these tests to three data sets, one of stroke mortality, another of brain tumors, and the last of atrial fibrillation, and find some evidence of Neyman\'s bias in the former two cases, but not the last case.\nKeywords: odds ratio; survival bias; truncation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066902', [], [u'GNS Healthcare;', u'Harvard School of Public Health;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'A rodent model of social rejection', ['Haozhe Shan', 'Inbal Ben-Ami Bartal', 'Peggy Mason'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Rats help conspecifics by releasing them from a restrainer only when they have previous social experience with the strain of the restrained rat. When rats have been cross-fostered with rats of a different strain than their own since birth and have never interacted with rats of their own strain, they do not help rats of their own strain when tested as adults. Here we interrogated whether a cross-fostered rat expressed his lack of motivation to help through any behaviors beyond not-helping. Accordingly, a cross-fostered rat was placed in an arena with a trapped rat and the door to the centrally located restrainer was taped shut. We found that cross-fostered rats moved more slowly and approached the trapped rat less than did control, regularly-raised rats tested under the same conditions. We then asked whether the behavior of the cross-fostered rats influenced the trapped rat. After being restrained with cross-fostered rats, trapped rats showed a decrease in exploratory behavior in an open field test compared to trapped rats who were raised normally. The same decrease in movement was observed after subject rats were allowed to freely interact with cross-fostered rats. These results suggest that rats that do not help demonstrate their disinterest to a trapped rat and that trapped rats exposed to apathetic rats show behavior suggestive of an increase in anxiety. In sum, the paradigm introduced here could serve as a rodent model for social rejection.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066993.2', [], [u'University of Chicago;', u'UC - Berkeley']]
[u'Deep Learning-based Pipeline to Recognize Alzheimer\u2032s Disease using fMRI Data', ['Saman Sarraf', 'Ghassem Tofighi'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Over the past decade, machine learning techniques and in particular predictive modeling and pattern recognition in biomedical sciences, from drug delivery systems to medical imaging, have become one of the most important methods of assisting researchers in gaining a deeper understanding of issues in their entirety and solving complex medical problems. Deep learning is a powerful machine learning algorithm in classification that extracts low- to high-level features. In this paper, we employ a convolutional neural network to distinguish an Alzheimer\u2032s brain from a normal, healthy brain. The importance of classifying this type of medical data lies in its potential to develop a predictive model or system in order to recognize the symptoms of Alzheimer\u2032s disease when compared with normal subjects and to estimate the stages of the disease. Classification of clinical data for medical conditions such as Alzheimer\u2032s disease has always been challenging, and the most problematic aspect has always been selecting the strongest discriminative features. Using the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) and the famous architecture LeNet-5, we successfully classified functional MRI data of Alzheimer\u2032s subjects from normal controls, where the accuracy of testing data reached 96.85%. This experiment suggests that the shift and scale invariant features extracted by CNN followed by deep learning classification represents the most powerful method of distinguishing clinical data from healthy data in fMRI. This approach also allows for expansion of the methodology to predict more complicated systems.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066910', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, L8S4L8, Canada;', u'Electrical and Computer Engineering Department, Ryerson University, Toronto, ON M5B2K3 Canada']]
[u'Characteristic arrangement of nucleosomes is predictive of chromatin interactions at kilobase resolution', ['Hui Zhang', 'Feifei Li', 'Yan Jia', 'Bingxiang Xu', 'Yiqun Zhang', 'Xiaoli Li', 'Zhihua Zhang'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'High-throughput chromosome conformation capture technologies, such as Hi-C, have made it possible to survey 3D genome structure. However, the ability to obtain 3D profiles at kilobase resolution at low cost remains a major challenge. Therefore, we herein report a computational method to precisely identify chromatin interaction sites at kilobase resolution from MNase-seq data, termed chromatin interaction site detector (CISD), and a CISD-based chromatin loop predictor (CISD_loop) that predicts chromatin-chromatin interaction (CCI) from low-resolution Hi-C data. The methods are built on a hypothesis that CCIs result in a characteristic nucleosome arrangement pattern flanking the interaction sites. Accordingly, we show that the predictions of CISD and CISD_loop overlap closely with chromatin interaction analysis by paired-end tag sequencing (ChIA-PET) anchors and loops, respectively. Moreover, the methods trained in one cell type can be applied to other cell types with high accuracy. The validity of the methods was further supported by chromosome conformation capture (3C) experiments at 5kb resolution. Finally, we demonstrate that only modest amounts of MNase-seq and Hi-C data are sufficient to achieve ultrahigh resolution CCI map. The predictive power of CISD/CISD_loop supports the hypothesis that CCIs induce local nucleosome rearrangement and that the pattern may serve as probes for 3D dynamics of the genome. Thus, our method will facilitate precise and systematic investigations of the interactions between distal regulatory elements on a larger scale than hitherto have been possible.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/060327', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Beijing Institute of Genomics, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'MethFlowVM: a virtual machine for the integral analysis of bisulfite sequencing data', ['Ricardo Lebron', 'Guillermo Barturen', 'Cristina Gomez-Martin', 'Jose L Oliver', 'Michael Hackenberg'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'The analysis of whole genome DNA methylation patterns is an important first step towards the understanding on how DNA methylation is involved in the regulation of gene expression and genome stability. \nPreviously, we published MethylExtract, a program for DNA methylation profiling and genotyping from the same sample. Over the last years we developed it further into a methylation analysis pipeline that allows to take full advantage of novel genome assembly models. The result is a new pipeline termed MethFlow which permits both, profiling of methylation levels and differential methylation analysis. \nFrequently DNA methylation research is carried out in the biomedical field, where privacy issues play an important role. Therefore we implemented the pipeline into a virtual machine termed MethFlowVM which shares with a web-server its user-friendliness however, the decisive advantage is that the sequencing data does not leave the user desktop or server and therefore no privacy issues do exist.\nThe virtual machine is available at: http://bioinfo2.ugr.es:8080/MethFlow/', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066795', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Granada;', u'Genyo']]
[u'Inhibition of cell proliferation does not slow down echinoderm neural regeneration', ['Vladimir Mashanov', 'Olga Zueva', 'Jose Garcia-Arraras'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Background: Regeneration of the damaged central nervous system is one of the most interesting post-embryonic developmental phenomena. Two distinct cellular events have been implicated in supplying regenerative neurogenesis with cellular material -- generation of new cells through cell proliferation and recruitment of already existing cells through cell migration. The relative contribution and importance of these two mechanisms is often unknown.\n\nMethods: Here, we use the regenerating radial nerve cord (RNC) of the echinoderm Holothuria glaberrima as a model of extensive post-traumatic neurogenesis in the deuterostome central nervous system. To uncouple the effects of cell proliferation from those of cell migration, we treated regenerating animals with aphidicolin, a specific inhibitor of S-phase DNA replication. Cell migration was tracked with vital staining with the lipophilic dye DiI.\n\nResults: Aphidicolin treatment resulted in a significant 2.1-fold decrease in cell proliferation. In spite of this, the regenerating RNC in the treated animals did not differ in histological architecture, size and cell number from its counterpart in the control vehicle-treated animals. DiI labeling showed extensive cell migration in the RNC. Some cells migrated from as far as 2 mm away from the injury plane to contribute to the neural outgrowth.\n\nConclusions: We suggest that inhibition of cell division in the regenerating RNC of H. glaberrima is compensated for by recruitment of cells, which migrate into the RNC outgrowth from deeper regions of the neuroepithelium. Neural regeneration in echinoderms is thus a highly regulative developmental phenomenon, in which the size of the cell pool can be controlled either by cell proliferation or cell migration, and the latter can neutralize perturbations in the former.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066860', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of North Florida;', u'University of Puerto Rico']]
[u'Detecting Epistasis in Genome-wide Association Studies with the Marginal EPIstasis Test', ['Lorin Crawford', 'Sayan Mukherjee', 'Xiang Zhou'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'Epistasis, commonly defined as the interaction between multiple genes, is an important genetic component underlying phenotypic variation. Many statistical methods have been developed to model and identify epistatic interactions between genetic variants. However, because of the large combinatorial search space of interactions, most epistasis mapping methods face enormous computational challenges and often suffer from low statistical power. Here, we present a novel, alternative strategy for mapping epistasis: instead of directly identifying individual pairwise or higher-order interactions, we focus on mapping variants that have non-zero marginal  epistatic effects --- the combined pairwise interaction effects between the given variant and all other variants. By testing marginal epistatic effects, we can identify candidate variants that are involved in epistasis without the need to identify the exact partners with which the variants interact, thus potentially alleviating much of the statistical and computational burden associated with standard epistatic mapping procedures. Our method is based on the variance component model, and relies on a recently developed variance component estimation method for efficient parameter inference and p-value computation. We refer to our method as the "Marginal EPIstasis Test", or MEPIT. With simulations, we show how MEPIT can be used to robustly estimate marginal epistatic effects, produce calibrated test statistics under the null, and facilitate the detection of pairwise epistatic interactions. We further illustrate the benefits of MEPIT on several real datasets, including seven common diseases from the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, as well as body composition traits from a swine genome-wide association study.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066985', [u'Genetics'], [u'Duke University;', u'University of Michigan']]
[u'The domesticated brain: genetics of brain mass and brain structure in an avian species', ['Rie Henriksen', 'Martin Johnsson', 'Leif Andersson', 'Per Jensen', 'Dominic Wright'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'As brain size usually increases with body size it has been assumed that the two are tightly constrained and evolutionary studies have therefore often been based on relative brain size (i.e. brain size proportional to body size) instead of absolute brain size. The process of domestication offers an excellent opportunity to disentangle the linkage between body and brain mass due to the extreme selection for increased body mass that has occurred. By breeding an intercross between domestic chicken and their wild progenitor, we address this relationship by simultaneously mapping the genes that control inter-population variation in brain mass and body mass. Loci controlling variation in brain mass and body mass have separate genetic architectures and are therefore not directly constrained. Genetic mapping of brain regions in the intercross indicates that domestication has led to a larger body mass and to a lesser extent a larger absolute brain mass in chickens, mainly due to enlargement of the cerebellum. Domestication has traditionally been linked to brain mass regression, based on measurements of relative brain mass, which confounds the large body mass augmentation due to domestication. Our results refute this concept in chicken and confirm recent studies that show that different genetic architectures underlie these traits.', u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066977', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Linkoping University;', u'Uppsala University']]
[u'Perception Enhancement using Visual Attributes in Sequence Motif Visualization', ['Wei Ying Kok', 'Yin Bee Oon', 'Nung Kion Lee'], u'July 31, 2016.', u"Sequence logo is a well-accepted scientific method to visualize the conservation characteristics of biological sequence motifs. Previous studies found that using sequence logo graphical representation for scientific evidence reports or arguments could seriously cause biases and misinterpretation by users. This study investigates on the visual attributes performance of a sequence logo in helping users to perceive and interpret the information based on preattentive theories and Gestalt principles of perception. A survey was conducted to gather users' opinion after being presented with several alternative design details to perform selected tasks on motif analysis. Analysis of results showed that there are improvements needed on the use of colour, negative space, size, and arrangement of the nucleotides, richness of information and interactivity aspect in a sequence logo visualization. These improvements can alleviate biases and misinterpretation of the results in sequence logo visualization.", u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066928', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Cognitive Science, Universiti Malaysia Sarawak']]
[u'Training and spontaneous reinforcement of neuronal assemblies by spike timing', ['Gabriel Koch Ocker', 'Brent Doiron'], u'July 31, 2016.', u'The synaptic connectivity of cortex is plastic, with experience shaping the ongoing interactions between neurons. Theoretical studies of spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) have focused on either just pairs of neurons or large-scale simulations where analytic insight is lacking. A simple account for how fast spike time correlations affect both micro- and macroscopic network structure remains lacking. We develop a low-dimensional mean field theory showing how STDP gives rise to strongly coupled assemblies of neurons with shared stimulus preferences, with the connectivity actively reinforced by spike train correlations during spontaneous dynamics. Furthermore, the stimulus coding by cell assemblies is actively maintained by these internally generated spiking correlations, suggesting a new role for noise correlations in neural coding. Assembly formation has been often associated with firing rate-based plasticity schemes; our theory provides an alternative and complementary framework, where temporal correlations and STDP form and actively maintain learned structure in cortical networks.', u'/content/early/2016/07/30/066969', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Allen Institute for Brain Science;', u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Personalized prediction of circadian time from gene expression in human blood', ['Jacob Hughey'], u'July 31, 2016.', u"Measuring the body's response to treatments for circadian dysfunction, as well as optimizing the daily timing of treatments for other health conditions, requires a method for accurately tracking the state of a person's circadian clock. We used a recently developed method called ZeitZeiger to predict circadian time (CT, time of day according to the circadian clock) from genome-wide gene expression in human blood. In 10-fold cross-validation on 498 samples from 60 individuals across three publicly available datasets, ZeitZeiger predicted CT with a median absolute error of 2.1 h. The predictor trained on all 498 samples used 15 genes, only two of which are part of the core circadian clock. We then extended ZeitZeiger to make predictions for groups of samples and to personalize predictions using samples from only the respective individual. Each of these strategies improved accuracy by ~20%. Our results are an important step towards precision circadian medicine.", u'/content/early/2016/07/31/066126', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Vanderbilt University School of Medicine']]
