[u'TelomereHunter: telomere content estimation and characterization from whole genome sequencing data', ['Lars Feuerbach', 'Lina Sieverling', 'Katharina Deeg', 'Philip Ginsbach', 'Barbara Hutter', 'Ivo Buchhalter', 'Paul A Northcott', 'Peter Lichter', 'Stefan M Pfister', 'David TW Jones', 'Karsten Rippe', 'Benedikt Brors'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Abstract\n\nSummary: Telomere shortening plays an important role in cellular aging and tumor suppression. The availability of large next-generation sequencing cohorts of matched tumor and control samples enables a computational high-throughput analysis of changes in telomere content and composition in cancer. Here we describe a novel software tool specifically tailored for the processing of large data collections.\n\nAvailability and Implementation: TelomereHunter is implemented as a python package. It is freely available online at:\nwww.dkfz.de/en/applied-bioinformatics/telomerehunter/telomerehunter.html.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065532', [], [u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ)']]
[u'Patterns of individual variation in visual pathway structure and function in the sighted and blind', ['Geoffrey Karl Aguirre', 'Ritobrato Datta', 'Noah Benson', 'Sashank Prasad', 'Samuel G Jacobson', 'Artur V Cideciyan', 'Holly Bridge', 'Kate Watkins', 'Omar H Butt', 'Alexsandra S Dain', 'Lauren Brandes', 'Efstathios Gennatas'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Many structural and functional brain alterations accompany blindness. In normally sighted people, there is correlated individual variation in some visual pathway structures. Here we examined if the changes in brain anatomy produced by blindness alter this pattern of variation. We derived eight measures of central visual pathway anatomy from an MPRAGE image of the brain from 59 sighted and 53 blind people. These measures showed highly significant differences in mean size between the sighted and blind cohorts. When we examined the measurements across individuals within each group, we found three clusters of correlated variation, with V1 surface area and pericalcarine volume linked, and independent of the thickness of V1 cortex. These two clusters were in turn relatively independent of the volumes of the optic chiasm and lateral geniculate nucleus. This same pattern of variation in visual pathway anatomy was found in the sighted and the blind. Anatomical changes within these clusters were graded by the duration of blindness, with those subjects with a post-natal onset of blindness having alterations in brain anatomy that were intermediate to those seen in the sighted and congenitally blind. Many of the blind and sighted subjects also contributed BOLD fMRI measures of cross-modal responses within visual cortex, and a diffusion tensor imaging measure of fractional anisotropy within the optic radiations and the splenium of the corpus callosum. We again found group differences between the blind and sighted in these measures. The previously identified clusters of anatomical variation were also found to be differentially related to these additional measures: across subjects, V1 cortical thickness was related to cross-modal activation, and the volume of the optic chiasm and lateral geniculate was related to fractional anisotropy in the visual pathway. Our findings show that several of the structural and functional effects of blindness may be reduced to a smaller set of dimensions. It also seems that the changes in the brain that accompany blindness are on a continuum with normal variation found in the sighted.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065441', [], [u'Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania;', u'Department of Ophthalmology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania;', u'FMRIB Centre, Clinical Neurosciences, University of Oxford;', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford']]
[u'An introduction to linear stability analysis for deciphering spatial patterns in signaling networks', ['Jasmine Nirody', 'Padmini Rangamani'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Mathematical modeling is now used commonly in the analysis of signaling networks. With advances in high resolution microscopy, the spatial location of different signaling molecules and the spatio-temporal dynamics of signaling microdomains are now widely acknowledged as key features of biochemical signal transduction. Reaction-diffusion mechanisms are commonly used to model such features, often with a heavy reliance on numerical simulations to obtain results. However, simulations are parameter dependent and may not be able to provide an understanding of the full range of the system responses. Analytical approaches on the other hand provide a framework to study the entire phase space. In this tutorial, we provide a largely analytical method for studying reaction-diffusion models and analyzing their stability properties. Using two representative biological examples, we demonstrate how this approach can guide experimental design.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065474', [], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'UCSD']]
[u'Global population divergence and admixture of the brown rat (Rattus norvegicus)', ['Emily Puckett', 'Jane Park', 'Matthew Combs', 'Michael J Blum', 'Juliet E Bryant', 'Adalgisa Caccone', 'Federico Costa', 'Eva E Deinum', 'Alexander Esther', 'Chelsea G Himsworth', 'Peter D Keightley', 'Albert Ko', 'Ake Lundkvist', 'Lorraine M McElhinney', 'Serge Morand', 'Judith Robins', 'James Russell', 'Tanja M Strand', 'Olga Suarez', 'Lisa Yon', 'Jason Munshi-South'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Once restricted to northern China and Mongolia, the brown rat (Rattus norvegicus) now enjoys a worldwide distribution due to the evolution of commensalism with humans. In contrast to black rats and the house mouse, which have tracked the regional and global development of human agricultural settlements, brown rats do not appear in the European historical record until the 1500s, suggesting their range expansion was a response to relatively recent increases in global trade and modern sea-faring. We inferred the global phylogeography of brown rats using 32k SNPs to reconstruct invasion routes from estimates of population divergence and admixture. Globally, we detected 13 evolutionary clusters within five expansion routes. One cluster arose following a southward expansion into Southeast Asia. Three additional clusters arose from two independent eastward expansions: one expansion from Russia to the Aleutian Archipelago, and a second to western North America. Rapid westward expansion resulted in the colonization of Europe from which subsequent colonization of Africa, the Americas, and Australasia occurred, and multiple evolutionary clusters were detected. An astonishing degree of fine-grained clustering found both between and within our sampling sites underscored the extent to which urban heterogeneity can shape the genetic structure of commensal rodents. Surprisingly, few individuals were recent migrants despite continual global transport, suggesting that recruitment into established populations is limited. Understanding the global population structure of R. norvegicus offers novel perspectives on the forces driving the spread of zoonotic disease, and yields greater capacity to develop targeted rat eradication programs.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065458', [], [u'Fordham University;', u'Tulane University;', u'Oxford University;', u'Yale University;', u'Universidade Federal da Bahia;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Julius Kuhn Institute;', u'British Columbia Ministry of Agriculture;', u'Uppsala University;', u'Animal and Plant Health Agency;', u"Centre d'Infectiologie Christophe Merieux du Laos;", u'University of Auckland;', u'Ciudad Universitaria;', u'University of Nottingham']]
[u'Prefrontal neurons expand their representation of space by increase in dimensionality and decrease in noise correlation', ['Mohammad-Reza Dehaqani', 'Abdol-Hossein Vahabie', 'Mohammadbagher Parsa', 'Behrad Noudoost', 'Alireza Soltani'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Encoding of information by populations of neurons is critical for neural processes, but underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. High-dimensional neural representations and changes in inter-neuronal correlations are two candidates for enhancing population-level information. To examine the contribution of both mechanisms, we applied a combination of decoding and encoding methods to simultaneously recorded neural data. We found that increases in the information content of prefrontal neurons prior to saccadic selection of visual targets were greater for the population of neurons than for individual neurons. This differential increase occurred primarily for regions of space weakly encoded by single-cell responses (encoding expansion), relied on high-dimensional neural representations, and was accompanied by selective reductions in noise correlation. Our results show that population-level information is enhanced both by location-specific increases in dimensionality and decreases in noise correlation, enabling prefrontal ensembles to recruit non-informative individual neurons to encode a larger part of space.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065581', [], [u'Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences, Tehran, Iran;', u'Montana State University;', u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'Cost-effectiveness of pharmacogenetic-guided treatment: are we there yet?', ['Moira Verbelen', 'Michael E Weale', 'Cathryn M Lewis'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Pharmacogenetics (PGx) has the potential to personalize pharmaceutical treatments. Many relevant gene-drug associations have been discovered, but PGx guided treatment needs to be cost-effective as well as clinically beneficial to be incorporated into standard healthcare. Progress in this area can be assessed by reviewing economic evaluations to determine the cost-effectiveness of PGx testing versus standard treatment. We performed a review of economic evaluations for PGx associations listed in the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Table of Pharmacogenomic Biomarkers in Drug Labeling (http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/ScienceResearch/ResearchAreas/Pharmacogenetics/ucm083378.htm). We determined the proportion of evaluations that found PGx guided treatment to be cost-effective or dominant over the alternative strategies, and we estimated the impact on this proportion of removing the cost of genetic testing. Of the 130 PGx associations in the FDA table, 44 economic evaluations, relating to 10 drugs, were identified. Of these evaluations, 57% drew conclusions in favour of PGx testing, of which 30% were cost-effective and 27% were dominant (cost-saving). If genetic information was freely available, 75% of economic evaluations would support PGx guided treatment, of which 25% would be cost-effective and 50% would be dominant. Thus, PGx guided treatment can be a cost-effective and even cost-saving strategy. Having genetic information readily available in the clinical health record is a realistic future prospect, and would make more genetic tests economically worthwhile. However, few drugs with PGx associations have been studied and more economic evaluations are needed to underpin the uptake of genetic testing in clinical practice.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065540', [], [u"King's College London"]]
[u'Construction of thousands of single cell genome sequencing libraries using combinatorial indexing', ['Sarah A Vitak', 'Kristof A Torkenczy', 'Jimi L Rosenkrantz', 'Andrew J Fields', 'Lena Christiansen', 'Melissa H Wong', 'Lucia Carbone', 'Frank J Steemers', 'Andrew Adey'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Single cell genome sequencing has proven to be a valuable tool for the detection of somatic variation, particularly in the context of tumor evolution and neuronal heterogeneity. Current technologies suffer from high per-cell library construction costs which restrict the number of cells that can be assessed, thus imposing limitations on the ability to quantitatively measure genomic heterogeneity within a tissue. Here, we present Single cell Combinatorial Indexed Sequencing (SCI-seq) as a means of simultaneously generating thousands of low-pass single cell libraries for the purpose of somatic copy number variant detection. In total, we constructed libraries for 16,698 single cells from a combination of cultured cell lines, frontal cortex tissue from Macaca mulatta, and two human adenocarcinomas. This novel technology provides the opportunity for low-cost, deep characterization of somatic copy number variation in single cells, providing a foundational knowledge across both healthy and diseased tissues.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065482', [], [u'Oregon Health & Science University;', u'Illumina Inc.']]
[u'A Neuroendocrine Modulation to Sustain C. elegans Forward Locomotion', ['Maria A. Lim', 'Jyothsna Chitturi', 'Valeriya Laskova', 'Jun Meng', 'Daniel Findeis', 'Anne Wiekenberg', 'Ben Mulcahy', 'Linjiao Luo', 'Yan Li', 'Yangning Lu', 'Wesley Hung', 'Yixin Qu', 'Chi-Yip Ho', 'Douglas Holmyard', 'Ni Ji', 'Rebecca WcWhirter', 'Aravinthan D. T. Samuel', 'David Miller', 'Ralf Schnabel', 'John Calarco', 'Mei Zhen'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'Neuromodulators shape neural circuit dynamics. Combining electron microscopy, genetics, transcriptome profiling, calcium imaging and optogenetics, we discovered a peptidergic neuron that sustains C. elegans forward movement. The Six/SO-family homeobox transcription factor UNC-39 governs lineage-specific neurogenesis to give rise to a neuron called RID. RID bears hallmarks of a specialized neuroendocrine: it harbors near-exclusive dense core vesicle clusters along the axon, and expresses multiple neuropeptides, including FLP-14. RID activity increases during forward movement. Ablating RID reduces the sustainability of forward movement, a phenotype partially recapitulated by removing FLP-14. Activating RID prolongs forward movement, an effect that requires FLP-14. In summary, RID is a specialized endocrine neuron that promotes C. elegans forward motor state in part through a neuropeptide FLP-14.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065235', [], [u'Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Canada;', u'Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital,;', u'Technische Universitat Braunschweig Carolo Wilhelmina, Institut fur Genetik, Braunschweig, Germany;', u'Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada;', u'Key Laboratory of Modern Acoustics, Ministry of Education, Department of Physics, Nanjing University;', u'Center for Brain Science and Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;', u'FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA;', u'Samuel Luenfeld Research Institute; University of Toronto']]
[u'Preprocessing, normalization and integration of the Illumina HumanMethylationEPIC array', ['Jean-Philippe Fortin', 'Timothy Triche', 'Kasper Hansen'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'The minfi package is widely used for analyzing Illumina DNA methylation array data. Here we describe modifications to the minfi package required to support the HumanMethylationEPIC ("EPIC") array from Illumina.  We discuss methods for the joint analysis and normalization of data from the HumanMethylation450 ("450k") and EPIC platforms. We also introduce the single-sample Noob method, a normalization procedure suitable for  incremental preprocessing of individual HumanMethylation arrays. Our results recommend the single sample Noob method when integrating data from multiple generations of Infinium methylation arrays. Finally, we show how to use reference 450k datasets to estimate cell type composition of samples on EPIC arrays. The cumulative effect of these updates is to ensure that minfi provides the tools to best integrate existing and forthcoming Illumina methylation array data.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065490', [], [u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health;', u'USC']]
[u'Massively multiplex single-cell Hi-C', ['Vijay Ramani', 'Xinxian Deng', 'Kevin L Gunderson', 'Frank J Steemers', 'Christine M Disteche', 'William S Noble', 'Zhijun Duan', 'Jay Shendure'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'We present combinatorial single cell Hi-C, a novel method that leverages combinatorial cellular indexing to measure chromosome conformation in large numbers of single cells. In this proof-of-concept, we generate and sequence combinatorial single cell Hi-C libraries for two mouse and four human cell types, comprising a total of 9,316 single cells across 5 experiments. We demonstrate the utility of single-cell Hi-C data in separating different cell types, identify previously uncharacterized cell-to-cell heterogeneity in the conformational properties of mammalian chromosomes, and demonstrate that combinatorial indexing is a generalizable molecular strategy for single-cell genomics.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065052', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'Advanced Research Group, Illumina Inc.']]
[u'Numerical aspect of Predator-Pray Model', ['Monika Justyna Nir', 'Sarangam Majumdar'], u'July 23, 2016.', u'In a closed eco-system, there are only two types of animals: the predator and the prey. They form a simple food-chain where the predator species hunts the prey species, while the prey grazes vegetation. The size of the two populations can be described by a simple system of two nonlinear \ufb01rst order di\ufb00erential equations formally known as the Lotka Volterra equations, which originated in the study of \ufb01sh populations of the Mediterranean during and immediately after World War I. Here, we study numerically this nonlinear parabolic evolution problem and compare the result of various numerical schemes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/23/065516', [], [u'Universita degli Studi dell Aquila']]
