[u'Building a Web of Linked Data Resources to Advance Neuroscience Research', ['B Nolan Nichols', 'Satrajit S Ghosh', 'Tibor Auer', 'Thomas J Grabowskith', 'Camille Maumet', 'David Keator', 'Kilian Pohl', 'Jean-Baptiste Poline'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'The fundamental goal of neuroscience is to understand the nervous system at all levels of description, from molecular components to behavior. An emerging set of Web technologies, known as Linked Data, is changing how data and knowledge about the nervous system can be accessed and used. This paper provides an introduction to these technologies and reviews their application and influence on neuroscientific research.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/053934', [], [u'SRI International;', u'MIT;', u'Cambridge;', u'University of Washington;', u'University of Warwick;', u'University of California, Irvine;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'EXPERIMENTAL GRANULOMATOUS PULMONARY NOCARDIOSIS in BALB/c MICE', ['Roque M. Mifuji Lira', 'Alberto Yairh Limon Flores', 'Mario Cesar Salinas Carmona', 'Alejandro Ortiz Stern'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Pulmonary nocardiosis is a granulomatous disease with high mortality that affects both immunosuppressed and immunocompetent patients. The mechanisms leading to the establishment and progression of the infection are currently unknown. An animal model to study these mechanisms is sorely needed. We report the first in vivo model of granulomatous pulmonary nocardiosis that closely resembles human pathology. BALB/c mice infected intranasally with two different doses of GFP-expressing Nocardia brasiliensis ATCC700358 (NbGFP), develop weight loss and pulmonary granulomas. Mice infected with 10^9 CFUs progressed towards death within a week while mice infected with 10^8 CFUs died after five to six months. Histological examination of the lungs revealed that both the higher and lower doses of NbGFP induced granulomas with NbGFP clearly identifiable at the center of the lesions. Mice exposed to 10^8 CFUs and subsequently to 10^9 CFUs were not protected against disease severity but had less granulomas suggesting some degree of protection. Attempts to identify a cellular target for the infection were unsuccessful but we found that bacterial microcolonies in the suspension used to infect mice were responsible for the establishment of the disease. Small microcolonies of NbGFP, incompatible with nocardial doubling times starting from unicellular organisms, were identified in the lung as early as six hours after infection. Mice infected with highly purified unicellular preparations of NbGFP did not develop granulomas despite showing weight loss. Finally, intranasal delivery of nocardial microcolonies was enough for mice to develop granulomas with minimal weight loss. Taken together these results show that Nocardia brasiliensis microcolonies are both necessary and sufficient for the development of granulomatous pulmonary nocardiosis in mice.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055293', [], [u'Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Nuevo Le\xf3n']]
[u'Achieving large dynamic range control of gene expression with a compact RNA transcription-translation regulator', ['Alexandra M Westbrook', 'Julius B Lucks'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'RNA transcriptional regulators are emerging as versatile components for genetic circuit construction. However, RNA transcriptional regulators suffer from incomplete repression, making their dynamic range less than that of their protein counterparts. This incomplete repression can cause expression leak, which impedes the construction of larger RNA synthetic regulatory networks. Here we demonstrate how naturally derived antisense RNA-mediated transcriptional regulators can be configured to regulate both transcription and translation in a single compact RNA mechanism that functions in Escherichia coli. Using in vivo gene expression assays, we show that a combination of transcriptional termination and RBS sequestration increases repression from 85% to 98% and activation from 10 fold to over 900 fold in response to cognate antisense RNAs. We also show that orthogonal versions of this mechanism can be created through engineering minimal antisense RNAs. Finally, to demonstrate the utility of this dual control mechanism, we use it to reduce circuit leak in an RNA-only transcriptional cascade that activates gene expression as a function of a small molecule input. We anticipate these regulators will find broad use as synthetic biology moves beyond parts engineering to the design and construction of larger and more sophisticated circuits.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055327', [], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Genetic Influences on Hormonal Markers of Chronic HPA Function in Human Hair', ['Elliot M Tucker-Drob', 'Andrew Grotzinger', 'Daniel A Briley', 'Laura E Engelhardt', 'Frank D Mann', 'Megan Patterson', 'Clemens Kirschbaum', 'Emma K Adam', 'Jessica A Church', 'Jennifer Tackett', 'K Paige Harden'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Cortisol is the primary output of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and is central to the human biological stress response, with wide-ranging effects on physiological function and psychiatric health. In both humans and animals, cortisol is frequently studied as a biomarker for exposure to environmental stress. Relatively little attention has been paid to the possible role of genetic variation in heterogeneity in chronic cortisol, in spite of well-studied biological pathways of glucocorticoid function. Using recently developed technology, hair samples can now be used to measure accumulation of cortisol over several months. In contrast to more conventional salivary measures, hair cortisol is not influenced by diurnal variation or transient hormonal reactivity. In an ethnically and socioeconomically diverse sample of 1 070 child and adolescent twins and multiples from 556 unique families, we estimated genetic and environmental influences on hair concentrations of cortisol and its inactive metabolite, cortisone. We identified sizable genetic influences on cortisol that decrease with age, concomitant with genetic influences on cortisone that increase with age. Shared environmental influences on cortisol and cortisone were modest and, for cortisol, decreased with age. Twin-specific, non-shared environmental contributions to cortisol and cortisone became increasingly correlated with age. We find some evidence for sex differences in the biometric contributions to cortisol, but no strong evidence for main or moderating effects of family socioeconomic status on cortisol or cortisone. This study constitutes the first genetic study of hormone concentrations in human hair, and provides the most definitive characterization to-date of age and socioeconomic influences on hair cortisol.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055244', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Technische Universitat Dresden;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Eco-evolutionary dynamics of social dilemmas', ['Chaitanya S Gokhale', 'Christoph Hauert'], u'May 24, 2016.', u"Social dilemmas are an integral part of social interactions.\nCooperative actions, ranging from secreting extra-cellular products in microbial populations to donating blood in humans, are costly to the actor and hence create an incentive to shirk and avoid the costs.\nNevertheless, cooperation is ubiquitous in nature.\nBoth costs and benefits often depend non-linearly on the number and types of individuals involved -- as captured by idioms such as `too many cooks spoil the broth' where additional contributions are discounted, or `two heads are better than one' where cooperators synergistically enhance the group benefit. \nInteraction group sizes may depend on the size of the population and hence on ecological processes. \nThis results in feedback mechanisms between ecological and evolutionary processes, which jointly affect and determine the evolutionary trajectory. \nOnly recently combined eco-evolutionary processes became experimentally tractable in microbial social dilemmas. \nHere we analyse the evolutionary dynamics of non-linear social dilemmas in settings where the population fluctuates in size and the environment changes over time. \nIn particular, cooperation is often supported and maintained at high densities through ecological fluctuations. \nMoreover, we find that the combination of the two processes routinely reveals highly complex dynamics, which suggests common occurrence in nature.", u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055251', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'A scalable strategy for high-throughput GFP tagging of endogenous human proteins', ['Manuel Leonetti', 'Sayaka Sekine', 'Daichi Kamiyama', 'Jonathan S Weissman', 'Bo Huang'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'A central challenge of the post-genomic era is to comprehensively characterize the cellular role of the ~20,000 proteins encoded in the human genome. To systematically study protein function in a native cellular background, libraries of human cell lines expressing proteins tagged with a functional sequence at their endogenous loci would be very valuable. Here, using electroporation of Cas9/sgRNA ribonucleoproteins and taking advantage of a split-GFP system, we describe a scalable method for the robust, scarless and specific tagging of endogenous human genes with GFP. Our approach requires no molecular cloning and allows a large number of cell lines to be processed in parallel. We demonstrate the scalability of our method by targeting 48 human genes and show that the resulting GFP fluorescence correlates with protein expression levels. We next present how our protocols can be easily adapted for the tagging of a given target with GFP repeats, critically enabling the study of low-abundance proteins. Finally, we show that our GFP tagging approach allows the biochemical isolation of native protein complexes for proteomic studies. Together, our results pave the way for the large-scale generation of endogenously tagged human cell lines for the proteome-wide analysis of protein localization and interaction networks in a native cellular context.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055285', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'UCSF']]
[u'REGULATORY ARCHITECTURE OF GENE EXPRESSION VARIATION IN THE THREESPINE STICKLEBACK, GASTEROSTEUS ACULEATUS.', ['Victoria L Pritchard', 'Heidi M. Viitaniemi', 'R.J. Scott McCairns', 'Juha Merila', 'Mikko Nikinmaa', 'Craig R Primmer', 'Erica H Leder'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Much adaptive evolutionary change is underlain by mutational variation in regions of the genome that regulate gene expression rather than in the coding regions of the genes themselves. An understanding of the role of gene expression variation in facilitating local adaptation will be aided by an understanding of underlying regulatory networks. Here, we characterize the genetic architecture of gene expression variation in the threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus), an important model in the study of adaptive evolution. We collected transcriptomic and genomic data from 60 half-sib families using an expression microarray and genotyping-by-sequencing, and located QTL underlying the variation in gene expression (eQTL) in liver tissue using an interval mapping approach. We identified eQTL for several thousand expression traits. Expression was influenced by polymorphism in both cis and trans regulatory regions. Trans eQTL clustered into hotspots. We did not identify master transcriptional regulators in hotspot locations: rather, the presence of hotspots may be driven by complex interactions between multiple transcription factors. Observed hotspots did not co-locate with regions of the genome known to be involved in adaptive divergence between marine and freshwater habitats, suggesting they do not play a role in this well-documented stickleback radiation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055061', [], [u'University of Turku;', u'University of  Helsinki']]
[u'Not just methods: User expertise explains the variability of outcomes of genome-wide studies', ['Kathleen E Lotterhos', 'Olivier Francois', 'Michael G.B. Blum'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Genome scan approaches promise to map genomic regions involved in adaptation of individuals to their environment. Outcomes of genome scans have been shown to depend on several factors including the underlying demography, the adaptive scenario, and the software or method used. We took advantage of a pedagogical experiment carried out during a summer school to explore the effect of an unexplored source of variability, which is the degree of user expertise. Participants were asked to analyze three simulated data challenges with methods presented during the summer school. In addition to submitting lists, participants evaluated a priori their level of expertise. We measured the quality of each genome scan analysis by computing a score that depends on false discovery rate and statistical power. In an easy and a difficult challenge, less advanced participants obtained similar scores compared to advanced ones, demonstrating that participants with little background in genome scan methods were able to learn how to use complex software after short introductory tutorials. However, in a challenge of intermediate difficulty, advanced participants obtained better scores. To explain the difference, we introduce a probabilistic model that shows that a larger variation in scores is expected for SNPs of intermediate difficulty of detection. We conclude that practitioners should develop their statistical and computational expertise to follow the development of complex methods. To encourage training, we release the website of the summer school where users can submit lists of candidate loci, which will be scored and compared to the scores obtained by previous users.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055046', [], [u'Northeastern University;', u'Universite Grenoble Alpes, CNRS']]
[u'Dissection of Major Depressive Disorder using polygenic risk scores for Schizophrenia in two independent cohort.', ['Heather C Whalley', 'Mark J Adams', 'Lynsey Hall', 'Toni-Kim Clarke', 'Ana Maria Fernandez-Pujals', 'Jude Gibson', 'Ella Wigmore', 'Jonathan Hafferty', 'Saskia P Hagenaars', 'Gail Davies', 'Archie Campbell', 'Caroline Hayward', 'Stephen M Lawrie', 'David Porteous', 'Ian Deary', 'Andrew M McIntosh'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Major depressive disorder (MDD) is known for its substantial clinical and suspected causal heterogeneity. It is characterised by low mood, psychomotor slowing, and increased levels of the personality trait neuroticism; factors which are also associated with schizophrenia (SCZ). It is possible that some cases of MDD may have a substantial genetic loading for SCZ. A sign of the presence of SCZ-like MDD sub-groups would be indicated by an interaction between MDD status and polygenic risk of SCZ on cognitive, personality and mood measures. In the current study, we hypothesised that higher SCZ-polygenic risk would define larger MDD case-control differences in cognitive ability, and smaller differences in distress and neuroticism. Polygenic risk scores (PGRS) for SCZ and their association with cognitive variables, neuroticism, mood, and psychological distress were estimated in a large population-based cohort (Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study, GS:SFHS). Individuals were divided into those with, and without, depression (n=2587 & n=16,764 respectively) to test whether there was an interaction between MDD status and schizophrenia risk. Replication was sought in UK Biobank (n=33,525). In both GS:SFHS and UK Biobank we found significant interactions between SCZ-PGRS and MDD status for measures of psychological distress and neuroticism. In both cohorts there was a reduction of case-control differences on a background of higher genetic risk of SCZ. These findings suggest that depression on a background of high genetic risk for SCZ may show attenuated associations with distress and neuroticism. This may represent a causally distinct form of MDD more closely related to SCZ.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054973', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University if Edinburgh']]
[u'Activity flow over resting-state networks shapes cognitive task activations', ['Michael W Cole', 'Takuya Ito', 'Danielle S Bassett', 'Douglas H Schultz'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Resting-state functional connectivity (FC) has helped reveal the intrinsic network organization of the human brain, yet its relevance to cognitive task activations has been unclear. Uncertainty remains despite evidence that resting-state FC patterns are highly similar to cognitive task activation patterns. Identifying the distributed processes that shape localized cognitive task activations may help reveal why resting-state FC is so strongly related to cognitive task activations. We found that estimating task-evoked activity flow (the spread of activation amplitudes) over resting-state FC networks allows prediction of cognitive task activations in a large-scale neural network model. Applying this insight to empirical functional MRI data, we found that cognitive task activations can be predicted in held-out brain regions (and held-out individuals) via estimated activity flow over resting-state FC networks. This suggests that task-evoked activity flow over intrinsic networks is a large-scale mechanism explaining the relevance of resting-state FC to cognitive task activations.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055194', [], [u'Rutgers University-Newark;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Talin-KANK1 interaction controls the recruitment of cortical microtubule stabilizing complexes to focal adhesions.', ['Benjamin P. Bouchet', 'Rosemarie E. Gough', 'Dieudonnee van de Willige', 'York-Christoph Ammon', 'Harm Post', 'Guillaume Jacquemet', 'A.F. Maarten Altelaar', 'Albert J.R. Heck', 'Benjamin T. Goult', 'Anna Akhmanova'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'The cross-talk between dynamic microtubules and integrin-based adhesions to the extracellular matrix plays a crucial role in cell polarity and migration. Microtubules regulate the turnover of adhesion sites, and, in turn, focal adhesions promote cortical microtubule capture and stabilization in their vicinity, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. Here, we show that cortical microtubule stabilization sites containing CLASPs, KIF21A, LL5beta and liprins are recruited to focal adhesions by the adaptor protein KANK1, which directly interacts with the major adhesion component, talin. Structural studies showed that the conserved KN domain in KANK1 binds to the talin rod domain R7. Perturbation of this interaction, including a single point mutation in talin, which disrupts KANK1 binding but not the talin function in adhesion, abrogates the association of microtubule-stabilizing complexes with focal adhesions. We propose that the talin-KANK1 interaction links the two macromolecular assemblies that control cortical attachment of actin fibers and microtubules.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055210', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Utrecht University;', u'University of Kent;', u'University of Turku']]
[u'Stochastic models of gene transcription with upstream drives: exact solution and sample path characterization', ['Justine Dattani', 'Mauricio Barahona'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Gene transcription is a highly stochastic and dynamic process. As a result, the mRNA copy number of a given gene is heterogeneous both between cells and across time. We present a framework to model gene transcription in populations of cells with time-varying (stochastic or deterministic) transcription and degradation rates. Such rates can be understood as upstream cellular drives representing the effect of different aspects of the cellular environment. We show that the full solution of the master equation contains two components: a model-specific, upstream effective drive, which encapsulates the effect of the cellular drives (e.g., entrainment, periodicity or promoter randomness), and a downstream transcriptional Poissonian part, which is common to all models. Our analytical framework allows us to treat cell-to-cell and dynamic variability consistently, unifying several approaches in the literature. We apply the obtained solution to characterize several gene transcription models of experimental relevance, and to explain the influence on gene transcription of synchrony, stationarity, ergodicity, as well as the effect of time-scales and other dynamic characteristics of drives. We also show how the solution can be applied to the analysis of single-cell data, and to reduce the computational cost of sampling solutions via stochastic simulation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055202', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'A Key Cytoskeletal Regulator of Ubiquitination Amplifies TGF\u03b2 Signaling during Mouse Developmental Vascular Patterning', ['Ronak Shetty', 'Divyesh Joshi', 'Mamta Jain', 'Madavan Vasudevan', 'Jasper Chrysolite Paul', 'Ganesh Bhat', 'Poulomi Banerjee', 'Takaya Abe', 'Hiroshi Kiyonari', 'K Vijayraghavan', 'Maneesha S Inamdar'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Vascular development involves de novo formation of a capillary plexus, which is then pruned and remodeled by angiogenic events. Cytoskeletal remodeling and directional endothelial migration are essential for developmental and pathological angiogenesis. Smad-dependent TGF\u03b2 signaling controls vascular patterning and is negatively regulated by microtubules. Here we show that a positive regulator of TGF\u03b2 signaling is essential for developmental vascular patterning and microtubule stability. Rudhira/BCAS3 is known to bind microtubules and to play a nodal role in cytoskeletal remodeling and directional endothelial cell (EC) migration in vitro. We demonstrate that the molecular and cellular function of Rudhira is deployed at critical steps in vascular patterning. We generated the first floxed mice for rudhira and find that global or endothelial knockout of rudhira results in mid-gestation lethality due to aberrant embryonic and extra-embryonic vessel patterning and defective cardiac morphogenesis. Rudhira null yolk sac ECs show random and retarded migration. Yolk sac transcriptome analysis revealed key mediators of angiogenic processes and TGF\u03b2 receptor signaling were perturbed in rudhira null mutants. Molecular and biochemical analyses showed that rudhira depletion reduced microtubule stability but increased expression of pathway inhibitors leading to high levels of SMAD2/3 ubiquitination and reduced activation. These effects were not rescued by exogenous TGF\u03b2. However, TGF\u03b2 treatment of wild type ECs increased Rudhira expression. Further, exogenous Rudhira, which promotes directional cell migration, caused increased SMAD2/3 nuclear translocation and reduced inhibitor levels. Therefore, we propose that Rudhira and TGF\u03b2 signaling are mutually dependent. Rudhira has a dual function in promoting TGF\u03b2 signaling, possibly by sequestering microtubules and simultaneously preventing SMAD2/3 ubiquitination to permit EC migration and vascular patterning. TGF\u03b2 signaling and aberrant human Rudhira (Breast Cancer Amplified Sequence 3, BCAS3) expression are both associated with tumour metastasis. Our study identifies a cytoskeletal, cell type-specific modulator of TGF\u03b2 signaling important in development and cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055129', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research;', u'Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bangalore, India;', u'Bionivid, Kasturi Nagar, Bangalore, India;', u'RIKEN Center for Life Science Technologies, Kobe, Japan;', u'NCBS']]
[u'Genetic surfing in human populations: from genes to genomes', ['Stephan Peischl', 'Isabelle Dupanloup', 'Lars Bosshard', 'Laurent Excoffier'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Genetic surfing describes the spatial spread and increase in frequency of variants that are not lost by genetic drift and serial migrant sampling during a range expansion. Genetic surfing does not modify the total number of derived alleles in a population or in an individual genome, but it leads to a loss of heterozygosity along the expansion axis, implying that derived alleles are more often in homozygous state. Genetic surfing also affects selected variants on the wave front, making them behave almost like neutral variants during the expansion. In agreement with theoretical predictions, human genomic data reveals an increase in recessive mutation load with distance from Africa, an expansion load likely to have developed during the expansion of human populations out of Africa.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055145', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Berne']]
[u'APRICOT: an integrated computational pipeline for the sequence-based identification and characterization of RNA-binding proteins', ['Malvika Sharan', 'Konrad Ulrich Foerstner', 'Ana Eulalio', 'Joerg Vogel'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) have been established as core components of several post-transcriptional gene regulation mechanisms. Experimental techniques such as cross-linking and co-immunoprecipitation have enabled the identification of RBPs, RNA-binding domains (RBDs), and their regulatory roles in the eukaryotic species such as human and yeast in large-scale. In contrast, our knowledge of the number and potential diversity of RBPs in bacteria is poorer due to the technical challenges associated with the existing global screening approaches. We introduce APRICOT, a computational pipeline for the sequence-based identification and characterization of proteins using RBDs known from experimental studies. The pipeline identifies functional motifs in protein sequences using Position Specific Scoring Matrices and Hidden Markov Models of the functional domains and statistically scores them based on a series of sequence-based features. Subsequently, APRICOT identifies putative RBPs and characterizes them by several biological properties. Here we demonstrate the application and adaptability of the pipeline on large-scale protein sets, including the bacterial proteome of Escherichia coli. APRICOT showed better performance on various datasets compared to other existing tools for the sequence-based prediction of RBPs by achieving an average sensitivity and specificity of 0.90 and 0.91 respectively. The command-line tool and its documentation are available at https://pypi.python.org/pypi/bio-apricot.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055178', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Wuerzburg, Institute for Molecular Infection Biology;', u'University of Wuerzburg, Core Unit Systems Medicine']]
[u'Decoding the contents of working memory tracks strategy and performance in prospective remembering', ['Jarrod A Lewis-Peacock', 'Jonathan D Cohen', 'Kenneth A Norman'], u'May 24, 2016.', u"Theories of prospective memory (PM) posit that it can be subserved either by working memory (WM) or episodic memory (EM). Testing and refining these multiprocess theories of PM requires a way of tracking participants' reliance on WM versus EM. Here we use multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) to derive a trial-by-trial measure of WM use in prospective memory. We manipulated strategy demands by varying the degree of proactive interference (which hurts EM) and the memory load required to perform the secondary task (which hurts WM). Our MVPA measures showed 1) greater WM use and 2) a trial-by-trial correlation between WM use and PM behavior for the condition in which participants were pushed to rely more on WM. Finally, we also showed that MVPA measures of WM use are not redundant with other behavioral measures: in the condition in which participants were pushed more to rely on WM, using neural and behavioral measures together led to better prediction of PM accuracy than either type of measure on its own.", u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055004', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'Monomorphic genotypes within a generalist lineage of Campylobacter jejuni show signs of global dispersion', ['Ann-Katrin Llarena', 'Ji Zhang', 'Minna Vehkala', 'Niko Valimaki', 'Marjaana Hakkinen', 'Marja-Liisa Hanninen', 'Mati Roasto', 'Mihkel Maesaar', 'Eduardo Taboada', 'Dillon Barker', 'Giuliano Garfolo', 'Cesare Camma', 'Elisabetta Di Giannatale', 'Jukka Corander', 'Mirko Rossi'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'The decreased costs of genome sequencing have increased capability to apply whole-genome sequence on epidemiological surveillance of zoonotic Campylobacter jejuni. However, knowledge about how genetically similar epidemiologically linked isolates can be is vital for correct application of this methodology. To address this issue in C. jejuni we investigated the spatial and temporal signals in the genomes of a major clonal complex and generalist lineage, ST-45 CC, by exploiting the population structure and genealogy and applying genome-wide association analysis of 340 isolates from across Europe collected over a wide time-range. The occurrence and strength of the geographical signal varied between sublineages and followed the clonal frame when present, while no evidence of a temporal signal was found. Certain sublineages of ST-45 CC formed discrete and genetically isolated clades to which geography and time had left only negligible traces in the genomes. We hypothesize that these ST-45 CC clades form globally expanded monomorphic clones possibly spread across Europe by migratory birds. In addition, we observed an incongruence between the genealogy of the strains and MLST typing, thereby challenging the existing clonal complex definition and use of a common MLST-based nomenclature for the ST-45 CC of C. jejuni.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054932', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Helsinki;', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Helsinki;', u'Genome-Scale Biology Research Program, University of Helsinki;', u'Food and Feed Microbio Research Unit, Research and Laboratory Dept, Finnish Food Safety Authority;', u'Institute of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Sciences, Estonian University;', u'Veterinary and Food Laboratory, Fr. R. Kreutzwaldi 30, 51006 Tartu, Estonia;', u'National Microbiology Laboratory at Lethbridge, Public Health Agency of Canada;', u"National Reference Laboratory for Campylobacter, Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale dell'Abruzzo;", u'Dept of Biostatistics, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo']]
[u'Detecting differential growth of microbial populations with Gaussian process regression', ['Peter D Tonner', 'Cynthia L Darnell', 'Barbara E Engelhardt', 'Amy Schmid'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Microbial growth curves are used to study differential effects of media, genetics, and stress on microbial population growth. Consequently, many modeling frameworks exist to capture microbial population growth measurements. However, current models are designed to quantify growth under conditions that produce a specific functional form. Extensions to these models are required to quantify the effects of perturbations, which often exhibit non-standard growth curves. Rather than fix expected functional forms of different experimental perturbations, we developed a general and robust model of microbial population growth curves using Gaussian process (GP) regression. GP regression modeling of high resolution time-series growth data enables accurate quantification of population growth, and can be extended to identify differential growth phenotypes due to genetic background or stress. Additionally, confounding effects due to experimental variation can be controlled explicitly. Our framework substantially outperforms commonly used microbial population  growth models, particularly when modeling growth data from environmentally stressed populations. We apply the GP growth model to a collection of growth measurements for seven transcription factor knockout strains of a model archaeal organism, Halobacterium salinarum. Using these models fitted to growth data, two statistical tests were developed to quantify the differential effects of genetic and environmental perturbations on microbial growth. These statistical tests accurately identify known regulators and implicate novel regulators of growth under standard and stress conditions. Furthermore, the fitted GP regression models are interpretable, recapitulating biological knowledge of growth response while providing new insights into the relevant parameters affecting microbial population growth.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055186', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Duke University;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'Personalized characterization of diseases using sample-specific networks', ['Xiaoping Liu', 'Yuetong Wang', 'Hongbin Ji', 'Kazuyuki Aihara', 'Luonan Chen'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'A complex disease generally results not from malfunction of individual molecules but from dysfunction of the relevant system or network, which dynamically changes with time and conditions. Thus, estimating a condition-specific network from a sample is crucial to elucidating the molecular mechanisms of complex diseases at the system level. However, there is currently no effective way to construct such an individual-specific network by expression profiling of a single sample because of the requirement of multiple samples for computing correlations. We developed here with a statistical method, i.e., a sample-specific network method, which allows us to construct individual-specific networks based on molecular expression of a single sample. Using this method, we can characterize various human diseases at a network level. In particular, such sample-specific networks can lead to the identification of individual-specific disease modules as well as driver genes, even without gene sequencing information. Extensive analysis by using the Cancer Genome Atlas data not only demonstrated the effectiveness of the method, but also found new individual-specific driver genes and network patterns for various cancers. Biological experiments on drug resistance further validated one important advantage of our method over the traditional methods, i.e., we even identified those drug resistance genes that actually have no clearly differential expression between samples with and without the resistance, due to the additional network information.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/042838', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology;', u'Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences,;', u'the University of Tokyo;', u'Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences']]
[u'The C. elegans NF2/Merlin Molecule NFM-1 Non-Autonomously Regulates Neuroblast Migration and Interacts Genetically with the Guidance Cue SLT-1/Slit', ['Matthew P Josephson', 'Rana Aliani', 'Erik Lundquist'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'During nervous system development, neurons and their progenitors often migrate to their final destinations. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the bilateral Q neuroblasts and their descendants migrate long distances in opposite directions, despite being born in the same posterior region. QR on the right migrates anteriorly and generates the AQR neuron positioned near the head, and QL on the left migrates posteriorly, giving rise to the PQR neuron positioned near the tail. In a screen for genes required for AQR and PQR migration, we identified an allele of nfm-1, which encodes a molecule similar to vertebrate NF2/Merlin, an important tumor suppressor in humans. Mutations in NF2 lead to Neurofibromatosis Type II, characterized by benign tumors of glial tissues. These molecules contain Four-point-one Ezrin Radixin Moesin (FERM) domains characteristic of cytoskeletal-membrane linkers, and vertebrate NF2 is required for epidermal integrity. Vertebrate NF2 can also regulate several transcriptional pathways including the Hippo pathway. Here we demonstrate that in C. elegans, nfm-1 is required for complete migration of AQR and PQR, and that it likely acts outside of the Q cells themselves in a non-autonomous fashion. We also show a genetic interaction between nfm-1 and the C. elegans Slit homolog slt-1, which encodes a conserved secreted guidance cue. In vertebrates, NF2 can control Slit2 mRNA levels through the hippo pathway in axon pathfinding, suggesting a conserved interaction of NF2 and Slit2 in regulating migration.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055079', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'The University of Kansas, United States']]
[u'Highly expressed proteins prefer less informative amino acids', ['Guangzhong Wang'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'The transcriptional and translational systems are essentially information processing \nsystems. However, how to quantify the amount of information decoded during expression \nremains a mystery. Here, we have proposed a simple method to evaluate the amount of \ninformation transcribed and translated during gene expression. We found that although \nproteins with a high copy number have more information translated, the average number \nof bits per amino acid is not high. The negative correlation between protein copy number \nand bits per amino acid indicates the selective pressure to reduce translational errors. \nMoreover, interacting proteins have similar bits  per residue  translated. All of these\nfindings highlight the importance of understanding transcription and translation from an \ninformation processing perspective.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054981', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'SIBS']]
[u'The evolution of CHROMOMETHYLTRANSFERASES and gene body DNA methylation in plants', ['Adam J. Bewick', 'Chad E. Niederhuth', 'Nicolas A. Rohr', 'Patrick T. Griffin', 'Jim Leebens-Mack', 'Robert J. Schmitz'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'The evolution of gene body methylation (gbM) and the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. By pairing the largest collection of CHROMOMETHYLTRANSFERASE (CMT) sequences (773) and methylomes (72) across land plants and green algae we provide novel insights into the evolution of gbM and its underlying mechanism. The angiosperm- and eudicot-specific whole genome duplication events gave rise to what are now referred to as CMT1, 2 and 3 lineages. CMT\u03f5, which includes the eudicot-specific CMT1 and 3, and orthologous angiosperm clades, is essential for the perpetuation of gbM in angiosperms, implying that gbM evolved at least 236 MYA. Independent losses of CMT1, 2 and 3 in eudicots, and CMT2 and CMT\u03f5monocot+magnoliid in monocots suggests overlapping or fluid functional evolution. The resulting gene family phylogeny of CMT transcripts from the most diverse sampling of plants to date redefines our understanding of CMT evolution and its evolutionary consequences on DNA methylation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054924', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Exploring the Relationship between Abundance and Temperature with a Chemostat Model', ['Cristian A. Solari', 'Vanina J. Galzenati', 'Brian J. McGill'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Although there is a well developed theory on the relationship between the intrinsic growth rate r and temperature T, it is not yet clear how r relates to abundance, and how abundance relates to T. Many species often have stable enough population dynamics that one can talk about a stochastic equilibrium population size N*. There is sometimes an assumption that N*and r are positively correlated, but there is lack of evidence for this.  To try to understand the relationship between r, N*, and T we used a simple chemostat model. The model shows that N* not only depends on r, but also on the mortality rate, the half-saturation constant of the nutrient limiting r, and the conversion coefficient of the limiting nutrient. Our analysis shows that N* positively correlates to r only with high mortality rate and half-saturation constant values. The response curve of N* vs. T can be flat, Gaussian, convex, and even temperature independent depending on the values of the variables in the model and their relationship to T. Moreover, whenever the populations have not reached equilibrium and might be in the process of doing so, it could be wrongly concluded that N* and r are positively correlated. Because of their low half-saturation constants, unless conditions are oligotrophic, microorganisms would tend to have flat abundance response curves to temperature even with high mortality rates. In contrast, unless conditions are eutrophic, it should be easier to get a Gaussian temperature response curve for multicellular organisms because of their high half-saturation constant. This work sheds light to why it is so difficult for any general principles to emerge on the abundance response to temperature. We conclude that directly relating N* to r is an oversimplification that should be avoided.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054940', [u'Ecology'], [u'IBBEA-CONICET, Universidad de Buenos Aires;', u'School of Biology and Ecology, University of Maine']]
[u'Comparison of bacterial genome assembly software for MinION data', ['Kim Judge', 'Martin Hunt', 'Sandra Reuter', 'Alan Tracey', 'Michael A Quail', 'Julian Parkhill', 'Sharon J Peacock'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Antimicrobial resistance genes can be carried on plasmids or on mobile elements integrated into the chromosome. We sequenced a multidrug resistant Enterobacter kobei genome isolated from wastewater in the United Kingdom, but were unable to conclusively identify plasmids from the short read assembly. Our aim was to compare and contrast the accuracy and characteristics of open source software (PBcR, Canu, miniasm and SPAdes) for the assembly of bacterial genomes (including plasmids) generated by the MinION instrument. Miniasm produced an assembly in the shortest time, but Canu produced the most accurate assembly overall.  We found that MinION data alone was able to generate a contiguous and accurate assembly of an isolate with multiple plasmids.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/049213', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Insitute;', u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine']]
[u'An open-hardware platform for optogenetics and photobiology', ['Karl Gerhardt', 'Evan Olson', 'Sebastian Castillo-Hair', 'Lucas Hartsough', 'Brian Landry', 'Felix Ekness', 'Rayka Yokoo', 'Eric Gomez', 'Prabha Ramakrishnan', 'Junghae Suh', 'David Savage', 'Jeffrey Tabor'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'In optogenetics, researchers use light and genetically encoded photoreceptors to control biological processes with unmatched precision. However, outside of neuroscience, the impact of optogenetics has been limited by a lack of user-friendly, flexible, accessible hardware. Here, we engineer the Light Plate Apparatus (LPA), a device that can deliver two independent 310 to 1550 nm light signals to each well of a 24-well plate with intensity control over three orders of magnitude and millisecond resolution. Signals are programmed using an intuitive web tool named Iris. All components can be purchased for under $400 and the device can be assembled and calibrated by a non-expert in one day. We use the LPA to precisely control gene expression from blue, green, and red light responsive optogenetic tools in bacteria, yeast, and mammalian cells and simplify the entrainment of cyanobacterial circadian rhythm. The LPA dramatically reduces the entry barrier to optogenetics and photobiology experiments.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055053', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Rice University;', u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Reference-free comparison of microbial communities via de Bruijn graphs', ['Serghei Mangul', 'David Koslicki'], u'May 24, 2016.', u"Microbial communities inhabiting the human body exhibit significant variability across different individuals and tissues, and are suggested to play an important role in health and disease. High-throughput sequencing offers unprecedented possibilities to profile microbial community composition, but limitations of existing taxonomic classification methods (including incompleteness of existing microbial reference databases) limits the ability to accurately compare microbial communities across different samples. In this paper, we present a method able to overcome these limitations by circumventing the classification step and directly using the sequencing data to compare microbial communities. The proposed method provides a powerful reference-free way to assess differences in microbial abundances across samples. This method, called EMDeBruijn, condenses the sequencing data into a de Bruijn graph. The Earth Mover's Distance (EMD) is then used to measure similarities and differences of the microbial communities associated with the individual graphs. We apply this method to RNA-Seq data sets from a coronary artery calcification (CAC) study and shown that EMDeBruijn is able to differentiate between case and control CAC samples while utilizing all the candidate microbial reads. We compare these results to current reference-based methods, which are shown to have a limited capacity to discriminate between case and control samples. We conclude that this reference-free approach is a viable choice in comparative metatranscriptomic studies.", u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055020', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UCLA;', u'Oregon State University']]
[u'Nucleolus association of chromosomal domains is largely maintained in cellular senescence despite massive nuclear reorganisation', ['Stefan Dillinger', 'Tobias Straub', 'Attila Nemeth'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Mammalian chromosomes are organized in structural and functional domains of 0.1-10 Mb, which are characterized by high self-association frequencies in the nuclear space and different contact probabilities with nuclear sub-compartments. They exhibit distinct chromatin modification patterns, gene expression levels and replication timing. Recently, nucleolus-associated chromosomal domains (NADs) have been discovered, yet their precise role in chromosome organization and dynamics are still largely unknown. Here, we use nucleolus genomics and single-cell experiments to address these questions in human embryonic fibroblasts during replicative senescence. Genome-wide mapping reveals 1,646 NADs in proliferating cells, which cover about 38% of the human genome. They are mainly heterochromatic and correlate with late replicating loci. Using Hi-C data analysis, we show that interactions of NADs control the organization of interphase chromosomes in the 10-50 Mb distance range. Interestingly, only minute changes in nucleolar association are observed upon senescence. These spatial rearrangements in subdomains smaller than 100 kb are accompanied with local transcriptional changes. In contrast, large centromeric and pericentromeric satellite repeat clusters extensively dissociate from nucleoli in senescent cells. We use gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) to map the epigenetic regulatory network that governs these changes. The GSEA results together with cellular chromatin analyses suggest that histone H3K9 trimethylation is a key feature in regulating the nucleolus association of chromatin. Collectively, this study reveals the role of NAD interactions in shaping interphase chromosome structure and identifies connections between the nucleolus, 3D genome structure, and cellular aging.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054908', [u'Genomics'], [u'Biochemistry Center Regensburg, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany;', u'Biomedical Center, Bioinformatics, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany']]
[u'Prospects of genomic prediction in the USDA Soybean Germplasm Collection: Historical data creates robust models for enhancing selection of accessions.', ['Diego Jarquin', 'James Specht', 'Aaron Lorenz'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'The identification and mobilization of useful genetic variation from germplasm banks for use in breeding programs is critical for future genetic gain and protection against crop pests. Plummeting costs of next-generation sequencing and genotyping is revolutionizing the way in which researchers and breeders interface with plant germplasm collections. An example of this is the high density genotyping of the entire USDA Soybean Germplasm Collection. We assessed the usefulness of 50K SNP data collected on 18,480 domesticated soybean (G. max) accessions and vast historical phenotypic data for developing genomic prediction models for protein, oil, and yield. Resulting genomic prediction models explained an appreciable amount of the variation in accession performance in independent validation trials, with correlations between predicted and observed reaching up to 0.92 for oil and protein and 0.79 for yield. The optimization of training set design was explored using a series of cross-validation schemes. It was found that the target population and environment need to be well represented in the training set. Secondly, genomic prediction training sets appear to be robust to the presence of data from diverse geographical locations and genetic clusters. This finding, however, depends on the influence of shattering and lodging, and may be specific to soybean with its presence of maturity groups. The distribution of 7,608 non-phenotyped accessions was examined through the application of genomic prediction models. The distribution of predictions of phenotyped accessions was representative of the distribution of predictions for non-phenotyped accessions, with no non-phenotyped accessions being predicted to fall far outside the range of predictions of phenotyped accessions.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055038', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Nebraska-Lincoln;', u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Metagenomic covariation along densely sampled environmental gradients in the Red Sea', ['Luke R Thompson', 'Gareth J Williams', 'Mohamed F Haroon', 'Ahmed Shibl', 'Peter Larsen', 'Joshua Shorenstein', 'Rob Knight', 'Ulrich Stingl'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Oceanic microbial diversity covaries with physicochemical parameters. Temperature, for example, explains more than half of global variation in surface taxonomic abundance. It is unknown, however, whether covariation patterns hold over narrower parameter gradients and spatial scales, extending to mesopelagic depths and across water masses. We collected 45 epipelagic and mesopelagic samples spanning the Red Sea, capturing latitudinal and depth-dependent gradients. From metagenomes we calculated relative abundances of taxonomic groups, gene ortholog groups, and pathways, and modeled their responses to environmental parameters. Gene ortholog group and pathway functional metrics and species- and genus-level taxonomic metrics were equally well explained (75-79%) by environmental parameters. However, only functional and not taxonomic covariation patterns were conserved when comparing with an intruding water mass with different physicochemical properties. Temperature explained the most variation in each metric, followed by nitrate, chlorophyll, phosphate, and salinity. That nitrate explained more variation than phosphate suggested nitrogen limitation, consistent with low surface N:P ratios. Covariation of gene ortholog groups with environmental parameters revealed patterns of functional adaptation to the challenging Red Sea environment: high irradiance, temperature, salinity, and low nutrients. Nutrient acquisition gene ortholog groups were anticorrelated with concentrations of their respective nutrient species, recapturing trends previously observed across much larger distances and environmental gradients. This dataset of metagenomic covariation along densely sampled environmental gradients includes online data exploration supplements, serving as a community resource for marine microbial ecology.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/055012', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of California San Diego, USA;', u'Bangor University, UK;', u'King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, KSA;', u'Argonne National Laboratory, USA']]
[u'A precision metric for clinical genome sequencing', ['Rachel L Goldfeder', 'Euan A Ashley'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'A requisite precondition for the application of next-generation sequencing to clinical medicine is the ability to confidently call genotype at each coding/splicing position of every gene of interest. Current gold standard technologies, such as Sanger sequencing and microarrays, allow confident identification of the genomic origin of the DNA of interest. A commonly used minimum standard for the adoption of new technology in medicine is non-inferiority. We developed a metric to quantify the extent to which current sequencing technologies reach this clinical grade reporting standard. This metric, the rationale for which we present here, is defined as the absolute number of base pairs per gene not callable with confidence, as specified by the presence of 20 high quality (Q20) bases from uniquely mapped (mapq>0) reads per locus. To illustrate the utility of this metric, we apply it across data from several commercially available clinical sequencing products. We present specific examples of coverage for genes known to be important for clinical medicine. We derive data from a variety of platforms including whole genome sequencing (Illumina Hiseq and X chemistry) and exome capture (including medically optimized capture from Agilent, Baylor Clinical Lab, and Personalis). We observe that compared to whole genomes (with ~30x average coverage), augmented exomes perform far better for known disease causing genes, but less well for other genes and in untranslated regions. Increasing whole genome coverage improves this discrepancy with an average coverage of ~45x representing the cross over point where performance equals that of exome capture for disease causing genes. A combination of some genome-wide coverage and augmented exon coverage may offer the most cost effective solution for clinical grade genome sequencing today. In summary, this coverage metric provides transparency regarding the current state of next-generation sequencing for clinical medicine and will inform genotype interpretation, technology improvement, and sequencing platform choices for physicians and laboratories. We provide an application on precision.fda.gov (Coverage of Key Genes app) to calculate this metric.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/051490', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Centrifuge: rapid and sensitive classification of metagenomic sequences', ['Daehwan Kim', 'Li Song', 'Florian P Breitwieser', 'Steven Salzberg'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Centrifuge is a novel microbial classification engine that enables rapid, accurate and sensitive labeling of reads and quantification of species on desktop computers.  The system uses an indexing scheme based on the Burrows-Wheeler transform (BWT) and the Ferragina-Manzini (FM) index, optimized specifically for the metagenomic classification problem.  Centrifuge requires a relatively small index (4.2 GB for 4,078 bacterial and 200 archaeal genomes) and classifies sequences at very high speed, allowing it to process the millions of reads from a typical high-throughput DNA sequencing run within a few minutes.  Together these advances enable timely and accurate analysis of large metagenomics data sets on conventional desktop computers.  Because of its space-optimized indexing schemes, Centrifuge also makes it possible to index the entire NCBI non-redundant nucleotide sequence database (a total of 109 billion bases) with an index size of 69 GB, in contrast to k-mer based indexing schemes, which require far more extensive space.  Centrifuge is available as free, open-source software from http://www.ccb.jhu.edu/software/centrifuge.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054965', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Potential pitfalls of FISH microscopy as assessment method for anaerobic digesters', ['Christian Abendroth', 'Sarah Hahnke', 'Michael Klocke', 'Olaf Luschnig'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'In the present work we investigated how the state of a biogas reactor impacts the enumeration of prokaryotic cells by fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH). Therefore, the correlation between gas production and FISH hybridisation rates was analysed in different anaerobic digester sludges. High gasification activity coincided with high hybridisation rates. Low hybridisation rates were especially achieved with reactor samples subjected to long starvation periods showing low biogas production. \nBased on our findings we conclude that samples for FISH analysis should be fixed as soon as possible to prevent a loss of microbial activity resulting in lower FISH signals. Furthermore, the location of sampling is of importance, since samples from different fermenters within the same biogas plant also varied strongly in their FISH hybridisation rate. Our results indicate that FISH could be a useful method for assessing the metabolic state of microorganisms in anaerobic digester plants.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054999', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Robert Boyle Institut e.V.;', u'Leibniz Institute for Agricultural Engineering Potsdam-Bornim (ATB);', u'Bio H2 Umwelt GmbH']]
[u'Tissue-Driven Hypothesis of Transcriptome Evolution: An Update', ['Howard T. Hallmark', 'Jeffrey A. Haltom', 'Xun Gu'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'In past decade, many reports have demonstrated that tissues in multi-cellular organisms may play important roles to shape the pattern of genome evolution. The tissue-driven hypothesis was then coined, claiming that tissue-specific factor as the common resource of functional constrain may underlie the positive correlations between tissue expression divergence, sequence divergence, or the expression tolerance of duplication divergence. However, the original version of tissue-driven hypothesis cannot rule out the tissue-specific effect of mutational variance. In this perspective, we solve this problem by modifying the evolutionary model that underlies the tissue expression evolution. Reanalysis of the microarray data reanalysis has revealed the relative importance between tissue-specific functional constraints and mutational variances in the tissue evolution. Finally, we outline how to utilize RNA-seq technology to further investigate the tissue expression evolution in the case of multiple tissues and species.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054890', [u'Genetics'], [u'Iowa State University']]
[u'Diploid male production correlates with genetic diversity in the parasitoid wasp Venturia canescens: a genetic approach with new microsatellite markers', ['Marie Collet', 'Chloe Vayssade', 'Alexandra Auguste', 'Laurence Mouton', 'Emmanuel Desouhant', 'Thibaut Malausa', 'Xavier Fauvergue'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Sex determination is ruled by haplodiploidy in Hymenoptera, with haploid males arising from unfertilized eggs and diploid females from fertilized eggs. However, diploid males with null fitness are produced under Complementary Sex Determination (CSD), when individuals are homozygous for this locus. Diploid males are expected to be more frequent in genetically eroded populations (such as islands and captive populations), as genetic diversity at the csd locus should be low. However, only a few studies have focused on the relation between population size, genetic diversity and the proportion of diploid males in the field. Here, we developed new microsatellites markers in order to assess and compare genetic diversity and diploid male proportion in populations from three distinct habitat types (mainland, island or captive), in the parasitoid wasp Venturia canescens. Eroded genetic diversity and higher diploid male proportion were found in island and captive populations, and habitat type had large effect on genetic diversity. Therefore, diploid male proportion reflects the decreasing genetic diversity in small and isolated populations. Thus, Hymenopteran populations can be at high extinction risk due to habitat destruction or fragmentation.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054866', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universite de Lyon, Universite Claude Bernard, CNRS, Laboratoire de Biometrie et Biologie Evolutive;', u'INRA, Universite Nice Sophia Antipolis, CNRS, UMR 1355-7254']]
[u'Population structure and coalescence in pedigrees: comparisons to the structured coalescent and a framework for inference', ['Peter R Wilton', 'Pierre Baduel', 'Matthieu M Landon', 'John Wakeley'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Contrary to what is often assumed in population genetics, independently segregating loci do not have completely independent ancestries, since all loci are inherited through a single, shared population pedigree. Previous work has shown that the non-independence between gene genealogies of independently segregating loci created by the population pedigree is weak in panmictic populations, and predictions made from standard coalescent theory are accurate for populations that are at least moderately sized.  Here, we investigate patterns of coalescence in pedigrees of structured populations.  We find that population structure creates deviations away from the predictions of standard theory that persist on a longer timescale than in panmictic populations. Nevertheless, we find that the structured coalescent provides a reasonable approximation for the coalescent process in structured population pedigrees so long as migration events are moderately frequent and there is no admixture in the recent pedigree of the sample. When the sampled individuals have admixed ancestry, we find that distributions of coalescence in the sample can be modeled as a mixture of distributions from different sample configurations. We use this observation to motivate a maximum-likelihood approach for inferring migration rates and population sizes jointly with features of the recent pedigree such as admixture and relatedness. Using simulation, we demonstrate that our inference framework accurately recovers long-term migration rates in the presence of recent admixture in the sample pedigree.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054957', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Improved Annotation with de novo Transcriptome Assembly in Four Social Amoeba Species', ['Reema Singh', 'Hajara M Lawal', 'Christina Schilde', 'Gernot Gloeckner', 'Geoff J Barton', 'Pauline Schaap', 'Christian Cole'], u'May 24, 2016.', u'Background: Annotation of gene models and transcripts is a fundamental step in genome sequencing projects. Often this is performed with automated prediction pipelines, which can miss complex and atypical genes or transcripts. RNA-seq data can aid the annotation with empirical data. Here we present de novo transcriptome assemblies generated from RNA-seq  data in four Dictyostelid species: D. discoideum, P. pallidum, D. fasciculatum and D. lacteum. The assemblies were incorporated with existing gene models to determine corrections and improvement on a whole-genome scale. This is the first time this has been performed in these eukaryotic species.\nResults: An initial de novo transcriptome assembly was generated by Trinity for each species and then refined with Program to Assemble Spliced Alignments (PASA). The completeness and quality were assessed with the Core Eukaryotic Genes Mapping Approach (CEGMA) and Transrate tools at each stage of the assemblies. The final datasets of 11,315-12,849 transcripts contained 5,610-7,712 updates and corrections to >50% of existing gene models including changes to hundreds or thousands of protein products. Putative novel genes are also identified and alternative splice isoforms were observed for the first time in P. pallidum, D. lacteum and D. fasciculatum.\nConclusions: In taking a whole transcriptome approach to genome annotation with empirical data we have been able to enrich the annotations of four existing genome sequencing projects. In doing so we have identified updates to the majority of the gene annotations across all four species under study and found putative novel genes and transcripts which could be worthy for follow-up. The new transcriptome data we present here will be a valuable resource for genome curators in the Dictyostelia and we propose this effective methodology for use in other genome annotation projects.', u'/content/early/2016/05/24/054536', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Cologne']]
