[u'Multivariate association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms in Alzgene linkage regions and structural changes in the brain: discovery, refinement and validation', ['Elena Szefer', 'Donghuan Lu', 'Farouk Nathoo', 'Mirza Faisal Beg', 'Jinko Graham'], u'November 17, 2016.', u"Both genetic variants and brain region abnormalities are recognized to play a role in cognitive decline. We explore the association between single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in linkage regions for Alzheimer's disease and rates of decline in brain structure using data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). \n\nIn an initial discovery stage, we assessed the presence of linear association between the minor allele counts of 75,845 SNPs in the Alzgene linkage regions and estimated rates of change in structural MRI measurements for 56 brain regions using an RV test. In a second, refinement stage, we reduced the number of SNPs using a bootstrapenhanced sparse canonical correlation analysis (SCCA) with a fixed tuning parameter. Each SNP was assigned an importance measure proportional to the number of times it was estimated to have a nonzero coefficient in repeated re-sampling from the ADNI-1 sample. We created refined lists of SNPs based on importance probabilities greater than 50% and 90%, respectively. In a third, validation stage, we assessed the multivariate association between these refined lists of SNPs and the rates of structural change in an independent dataset comprised of the ADNIGO and ADNI-2 study samples.\n\nThere was strong statistical evidence for linear association between the SNPs in the Alzgene linkage regions and the 56 imaging phenotypes in both the ADNI-1 and ADNIGO/2 samples (p < 0.0001). The bootstrap-enhanced SCCA identified 1,694 priority SNPs with importance probabilities > 50% and 22 SNPs with importance probabilities > 90%. The 1,694 prioritized SNPs were associated with imaging phenotypes in the ADNI-1 data (p < 0.001) and this association was replicated in the ADNIGO/2 data (p = 0.0021).\n\nThis manuscript presents an analysis that addresses challenges in current imaging genetics studies such as biased sampling designs, highdimensional data with low-signal, and discovery and validation of association in multivariate analysis. Genes corresponding to priority SNPs having the highest contribution to the RV coefficient test statistic in the validation data have previously been implicated or hypothesized to be implicated in AD, including GCLC, IDE, and STAMBP1andFAS. We hypothesize that the effect sizes of the 1,694 SNPs in the priority set are likely small, but further investigation within this set may advance understanding of the missing heritability in late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088310', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Statistics and Actuarial Science, Simon Fraser University;', u'School of Engineering Science, Simon Fraser University;', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Victoria']]
[u'Development and validation of a 36-gene sequencing assay for hereditary cancer risk assessment', ['Valentina S. Vysotskaia', 'Gregory J. Hogan', 'Genevieve M. Gould', 'Xin Wang', 'Alex D. Robertson', 'Kevin R. Haas', 'Mark R. Theilmann', 'Lindsay Spurka', 'Peter V. Grauman', 'Henry H. Lai', 'Diana Jeon', 'Genevieve Haliburton', 'Matt Leggett', 'Clement S. Chu', 'Kevin Lori', 'Jared R. Maguire', 'Kaylene Ready', 'Eric A. Evans', 'Hyunseok P. Kang', 'Imran S. Haque'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'The past two decades have brought many important advances in our understanding of the hereditary susceptibility to cancer. Numerous studies have provided convincing evidence that identification of germline mutations associated with hereditary cancer syndromes can lead to reductions in morbidity and mortality through targeted risk management options. Additionally, advances in gene sequencing technology now permit the development of multigene hereditary cancer testing panels. Here, we describe the 2016 revision of the Counsyl Inherited Cancer Screen for detecting single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), short insertions and deletions (indels), and copy number variants (CNVs) in 36 genes associated with an elevated risk for breast, ovarian, colorectal, gastric, endometrial, pancreatic, thyroid, prostate, melanoma, and neuroendocrine cancers. To determine test accuracy and reproducibility, we performed a rigorous analytical validation across 341 samples, including 118 cell lines and 223 patient samples. The screen achieved 100% test sensitivity across different mutation types, with high specificity and 100% concordance with conventional Sanger sequencing and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA). We also demonstrated the screen\u2032s high intra-run and inter-run reproducibility and robust performance on blood and saliva specimens. Furthermore, we showed that pathogenic Alu element insertions can be accurately detected by our test. Overall, the validation in our clinical laboratory demonstrated the analytical performance required for collecting and reporting genetic information related to risk of developing hereditary cancers.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088252', [u'Genetics'], [u'Counsyl Inc;', u'Color Genomics']]
[u'High-throughput CRISPRi phenotyping in Streptococcus pneumoniae identifies new essential genes involved in cell wall synthesis and competence development', ['Xue Liu', 'Clement Gallay', 'Morten Kjos', 'Arnau Domenech', 'Jelle Slager', 'Sebastiaan P. van Kessel', 'Kevin Knoops', 'Robin A. Sorg', 'Jing-Ren Zhang', 'Jan-Willem Veening'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'Genome-wide screens have discovered a large set of essential genes in the opportunistic human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae. However, the functions of many essential genes are still unknown, hampering vaccine development and drug discovery. Based on results from transposon-sequencing (Tn-Seq), we refined the list of essential genes in S. pneumoniae serotype 2 strain D39. Next, we created a knockdown library targeting 348 potentially essential genes by CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) and show a growth phenotype for 254 of them (73%). Using high-content microscopy screening, we searched for essential genes of unknown function with clear phenotypes in cell morphology upon CRISPRi-based depletion. We show that SPD1416 and SPD1417 (renamed to MurT and GatD, respectively) are essential for peptidoglycan synthesis, and that SPD1198 and SPD1197 (renamed to TarP and TarQ, respectively) are responsible for the polymerization of teichoic acid (TA) precursors. This knowledge enabled us to reconstruct the unique pneumococcal TA biosynthetic pathway. CRISPRi was also employed to unravel the role of the essential Clp-proteolytic system in regulation of competence development and we show that ClpX is the essential ATPase responsible for ClpP-dependent repression of competence. The CRISPRi library provides a valuable tool for characterization of pneumococcal genes and pathways and revealed several promising antibiotic targets.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088336', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Groningen;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences;', u'Tsinghua University;', u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'miR-106b-responsive gene landscape identifies regulation of Kruppel-like factor family', ['Cody J. Wehrkamp', 'Sathish Kumar Natarajan', 'Ashley M. Mohr', 'Mary Anne Phillippi', 'Justin L. Mott'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'MicroRNA dysregulation is a common feature of cancer and due to the promiscuity of microRNA binding this can result in a wide array of genes whose expression is altered. miR-106b is an oncomiR overexpressed in cholangiocarcinoma and its upregulation in this and other cancers often leads to repression of anti-tumorigenic targets. The goal of this study was to identify the miR-106b-regulated gene landscape in cholangiocarcinoma cells using a genome-wide, unbiased mRNA analysis. Through RNA-Seq we found 112 mRNAs significantly repressed by miR-106b. The majority of these genes contain the specific miR-106b seed-binding site. We have validated 11 genes from this set at the mRNA level and demonstrated regulation by miR-106b of five proteins. Combined analysis of our miR-106b-regulated mRNA data set plus published reports indicate that miR-106b binding is anchored by G:C pairing in and near the seed. Novel targets Kruppel-like factor 2 (KLF2) and KLF6 were verified both at the mRNA and at the protein level. Further investigation showed regulation of four other KLF family members by miR-106b. We have discovered coordinated repression of several members of the KLF family by miR-106b that may play a role in cholangiocarcinoma tumor biology.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088229', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Nebraska Medical Center;', u'University of Nebraska']]
[u'Engineered reciprocal chromosome translocations drive high threshold, reversible population replacement in Drosophila', ['Anna B Buchman', 'Tobin Ivy', 'John M Marshall', 'Omar Akbari', 'Bruce A. Hay'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'Replacement of wild insect populations with transgene-bearing individuals unable to transmit disease or survive under specific environmental conditions provides self-perpetuating methods of disease prevention and population suppression, respectively. Gene drive mechanisms that require the gene drive element and linked cargo exceed a high threshold frequency to spread are attractive because they offer several points of control: they bring about local, but not global population replacement; and transgenes can be eliminated by reintroducing wildtypes into the population so as to drive the frequency of transgenes below the threshold required for drive. It has long been recognized that reciprocal chromosome translocations could, in principal, be used to bring about high threshold gene drive through a form of underdominance. However, translocations able to drive population replacement have not been reported, leaving it unclear if translocation-bearing strains fit enough to mediate gene drive can easily be generated. Here we use modeling to identify a range of conditions under which translocations should spread, and the equilibrium frequencies achieved, given specific introduction frequencies, fitness costs and migration rates. We also report the creation of engineered translocation-bearing strains of Drosophila melanogaster, generated through targeted chromosomal breakage and homologous recombination. By several measures translocation-bearing strains are fit, and drive high threshold, reversible population replacement in laboratory populations. These observations, together with the generality of the tools used to generate translocations, suggest that engineered translocations may be useful for controlled population replacement in many species.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088393', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA;', u'Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA.;', u'School of Public Health, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley CA']]
[u'Structural and functional brain changes following four weeks of unimanual motor training: evidence from fMRI-guided diffusion MRI tractography', ['Lee Bremner Reid', 'Martin V Sale', 'Ross Cunnington', 'Jason B Mattingley', 'Stephen E Rose'], u'November 17, 2016.', u"We have reported reliable changes in behaviour, brain structure and function in 24 healthy right-handed adults who practiced a finger-thumb opposition sequence task with their left hand for 10 mins daily, over four weeks. Here we extend these findings by employing diffusion MRI to investigate white-matter changes in the corticospinal tract, basal-ganglia, and connections of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Twenty-three participant datasets were available with pre-training and post-training scans. Task performance improved in all participants (mean: 52.8%, SD: 20.0%; group p<0.01 FWE) and widespread microstructural changes were detected across the motor system of the 'trained' hemisphere. Specifically, region-of-interest based analyses of diffusion MRI (n=21) revealed significantly increased fractional anisotropy in the right caudate nucleus (4.9%; p<0.05 FWE), and decreased mean diffusivity in the left nucleus accumbens (-1.3%; p<0.05 FWE). Diffusion MRI tractography (n=22), seeded by sensorimotor cortex fMRI activation, also revealed increased fractional anisotropy in the right corticomotor tract (mean 3.28%; p<0.05 FWE) predominantly reflecting decreased radial diffusivity. These changes were consistent throughout the entire length of the tract. The left corticomotor tract did not show any changes. FA also increased in white matter connections between the right middle frontal gyrus and both right caudate nucleus (17/22 participants; p<0.05 FWE) and right supplementary motor area (18/22 participants; p<0.05 FWE). Equivalent changes in FA were not seen in the left ('non-trained') hemisphere. In combination with our functional and structural findings, this study provides detailed, multifocal evidence for widespread neuroplastic changes in the human brain resulting from motor training.", u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088328', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CSIRO;', u'The Queensland Brain Institute']]
[u'SOFIA: an R package for enhancing genetic visualization with Circos', ['Luis Diaz-Garcia', 'Giovanny Covarrubias-Pazaran', 'Brandon Schlautman', 'Juan Zalapa'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'Visualization of data from any stage of genetic and genomic research is one of the most useful approaches for detecting potential errors, ensuring accuracy and reproducibility, and presentation of the resulting data. Currently software such as Circos, ClicO FS, and RCircos, among others, provide tools for plotting a variety of genetic data types in a concise manner for data exploration and presentation. However, each of the programs have one or more disadvantages that limit their usability in data exploration or construction of publication quality figures, such as inflexibility in formatting and configuration, reduced image quality, lack of potential for automation, or requirements of high-level computational expertise. Therefore, we developed the R package SOFIA, which leverages the capabilities of Circos by manipulating data, preparing configuration files, and running the Perl-native Circos directly from the R environment with minimal user intervention. The advantages of integrating both R and Circos into SOFIA are numerous. R is a very powerful, mid-level programming language widely used among the genetic and genomic research community, while Circos has proven to be a novel software for arranging genomic data to create aesthetical publication quality circular figures. Producing Circos figures in R with SOFIA is simple, requires minimal coding experience, even for complex figures that incorporate high-dimensional genetic information, and allows simultaneous analysis and visual exploration of genomic and genetic data in a single programming environment.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088377', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'The Land Institute']]
[u'Somatic Mutations and Neoepitope Homology in Melanomas Treated with CTLA-4 Blockade', ['Tavi Nathanson', 'Arun Ahuja', 'Alexander Rubinsteyn', 'Bulent Arman Aksoy', 'Matthew D. Hellmann', 'Diana Miao', 'Eliezer Van Allen', 'Taha Merghoub', 'Jedd Wolchok', 'Alexandra Snyder', 'Jeff Hammerbacher'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'Immune checkpoint inhibitors are promising treatments for patients with a variety of malignancies. Toward understanding the determinants of response to immune checkpoint inhibitors, it was previously demonstrated that somatic mutation burden is associated with benefit and a hypothesis was posited that neoantigen homology to pathogens may in part explain the link between somatic mutations and response. To further examine this hypothesis, we reanalyzed cancer exome data obtained from a previously published study of 64 melanoma patients treated with CTLA-4 blockade and a new dataset of RNA-Seq data from 24 of those patients. We found that the predictive accuracy does not increase as analysis narrows from somatic mutation burden to predicted MHC Class I neoantigens, expressed neoantigens, or homology to pathogens. Further, the association between somatic mutation burden and response is only found when examining samples obtained prior to treatment. Neoantigen and expressed neoantigen burden are also associated with response, but neither is more predictive than somatic mutation burden. Neither the previously-described tetrapeptide signature nor an updated method to evaluate neoepitope homology to pathogens were more predictive than mutation burden.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088286', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
[u'A unified characterization of population structure and relatedness.', ['Bruce S Weir', 'Jerome Goudet'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'Many population genetic activities, ranging from evolutionary studies to association mapping to forensic identification, rely on appropriate estimates of population structure or relatedness. All applications require recognition that quantities with an underlying meaning of allelic identity by descent are not defined in an absolute sense, but instead are made \u201crelative to\u201d some set of alleles other than the target set. The early Weir and Cockerham FST estimate made explicit that the reference set of alleles was across independent populations. Standard kinship estimates have an implicit assumption that pairs of individuals in a study sample, other than the target pair, are unrelated, whereas other estimates assume alleles within individuals are not identical by descent. However, populations lose independence when there is migration between them, and when individuals in a study are related it is difficult to see how they can also be non-inbred. We have therefore re-cast our treatments of population structure, relatedness and inbreeding to make explicit that the parameters of interest involve differences of probabilities of identity by descent in the target and the reference sets of alleles and so can be negative. We take the reference set to be for the population from which study individuals have been sampled. We provide simple moment estimates of these parameters, phrased in terms of allele matching within and between individuals for relatedness and inbreeding, or within and between populations for population structure. A multi-level hierarchy of alleles within individuals, alleles between individuals within populations, and alleles between populations allows a unified treatment of relatedness and population structure. Our new estimates appear to be sensitive to rare or private variants,  to give indications of the effects of natural selection, and to be appropriate for use in association studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088260', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Washington;', u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Overcoming evolved resistance to population-suppressing homing-based gene drives', ['John Marshall', 'Anna Buchman', 'Hector M Sanchez C.', 'Omar S Akbari'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'The use of homing-based gene drive systems to modify or suppress wild populations of a given species has been proposed as a solution to a number of significant ecological and public health-related problems, including the control of mosquito-borne diseases. The recent development of a CRISPR-Cas9-based homing system for the suppression of Anopheles gambiae, the main African malaria vector, is encouraging for this approach; however, with current designs, the slow emergence of homing-resistant alleles is expected to result in suppressed populations rapidly rebounding, as homing-resistant alleles have a significant fitness advantage over functional, population-suppressing homing alleles. To explore this concern, we develop a mathematical model to estimate tolerable rates of homing-resistant allele generation to suppress a wild population of a given size. Our results suggest that, to achieve meaningful population suppression, tolerable rates of resistance allele generation are orders of magnitude smaller than those observed for current designs for CRISPR-Cas9-based homing systems. To remedy this, we propose a homing system architecture in which guide RNAs (gRNAs) are multiplexed, increasing the effective homing rate and decreasing the effective resistant allele generation rate. Modeling results suggest that the size of the population that can be suppressed increases exponentially with the number of multiplexed gRNAs and that, with six multiplexed gRNAs, a mosquito species could potentially be suppressed on a continental scale. We also demonstrate successful multiplexing in vivo in Drosophila melanogaster using a ribozyme-gRNA-ribozyme (RGR) approach - a strategy that could readily be adapted to engineer stable, homing-based suppression drives in relevant organisms.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088427', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UCB;', u'UCR;', u'School of Medicine, Mexico']]
[u'Construction of a high-density American cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.) composite map using genotyping-by-sequencing for multi-pedigree linkage mapping', ['Brandon Schlautman', 'Giovanny Covarrubias-Pazaran', 'Luis Diaz-Garcia', 'Massmo Iorizzo', 'James Polashock', 'Edward Grygleski', 'Nicholi Vorsa', 'Juan Zalapa'], u'November 17, 2016.', u'The American cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon Ait.) is a recently domesticated, economically important, fruit crop with limited molecular resources. New genetic resources could accelerate genetic gain in cranberry through characterization of its genomic structure and by enabling molecular-assisted breeding strategies.  To increase the availability of cranberry genomic resources, genotyping-by-sequencing (GBS) was used to discover and genotype thousands of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within three inter-related cranberry full-sib populations.  Additional simple sequence repeat (SSR) loci were added to the SNP datasets and used to construct bin maps for the parents of the populations, which were then merged to create the first high-density cranberry composite map containing 6073 markers (5437 SNPs and 636 SSRs) on 12 linkage groups (LGs) spanning 1124 cM.  Interestingly, higher rates of recombination were observed in maternal than paternal gametes. The large number of markers in common (mean of 57.3) and the high degree of observed collinearity (mean Pair-wise Spearman Rank Correlations > 0.99) between the LGs of the parental maps demonstrates the utility of GBS in cranberry for identifying polymorphic SNP loci that are transferable between pedigrees and populations in future trait-association studies.  Furthermore, the high-density of markers anchored within the component maps allowed identification of segregation distortion regions, placement of centromeres on each of the 12 LGs, and anchoring of genomic scaffolds.   Collectively, the results represent an important contribution to the current understanding of cranberry genomic structure and to the availability of molecular tools for future genetic research and breeding efforts in cranberry.', u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088419', [u'Genomics'], [u'The Land Institute, United States;', u'Department of Horticulture, University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States;', u'Plants for Human Health Institute, Department of Horticulture Sciences, North Carolina State Univesi, United States;', u'USDA ARS, Genetic Improvement of Fruits and Vegetables Laboratory, United States;', u'Valley Corp., United States;', u'Blueberry and Cranberry Research and Extension Center, Rutgers University, United States;', u'USDA ARS Vegetable Crops Research Unit, Department of Horticulture, University of Wisconsin-Madison, United States']]
[u'Structural and functional brain changes following four weeks of unimanual motor training: evidence from behaviour, neural stimulation, cortical thickness and functional MRI', ['Martin V Sale', 'Lee Bremner Reid', 'Luca Cocchi', 'Alex Michael Pagnozzi', 'Stephen E Rose', 'Jason B Mattingley'], u'November 17, 2016.', u"Although different aspects of neuroplasticity can be quantified with behavioural probes, brain stimulation, and brain imaging assessments, no study to date has combined all these approaches into one comprehensive assessment of brain plasticity. Here, 24 healthy right-handed participants practised a sequence of finger-thumb opposition movements for 10 minutes each day with their left hand. After four weeks, performance for the practised sequence improved significantly (p < 0.05 FWE) relative to a matched control sequence, with both the left (mean increase: 53.0% practised, 6.5% control) and right (21.0%; 15.8%) hands. Training also induced significant (cluster p-FWE < 0.001) reductions in functional MRI activation for execution of the learned sequence, relative to the control sequence. These changes were observed as clusters in the premotor and supplementary motor cortices (right hemisphere, 301 voxel cluster; left hemisphere 700 voxel cluster), as well as sensorimotor cortices and superior parietal lobules (right hemisphere 864 voxel cluster; left hemisphere, 1947 voxel cluster). Transcranial magnetic stimulation over the right ('trained') primary motor cortex yielded a 58.6% mean increase in a measure of motor evoked potential amplitude, as recorded at the left abductor pollicis brevis muscle. Cortical thickness analyses based on structural MRI suggested changes in the right precentral gyrus, right post central gyrus, right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and potentially the right supplementary motor area. Such findings are consistent with LTP-like neuroplastic changes in areas that were already responsible for finger sequence execution, rather than improved recruitment of previously non-utilised tissue.", u'/content/early/2016/11/17/088302', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Queensland Brain Institute;', u'CSIRO']]
