[u'Aggregation of biological particles under radial directional guidance.', ['Ion Bica', 'Thomas Hillen', 'Kevin J. Painter'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Many biological environments display an almost radially-symmetric structure, allowing proteins, cells or animals to move in an oriented fashion. Motivated by specific examples of cell movement in tissues, pigment protein movement in pigment cells and animal movement near watering holes, we consider a class of radially-symmetric anisotropic diffusion problems, which we call the star problem. The corresponding diffusion tensor D(x) is radially symmetric with isotropic diffusion at the origin.  We show that the anisotropic geometry of the environment can lead to strong aggregations and blow-up at the origin. We classify the nature of aggregation and blow-up solutions and provide corresponding numerical simulations. A surprising element of this strong aggregation mechanism is that it is entirely based on geometry and does not derive from chemotaxis, adhesion or other well known aggregating mechanisms. We use these aggregate solutions to discuss the process of pigmentation changes in animals, cancer invasion in an oriented fibrous habitat (such as collagen fibres), and sheep distributions around watering holes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096602', [], [u'Grant McEwan University;', u'University of Alberta;', u'Heriot-Watt University']]
[u'Cell reprogramming modelled as transitions in a hierarchy of cell cycles', ['Ryan Hannam', 'Alessia Annibale', 'Reimer Kuehn'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'We construct a model of cell reprogramming (the conversion of fully differentiated cells to a state of pluripotency, known as induced pluripotent stem cells, or iPSCs) which builds on key elements of cell biology viz. cell cycles and cell lineages. Although reprogramming has been demonstrated experimentally, much of the underlying processes governing cell fate decisions remain unknown. This work aims to bridge this gap by modelling cell types as a set of hierarchically related dynamical attractors representing cell cycles. Stages of the cell cycle are characterised by the configuration of gene expression levels, and reprogramming corresponds to triggering transitions between such configurations. Two mechanisms were found for reprogramming in a two level hierarchy: cycle specific perturbations and a noise induced switching. The former corresponds to a \\emph{directed} perturbation that induces a transition into a cycle-state of a different cell type in the potency hierarchy (mainly a stem cell) whilst the latter is a priori undirected and could be induced, e.g., by a (stochastic) change in the cellular environment. These reprogramming protocols were found to be effective in large regimes of the parameter space and make specific predictions concerning reprogramming dynamics which are broadly in line with experimental findings.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096636', [], [u"King's College London"]]
[u'Generation of heritable germline mutations in the jewel wasp Nasonia vitri pennis using CRISPR/Cas9', ['Ming Li', 'Lauren Yun Cook', 'Deema Douglah', 'Abigail Chong', 'Bradley J White', 'Patrick Ferree', 'Omar S Akbari'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'The revolutionary RNA-guided endonuclease CRISPR/Cas9 system has proven to be a powerful tool for gene editing in a plethora of organisms. Here, utilizing this system we developed an efficient protocol for the generation of heritable germline mutations in the parasitoid jewel wasp, Nasonia vitripennis, a rising insect model organism for the study of evolution, development of axis pattern formation, venom production, haplo-diploid sex determination, and host\u2212symbiont interactions. To establish CRISPR-directed gene editing in N. vitripennis, we targeted a conserved eye pigmentation gene cinnabar, generating several independent heritable germline mutations in this gene. Briefly, to generate these mutants, we developed a protocol to efficiently collect N. vitripennis eggs from a parasitized flesh fly pupa, Sarcophaga bullata, inject these eggs with Cas9/guide RNA mixtures, and transfer injected eggs back into the host to continue development. We also describe a flow for screening mutants and establishing stable mutant strains through genetic crosses. Overall, our results demonstrate that the CRISPR/Cas9 system is a powerful tool for genome manipulation in N. vitripennis, with strong potential for expansion to target critical genes, thus allowing for the investigation of a number of important biological phenomena in this organism.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096578', [], [u'UCR;', u'Claremont McKenna, Pitzer and Scripps Colleges']]
[u'When GWAS meets the Connectivity Map: drug repositioning for seven psychiatric disorders', ['Hon-Cheong So', 'Carlos K.L. Chau', 'Wan-To Chiu', 'Kin-Sang Ho', 'Cho-Pong Lo', 'Stephanie Ho-Yue Yim', 'Pak C. Sham'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Our knowledge of disease genetics has advanced rapidly during the past decade, with the advent of high-throughput genotyping technologies such as genome-wide association studies (GWAS). However, few methodologies were developed and systemic studies performed to identify novel drug candidates utilizing GWAS data. In this study we focus on drug repositioning, which is a cost-effective approach to shorten the developmental process of new therapies. We proposed a novel framework of drug repositioning by comparing GWAS-imputed transcriptome with drug expression profiles from the Connectivity Map. The approach was applied to 7 psychiatric disorders. We discovered a number of novel repositioning candidates, many of which are supported by preclinical or clinical evidence. We found that the predicted drugs are significantly enriched for known psychiatric medications, or therapies considered in clinical trials. For example, drugs repurposed for schizophrenia are strongly enriched for antipsychotics (p = 4.69E-06), while those repurposed for bipolar disorder are enriched for antipsychotics (p = 2.26E-07) and antidepressants (p = 1.17E-05). These findings provide support to the usefulness of GWAS signals in guiding drug discoveries and the validity of our approach in drug repositioning. We also present manually curated lists of top repositioning candidates for each disorder, which we believe will serve as a useful resource for researchers.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096503', [u'Genomics'], [u'Chinese University of Hong Kong;', u'Univeristy of Exeter;', u'University of Hong Kong']]
[u'No evidence for a bovine mastitis Escherichia coli pathotype', ['Andreas Leimbach', 'Anja Poehlein', 'John Vollmers', 'Rolf Daniel', 'Ulrich Dobrindt'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Background: Escherichia coli bovine mastitis is a disease of significant economic importance in the dairy industry. Molecular characterization of mastitis-associated E. coli (MAEC) did not result in the identification of common traits. Nevertheless, a mammary pathogenic E. coli (MPEC) pathotype has been proposed suggesting virulence traits that differentiate MAEC from commensal E. coli. The present study was designed to investigate the MPEC pathotype hypothesis by comparing the genomes of MAEC and commensal bovine E. coli.  Results: We sequenced the genomes of eight E. coli isolated from bovine mastitis cases and six fecal commensal isolates from udder-healthy cows. We analyzed the phylogenetic history of bovine E. coli genomes by supplementing this strain panel with eleven bovine-associated E. coli from public databases. The majority of the isolates originate from phylogroups A and B1, but neither MAEC nor commensal strains could be unambiguously distinguished by phylogenetic lineage. The gene content of both MAEC and commensal strains is highly diverse and dominated by their phylogenetic background. Although individual strains carry some typical E. coli virulence-associated genes, no traits important for pathogenicity could be specifically attributed to MAEC. Instead, both commensal strains and MAEC have very few gene families enriched in either pathotype. Only the aerobactin siderophore gene cluster was enriched in commensal E. coli within our strain panel.  Conclusions: This is the first characterization of a phylogenetically diverse strain panel including several MAEC and commensal isolates. With our comparative genomics approach we could not confirm previous studies that argue for a positive selection of specific traits enabling MAEC to elicit bovine mastitis. Instead, MAEC are facultative and opportunistic pathogens recruited from the highly diverse bovine gastrointestinal microbiota. Virulence-associated genes implicated in mastitis are a by-product of commensalism with the primary function to enhance fitness in the bovine gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, we put the definition of the MPEC pathotype into question and suggest to designate corresponding isolates as MAEC.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096479', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Hygiene, University of Muenster, Muenster, Germany;', u'Institute of Microbiology and Genetics, Georg-August-University of Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany;', u'Leibniz Institute DSMZ, German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures, Braunschweig, Germany']]
[u"Genotypic complexity of Fisher's geometric model", ['Sungmin Hwang', 'Su-Chan Park', 'Joachim Krug'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"Fisher's geometric model was originally introduced to argue that\ncomplex adaptations must occur in small steps because of pleiotropic\nconstraints.  When supplemented with the assumption of additivity of\nmutational effects on phenotypic traits, it provides a simple\nmechanism for the emergence of genotypic epistasis\nfrom the nonlinear mapping of phenotypes to fitness. Of particular\ninterest is the occurrence of sign epistasis, which is a necessary\ncondition for multipeaked genotypic fitness landscapes. Here we\ncompute the probability that a pair of randomly chosen mutations\ninteracts sign-epistatically, which is found to decrease algebraically\nwith increasing phenotypic dimension n, and varies non-monotonically\nwith the distance from the phenotypic optimum. We then derive asymptotic expressions for the mean\nnumber of fitness maxima in genotypic landscapes composed of all\ncombinations of L random mutations. This number increases\nexponentially with L, and the corresponding growth rate is used as a\nmeasure of the complexity of the genotypic landscape. The dependence\nof the complexity on the parameters of the model is found to be\nsurprisingly rich, and three distinct phases characterized by\ndifferent landscape structures are identified. The complexity\ngenerally decreases with increasing phenotypic dimension, but a\nnon-monotonic dependence on n is found in certain regimes. Our\nresults inform the interpretation of experiments where the parameters of\nFisher's model have been inferred from data, and help to elucidate which\nfeatures of empirical fitness landscapes can (or cannot) be\ndescribed by this model.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096438', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Cologne;', u'The Catholic University of Korea']]
[u'OptiClust: Improved method for assigning amplicon-based sequence data to operational taxonomic units', ['Sarah L Westcott', 'Patrick D Schloss'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Assignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) is a computational bottleneck in the process of analyzing microbial communities. Although this has been an active area of research, it has been difficult to overcome the time and memory demands while improving the quality of the OTU assignments. Here we developed a new OTU assignment algorithm that iteratively reassigns sequences to new OTUs to optimize the Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC), a measure of the quality of OTU assignments. To assess the new algorithm, OptiClust, we compared it to ten other algorithms using 16S rRNA gene sequences from two simulated and four natural communities. Using the OptiClust algorithm, the MCC values averaged 15.2 and 16.5% higher than the OTUs generated when we used the average neighbor and distance-based greedy clustering with VSEARCH, respectively. Furthermore, on average, OptiClust was 94.6-times faster than the average neighbor algorithm and just as fast as distance-based greedy clustering with VSEARCH. An empirical analysis of the efficiency of the algorithms showed that the time and memory required to perform the algorithm scaled quadratically with the number of unique sequences in the dataset. The significant improvement in the quality of the OTU assignments over previously existing methods will significantly enhance downstream analysis by limiting the splitting of similar sequences into separate OTUs and merging of dissimilar sequences into the same OTU. The development of the OptiClust algorithm represents a significant advance that is likely to have numerous other applications.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096537', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'THE GENOMIC CODE: ISOCHORES ENCODE AND MOLD CHROMATIN DOMAINS', ['Giorgio Bernardi'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'The mechanisms of formation of LADs, the lamina associated domains, and TADs, the topologically  associating domains of chromatin, are not yet understood, even if several interesting models have been proposed so far. This problem was approached here by using as a starting point the observation that chromatin architecture has an isochore framework and by having a closer look at both the isochore structure and the isochore/chromatin domain connection. This approach showed that LADs essentially correspond to isochores from the very GC-poor, compositionally very homogeneous L1 family and from the low-heterogeneity L2 (or L2-) sub-family; LADs are compositionally flat, flexible chromatin structures that attach themselves to the nuclear lamina in self-interacting clusters. In contrast, TADs (neglecting those that coincide with LADs) comprise the increasingly GC-richer isochores from the high-heterogeneity L2 (or L2+) sub-family and from the H1, H2 and H3 families; these isochores were found to be in the form of single or (more frequently) multiple GC peaks that underlie individual chromatin loops or chromatin loop ensembles, respectively. TADs appear to be constrained into loops by the properties that accompany the increasing GC levels of isochore peaks,  namely increasing bendability, increasing nuclease accessibility, decreasing supercoiling and decreasing nucleosome density. In conclusion, a genomic code underlies the encoding and shaping of chromatin architecture by the compositional features of isochores.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096487', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Science, Roma Tre University']]
[u'Human pancreatic \u03b2 cell lncRNAs control cell-specific regulatory networks', ['Ildem Akerman', 'Zhidong Tu', 'Anthony Beucher', 'Delphine Rolando', 'Claire Sauty-Colace', 'Marion Benazra', 'Nikolina Nakic', 'Jialiang Yang', 'Huan Wang', 'Lorenzo Pasquali', 'Ignasi Moran', 'Javier Garcia-Hurtado', 'Natalia Castro', 'Roser Gonzalez-Franco', 'Andrew  F. Stewart', 'Caroline Bonner', 'Lorenzo Piemonti', 'Thierry Berney', 'Leif Groop', 'Julie Kerr-Conte', 'Francois Pattou', 'Carmen Argmann', 'Eric Schadt', 'Philippe Ravassard', 'Jorge Ferrer'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Recent studies have uncovered thousands of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in\nhuman pancreatic \u03b2 cells. \u03b2 cell lncRNAs are often cell type-specific, and exhibit\ndynamic regulation during differentiation or upon changing glucose concentrations.\nAlthough these features hint at a role of lncRNAs in \u03b2 cell gene regulation and\ndiabetes, the function of \u03b2 cell lncRNAs remains largely unknown. In this study, we\ninvestigated the function of \u03b2 cell-specific lncRNAs and transcription factors using\ntranscript knockdowns and co-expression network analysis. This revealed lncRNAs\nthat function in concert with transcription factors to regulate \u03b2 cell-specific\ntranscriptional networks. We further demonstrate that lncRNA PLUTO affects local\nthree-dimensional chromatin structure and transcription of PDX1, encoding a key \u03b2\ncell transcription factor, and that both PLUTO and PDX1 are downregulated in islets\nfrom donors with type 2 diabetes or impaired glucose tolerance. These results\nimplicate lncRNAs in the regulation of \u03b2 cell-specific transcription factor networks.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096230', [u'Genomics'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Institut du cerveau et de la moelle;', u'Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle;', u'Germans Trias i Pujol University Hospital and Research Institute;', u'Institut d Investigacions Biomediques August Pi I Sunyer;', u'European Genomic Institute for Diabetes;', u'San Raffaele Scientific Institute;', u'University of Geneva;', u'Lund University']]
[u'Tradeoffs between microbial growth phases lead to frequency-dependent and non-transitive selection', ['Michael Manhart', 'Bharat V. Adkar', 'Eugene I. Shakhnovich'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Microbial populations undergo multiple phases of growth, including a lag phase, an exponential growth phase, and a stationary phase.  Therefore mutations can improve the frequency of a genotype not only by increasing its growth rate, but also by decreasing the lag time or adjusting the yield (resource efficiency).  Furthermore, many mutations will be pleiotropic, affecting multiple phases simultaneously.  The contribution of multiple life-history traits to selection is a critical question for evolutionary biology as we seek to predict the evolutionary fates of mutations.  Here we use a simple model of microbial growth to quantify how these multiple phases contribute to selection.  We find that there are two distinct components of selection corresponding to the growth and lag phases, while the yield modulates their relative importance.  Despite its simplicity, the model predicts nontrivial population dynamics when mutations induce tradeoffs between phases.  Multiple strains can coexist over long times due to frequency-dependent selection, and strains can engage in rock-paper-scissors interactions due to non-transitive selection.  We characterize the environmental conditions and patterns of traits necessary to realize these phenomena, which we show to be readily accessible to experiments.  Our results provide a theoretical framework for analyzing high-throughput measurements of microbial growth traits, especially interpreting the pleiotropy and correlations between traits across mutants.  This work also highlights the need for more comprehensive measurements of selection in simple microbial systems, where the concept of an ordinary fitness landscape breaks down.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096453', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Brain connectivity dynamics during social interaction reflect social network structure', ['Ralf Schmaelzle', "Matthew Brook O'Donnell", 'Javier O. Garcia', 'Christopher N.C. Cascio', 'Joseph Bayer', 'Jean Vettel', 'Emily B. Falk'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"Social ties are crucial for humans. Disruption of ties through social exclusion has a marked effect on our thoughts and feelings; however, such effects can be tempered by broader social network resources. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging data acquired from 80 male adolescents to investigate how social exclusion modulates functional connectivity within and across brain networks involved in social pain and understanding the mental states of others (i.e., mentalizing). Furthermore, using objectively logged friendship network data, we examine how individual variability in brain reactivity to social exclusion relates to the density of participants' friendship networks, an important aspect of social network structure. We find increased connectivity within a set of regions previously identified as a mentalizing system during exclusion relative to inclusion. These results are consistent across the regions of interest as well as a whole-brain analysis. Next, examining how social network characteristics are associated with task-based connectivity dynamics, participants who showed greater changes in connectivity within the mentalizing system when socially excluded by peers had less dense friendship networks. This work provides novel insight to understand how distributed brain systems respond to social and emotional challenges, and how such brain dynamics might vary based on broader social network characteristics.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096420', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Michigan State University;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'U.S. Army Research Laboratory;', u'The Ohio State University']]
[u'Histone H3K4 and H3K36 methylation promotes recruitment, but not activity, of the NuA3 histone acetyltransferase complex in S. cerevisiae', ['Benjamin JE Martin', 'Kristina L McBurney', 'Vicki E Maltby', 'Kristoffer N Jensen', 'Julie Brind Amour', 'LeAnn J Howe'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) alter chromatin structure by promoting the interaction of chromatin-modifying complexes with nucleosomes. The majority of chromatin-modifying complexes contain multiple domains that preferentially interact with modified histones, leading to speculation that these domains function in concert to target nucleosomes with distinct combinations of histone PTMs. In S. cerevisiae, the NuA3 histone acetyltransferase complex contains three domains, the PHD finger in Yng1, the PWWP domain in Pdp3, and the YEATS domain in Taf14, which in vitro bind to H3K4 methylation, H3K36 methylation, and acetylated and crotonylated H3K9 respectively.  However the relative in vivo contributions of these histone PTMs in targeting NuA3 is unknown. Here we show that in vivo H4K4 and H3K36 methylation, but not acetylated or crotonylated H3K9, recruit NuA3 to transcribed genes. Through genome-wide colocalization and by mutational interrogation, we demonstrate that the PHD finger of Yng1, and the PWWP domain of Pdp3 independently target NuA3 to H3K4 and H3K36 methylated chromatin respectively. In contrast, we find no evidence to support the YEATS domain of Taf14 functioning in NuA3 recruitment. Collectively our results suggest that the presence of multiple histone-PTM binding domains within NuA3, rather than restricting it to nucleosomes containing distinct combinations of histone PTMs, can serve to increase the range of nucleosomes bound by the complex. Interestingly however, the simple presence of NuA3 is insufficient to ensure acetylation of the associated nucleosomes, suggesting a secondary level of acetylation regulation that does not involve control of HAT-nucleosome interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096511', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of British Columbia;', u'School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of Newcastle;', u'Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Gene expression patterns associated with neurological disease in HIV infection', ['Pietro Paolo Sanna', 'Vez Repunte-Canonigo', 'Eliezer Masliah', 'Celine Lefebvre'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'To provide new insight into the pathogenesis of neurocognitive impairments (NCI) in HIV infection, we used the Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) algorithm to analyze pathway dysregulations in gene expression profiles of HIV-infected patients with or without NCI and HIV encephalitis (HIVE). While HIVE was characterized by widespread inflammation and tissue damage, gene expression evidence of induction of interferon (IFN), cytokines and tissue injury was apparent in all brain regions studied before the emergence of NCI. Various degrees of white matter changes were present in all HIV-infected subjects and were the primary manifestation in patients with NCI in the absence of HIVE. The latter showed a distinct pattern of immune activation with induction of chemokines, cytokines \u03b2-defensins, and limited IFN induction. \nAltogether results indicate that significant neuroinflammation and neuronal suffering precede NCI. Patients with NCI without HIVE showed a predominantly white matter dysfunction with a distinct pattern of immune activation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096172', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u'National Institute on Aging;', u'Gustave Roussy Institute']]
[u'Gastrointestinal carriage is a major reservoir of K. pneumoniae infection in intensive care patients', ['Claire L Gorrie', 'Mirjana Mirceta', 'Ryan R Wick', 'David J Edwards', 'Richard A Strugnell', 'Nigel Pratt', 'Jill Garlick', 'Kerrie Watson', 'David Pilcher', 'Steven McGloughlin', 'Denis W Spelman', 'Adam W J Jenney', 'Kathryn E Holt'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"Background:  Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic pathogen and a leading cause of hospital-associated (HA) infections. Patients in intensive care units (ICUs) are particularly at risk, and outbreaks are frequently reported in ICUs. K. pneumoniae is also part of the healthy human microbiome, providing a potential reservoir for HA infection. However, the frequency of K. pneumoniae gut colonization and its contribution to HA infections are not well characterized.  Methods: We conducted one-year prospective cohort study of ICU patients. Participants (n=498) were screened for rectal and throat carriage of K. pneumoniae shortly after admission, and clinical information was extracted from hospital records. K. pneumoniae isolated from screening swabs and clinical diagnostic samples were characterized using whole genome sequencing. Genomic and epidemiological data were combined to identify likely transmission events.  Results and Conclusions:  K. pneumoniae carriage frequencies were estimated at 6% (95% CI, 3%-8%) amongst ICU patients admitted direct from the community, and 19% (95% CI, 14% - 51%) amongst those who had recent contact with healthcare. Gut colonisation on admission was significantly associated with subsequent K. pneumoniae infection (infection risk 16% vs 3%, OR=6.9, p<0.001), and genome data indicated a match between carriage and infection isolates in most patients. Five likely transmission chains were identified, resulting in six infections (12% of K. pneumoniae infections in ICU). In contrast, 49% of K. pneumoniae infections were caused by a strain that was unique to the patient, and 48% of patients with K. pneumoniae infections who participated in screening were positive for prior colonisation. These data confirm K. pneumoniae colonisation is a significant risk factor for subsequent infection in ICU, and indicate that half of all K. pneumoniae infections result from patients' own microbiota. Screening for colonisation on admission could limit risk of infection in the colonised patient and others.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096446', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, The University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;', u'Microbiology Unit, Alfred Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology at the Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity,;', u'Infectious Diseases Clinical Research Unit, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;', u'Intensive Care Unit, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;', u'Microbiology Unit & Department of Infectious Diseases, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Aus']]
[u'The primary motor cortex is critical for the retention of implicit sensorimotor adaptation', ['Li-Ann Leow', 'Welber Marinovic', 'Lilian Chye', 'Timothy J Carroll', 'Stephan Riek'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Sensorimotor adaptation, or adaptation of movements to external perturbations, is thought to involve the primary motor cortex (M1). In addition to implicit error-driven remapping, explicit re-aiming strategies also contribute to sensorimotor adaptation. However, no studies to date have examined the role of M1 in implicit learning in isolation from explicit strategies. Because the application of explicit strategies requires time, it is possible to emphasise implicit learning by controlling the time available to prepare movement. Here, we examined the role of M1 role in implicit adaptation to rotated visual feedback whilst suppressing the use of explicit re-aiming strategies by limiting movement preparation times to less than 350ms. Perturbing M1 activity via single-pulse TMS during adaptation to a 30 degree rotation of visual feedback did not alter the rate or extent of error compensation, but elicited poorer retention in post-adaptation trials with no perturbation. This work shows that M1 is critical in the retention of new visuomotor maps as a result of implicit adaptation to a perturbation in sensory feedback when strategic error correction processes are suppressed.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096404', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'Curtin University of Technology']]
[u'Inference of Multiple-wave Admixtures by Length Distribution of Ancestral Tracks', ['Xumin Ni', 'Xiong Yang', 'Kai Yuan', 'Qidi Feng', 'Wei Guo', 'Zhiming Ma', 'Shuhua Xu'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'The ancestral tracks in admixed genomes are of valuable information for population history inference. A few methods have been developed to infer admixture history based on ancestral tracks. Nonetheless, these methods suffered the same flaw that only population admixture history under some specific models can be inferred. In addition, the inference of history might be biased or even unreliable if the specific model is deviated from the real situation. To address this problem, we firstly proposed a general discrete admixture model to describe the admixture history with multiple ancestral populations and multiple-wave admixtures. We next deduced the length distribution of ancestral tracks under the general discrete admixture model. We further developed a new method, MultiWaver, to explore the multiple-wave admixture histories. Our method could automatically determine an optimal admixture model based on the length distribution of ancestral tracks, and estimate the corresponding parameters under this optimal model. Specifically, we used a likelihood ratio test (LRT) to determine the number of admixture waves, and implemented an expectation??maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate parameters. We used simulation studies to validate the reliability and effectiveness of our method. Finally, good performance was observed when our method was applied to real datasets of African Americans, Mexicans, Uyghurs, and Hazaras.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096560', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Mathematics, School of Science, Beijing Jiaotong University;', u'CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biology;', u'Inst of Applied Mathematics, Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'From static to temporal network theory - applications to functional brain connectivity', ['William Hedley Hedley Thompson', 'Per Brantefors', 'Peter Fransson'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"Network neuroscience has become an established paradigm to tackle questions related to the functional and structural connectome of the brain. Recently, there has been a growing interest to examine the temporal dynamics of the brain's network activity. While different approaches to capture fluctuations in brain connectivity have been proposed, there have been few attempts to quantify these fluctuations using temporal network theory. Temporal network theory is an extension of network theory that has been successfully applied to the modeling of dynamic processes in economics, social sciences and engineering. The objective of this paper is twofold: (i) to present a detailed description of the central tenets and outline measures from temporal network theory; (ii) apply these measures to a resting-state fMRI dataset to illustrate their utility. Further, we discuss the interpretation of temporal network theory in the context of the dynamic functional brain connectome. All the temporal network measures and plotting functions described in this paper are freely available as a python package Teneto.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096461', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'GeneSeqToFamily: the Ensembl Compara GeneTrees pipeline as a Galaxy workflow', ['Anil S. Thanki', 'Nicola Soranzo', 'Wilfried Haerty', 'Matthieu Muffato', 'Robert P. Davey'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"Background:  Gene duplication is a major factor contributing to evolutionary novelty, and the contraction or expansion of gene families has often been associated with morphological, physiological and environmental adaptations. The study of homologous genes helps us to understand the evolution of gene families. It plays a vital role in finding ancestral gene duplication events as well as identifying genes that have diverged from a common ancestor under positive selection. There are various tools available, such as MSOAR, OrthoMCL and HomoloGene, to identify gene families and visualise syntenic information between species, providing an overview of syntenic regions evolution at the family level. Unfortunately, none of them provide information about structural changes within genes, such as the conservation of ancestral exon boundaries amongst multiple genomes. The Ensembl GeneTrees computational pipeline generates gene trees based on coding sequences and provides details about exon conservation, and is used in the Ensembl Compara project to discover gene families.  Findings: A certain amount of expertise is required to configure and run the Ensembl Compara GeneTrees pipeline via command line. Therefore, we have converted the command line Ensembl Compara GeneTrees pipeline into a Galaxy workflow, called GeneSeqToFamily, and provided additional functionality. This workflow uses existing tools from the Galaxy ToolShed, as well as providing additional wrappers and tools that are required to run the workflow.  Conclusions: GeneSeqToFamily represents the Ensembl Compara pipeline as a set of interconnected Galaxy tools, so they can be run interactively within the Galaxy's user-friendly workflow environment while still providing the flexibility to tailor the analysis by changing configurations and tools if necessary. Additional tools allow users to subsequently visualise gene families, produced using the workflow, using the Aequatus.js interactive tool, which has been developed as part of the Aequatus software project.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096529', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Earlham Institute;', u'The European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'Infectious Disease Dynamics Inferred from Genetic Data via Sequential Monte Carlo', ['Richard A Smith', 'Edward L Ionides', 'Aaron A King'], u'December 23, 2016.', u'Genetic sequences from pathogens can provide information about infectious disease dynamics that may supplement or replace information from other epidemiological observations. Currently available methods first estimate phylogenetic trees from sequence data, then estimate a transmission model conditional on these phylogenies. Outside limited classes of models, existing methods are unable to enforce logical consistency between the model of transmission and that underlying the phylogenetic reconstruction. Such conflicts in assumptions can lead to bias in the resulting inferences. Here, we develop a general, statistically efficient, plug-and-play method to jointly estimate both disease transmission and phylogeny using genetic data and, if desired, other epidemiological observations. This method explicitly connects the model of transmission and the model of phylogeny so as to avoid the aforementioned inconsistency. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach through simulation and apply it to estimate stage-specific infectiousness in a subepidemic of HIV in Detroit, Michigan. In a supplement, we prove that our approach is a valid sequential Monte Carlo algorithm. While we focus on how these methods may be applied to population-level models of infectious disease, their scope is more general. These methods may be applied in other biological systems where one seeks to infer population dynamics from genetic sequences, and they may also find application for evolutionary models with phenotypic rather than genotypic data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096396', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Spatiotemporal Dynamics of the Bacterial Microbiota and Methanotrophic Bacteria on Lotic Cladophora glomerata (Chlorophyta)', ['Michael J Braus', 'Thea Whitman', 'Linda Graham'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"The periphytic green alga Cladophora glomerata is found growing abundantly in dense mats in lakes and rivers worldwide, often co-occurring in eutrophic lakes with near-shore waters saturated in methane. This alga hosts a diverse microbial community, but the spatiotemporal dynamics of the alga's bacterial microbiota over a growth season have not been characterized. In this study, replicate samples of Cladophora were collected in 2014 from multiple locales in Lake Mendota at multiple times during the summer growth season to test the hypothesis that the bacterial community changes over time and is geographically heterogeneous. Genetic sequencing of epibiontic bacteria using the 16S rDNA biomarker showed significant differences in community structure and composition over time and space, suggesting a dynamic microbial community that is strongly influenced by sampling time and weakly by sampling site. Of particular importance are high diversity and relative abundance of likely methane-oxidizing (methanotrophic) bacteria, especially Crenothrix, Methylomonas, and Methylocaldum, which showed distinctive site preferences. Different patterns were observed in many aerobic heterotrophic bacteria, such as Meiothermus, Leadbetterella, and Flectobacillus and non-oxygenic phototrophic bacteria such as Rhodobacter. Comparison to results of a similar 2011 study from the same site revealed a core bacterial assemblage that persists between years and over a growth season, but also opportunistic bacterial genera and ecological guilds whose populations increase, decrease, or peak over different timeframes. Evidence for a highly dynamic microbial community growing on Cladophora glomerata warrants further study to determine the most influential factors and how these factors influence freshwater macroalgae or related submerged photosynthetic organisms in environmental, industrial, or biotechnological systems.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096347', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Wisconsin - Madison']]
[u'Identifying Model-Based and Model-Free Patterns in Behavior on Multi-Step Tasks', ['Kevin J Miller', 'Matthew Botvinick', 'Carlos D Brody'], u'December 23, 2016.', u"Recent years have seen a surge of research into the neuroscience of planning. Much of this work has taken advantage of a two-step sequential decision task developed by Daw et al. (2011), which gives the ability to diagnose whether or not subjects' behavior is the result of planning.  Here, we present simulations which suggest that the techniques most commonly used to analyze data from this task may be confounded in important ways. We introduce a new analysis technique, which suffers from fewer of these issues. This technique also presents a richer view of behavior, making it useful for characterizing patterns in behavior in a theory-neutral manner. This allows it to provide an important check on the assumptions of more theory-driven analysis such as agent-based model-fitting.", u'/content/early/2016/12/23/096339', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Google DeepMind;', u'HHMI & Princeton University']]
[u'Inferring hidden causal relations between pathway members using reduced Google matrix of directed biological networks', ['Jose Lages', 'Dima Shepelyansky', 'Andrei Zinovyev'], u'December 22, 2016.', u'Signaling pathways represent parts of the global biological network which connects them into a seamless whole through complex direct and indirect (hidden)\ncrosstalk whose structure can change during normal development or in a pathological conditions such as\ncancer. Advanced methods for characterizing the structure of the global directed causal network can shed light on the mechanisms of global cell\nreprogramming changing the distribution of possible signaling flows. We suggest a methodology, called Googlomics, for the analysis of the structure of directed biological networks using spectral analysis of their Google matrix. This approach uses parallels with quantum scattering theory, developed for processes in nuclear and mesoscopic physics and quantum chaos. We introduce the notion of reduced Google matrix\nin the context of the regulatory biological networks and demonstrate how its computation allows inferring hidden causal relations between the members of a signaling pathway or a functionally related group of genes. We investigate how the structure of hidden causal relationscan be reprogrammed as the result of changes in the transcriptional network layer during cancerogenesis. The suggested Googlomics approach\ncan be useful in various contexts for characterizing non-intuitive changes in the wiring of complex and large causal biological networks.', u'/content/early/2016/12/22/096362', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Institut UTINAM - Theoretical Physics and Astrophysics group;', u'University Paul Sabatier, CNRS 5152;', u'Insitut Curie']]
