[u'Giardia alters commensal microbial diversity throughout the murine gut', ['Nanelle R Barash', 'Jennifer G Maloney', 'Steven Singer', 'Scott C Dawson'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'Giardia lamblia is the most frequently identified protozoan cause of intestinal infection. Over one billion people are estimated to have acute or chronic giardiasis, with infection rates approaching 90% in endemic areas. Despite its significance in global health, the mechanisms of pathogenesis associated with giardiasis remains unclear as the parasite neither produces a known toxin nor induces a robust inflammatory response.  Giardia colonization and proliferation in the small intestine of the host, however, may disrupt of the ecological homeostasis of gastrointestinal commensal microbes and contribute to diarrheal disease associated with giardiasis. To evaluate the impact of Giardia infection on the host microbiota, we use culture-independent methods to quantify shifts in the diversity of commensal microbes throughout the entire gastrointestinal tract in mice infected with Giardia. We discovered that Giardia colonization of the small intestine causes a systemic dysbiosis of aerobic and anaerobic bacterial taxa.  Specifically, giardiasis is typified by both expansions in aerobic Proteobacteria and decreases in anaerobic Firmicute and Melainabacteria in the murine foregut and hindgut. Based on these shifts, we created a quantitative index of murine Giardia-induced microbial dysbiosis. This index increased at all gut regions during the duration of infection, including both the proximal small intestine and the colon. Thus giardiasis could  be an ecological disease, and the observed dysbiosis may be mediated directly via the  unique anaerobic fermentative metabolism of Giardia or indirectly via parasite induction of gut inflammation.  This systemic alteration of murine gut commensal diversity may be the cause or the consequence of inflammatory and metabolic changes throughout the gut. Shifts in the commensal microbiota may explain observed variation in giardiasis between hosts with respect to host pathology, degree of parasite colonization, infection initiation, and eventual clearance.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087122', [], [u'University of California Davis;', u'Georgetown University']]
[u'Modeling disease spread in populations with birth, death, and concurrency', ['Joel Miller', 'Anja C Slim'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'The existence of sexual partnerships that overlap in time (concurrent relationships) is believed by some to be a significant contributing factor to the spread of HIV, although this is controversial.  We derive an analytic model which allows us to investigate and compare disease spread in populations with and without concurrency.  We can identify regions of parameter space in which its impact is negligible, and other regions in which it plays a major role.  We also see that the impact of concurrency on the initial growth phase can be much larger than its impact on the equilibrium size.  We see that the effect of concurrency saturates, which leads to the perhaps surprising conclusion that interventions targeting concurrency may be most effective in populations with low to moderate levels of concurrency.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087213', [], [u'Monash University']]
[u'Proteotype profiling unmasks a viral signaling network essential for poxvirus assembly and transcriptional competence', ['Karel Novy', 'Samuel Kilcher', 'Ulrich Omasits', 'Christopher Karl Ernst Bleck', 'Corina Beerli', 'Mohammedyaseen Syedbasha', 'Alessio Maiolica', 'Jason Mercer', 'Bernd Wollscheid'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'To orchestrate context-dependent signaling programs poxviruses encode two dual-specificity enzymes, the F10 kinase and the H1 phosphatase. These signaling mediators are essential for poxvirus production, yet their substrate profiles and systems level functions remain enigmatic. Using a phospho-proteomic screen of cells infected with wildtype, F10, and H1 mutant viruses we systematically defined the viral signaling network controlled by these enzymes. Quantitative cross comparison revealed 33 F10 and/or H1 phosphosites within 17 viral proteins. Using this proteotype dataset to inform genotype-phenotype relationships we found that H1-deficient virions harbor a hidden hyper-cleavage phenotype driven by reversible phosphorylation of the virus protease I7 (S134). Quantitative phospho-proteotyping further revealed that the phosphorylation-dependent activity of the viral early transcription factor, A7 (Y367), underlies the transcription-deficient phenotype of H1 mutant virions. Together these results highlight the utility of combining quantitative proteotype screens with mutant viruses to uncover novel proteotype-phenotype-genotype relationships that are masked by classical genetic studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087270', [], [u'Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, D-BIOL, ETH Zurich 8093 Zurich, Switzerland;', u'MRC-Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK;', u'Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, D-BIOL, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland;', u'Center for Cellular Imaging and NanoAnalytics (C-CINA), Biozentrum, University of Basel, Switzerland;', u'Institute of Biochemistry, D-BIOL, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland;', u'University College London;', u'Department of Health Sciences and Technology (D-HEST), ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland']]
[u'Genetic overlap between in-scanner head motion and the default network connectivity', ['Yuan Zhou', 'Jie Chen', 'Yu Luo', 'Dang Zheng', 'Li-Lin Rao', 'Xinying Li', 'Jianxin Zhang', 'Shu Li', 'Karl Friston', 'Xi-Nian Zuo'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'The association between in-scanner head motion and intrinsic functional connectivity (iFC) may confound explanations for individual differences in functional connectomics. However, the etiology of the correlation between head motion and iFC has not been established. This study aimed to investigate genetic and environmental contributions on the association between head motion and iFC using a twin dataset (175 same-sex twin pairs, aged 14-23 years, 48% females). After establishing that both head motion and default network iFC are moderately heritable, we found large genetic correlations (-0.52 to -0.73) between head motion and the default network iFCs. Common genes can explain 48% - 61% of the negative phenotypic correlation between the two phenotypes. These results advance our understanding of the relationship between head motion and iFC, and may have profound implications for interpreting individual differences in default network connectivity in clinical research and brain-behavior association.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087023', [], [u'Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'The Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London']]
[u'Mathematical models of SIR disease spread with combined non-sexual and sexual transmission routes', ['Joel Miller'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'The emergence of diseases such as Zika and Ebola has highlighted the need to understand the role of sexual transmission in the spread of diseases with a primarily non-sexual transmission route.  In this paper we develop a number of low-dimensional models which are appropriate for a range of assumptions for how a disease will spread if it has sexual transmission through a sexual contact network combined with some other transmission mechanism, such as direct contact or vectors.  The equations derived provide exact predictions for the dynamics of the corresponding simulations in the large population limit.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087189', [], [u'Monash University']]
[u'Crosstalk and eavesdropping among quorum sensing peptide signals that regulate bacteriocin production in Streptococcus pneumoniae', ['Eric Miller', 'Morten Kjos', 'Monica Abrudan', 'Ian S. Roberts', 'Jan-Willem Veening', 'Daniel Rozen'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'During colonization of the human nasopharynx, multiple strains of the Gram-positive pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae coexist and compete with each other using secreted antimicrobial peptides called bacteriocins. The major class of pneumococcal bacteriocins is encoded by the blp operon, whose transcription is controlled by the secretion and detection of a polymorphic family of quorum sensing (QS) peptides. We examined interactions between the blp QS signal (BlpC) and receptor (BlpH) across 4,096 pneumococcal genomes. Imperfect genomic concordance between nine QS signal peptides and five phylogenetically-related QS receptor groups suggested extensive signal crosstalk (where cells produce signals that non-clonal cells detect) and eavesdropping (where cells respond to signals that they do not produce). To test this, we quantified the response of reporter strains containing one of six different blp QS receptors to cognate and non-cognate synthetic peptide signals. As predicted, we found evidence for eavesdropping in four of these receptors and for crosstalk in five of six tested signals. These in vitro results were confirmed during interactions between adjacent pneumococcal colonies, providing evidence that crosstalk and eavesdropping occur at endogenous, ecologically-relevant, levels of signal secretion. Using a spatially explicit stochastic model, we show that eavesdropping genotypes gain evolutionary advantages during inter-strain competition, even when their affinity to non-cognate signals is as low as 10% of the affinity to their cognate signal. Our results highlight the importance of social interactions in mediating intraspecific competition among bacteria and clarify that diverse competitive interactions can be mediated by polymorphism in QS systems.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087247', [], [u'University of Manchester;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Lausanne;', u'Leiden University']]
[u'Test-retest reliability of functional connectivity networks during naturalistic fMRI paradigms', ['Jiahui Wang', 'Yudan Ren', 'Xintao Hu', 'Vinh Thai Nguyen', 'Lei Guo', 'Junwei Han', 'Christine Cong Guo'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'Functional connectivity analysis has become a powerful tool for probing the human brain function and its breakdown in neuropsychiatry disorders. So far, most studies adopted resting state paradigm to examine functional connectivity networks in the brain, thanks to its low demand and high tolerance that are essential for clinical studies. However, the test-retest reliability of resting state connectivity measures is moderate, potentially due to its low behavioral constraint. On the other hand, naturalistic neuroimaging paradigms, an emerging approach for cognitive neuroscience with high ecological validity, could potentially improve the reliability of functional connectivity measures. To test this hypothesis, we characterized the test-retest reliability of functional connectivity measures during a natural viewing condition, and benchmarked it against resting state connectivity measures acquired within the same functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) session. We found that the reliability of connectivity and graph theoretical measures of brain networks is significantly improved during natural viewing conditions over resting state conditions, with an average increase of almost 50% across various connectivity measures. Not only sensory networks for audio-visual processing become more reliable, higher order brain networks, such as default mode and attention networks, also appear to show higher reliability during natural viewing. Our results support the use of natural viewing paradigms in estimating functional connectivity of brain networks, and have important implications for clinical application of fMRI.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087197', [], [u"School of Automation, Northwestern Polytechnical University, Xi'an, China;", u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Herston, Queensland, Australia']]
[u'Network activity influences the subthreshold and spiking visual responses of pyramidal neurons in a three-layer cortex', ['Nathaniel C. Wright', 'Ralf Wessel'], u'November 11, 2016.', u"A primary goal of systems neuroscience is to understand cortical function, which typically involves studying spontaneous and sensory-evoked cortical activity.  Mounting evidence suggests a strong and complex relationship between the ongoing and evoked state.  To date, most work in this area has been based on spiking in populations of neurons.  While advantageous in many respects, this approach is limited in scope; it records the activities of a minority of neurons, and gives no direct indication of the underlying subthreshold dynamics.  Membrane potential recordings can fill these gaps in our understanding, but are difficult to obtain in vivo.  Here, we record subthreshold cortical visual responses in the ex vivo turtle eye-attached whole-brain preparation, which is ideally-suited to such a study.  In the absence of visual stimulation, the network is 'synchronous'; neurons display network-mediated transitions between low- and high-conductance membrane potential states.  The prevalence of these slow-wave transitions varies across turtles and recording sessions.  Visual stimulation evokes similar high-conductance states, which are on average larger and less reliable when the ongoing state is more synchronous.  Responses are muted when immediately preceded by large, spontaneous high-conductance events.  Evoked spiking is sparse, highly variable across trials, and mediated by concerted synaptic inputs that are in general only very weakly correlated with inputs to nearby neurons.  Together, these results highlight the multiplexed influence of the cortical network on the spontaneous and sensory-evoked activity of individual cortical neurons.", u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087288', [], [u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'An annotated draft genome for Radix auricularia\n(Gastropoda, Mollusca)', ['Tilman Schell', 'Barbara Feldmeyer', 'Hanno Schmidt', 'Bastian Greshake', 'Oliver Tills', 'Manuela Truebano', 'Simon D. Rundle', 'Juraj Paule', 'Ingo Ebersberger', 'Markus Pfenninger'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'Molluscs are the second most species rich phylum in the animal kingdom, yet only eleven genomes\nhave been published so far. To complement the scarce genomic resources, we present the draft genome\nsequence of the pulmonate freshwater snail Radix auricularia. Six whole genome shotgun libraries\nwith different layouts were sequenced to an overall read coverage of 73x. The resulting assembly\ncomprises 4,823 scaffolds with a cumulative length of 910 Mb. The assembly contains 94.6 % of a\nmetazoan core gene collection, indicating an almost complete coverage of the coding fraction. The\ndiscrepancy of ~690 Mb compared to the estimated genome size of R. auricularia (1.6 Gb) results\nfrom an extraordinary high repeat content of 70 % mainly comprising DNA transposons. The 17,338\nannotated protein coding genes. The presented draft will serve as starting point for further genomic\nand population genetic research in this scientifically important phylum.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087254', [], [u'Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre;', u'Goethe-University, Frankfurt am Main;', u'Plymouth University;', u'Senckenberg Research Institute']]
[u'Recurrent gene duplication leads to diverse repertoires of centromeric histones in Drosophila species', ['Lisa E. Kursel', 'Harmit Singh Malik'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'Despite their essential role in the process of chromosome segregation in most eukaryotes, centromeric histones show remarkable evolutionary lability. Not only have they been lost in multiple insect lineages, but they have also undergone gene duplication in multiple plant lineages. Based on detailed study of a handful of model organisms including Drosophila melanogaster, centromeric histone duplication is considered to be rare in animals. Using a detailed phylogenomic study, we find that Cid, the centromeric histone gene, has undergone four independent gene duplications during Drosophila evolution. We find duplicate Cid genes in D. eugracilis (Cid2), in the montium species subgroup (Cid3, Cid4) and in the entire Drosophila subgenus (Cid5). We show that Cid3, Cid4, Cid5 all localize to centromeres in their respective species. Some Cid duplicates are primarily expressed in the male germline. With rare exceptions, Cid duplicates have been strictly retained after birth, suggesting that they perform non-redundant centromeric functions, independent from the ancestral Cid. Indeed, each duplicate encodes a distinct N-terminal tail, which may provide the basis for distinct protein-protein interactions. Finally, we show some Cid duplicates evolve under positive selection whereas others do not. Taken together, our results support the hypothesis that Drosophila Cid duplicates have subfunctionalized. Thus, these gene duplications provide an unprecedented opportunity to dissect the multiple roles of centromeric histones.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/086942', [], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'A TOPOLOGICAL/ECOLOGICAL APPROACH TO PERCEPTION', ['Arturo Tozzi', 'James Peters', 'Sheela Ramanna'], u'November 11, 2016.', u"During the exploration of the surrounding environment, the brain links together external inputs, giving rise to perception of a persisting object.  During imaginative processes, the same object can be recalled in mind even if it is out of sight.    In this proof of concept study, Borsuk's theory of shape and the Borsuk-Ulam theorem provide a mathematical foundation for Gibson's notion of persistence perception.  Gibson's ecological theory of perception accounts for our knowledge of world objects by borrowing a concept of invariance in topology.  A series of transformations can be gradually applied to a pattern, in particular to the shape of an object, without affecting its invariant properties, such as boundedness of parts of a visual scene. High-level representations of objects in our environment are mapped to simplified views (our interpretations) of the objects, in order to construct a symbolic representation of the environment. The representations can be projected continuously to an ecological object that we have seen and continue to see, thanks to the mapping from shapes in our memory to shapes in Euclidean space.", u'/content/early/2016/11/11/086827', [], [u'University of North Texas, USA;', u'University of Manitoba;', u'Ad\u0131yaman University, Turkey']]
[u'Combining inferred regulatory and reconstructed metabolic networks enhances phenotype prediction in yeast', ['Zhuo Wang', 'Samuel A Danziger', 'Benjamin D Heavner', 'Shuyi Ma', 'Jennifer J Smith', 'Song Li', 'Thurston Herricks', 'Evangelos Simeonidis', 'Nitin S Baliga', 'John D Aitchison', 'Nathan D Price'], u'November 11, 2016.', u"Gene regulatory and metabolic network models have been used successfully in many organisms, but inherent differences between them make networks difficult to integrate. Probabilistic Regulation Of Metabolism (PROM) provides a partial solution, but it does not incorporate network inference and underperforms in eukaryotes. We present an Integrated Deduced REgulation And Metabolism (IDREAM) method that combines statistically inferred Environment and Gene Regulatory Influence Network (EGRIN) models with the PROM framework to create enhanced metabolic-regulatory network models. We used IDREAM to predict phenotypes and genetic interactions between transcription factors and genes encoding metabolic activities in the eukaryote, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. IDREAM models contain many fewer interactions than PROM and yet produce significantly more accurate growth predictions. IDREAM consistently outperformed PROM using any of three popular yeast metabolic models and across three experimental growth conditions. Importantly, IDREAM's enhanced accuracy makes it possible to identify subtle synthetic growth defects. With experimental validation, these novel genetic interactions involving the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex suggested a new role for fatty acid-responsive factor Oaf1 in regulating acetyl-CoA production in glucose grown cells.", u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087148', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Shanghai Jiao Tong University;', u'Center for Infectious Disease Research;', u'Institute for Systems Biology']]
[u'Ensembl Core Software Resources: storage and programmatic access for DNA sequence and genome annotation', ['Magali Ruffier', 'Andreas Kahari', 'Monika Komorowska', 'Stephen Keenan', 'Matthew R Laird', 'Ian Longden', 'Glenn Proctor', 'Steve Searle', 'Daniel Staines', 'Kieron Taylor', 'Alessandro Vullo', 'Andrew Yates', 'Daniel Zerbino', 'Paul Flicek'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'The Ensembl software resources are a stable infrastructure to store, access and manipulate genome assemblies and their functional annotations. The Ensembl "Core" database and Application Programming Interface (API) was our first major piece of software infrastructure and remains at the centre of all of our genome resources. Since its initial design more than fifteen years ago, the number of publicly available genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic datasets has grown enormously, accelerated by continuous advances in DNA sequencing technology. Initially intended to provide annotation for the reference human genome, we have extended our framework to support the genomes of all species as well as richer assembly models. Cross-referenced links to other informatics resources facilitate searching our database with a variety of popular identifiers such as UniProt and RefSeq. Our comprehensive and robust framework storing a large diversity of genome annotations in one location serves as a platform for other groups to generate and maintain their own tailored annotation. Our databases and APIs are publicly available and all of our source code is released with a permissive Apache v2.0 licence at http://github.com/Ensembl.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087239', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'EMBL-EBI;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'EMDUnifrac: Exact linear time computation of the Unifrac metric and identification of differentially abundant organisms', ['Jason McClelland', 'David Koslicki'], u'November 11, 2016.', u"Both the weighted and unweighted Unifrac distances have been very successfully employed to assess if two communities differ, but do not give any information about how two communities differ. We take advantage of recent observations that the Unifrac metric is equivalent to the so-called earth mover's distance (also known as the Kantorovich-Rubinstein metric) to develop an algorithm that not only computes the Unifrac distance in linear time and space, but also simultaneously finds which operational taxonomic units are responsible for the observed differences between samples. This allows the algorithm, called EMDUnifrac, to determine why given samples are different, not just if they are different, and with no added computational burden. EMDUnifrac can be utilized on any distribution on a tree, and so is particularly suitable to analyzing both operational taxonomic units derived from amplicon sequencing, as well as community profiles resulting from classifying whole genome shotgun metagenomes.\nThe EMDUnifrac source code (written in python) is freely available at: https://github.com/dkoslicki/EMDUnifrac", u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087171', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Oregon State University']]
[u'Copyright and the Use of Images as Biodiversity Data', ['Willi Egloff', 'Donat Agosti', 'Puneet Kishor', 'David Patterson', 'Jeremy A. Miller'], u'November 11, 2016.', u"Taxonomy is the discipline responsible for charting the world's organismic diversity, understanding ancestor/descendant relationships, and organizing all species according to a unified taxonomic classification system. Taxonomists document the attributes (characters) of organisms, with emphasis on those can be used to distinguish species from each other. Character information is compiled in the scientific literature as text, tables, and images. The information is presented according to conventions that vary among taxonomic domains; such conventions facilitate comparison among similar species, even when descriptions are published by different authors.  There is considerable uncertainty within the taxonomic community as to how to re-use images that were included in taxonomic publications, especially in regard to whether copyright applies. This article deals with the principles and application of copyright law, database protection, and protection against unfair competition, as applied to images. We conclude that copyright does not apply to most images in taxonomic literature because they are presented in a standardized way and lack the creativity that is required to qualify as 'copyrightable works'. There are exceptions, such as wildlife photographs, drawings and artwork produced in a distinctive individual form and intended for other than comparative purposes (such as visual art). Further exceptions may apply to collections of images that qualify as a database in the sense of European database protection law. In a few European countries, there is legal protection for photographs that do not qualify as works in the usual sense of copyright. It follows that most images found in taxonomic literature can be re-used for research or many other purposes without seeking permission, regardless of any copyright declaration. In observance of ethical and scholarly standards, re-users are expected to cite the author and original source of any image that they use.", u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087015', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Plazi;', u'University of Sydney;', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center']]
[u'Resilience, invariability, and ecological stability across levels of organization', ['Bart Haegeman', 'Jean-Francois Arnoldi', 'Shaopeng Wang', 'Claire de Mazancourt', 'Jose M. Montoya', 'Michel Loreau'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'Ecological stability is a bewildering broad concept.  The most common stability measures are asymptotic resilience, widely used in theoretical studies, and measures based on temporal variability, commonly used in empirical studies.  We construct measures of invariability, defined as the inverse of variability, that can be directly compared with asymptotic resilience.  We show that asymptotic resilience behaves like the invariability of the most variable species, which is often a rare species close to its extinction boundary.  Therefore, asymptotic resilience displays complete loss of stability with changes in community composition.  In contrast, mean population invariability and ecosystem invariability are insensitive to rare species and quantify stability consistently whether details of species composition are considered or not.  Invariability provides a consistent framework to predict diversity-stability relationships that agree with empirical data at population and ecosystem levels.  Our findings can enhance the dialogue between theoretical and empirical stability studies.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/085852', [u'Ecology'], [u'CNRS;', u'iDiv']]
[u'Cause for pause before leaping to conclusions about stepping', ['Ariel Zylberberg', 'Michael N Shadlen'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'Many neurons in parietal and prefrontal association cortex undergo gradual changes in firing rate during the formation of some perceptual decisions. These dynamics are often ramp-like increases or decreases depending on the sign and strength of the sensory evidence and are thus hypothesized to represent the accumulation of noisy samples of evidence, analogous to biased diffusion. This idea was challenged recently. An analysis of sequences of action potentials recorded from neurons in the lateral intraparietal cortex (area LIP) suggests that the spikes on single trials are explained by rates that undergo a discrete step from an intermediate rate to either a low or high rate at a random time during deliberation. The average of such steps, like the average of biased diffusion, is consistent with the ramp-like firing rates observed in LIP, but a Bayesian model comparison deemed stepping superior. Here we show that a shortcoming in the mathematical depiction of drift-diffusion led to a severe bias in the model comparison. We conclude that at present there is no compelling evidence that favors the stepping account.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/085886', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Genetic variation for mitochondrial function in the New Zealand freshwater snail Potamopyrgus antipodarum', ['Joel Sharbrough', 'Jennifer L Cruise', 'Megan Beetch', 'Nicole M Enright', 'Maurine Neiman'], u'November 11, 2016.', u'The proteins responsible for mitochondrial function are encoded by two different genomes with distinct inheritance regimes, rendering rigorous inference of genotype-phenotype connections intractable for all but a few model systems. Asexual lineages provide a powerful means of addressing these challenges by enabling comparisons among genetically identical individuals in which nuclear and mitochondrial genomes are co-inherited. Here, we used Potamopyrgus antipodarum, a New Zealand freshwater snail that is an emerging model system for the evolution of sexual reproduction, adapting several methods for measuring mitochondrial function in mollusks at three distinct levels of biological organization: mitogenomic, organellar, and organismal. We applied these methods to multiple asexual lineages of P. antipodarum and evaluated whether there exists genetic variation (that is, the raw material for adaptive evolution) for mitochondrial genome copy number, mitochondrial membrane potential, and organismal oxygen consumption. Our analyses revealed that asexual lineages of P. antipodarum differed in terms of mitochondrial function at all three levels of biological organization. The discovery of lineage-level variation in terms of mitochondrial function combined with the methods developed here set the stage to study central evolutionary questions including whether mitochondrial mutation accumulation influences the maintenance of sexual reproduction in natural populations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/11/087155', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Iowa;', u'University of Saint Thomas']]
