[u'First report of the East-Central South African Genotype of Chikungunya Virus in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil', ['Thiara Manuele de Souza', 'Elzinandes Leal de Azeredo', 'Jessica Badolato Correa da Silva', 'Paulo Vieira Damasco', 'Carla Cunha Santos', 'Fabienne Petitinga de Paiva', 'Priscila Conrado Guerra Nunes', 'Luciana Santos Barbosa', 'Marcio da Costa Cipitelli', 'Thais Chouin Carneiro', 'Nieli Rodrigues da Costa Faria', 'Rita Maria Ribeiro Nogueira', 'Fernanda de Bruycker-Nogueira', 'Flavia Barreto dos Santos'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Background: Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is an arbovirus that causes an acute febrile syndrome with a severe and debilitating arthralgia. In Brazil, the Asian and East-Central South African (ECSA) genotypes are circulating in the north and northeast of the country, respectively. In 2015, the first autochthonous cases in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil were reported but until now the circulating strains have not been characterized. Therefore, we aimed here to perform the molecular characterization and phylogenetic analysis of CHIKV strains circulating in the 2016 outbreak occurred in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro.Methods: The cases analyzed in this study were collected at a private Hospital, from April 2016 to May 2016, during the chikungunya outbreak in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. All cases were submitted to the Real Time RT-PCR for CHIKV genome detection and to anti-CHIKV IgM ELISA. Chikungunya infection was laboratorially confirmed by at least one diagnostic method and, randomly selected positive cases (n=10), were partially sequenced (CHIKV E1 gene) and analyzed.Results: The results showed that all the samples grouped in ECSA genotype branch and the molecular characterization of the fragment did not reveal the A226V mutation in the Rio de Janeiro strains analyzed, but a K211T amino acid substitution was observed for the first time in all samples and a V156A substitution in two of ten samples.Conclusions: Phylogenetic analysis and molecular characterization reveals the circulation of the ECSA genotype of CHIKV in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and two amino acids substitutions (K211T and V156A) exclusive to the CHIKV strains obtained during the 2016 epidemic, were reported.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082131', [], [u'Oswaldo Cruz Institute;', u'Oswalco Druz Institute;', u'UNIRIO, UERJ and Rio Laranjeiras Hospital;', u'Rio Laranjeiras Hospital']]
[u'Effect of common and experimental anti-tuberculosis treatments on Mycobacterium tuberculosis growing as biofilms', ['James P Dalton', 'Benedict Uy', 'Narisa Phummarin', 'Brent R Copp', 'William A Denny', 'Simon Swift', 'Siouxsie Wiles'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Much is known regarding the antibiotic susceptibility of planktonic cultures of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium responsible for the lung disease tuberculosis (TB). As planktonically-grown M. tuberculosis are unlikely to be entirely representative of the bacterium during infection, we set out to determine how effective a range of anti-mycobacterial treatments were against M. tuberculosis growing as a biofilm, a bacterial phenotype known to be more resistant to antibiotic treatment. Light levels from bioluminescently-labelled M. tuberculosis H37Rv (strain BSG001) were used as a surrogate for bacterial viability, and were monitored before and after 1 week of treatment. After treatment, biofilms were disrupted, washed and inoculated into fresh broth and plated onto solid media to rescue any surviving bacteria. We found that in this phenotypic state M. tuberculosis was resistant to the majority of the compounds tested. Minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) increased by 20-fold to greater than 1000-fold, underlying the potential of this phenotype to cause significant problems during treatment.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082156', [], [u'University of Auckland']]
[u'A novel mechanism of \u2033metal gel-shift\u2033 by histidine-rich Ni2+-binding Hpn protein from Helicobacter pylori strain SS1', ['Rahul Mahadev Shelake', 'Yuki Ito', 'Junya Masumoto', 'Eugene Hayato Morita', 'Hidenori Hayashi'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) is a universally used method for determining approximate molecular weight (MW) in protein research. Migration of protein that does not correlate with formula MW, termed \u2033gel shifting\u2033 appears to be common for histidine-rich proteins but not yet studied in detail. We investigated \u2033gel shifting\u2033 in Ni2+-binding histidine-rich Hpn protein cloned from Helicobacter pylori strain SS1. Our data demonstrate two important factors determining \u2033gel shifting\u2033 of Hpn, polyacrylamide-gel concentration and metal binding. Higher polyacrylamide-gel concentrations resulted in faster Hpn migration. Irrespective of polyacrylamide-gel concentration, preserved Hpn-Ni2+ complex migrated faster (3-4 kDa) than apo-Hpn, phenomenon termed \u2033metal-gel shift\u2033 demonstrating an intimate link between Ni2+ binding and \u2033gel shifting\u2033. To examine this discrepancy, eluted samples from corresponding spots on SDS-gel were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF-MS). The MW of all samples was the same (6945.66\xb10.34 Da) and identical to formula MW with or without added mass of Ni2+. MALDI-TOF-MS of Ni2+-treated Hpn revealed that monomer bound up to six Ni2+ ions non-cooperatively, and equilibrium between protein-metal species was reliant on Ni2+ availability. This corroborates with gradually increased heterogeneity of apo-Hpn band followed by compact \u2033metal-gel shift\u2033 band on SDS-PAGE. In view of presented data metal-binding and \u2033metal-gel shift\u2033 models are discussed.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/081331', [], [u'Proteo-Science Center, Ehime University, Matsuyama, 7908577, Japan;', u'Ehime University, Matsuyama, 790856 and Josai University, Saitama, 3500295, Japan']]
[u'Lowest expressing microRNAs capture indispensable information - identifying cancer types', ['Roni Rasnic', 'Nathan Linial', 'Michal Linial'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'The primary function of microRNAs (miRNAs) is to maintain cell homeostasis. In cancerous tissues miRNAs expression undergo drastic alterations. In this study, we used miRNA expression profiles from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) of 24 cancer types and 3 healthy tissues, collected from >8500 samples. We seek to classify the cancers origin and tissue identification using the expression from 1046 reported miRNAs. Despite an apparent uniform appearance of miRNAs among cancerous samples, we recover indispensable information from lowly expressed miRNAs regarding the cancer/tissue types. Multiclass support vector machine classification yields an average recall of 58% in identifying the correct tissue and tumor types. Data discretization has led to substantial improvement reaching an average recall of 91% (95% median). We propose a straightforward protocol as a crucial step in classifying tumors of unknown primary origin. Our counter-intuitive conclusion is that in almost all cancer types, highly expressing miRNAs mask the significant signal that lower expressed miRNAs provide.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082081', [], [u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Population diversity jeopardizes the efficacy of antibiotic cycling', ['Yunxin J Jiao', 'Michael Baym', 'Adrian Veres', 'Roy Kishony'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Treatment strategies that anticipate and respond to the evolution of pathogens are promising tools for combating the global rise of antibiotic resistance. Mutations conferring resistance to one drug can confer positive or negative cross-resistance to other drugs. The sequential use of drugs exhibiting negative cross-resistance has been proposed to prevent or slow down the evolution of resistance, although factors affecting its efficacy have not been investigated. Here we show that population diversity can disrupt the efficacy of negative cross-resistance-based therapies. By testing 3317 resistant Staphylococcus aureus mutants against multiple antibiotics, we show that first-step mutants exhibit diverse cross-resistance profiles: even when the majority of mutants show negative cross-resistance, rare positive cross-resistant mutants can appear. Using a drug pair showing reciprocal negative cross-resistance, we found that selection for resistance to the first drug in small populations can decrease resistance to the second drug, but identical selection conditions in large populations can increases resistance to the second drug through the appearance of rare positive cross-resistant mutants. We further find that, even with small populations and strong bottlenecks, resistance to both drugs can increase through sequential steps of negative cross-resistance cycling. Thus, low diversity is necessary but not sufficient for effective cycling therapies. While evolutionary interventions are promising tools for controlling antibiotic resistance, they can be sensitive to population diversity and the accessibility of evolutionary paths, and so must be carefully designed to avoid harmful outcomes.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082107', [], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Technion -- Israel Institute of Technology']]
[u'The E. coli molecular phenotype under different growth conditions', ['MEHMET UMUT UMUT CAGLAR', 'JOHN R HOUSER', 'Craig S. Barnhart', 'Daniel R. Boutz', 'Sean M. Carroll', 'Aurko Dasgupta', 'Walter F. Lenoir', 'Bartram L. Smith', 'Viswanadham Sridhara', 'Dariya K. Sydykova', 'Drew Vander Wood', 'Christopher J. Marx', 'Edward M. Marcotte', 'Jeffrey E. Barrick', 'Claus O. Wilke'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Modern systems biology requires extensive, carefully curated measurements of cellular components in response to different environmental conditions. While high-throughput methods have made transcriptomics and proteomics datasets widely accessible and relatively economical to generate, systematic measurements of both mRNA and protein abundances under a wide range of different conditions are still relatively rare. Here we present a detailed, genome-wide transcriptomics and proteomics dataset of E. coli grown under 34 different conditions. We manipulate concentrations of sodium and magnesium in the growth media, and we consider four different carbon sources glucose, gluconate, lactate, and glycerol. Moreover, samples are taken both in exponential and stationary phase, and we include two extensive time-courses, with multiple samples taken between 3 hours and 2 weeks. We find that exponential-phase samples systematically differ from stationary-phase samples, in particular at the level of mRNA. Regulatory responses to different carbon sources or salt stresses are more moderate, but we find numerous differentially expressed genes for growth on gluconate and under salt and magnesium stress. Our data set provides a rich resource for future computational modeling of E. coli gene regulation, transcription, and translation.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082032', [], [u'UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN;', u'UC SAN DIEGO HEALTH SCIENCES;', u'ATRECA INC;', u'WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY IN ST. LOUIS;', u'CHAN SOON-SHIONG INSTITUTE OF MOLECULAR MEDICINE;', u'UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO']]
[u'Modelling avoidance in pathologically anxious humans using reinforcement-learning', ['Anahit Mkrtchian', 'Jessica Aylward', 'Peter Dayan', 'Jonathan P Roiser', 'Oliver J Robinson'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Serious and debilitating symptoms of anxiety are the most common mental health problem worldwide, accounting for around 5% of all adult "years lived with disability in the developed world". Avoidance behaviour  - avoiding social situations for fear of embarrassment, for instance - is a core feature of such anxiety. However, as for many other psychiatric symptoms, the biological mechanisms underlying avoidance remain unclear. Reinforcement-learning models provide formal and testable characterizations of the mechanisms of decision-making; here, we examine avoidance in these terms. One hundred and one healthy and pathologically anxious individuals completed an approach-avoidance go/no-go task under stress induced by threat of unpredictable shock. We show an increased reliance in the anxious group on a parameter of our reinforcement-learning model that characterizes a prepotent (Pavlovian) bias to withhold responding in the face of negative outcomes. This was particularly the case when the anxious individuals were under stress. This formal description of avoidance within the reinforcement-learning framework provides a new means of linking clinical symptoms with biophysically plausible models of neural circuitry and, as such, takes us closer to a mechanistic understanding of pathological anxiety.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/081984', [], [u'UCL']]
[u'Potent optogenetic inhibition of behavior with anion channelrhodopsins', ['Farhan Mohammad', 'James Stewart', 'Stanislav Ott', 'Katarina Chlebikova', 'Jia Yi Chua', 'Tong-Wey Koh', 'Joses Ho', 'Adam Claridge-Chang'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Optogenetics employs light exposure to manipulate physiology in genetically modified organisms. There are abundant tools for optogenetic excitation of neuronal activity, but the limitations of current activity photo-inhibitors present an obstacle to demonstrating the necessity of specific neuronal circuits. Here we show that anion channelrhodopsins can be used to specifically and rapidly inhibit a range of systems involved in Drosophila locomotion, wing expansion, memory retrieval and gustation, demonstrating their broad utility to the circuit analysis of behavior.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082255', [], [u'Duke-NUS Medical School;', u'Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology;', u'Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory']]
[u'The fitness of Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum sensing signal cheats is influenced by the diffusivity of the environment', ['Anne Mund', 'Stephen P Diggle', 'Freya Harrison'], u'October 20, 2016.', u"Abstract\nExperiments examining the social dynamics of bacterial quorum sensing (QS) have focused on mutants which do not respond to signals, and the role of QS-regulated exoproducts as public goods. The potential for QS signal molecules to themselves be social public goods has received much less attention. Here, we analyse how signal-deficient (lasI-) mutants of the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa interact with wild-type cells in an environment where QS is required for growth. We show that when growth requires a 'private' intracellular metabolic mechanism activated by the presence of QS signal, lasI- mutants act as social cheats and outcompete signal-producing wild-type bacteria in mixed cultures, because they can use the signals produced by wild type cells. However, reducing the ability of signal molecules to diffuse through the growth medium, results in signal molecules becoming less accessible to mutants, leading to reduced cheating. Our results indicate that QS signal molecules can be considered as social public goods in a way that has been previously described for other exoproducts, but that spatial structuring of populations reduces exploitation by non-cooperative signal cheats.\n\nImportance\nBacteria communicate via signaling molecules to regulate the expression of a whole range of genes. This process, termed quorum sensing (QS), moderates bacterial metabolism in many environmental conditions, from soil and water (where QS-regulated genes influence nutrient cycling) to animal hosts (where QS-regulated genes determine pathogen virulence). Understanding the ecology of QS could therefore yield vital clues as to how we might modify bacterial behaviour for environmental or clinical gains. Here, we demonstrate that QS signals act as shareable public goods. This means that their evolution, and therefore population-level responses to interference with QS, will be constrained by population structure. Further, we show that environmental structure (constraints on signal diffusion) alters the accessibility of QS signals and demonstrates that we need to consider population and environmental structure to help us further our understanding of QS signaling systems.", u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082230', [], [u'Centre for Mathematics, Technical University of Munich;', u'Centre for Biomolecular Sciences, School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingha;', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick']]
[u'Network inference and hypotheses-generation from single-cell transcriptomic data using multivariate information measures', ['Thalia E Chan', 'Michael Stumpf', 'Ann C Babtie'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Developmental processes are carefully orchestrated. A multi-cellular organism can only emerge from a single fertilised egg cell because gene expression is robustly regulated in space and time by networks of transcriptional regulators. Single cell transcriptomic data allow us to probe and map these networks in unprecedented detail. Here we develop an information theoretical framework to infer candidate gene (co-)regulatory networks and distill mechanistic hypotheses from single cell data. Information theory offers clear advantages for such data, where cell-to-cell variability is all pervasive and sample sizes are large.   Higher-order information theoretical functionals capture interactions and dependencies between genes reliably in both  in silico and real data.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082099', [], [u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Chimeric Genes Revealed in the Polyploidy Fish Hybrids of Carassius cuvieri (Female) \xd7 Megalobrama amblycephala (Male)', ['Fangzhou Hu', 'Chang Wu', 'Yunfan Zhou', 'Shi Wang', 'Jun Xiao', 'Yanhong Wu', 'Kang Xu', 'Li Ren', 'Qingfeng Liu', 'Wuhui Li', 'Ming Wen', 'Min Tao', 'Qinbo Qin', 'Rurong Zhao', 'Kaikun Luo', 'Shaojun Liu'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'The genomes of newly formed natural or artificial polyploids may experience rapid gene loss and genome restructuring. In this study, we obtained tetraploid hybrids (4n=148, 4nJB) and triploid hybrids (3n=124, 3nJB) derived from the hybridization of two different subfamily species Carassius cuvieri (\u2640, 2n = 100, JCC) and Megalobrama amblycephala (\u2642, 2n = 48, BSB). Some significant morphological and physiological differences were detected in the polyploidy hybrids compared with their parents. To reveal the molecular traits of the polyploids, we compared the liver transcriptomes of 4nJB, 3nJB and their parents. The results indicated high proportion chimeric genes (31 > %) and mutated orthologous genes (17 > %) both in 4nJB and 3nJB. We classified 10 gene patterns within three categories in 4nJB and 3nJB orthologous gene, and characterized 30 randomly chosen genes using genomic DNA to confirm the chimera or mutant. Moreover, we mapped chimeric genes involved pathways and discussed that the phenotypic novelty of the hybrids may relate to some chimeric genes. For example, we found there is an intragenic insertion in the K+ channel kcnk5b, which may be related to the novel presence of the barbels in 4nJB. Our results indicated that the genomes of newly formed polyploids experienced rapid restructuring post-polyploidization, which may results in the phenotypic and phenotypic changes among the polyploidy hybrid offspring. The formation of the 4nJB and 3nJB provided new insights into the genotypic and phenotypic diversity of hybrid fish resulting from distant hybridization between subfamilies.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082222', [], [u'Hunan Normal University, China']]
[u'Quantifying predator dependence in the functional response of generalist predators.', ['Mark Novak', 'Christopher Wolf', 'Kyle E Coblentz', 'Isaac Shepard'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'A longstanding debate concerns whether functional responses are best described by prey-dependent versus ratio-dependent models.  Theory suggests that ratio dependence can explain many food web patterns left unexplained by simple prey-dependent models.  However, for logistical reasons, ratio dependence and predator dependence more generally have seen infrequent empirical evaluation and then only so in specialist predators, which are rare in nature. Here we develop an approach to simultaneously estimate the prey-specific attack rates and predator-specific interference rates of predators interacting with arbitrary numbers of prey and predator species.  We apply the approach to field surveys and two field experiments involving two intertidal whelks and their full suite of potential prey. Our study provides strong evidence for the presence of weak predator dependence that is closer to being prey dependent than ratio dependent over manipulated and natural ranges of species abundances.  It also indicates how, for generalist predators, even the qualitative nature of predator dependence can be prey-specific.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082115', [], [u'Oregon State University']]
[u'Transcriptional landscape of cell lines and their tissues of origin', ['Camila Miranda Lopes-Ramos', 'Joseph N Paulson', 'Cho-Yi Chen', 'Marieke L Kuijjer', 'Maud Fagny', 'John Platig', 'Abhijeet R Sonawane', 'Dawn L DeMeo', 'John Quackenbush', 'Kimberly Glass'], u'October 20, 2016.', u"Cell lines are an indispensable tool in biomedical research and often used as surrogates for tissues. An important question is how well a cell line's transcriptional and regulatory processes reflect those of its tissue of origin. We analyzed RNA-Seq data from GTEx for 127 paired Epstein-Barr virus transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines and whole blood samples; and 244 paired fibroblast cell lines and skin biopsies. A combination of gene expression and network analyses shows that while cell lines carry the expression signatures of their primary tissues, albeit at reduced levels, they also exhibit changes in their patterns of transcription factor regulation. Cell cycle genes are over-expressed in cell lines compared to primary tissue, and they have a reduction of repressive transcription factor targeting. Our results provide insight into the expression and regulatory alterations observed in cell lines and suggest that these changes should be considered when using cell lines as models.", u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082065', [], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health; Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u"Channing Division of Network Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'Metabolomic and proteomic analyses of a quiescent Escherichia coli cell factory reveal the mechanisms behind its production efficiency', ['Nicholas M Thomson', 'Tomokazu Shirai', 'Marco Chiapello', 'Akihiko Kondo', 'Krishnan J Mukherjee', 'Easan Sivaniah', 'David K Summers', 'Keiji Numata'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Quiescent (Q-Cell) Escherichia coli cultures can be created by using the signalling molecule indole to halt cell division of an hns mutant strain. This uncouples metabolism from cell growth and allows for more efficient use of carbon feedstocks. However, the reason for the increased productivity of cells in this state was previously unknown. We show here that Q-cells can maintain metabolic activity in the absence of growth for up to 24 h, leading to four times greater per-cell productivity of a model metabolite, 3-hydroxybutyrate (3HB), than a control. Metabolomic data show that by disrupting the proton-motive force, indole interrupts the tricarboxylic acid cycle, leading to the accumulation of metabolites in the glycolysis pathway that are excellent starting points for high-value chemical production. By comparing protein expression patterns between wild-type and Q-cell cultures we show that Q-cells overexpress stress response proteins, which prime them to tolerate the metabolic imbalances incurred through indole addition. Quiescent cultures produced half the cell biomass of control cultures lacking indole, but were still able to produce 39.4 g.L-1 of 3HB compared to 18.6 g.L-1 in the control. Therefore, Q-cells have high potential as a platform technology for the efficient production of a wide range of commodity and high value chemicals.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082305', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Riken, Cell Factory Research Team;', u'Jawaharlal Nehru University;', u'Kyoto University;', u'Riken, Enzyme Research Team']]
[u'Bit-twiddling on Nucleotides', ['Fabian Klotzl'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Bits, nucleotides and speed; Analyzing sequence data is one of the main focuses of bioinformatics. In this note we shall analyze four common tasks: computing the GC-content, hashing k-mers, computing the reverse complement and counting transversions. We present improved algorithms that show superior performance compared to na\xefve approaches.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082214', [], [u'MPI for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'normR: Regime enrichment calling for ChIP-seq data', ['Johannes Helmuth', 'Na Li', 'Laura Arrigoni', 'Kathrin Gianmoena', 'Cristina Cadenas', 'Gilles Gasparoni', 'Anupam Sinha', 'Philip Rosenstiel', 'Jorn Walter', 'Jan G. Hengstler', 'Thomas Manke', 'Ho-Ryun Chung'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'ChIP-seq probes genome-wide localization of DNA-associated proteins. To mitigate technical biases ChIP-seq read densities are normalized to read densities obtained by a control. Our statistical framework "normR" achieves a sensitive normalization by accounting for the effect of putative protein-bound regions on the overall read statistics. Here, we demonstrate normR\'s suitability in three studies: (i) calling enrichment for high (H3K4me3) and low (H3K36me3) signal-to-ratio data; (ii) identifying two previously undescribed H3K27me3 and H3K9me3 heterochromatic regimes of broad and peak enrichment; and (iii) calling differential H3K4me3 or H3K27me3-enrichment between HepG2 hepatocarcinoma cells and primary human Hepatocytes. normR is readily available on http://bioconductor.org/packages/normr', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082263', [], [u'Otto-Warburg-Laboratory: Epigenomics at Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics;', u'Max Planck Institute of Immunobiology and Epigenetics;', u'Leibniz Research Centre for Working Environment and Human Factors;', u'The Department of Genetics and Epigenetics, University of Saarland;', u'Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel']]
[u'Ribbon: Visualizing complex genome alignments and structural variation', ['Maria Nattestad', 'Chen-Shan Chin', 'Michael C Schatz'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Visualization has played an extremely important role in the current genomic revolution to inspect and understand variants, expression patterns, evolutionary changes, and a number of other relationships. However, most of the information in read-to-reference or genome-genome alignments is lost for structural variations in the one-dimensional views of most genome browsers showing only reference coordinates. Instead, structural variations captured by long reads or assembled contigs often need more context to understand, including alignments and other genomic information from multiple chromosomes. \nWe have addressed this problem by creating Ribbon (genomeribbon.com) an interactive online visualization tool that displays alignments along both reference and query sequences, along with any associated variant calls in the sample. This way Ribbon shows patterns in alignments of many reads across multiple chromosomes, while allowing detailed inspection of individual reads (Supplementary Note 1). For example, here we show a gene fusion in the SK-BR-3 breast cancer cell line linking the genes CYTH1 and EIF3H. While it has been found in the transcriptome previously, genome sequencing did not identify a direct chromosomal fusion between these two genes. After SMRT sequencing, Ribbon shows that there are indeed long reads that span from one gene to the other, going through not one but two variants, for the first time showing the genomic link between these two genes (Figure 1a). More gene fusions of this cancer cell line are investigated in Supplementary Note 2. Figure 1b shows another complex event in this sample made simple in Ribbon: the translocation of a 4.4 kb sequence deleted from chr19 and inserted into chr16 (Figure 1b). Thus, Ribbon enables understanding of complex variants, and it may also help in the detection of sequencing and sample preparation issues, testing of aligners and variant-callers, and rapid curation of structural variant candidates (Supplementary Note 3). \nIn addition to SAM and BAM files with long, short, or paired-end reads, Ribbon can also load coordinate files from whole genome aligners such as MUMmer. Therefore, Ribbon can be used to test assembly algorithms or inspect the similarity between species. Supplementary Note 4 shows a comparison of gorilla and human genomes using Ribbon, highlighting major structural differences. In conclusion, Ribbon is a powerful interactive web tool for viewing complex genomic alignments.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082123', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'Johns Hopkins University, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'Tissue-aware RNA-Seq processing and normalization for heterogeneous and sparse data', ['Joseph Paulson', 'Cho-Yi Chen', 'Camila M Lopes-Ramos', 'Marieke L Kuijjer', 'John Platig', 'Abhijeet R Sonawane', 'Maud Fagny', 'Kimberly Glass', 'John Quackenbush'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Although ultrahigh-throughput RNA-Sequencing has become the dominant technology for genome-wide transcriptional profiling, the vast majority of RNA-Seq studies typically profile only tens of samples, and most analytical pipelines are optimized for these smaller studies. However, projects are generating ever-larger data sets comprising RNA-Seq data from hundreds or thousands of samples, often collected at multiple centers and from diverse tissues. These complex data sets present significant analytical challenges due to batch and tissue effects, but provide the opportunity to revisit the assumptions and methods that we use to preprocess, normalize, and filter RNA-Seq data - critical first steps for any subsequent analysis. We find analysis of large RNA-Seq data sets requires both careful quality control and that one account for sparsity due to the heterogeneity intrinsic in multi-group studies. An R package instantiating our method for large-scale RNA-Seq normalization and preprocessing, YARN, is available at bioconductor.org/packages/yarn.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/081802', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'Channing Division of Network Medicine']]
[u'Striking differences in patterns of germline mutation between mice and humans', ['Sarah J Lindsay', 'Raheleh Rahbari', 'Joanna Kaplanis', 'Thomas Keane', 'Matthew Hurles'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Little is known about differences in germline mutation processes between extant mammals. We analysed genome sequences of mouse and human pedigrees to investigate mutational differences between these species. We found that while the generational mutation rate in mice is 40% of that in humans, the annual mutation rate is 16 times higher, and the mutation rate per cell division is two-fold higher. We classified mutations into four temporal strata reflecting the timing of the mutation within the lineage from zygote to gamete. The earliest embryonic cell divisions are the most mutagenic in both species, but these earliest mutations account for a much higher proportion of all mutations in mice (~25%) than in humans (~5%). We observed a strong sex bias in the number of mutations arising in subsequent cell divisions in the early embryo in mice, but not in humans. Finally, we reconstructed partial genealogies of murine parental gametes that suggest markedly unequal contributions from founding primordial germ cells.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082297', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Sexual dimorphism in gene expression and regulatory networks across human tissues', ['Cho-Yi Chen', 'Camila Miranda Lopes-Ramos', 'Marieke L Kuijjer', 'Joseph N Paulson', 'Abhijeet R Sonawane', 'Maud Fagny', 'John Platig', 'Kimberly Glass', 'John Quackenbush', 'Dawn L DeMeo'], u'October 20, 2016.', u'Sexual dimorphism manifests in many diseases and may drive sex-specific therapeutic responses. To understand the molecular basis of sexual dimorphism, we conducted a comprehensive assessment of gene expression and regulatory network modeling in 31 tissues using 8716 human transcriptomes from GTEx. We observed sexually dimorphic patterns of gene expression involving as many as 60% of autosomal genes, depending on the tissue. Interestingly, sex hormone receptors do not exhibit sexually dimorphic expression in most tissues; however, differential network targeting by hormone receptors and other transcription factors (TFs) captures their downstream sexually dimorphic gene expression. Furthermore, differential network wiring was found extensively in several tissues, particularly in brain, in which not all regions exhibit strong differential expression. This systems-based analysis provides a new perspective on the drivers of sexual dimorphism, one in which a repertoire of TFs plays important roles in sex-specific rewiring of gene regulatory networks.', u'/content/early/2016/10/20/082289', [u'Genomics'], [u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
