[u'A LOGICAL INQUIRY OF EMOTIONS AND COGNITION', ['Arturo Tozzi', 'Colin James', 'James Peters'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Experimental procedures in neuroscience rely on the standpoints that the mind is a functional state of the brain and a clear subdivision among different mental faculties does exist in the cortex.  According to cognitive neuroscientists, the term "mind" encompasses just the "cognitive" faculties, such as consciousness, perception, thinking, judgement, memory, leaving apart the "emotional" states.   Here, taking into account the powerful tools of the first-order predicate logic, we evaluated whether: a) the mind is a function on the physical brain activity; b) different mental faculties can be reduced to a more general one; c) the division of mental faculties in cognition and emotion holds true.  We demonstrated  that nervous activity is equivalent to mental faculties and that emotions and cognition do not stand for two separated functions of the mind.  This means that, counter to our common-sense belief, cognition and emotions are splitted and every faculty of the mind necessarily displays a counterpart in other ones.  We point out how it is possible for condensed mind faculties to be unglued in order to become apparently different functions.  Therefore, seemingly different mind faculties turn out to be equivalent, because the same logical framework holds for all the types of brain activities, independent of  their  boundaries and magnitude.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087874', [], [u'University of North Texas;', u'Ersatz Systems Machine Cognition, LLC;', u'University of Manitoba']]
[u'Antenatal maternal anxiety modulates the BOLD response in 20-year old adolescents during an endogenous cognitive control task', ['Maarten Mennes', 'Bea R.H. Van den Bergh', 'Stefan Sunaert', 'Lieven Lagae', 'Peter Stiers'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Evidence is building for an association between the level of anxiety experienced by a mother during pregnancy and the cognitive development of her offspring. The current study uses fMRI to examine whether there is an association between prenatal exposure to maternal anxiety and brain activity in 20 year old adolescents. In line with previous results of this follow-up study, it was found that adolescents of mothers reporting high levels of anxiety during weeks 12-22 of their pregnancy had a different pattern of decision making in a Gambling paradigm requiring endogenous cognitive control compared to adolescents of mothers reporting low to average levels of anxiety during pregnancy. Moreover, the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response in a number of prefrontal cortical areas was modulated by the level of antenatal maternal anxiety. In particular a number of right lateralized clusters including inferior frontal junction, that were modulated in the adolescents of mothers reporting low to average levels of anxiety during pregnancy by a task manipulation of cognitive control, were not modulated by this manipulation in the adolescents of mothers reporting high levels of anxiety during pregnancy. These results provide a neurobiological underpinning for our previous hypothesis of an association between a deficit in endogenous cognitive control in adolescence and exposure to maternal anxiety in the prenatal life period.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087817', [], [u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Department of Psychology, Tilburg University, Tilburg, The Netherlands;', u'Department of Radiology, University Hospital KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium;', u'Department of Child Neurology, University Hospital KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium;', u'Department of Neuropsychology and Psychopharmacology, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherl']]
[u'The type IVa pilus machinery is pre-installed during cell division', ['Lori L. Burrows', 'P. Lynne Howell', 'Ryan N.C. Buensuceso', 'Stephanie Tammam', 'Tyson Carter', 'Hanjeong Harvey', 'Ryan P. Lamers'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Type IV pili (T4aP) are ubiquitous microbial appendages used for adherence, twitching motility, DNA uptake, and electron transfer. Many of these functions depend on dynamic assembly and disassembly of the pilus by a megadalton-sized, cell envelope-spanning protein complex located at the poles of rod-shaped bacteria. How the T4aP assembly complex becomes integrated into the cell envelope in the absence of dedicated peptidoglycan (PG) hydrolases is unknown. After ruling out potential involvement of housekeeping PG hydrolases in installation of the T4aP machinery in P. aeruginosa, we discovered that key components of inner (PilMNOP) and outer (PilQ) membrane subcomplexes are recruited to future sites of cell division. Mid-cell recruitment of a fluorescently tagged alignment subcomplex component, mCherry-PilO, depended on PilQ secretin monomers - specifically, their N-terminal PG-binding AMIN domains.  PilP, which connects PilO to PilQ, was required for recruitment, while PilM, which is structurally similar to divisome component FtsA, was not. Recruitment preceded secretin oligomerization in the outer membrane, as loss of the PilQ pilotin, PilF, had no effect on localization. These results were confirmed in cells chemically blocked for cell division prior to outer membrane invagination. The hub protein FimV and a component of the Polar Organelle Coordinator complex - PocA - were independently required for mid-cell recruitment of PilO and PilQ. Together, these data reveal an integrated, energy-efficient strategy for the targeting and pre-installation - rather than retrofit - of the T4aP system into nascent poles, without the need for dedicated PG-remodelling enzymes.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087965', [], [u'McMaster University;', u'The Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'Functional transcriptomics in diverse intestinal epithelial cell types reveals robust gut microbial sensitivity of microRNAs in intestinal stem cells', ['Bailey CE Peck', 'Amanda T Mah', 'Wendy A Pitman', 'Shengli Ding', 'P. Kay Lund', 'Praveen Sethupathy'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Gut microbiota play an important role in regulating the development of the host immune system, metabolic rate, and at times, disease pathogenesis. The factors and mechanisms that mediate communication between microbiota and the intestinal epithelium are poorly understood. We provide novel evidence that microbiota may control intestinal epithelial stem cell (IESC) proliferation in part through microRNAs (miRNAs). We demonstrate that miRNA profiles differ dramatically across functionally distinct cell types of the mouse jejunal intestinal epithelium and that miRNAs respond to microbiota in a highly cell-type specific manner. Importantly, we also show that miRNAs in IESCs are more prominently regulated by microbiota compared to miRNAs in any other intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) subtype. We identify miR-375 as one miRNA that is significantly suppressed by the presence of microbiota in IESCs. Using a novel method to knockdown gene and miRNA expression ex vivo enteroids, we demonstrate that we can knockdown gene expression in Lgr5+ IESCs. Furthermore, when we knockdown miR-375 in IESCs, we observe significantly increased proliferative capacity. Understanding the mechanisms by which microbiota regulate miRNA expression in IESCs and other IEC subtypes will elucidate a critical molecular network that controls intestinal homeostasis and, given the heightened interest in miRNA-based therapies, may offer novel therapeutic strategies in the treatment of gastrointestinal diseases associated with altered IESC function.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087882', [], [u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'A lottery simulation model for predicting cancer risk based on the strength and abundance of individual mutations', ['Alexander J Wolfe', 'Adam Giangreco'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Models for predicting an individuals risk of developing cancer are complicated by a lack of well-conserved mutations present in most types of disease.  To address this challenge we developed a simple lottery simulation of cancer development based solely on the abundance and relative survival advantage of mutations present within individual stem or progenitor cells.  In simulations requiring few mutations or that involve mutations exhibiting a strong survival advantage cancers develop in our simulation in a progressive manner amenable to oncogene-based risk prediction.  In contrast, in simulations involving numerous mutations that lack a strong survival advantage, a stochastic process of neutral drift and punctuated equilibrium determines eventual tumour formation. In these situations, the development of cancer is largely attributable to the rate of mutational variability amongst progenitor cells rather than the identity and relative survival advantage of the mutations present at any single time point.  These results suggest that measuring rates of stem cell mutational variability represents an important component of predicting an individuals risk of developing cancer.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087916', [], [u'University College London']]
[u'Shifting microbial communities sustain multi-year iron reduction and methanogenesis in ferruginous sediment incubations', ['Marcus S Bray', 'Jieying Wu', 'Benjamin C Reed', 'Cecilia B Kretz', 'Rachel L Simister', 'Cynthia Henny', 'Frank J Stewart', 'Thomas J DiChristina', 'Jay A Brandes', 'David A Fowle', 'Sean A Crowe', 'Jennifer B Glass'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Reactive Fe3+ minerals can influence methane (CH4) emissions by inhibiting microbial methanogenesis or by stimulating anaerobic CH4 oxidation. The balance between Fe3+ reduction, methanogenesis, and methane oxidation in the ferruginous Archean oceans would have controlled CH4 fluxes to the atmosphere, thereby regulating the capacity for CH4 to warm the early Earth under the Faint Young Sun. We studied CH4 and Fe cycling in anoxic incubations of ferruginous sediment from the Archean ocean analogue Lake Matano, Indonesia over three successive transfers (500 days total). Iron reduction, methanogenesis, methane oxidation, and microbial taxonomy were monitored in treatments amended with 10 mM ferrihydrite or goethite. After three dilutions, Fe3+ reduction persisted only in bottles with ferrihydrite. Enhanced CH4 production was observed in the presence of goethite. Methane oxidation was observed throughout incubations, although stoichiometry suggested that Fe3+ was not the sole electron acceptor. 16S rRNA profiles continuously changed over the course of enrichment, with ultimate dominance of unclassified members of the order Desulfuromonadales in all treatments and Rhodocyclaceae in treatments amended with CH4. Microbial diversity decreased markedly over the course of incubation, with subtle differences being observed between ferrihydrite and goethite. These results suggest that Fe3+-oxide mineralogy and availability of electron donors could have led to spatial separation of Fe3+-reducing and methanogenic microbial communities in ancient ferruginous marine sediments, potentially explaining the persistence of CH4 as a greenhouse gas throughout the Archean.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087783', [], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'Indonesian Institute of Sciences;', u'Skidaway Institute of Oceanography;', u'University of Kansas']]
[u'Functional constraints on replacing an essential gene with its ancient and modern homologs', ['Betul Kacar', 'Eva Garmendia', 'Nurcan Tuncbag', 'Dan I Andersson', 'Diarmaid Hughes'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'The complexity hypothesis posits that network connectivity and protein function are two important determinants of how a gene adapts to and functions in a foreign genome. Genes encoding proteins that carry out essential informational tasks in the cell, in particular where multiple interaction partners are involved, are less likely to be transferable to a foreign organism. Here we investigated the constraints on transfer of a gene encoding a highly conserved informational protein, translation elongation factor Tu (EF-Tu), by systematically replacing the endogenous tufA gene in the Escherichia coli genome with its extant and ancestral homologs. The extant homologs represented tuf variants from both near and distant homologous organisms. The ancestral homologs represented phylogenetically resurrected tuf sequences dating from 0.7 to 3.6 bya. Our results demonstrate that all of the foreign tuf genes are transferable to the E. coli genome, provided that an additional copy of the EF-Tu gene, tufB, remains present in the E. coli genome. However, when the tufB gene was removed, only the variants obtained from the \u03b3-proteobacterial family (extant and ancestral), supported growth. This demonstrates the limited functional interchangability of E. coli tuf with its homologs. Our data show a linear correlation between relative bacterial fitness and the evolutionary distance of the extant tuf homologs inserted into the E. coli genome. Our data and analysis also suggest that the functional conservation of protein activity, and its network interactivity, act to constrain the successful transfer of this essential gene into foreign bacteria.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087924', [], [u'Harvard University;', u'Uppsala University;', u'Middle East Technical University']]
[u'A nearest neighbour approach by genic distance to the assignment of individuals to geographic origin', ['Bernd Degen', 'Celine Blanc-Jolivet', 'Katrin Stierand', 'Elizabeth Gillet'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'During the past decade, the use of DNA for forensic applications has been extensively implemented for plant and animal species, as well as in humans. Tracing back the geographical origin of an individual usually requires genetic assignment analysis. These approaches are based on reference samples that are grouped into populations or other aggregates and intend to identify the most likely group of origin. Often this grouping does not have a biological but rather a historical or political justification, such as country of origin. \nIn this paper, we present a new nearest neighbour approach to individual assignment or classification within a given but potentially imperfect grouping of reference samples. This method, which is based on the genic distance between individuals, functions better in many cases than commonly used methods. We demonstrate the operation of our assignment method using two data sets. One set is simulated for a large number of trees distributed in a 120 km by 120 km landscape with individual genotypes at 150 SNPs, and the other set comprises experimental data of 1221 individuals of the African tropical tree species Entandrophragma cylindricum (Sapelli) genotyped at 61 SNPs. Judging by the level of correct self-assignment, our approach outperformed the commonly used frequency and Bayesian approaches by 15% for the simulated data set and by 5 to 7% for the Sapelli data set. \nOur new approach is less sensitive to overlapping sources of genetic differentiation, such as genic differences among closely-related species, phylogeographic lineages and isolation by distance, and thus operates better even for suboptimal grouping of individuals.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087833', [], [u'Thuenen-Institute of Forest Genetics;', u'Faculty of Forest Sciences and Forest Ecology, Georg-August University Goettingen']]
[u'SplitThreader: Exploration and analysis of rearrangements in cancer genomes', ['Maria Nattestad', 'Marley C. Alford', 'Fritz J. Sedlazeck', 'Michael C. Schatz'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Genomic rearrangements and associated copy number changes are important drivers in cancer as they can alter the expression of oncogenes and tumor suppressors, create gene fusions, and misregulate gene expression. Here we present SplitThreader (http://splitthreader.com), an open- source interactive web application for analysis and visualization of genomic rearrangements and copy number variation in cancer genomes. SplitThreader constructs a sequence graph of genomic rearrangements in the sample and uses a priority queue breadth-first search algorithm on the graph to search for novel interactions. This is applied to detect gene fusions and other novel sequences, as well as to evaluate distances in the rearranged genome between any genomic regions of interest, especially the repositioning of regulatory elements and their target genes. SplitThreader also analyzes each variant to categorize it by its relation to other variants and by its copy number concordance. This identifies balanced translocations, identifies simple and complex variants, and suggests likely false positives when copy number is not concordant across a candidate breakpoint. It also provides explanations when multiple variants affect the copy number state and obscure the contribution of a single variant, such as a deletion within a region that is overall amplified. Together, these categories triage the variants into groups and provide a starting point for further systematic analysis and manual curation. To demonstrate its utility, we apply SplitThreader to three cancer cell lines, MCF-7 and A549 with Illumina paired- end sequencing, and SK-BR-3, with long-read PacBio sequencing. Using SplitThreader, we examine the genomic rearrangements responsible for previously observed gene fusions in SK-BR-3 and MCF-7, and discover many of the fusions involved a complex series of multiple genomic rearrangements. We also find notable differences in the types of variants between the three cell lines, in particular a much higher proportion of reciprocal variants in SK-BR-3 and a distinct clustering of interchromosomal variants in SK-BR-3 and MCF-7 that is absent in A549.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087981', [], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY;', u'Bard College, Annandale-On-Hudson, NY;', u'Departments of Computer Science and Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD']]
[u'Cell wall remodeling drives engulfment during Bacillus subtilis sporulation', ['Nikola Ojkic', 'Javier Lopez-Garrido', 'Kit Pogliano', 'Robert Endres'], u'November 15, 2016.', u"When starved, the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis forms durable spores for survival. Sporulation initiates with an asymmetric cell division, creating a large mother cell and a small forespore. Subsequently, the mother cell membrane engulfs the forespore in a phagocytosis-like process. However, the force generation mechanism for forward membrane movement remains unknown. Here, we show that membrane migration is driven by cell wall remodeling at the leading edge of the engulfing membrane, with peptidoglycan synthesis and degradation mediated by penicillin binding proteins in the forespore and a cell wall degradation protein complex in the mother cell. We propose a simple model for engulfment in which the junction between the septum and the lateral cell wall moves around the forespore by a mechanism resembling the 'template model'. Hence, we establish a biophysical mechanism for the creation of a force for engulfment based on the coordination between cell wall synthesis and degradation.", u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087858', [], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University of California at San Diego']]
[u'Microtubule organization within mitotic spindles revealed by serial block face scanning EM and image analysis', ['Faye M Nixon', 'Thomas R Honnor', 'Georgina P Starling', 'Alison J Beckett', 'Adam M Johansen', 'Julia A Brettschneider', 'Ian A Prior', 'Stephen J Royle'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Serial block face scanning electron microscopy (SBF-SEM) is a powerful method to analyze cells in 3D. Here, working at the resolution limit of the method, we describe a correlative light-SBF- SEM workflow to resolve microtubules of the mitotic spindle in human cells. We present three examples of uses for this workflow which are not practical by light microscopy and/or TEM. First, distinguishing closely associated microtubules within K-fibers; second, resolving bridging fibers in the mitotic spindle; third, visualizing membranes in mitotic cells, relative to the spindle apparatus. Our workflow also includes new computational tools for exploring the spatial arrangement of MTs within the mitotic spindle. We use these tools to show that microtubule order in mitotic spindles is sensitive to the level of TACC3 on the spindle.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087866', [], [u'Warwick Medical School;', u'University of Warwick;', u'University of Liverpool']]
[u'Slow and steady wins the race: encounters of myosin-5 and myosin-6 on shared actin filaments', ['Alicja Santos', 'Joanna Kalita', 'Ronald Rock'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'In the cellular environment multiple myosins use the same filamentous actin (F-actin) tracks, yet little is known about how this track sharing is achieved and maintained. To assess the influence that different myosin classes have on each other, we developed an assay that combines two dynamic elements: elongating actin filaments with identified barbed and pointed ends, and myosins moving along these filaments. We studied two different myosins, myosin-5 and myosin-6. These myosins have distinct functions in the cell and are known to travel in opposite directions along actin filaments. Myosin-5 walks towards the barbed end of F-actin and generally into dynamically rearranging actin at the cell periphery. Myosin-6 is a pointed-end directed myosin that generally walks towards the cell center. We successfully reconstituted simultaneous bidirectional motility of myosin-5 and myosin-6 on single polymerizing filaments of actin. We report and provide statistical analysis of encounters between myosin-5 and myosin-6 walking along the single filaments. When myosin-5 and myosin-6 collide, myosin-5 detaches more frequently than myosin-6. The experimental observations are consistent with a stochastic stepping model based upon known myosin kinetics, which suggests that faster motors are more likely to detach.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087940', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Structure-based alignment of human caspase recruitment domains provides a framework for understanding their function', ['Joseph P Boyle', 'Tom Monie'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Intracellular signalling is driven by protein-protein interactions. Members of the Death Domain superfamily mediate protein-protein interactions in both cell death and innate immune signalling pathways. They drive the formation of macromolecular complexes that act as a scaffold for protein recruitment and downstream signal transduction. Death Domain family members have low sequence identity, complicating their identification and predictions of their structure and function. We have taken all known human caspase recruitment domains (CARDs), a subfamily of the Death Domain superfamily, and generated a structure-guided sequence alignment. This alignment has enabled the identification of 14 positions that define the hydrophobic core and present a template for the identification of novel CARD sequences. We identify a conserved salt bridge in over half of all human CARDs and find a subset of CARDs likely to be regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation in their type I interface. Our alignment highlights that the CARDs of NLRC3 and NLRC5 are likely to be pseudodomains that have lost some of their original functionality. Together these studies demonstrate the benefits of structure-guided sequence alignments in understanding protein functionality.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087908', [], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Cryo-EM structure of haemoglobin at 3.2 A determined with the Volta phase plate', ['Maryam Khoshouei', 'Mazdak Radjainia', 'Wolfgang Baumeister', 'Radostin Danev'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'With the advent of direct electron detectors, the perspectives of cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) have changed in a profound way (ref. 1). These cameras are superior to previous detectors in coping with the intrinsically low contrast of radiation-sensitive organic materials embedded in amorphous ice, and so they have enabled the structure determination of several macromolecular assemblies to atomic or near-atomic resolution. According to one theoretical estimation, a few thousand images should suffice for calculating the structure of proteins as small as 17 kDa at 3 A resolution (ref. 2). In practice, however, we are still far away from this theoretical ideal. Thus far, protein complexes that have been successfully reconstructed to high-resolution by single particle analysis (SPA) have molecular weights of ~100 kDa or larger (ref. 3). Here, we report the use of Volta phase plate in determining the structure of human haemoglobin (64 kDa) at 3.2 A. Our results demonstrate that this method can be applied to complexes that are significantly smaller than those previously studied by conventional defocus-based approaches. Cryo-EM is now close to becoming a fast and cost-effective alternative to crystallography for high-resolution protein structure determination.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087841', [], [u'Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry;', u'Monash University']]
[u'biMM: Efficient estimation of genetic variances and covariances for cohorts with high-dimensional phenotype measurements', ['Matti Pirinen', 'Christian Benner', 'Pekka Marttinen', 'Marjo-Riitta Jarvelin', 'Manuel A Rivas', 'Samuli Ripatti'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Genetic research utilizes a decomposition of trait variances and covariances into genetic and environmental parts. Our software package biMM is a computationally efficient implementation of a bivariate linear mixed model for settings where hundreds of traits have been measured on partially overlapping sets of individuals. Implementation in R freely available at www.iki.fi/mpirinen.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087932', [], [u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM);', u'Aalto University;', u'University of Oulu;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Scalable latent-factor models applied to single-cell RNA-seq data separate biological drivers from confounding effects', ['Florian Buettner', 'Naruemon Pratanwanich', 'John C Marioni', 'Oliver Stegle'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) allows heterogeneity in gene expression levels to be studied in large populations of cells. Such heterogeneity can arise from both technical and biological factors, thus making decomposing sources of variation extremely difficult. We here describe a computationally efficient model that uses prior pathway annotation to guide inference of the biological drivers underpinning the heterogeneity. Moreover, we jointly update and improve gene set annotation and infer factors explaining variability that fall outside the existing annotation. We validate our method using simulations, which demonstrate both its accuracy and its ability to scale to large datasets with up to 100,000 cells. Moreover, through applications to real data we show that our model can robustly decompose scRNA-seq datasets into interpretable components and facilitate the identification of novel sub- populations.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087775', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory - European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'A community-based collaboration to build prediction models for short-term discontinuation of docetaxel in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer patients', ['Fatemeh Seyednasrollah', 'Devin C Koestler', 'Tao Wang', 'Stephen R Piccolo', 'Roberto Vega', 'Russ Greiner', 'Christiane Fuchs', 'Eyal Gofer', 'Luke Kumar', 'Russel D Wolfinger', 'Kimberly Kanigel Winner', 'Chris Bare', 'Elias Chaibub Neto', 'Thomas Yu', 'Liji Shen', 'Kald Abdallah', 'Thea Norman', 'Gustavo Stolovitzky', 'Howard Soule', 'Chistopher J Sweeney', 'Charles J Ryan', 'Howard I Scher', 'Oliver Sartor', 'Laura L Elo', 'Fang L Zhou', 'Justin Guinney', 'James C Costello'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Background: Docetaxel has a demonstrated survival benefit for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). However, 10-20% of patients discontinue docetaxel prematurely because of toxicity-induced adverse events, and managing risk factors for toxicity remains an ongoing challenge for health care providers and patients. Prospective identification of high-risk patients for early discontinuation has the potential to assist clinical decision-making and can improve the design of more efficient clinical trials. In partnership with Project Data Sphere (PDS), a non-profit initiative facilitating clinical trial data-sharing, we designed an open-data, crowdsourced DREAM (Dialogue for Reverse Engineering Assessments and Methods) Challenge for developing models to predict early discontinuation of docetaxel.  Methods: Data from the comparator arms of four phase III clinical trials in first-line mCRPC were obtained from PDS, including 476 patients treated with docetaxel and prednisone from the ASCENT2 trial, 598 patients treated with docetaxel, prednisone/prednisolone, and placebo in the VENICE trial, 526 patients treated with docetaxel, prednisone, and placebo in the MAINSAIL trial, and 528 patients treated with docetaxel and placebo in the ENTHUSE 33 trial. Early discontinuation was defined as treatment stoppage within three months due to adverse treatment effects. Over 150 clinical features including laboratory values, medical history, lesion measures, prior treatment, and demographic variables were curated and made freely available for model building for all four trials. The ASCENT2, VENICE, and MAINSAIL trial data sets formed the training set that also included patient discontinuation status. The ENTHUSE 33 trial, with patient discontinuation status hidden, was used as an independent validation set to evaluate model performance. Prediction performance was assessed using area under the precision-recall curve (AUPRC) and the Bayes factor was used to compare the performance between prediction models.  Results: The frequency of early discontinuation was similar between training (ASCENT2, VENICE, and MAINSAIL) and validation (ENTHUSE 33) sets, 12.3% versus 10.4% of docetaxel-treated patients, respectively. In total, 34 independent teams submitted predictions from 61 different models. AUPRC ranged from 0.088 to 0.178 across submissions with a random model performance of 0.104. Seven models with comparable AUPRC scores (Bayes factor \u2264 3) were observed to outperform all other models. A post-challenge analysis of risk predictions generated by these seven models revealed three distinct patient subgroups: patients consistently predicted to be at high-risk or low-risk for early discontinuation and those with discordant risk predictions. Early discontinuation events were two-times higher in the high- versus low-risk subgroup and baseline clinical features such as presence/absence of metastatic liver lesions, and prior treatment with analgesics and ACE inhibitors exhibited statistically significant differences between the high- and low-risk subgroups (adjusted P < 0.05). An ensemble-based model constructed from a post-Challenge community collaboration resulted in the best overall prediction performance (AUPRC = 0.230) and represented a marked improvement over any individual Challenge submission.  Findings: Our results demonstrate that routinely collected clinical features can be used to prospectively inform clinicians of mCRPC patients\' risk to discontinue docetaxel treatment early due to adverse events and to the best of our knowledge is the first to establish performance benchmarks in this area. This work also underscores the "wisdom of crowds" approach by demonstrating that improved prediction of patient outcomes is obtainable by combining methods across an extended community. These findings were made possible because data from separate trials were made publicly available and centrally compiled through PDS.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087809', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Turku;', u'University of Kansas Medical Center;', u'University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;', u'Brigham Young University;', u'University of Alberta;', u'Helmholtz Zentrum Munchen;', u'The Hebrew University;', u'SAS Institute;', u'University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus;', u'Sage Bionetworks;', u'Sanofi;', u'AstraZeneca;', u'IBM;', u'Prostate Cancer Foundation;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Tulane University']]
[u'Determining causal genes from GWAS signals using topologically associating domains', ['Gregory P Way', 'Daniel W Youngstrom', 'Kurt D. Hankenson', 'Casey S Greene', 'Struan F. A. Grant'], u'November 15, 2016.', u'Background:  Genome wide association studies (GWAS) have contributed significantly to the field of complex disease genetics. However, GWAS only report signals associated with a given trait and do not necessarily identify the precise location of culprit genes. As most association signals occur in non-coding regions of the genome, it is often challenging to assign genomic variants to the underlying causal mechanism(s). Topologically associating domains (TADs) are primarily cell-type independent genomic regions that define interactome boundaries and can aid in the designation of limits within which a GWAS locus most likely impacts gene function.  Results: We describe and validate a computational method that uses the genic content of TADs to assign GWAS signals to likely causal genes. Our method, called "TAD_Pathways", performs a Gene Ontology (GO) analysis over all genes that reside within the boundaries of all TADs corresponding to the GWAS signals for a given trait or disease. We applied our pipeline to the GWAS catalog entries associated with bone mineral density (BMD), identifying \'Skeletal System Development\' (Benjamini-Hochberg adjusted p = 1.02x10-5) as the top ranked pathway. Often, the causal gene identified at a given locus was well known and/or the nearest gene to the sentinel SNP. In other cases, our method implicated a gene further away. Our molecular experiments describe a novel example: ACP2, implicated at the canonical \'ARHGAP1\' locus. We found ACP2 to be an important regulator of osteoblast metabolism, whereas a causal role of ARHGAP1 was not supported.  Conclusions: Our results demonstrate how basic principles of three-dimensional genome organization can help define biologically informed windows of signal association. We anticipate that incorporating TADs will aid in refining and improving the performance of a variety of algorithms that linearly interpret genomic content.', u'/content/early/2016/11/15/087718', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Michigan State University;', u"The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia"]]
