[u'Williams Syndrome-Specific Neuroarchitectural Profile and Its Associations with Cognitive Features', ['Chun Chieh Fan', 'Timothy T. Brown', 'Hauke Bartsch', 'Joshua M. Kuperman', 'Donald J. Hagler', 'Andrew Schork', 'Eric Halgren', 'Anders Dale'], u'June 26, 2016.', u'Williams Syndrome (WS), a rare genetic disorders caused by hemizyous deletion of ~26 genes on the chromosome 7, has unique cognitive features and neuroanatomic abnormalities. Limited in statistical power due to its rareness had led to inconsistent in many direct comparisons using structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and their associations with cognitive features of WS are not clear. Here, we used a novel approach to derive a WS specific neuroarchitectural profile and tested its association with cognitive features of WS. Using a WS adult cohort (n = 43), we trained a logistic elastic-net model to extract a sparse representation of WS specific neuroarchitectural profile. The predictive performances are robust within the training cohort (leave one out cross-validation AUC = 1.0) and generalized well in an independent teenager WS cohort (n = 60, AUC = 1.0). The WS specific neuroarchitectural profile includes multiple MRI measurements in the orbitofrontal cortex, superior parietal cortex, Sylvian fissures, and basal ganglia, whereas its variations reflect the underlying size of hemizygous deletion, and mediated the disease impact on the cognitive features of WS. In this study, we demonstrate the robustness of the derived WS specific neuroarchitectural profile, suggesting the joint developmental abnormalities in the cortical-subcortical circuitry cause the unique features of WS cognition.', u'/content/early/2016/06/26/060764', [], [u'UCSD, cognitive science;', u'UCSD, mmil, neuroscience;', u'UCSD, mmil;', u'UCSD mmil;', u'UCSD mmil, radiology;', u'UCSD, neuroscience;', u'UCSD mmil, neuroscience']]
[u'A NOVEL METHOD FOR MEASURING TEXTURE USING A FOOD PROCESSOR', ['Jiro Kanamori'], u'June 26, 2016.', u'Measurement of food texture is becoming increasingly important to help prevent mis-swallowing in elderly individuals. However, it is difficult to estimate food texture for mastication and swallowing. In this study, a mixing-recording method was applied to measure food texture. A commercial food processor was used to homogenize food gels, and the torque was monitored as an electric current value, which was correlated with the viscosity of Newtonian fluid. Agar and gelatin gels at several concentrations were applied to the mixing-recording system, and individual mixing curves were obtained. The current values had a different tendency at each mixing stage. At the beginning of the mixing, when lumps of the original gel were present, current values of gelatin were higher than those of agar. From the middle of mixing, the fractured pastes of high-concentration agar gels had little mobility, and current values decreased, indicating that gelatin was more cohesive than agar. The current values of low-concentration agar and gelatin were correlated with the hardness of the gels and were aligned on the same correlation curve, indicating that the viscosity of the fractured paste was correlated with the original gel hardness under certain conditions. Moreover, measurements of agar gels of different sizes revealed that the texture was size dependent. Thus, the mixing-recording method had several advantages over conventional methods, including time- and size-dependent fracturing and bolus properties, and could be useful for the measurement of food texture in terms of mastication and swallowing.', u'/content/early/2016/06/26/060731', [], [u'Fuji Oil Holdings Inc.']]
[u'No evidence for phylostratigraphic bias impacting inferences on patterns of gene emergence and evolution', ['Tomislav Domazet-Loso', 'Anne-Ruxanda Carvunis', 'M. Mar Alba', 'Matin S Sestak', 'Robert Bakaric', 'Rafik Neme', 'Diethard Tautz'], u'June 26, 2016.', u'Phylostratigraphy is a computational framework for dating the emergence of sequences (usually genes) in a phylogeny. It has been extensively applied to make inferences on patterns of genome evolution, including patterns of disease gene evolution, ontogeny and de novo gene origination. Phylostratigraphy typically relies on BLAST searches along a species tree, but new simulation studies have raised concerns about the ability of BLAST to detect remote homologues and its impact on phylostratigraphic inferences. These simulations called into question some of our previously published work on patterns of gene emergence and evolution inferred from phylostratigraphy. Here, we re-assessed these simulations and found major problems including unrealistic parameter choices, irreproducibility, statistical flaws and partial representation of results. We found that, even with a possible overall BLAST false negative rate between 5-15%, the large majority (\u226574%) of sequences assigned to a recent evolutionary origin by phylostratigraphy is unaffected by technical concerns about BLAST. Where the results of the simulations did cast doubt on our previous findings, we repeated our analyses but now excluded all questionable sequences. The originally described patterns remained essentially unchanged. These new analyses strongly support our published inferences, including: genes that emerged after the origin of eukaryotes are more likely to be expressed in the ectoderm than in the endoderm or mesoderm in Drosophila, and the de novo emergence of protein-coding genes from non-genic sequences occurs through proto-gene intermediates in yeast. We conclude that BLAST is an appropriate and sufficiently sensitive tool in phylostratigraphic analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/26/060756', [], [u'Laboratory of Evolutionary Genetics, Division of Molecular Biology, Ruder  Boskovic Institute;', u'University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0687, USA;', u'Evolutionary Genomics Group, Research Programme on Biomedical Informatics, Hospital del Mar Research;', u'Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, August-Thienemann-Strasse 2, 24306 Ploen, Germany;', u'Max-Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Norovirus-mediated modification of the translational landscape via virus and host-induced cleavage of translation initiation factors.', ['Edward Emmott', 'Frederic Sorgeloos', 'Sarah L. Caddy', 'Surender Vashist', 'Stanislav Sosnovtsev', 'Richard Lloyd', 'Kate Heesom', 'Ian Goodfellow'], u'June 26, 2016.', u"Noroviruses produce viral RNAs lacking a 5' cap structure and instead use a virus-encoded VPg protein covalently linked to viral RNA to interact with translation initiation factors and drive viral protein synthesis. Norovirus infection results in the induction of the innate response leading to interferon stimulated gene (ISG) transcription. However the translation of the induced ISG mRNAs is suppressed. Using a novel mass spectrometry approach we demonstrate that diminished host mRNA translation correlates with changes to the composition of the eukaryotic initiation factor complex. The suppression of host ISG translation correlates with the activity of the viral protease (NS6) and the activation of cellular caspases leading to the establishment of an apoptotic environment. These results indicate that noroviruses exploit the differences between viral VPg-dependent and cellular cap-dependent translation in order to diminish the host response to infection.", u'/content/early/2016/06/26/060772', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'NIAID, NIH;', u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'University of Bristol']]
[u'Physical basis of large microtubule aster growth', ['Keisuke Ishihara', 'Kirill S Korolev', 'Timothy J Mitchison'], u'June 26, 2016.', u'Microtubule asters - radial arrays of microtubules organized by centrosomes - play a fundamental role in the spatial coordination of animal cells. The standard model of aster growth assumes a fixed number of microtubules originating from the centrosomes. This model does not scale with cell size, and we recently found evidence for microtubule nucleation away from centrosomes. Here, we combine microtubule nucleation and polymerization dynamics to develop a biophysical model of aster growth. Our model predicts that asters expand as traveling waves and recapitulates all major aspects of aster growth. Strikingly, the model predicts an explosive transition from stationary to growing asters with a discontinuous jump of the expansion velocity to a nonzero value. Experiments in frog egg extract confirm main theoretical predictions. Our results suggest that asters are a meshwork of short, shrinking microtubules maintained by autocatalytic nucleation and provide a paradigm for the assembly of robust and evolvable polymer networks.', u'/content/early/2016/06/26/055939', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Boston University']]
