[u'Fitting the Erlang distribution to cancer incidence by age may predict key carcinogenic events', ['Aleksey V. Belikov'], u'June 27, 2016.', u'Cancer is the second-leading cause of death worldwide, after cardiovascular diseases. Cancers arise from various cells and organs at different ages and develop at different rates. However, the reasons for this variation in the cancer progression rate and the age of onset are poorly understood. Especially puzzling is the late-life decrease in cancer incidence, which cannot be explained by previously proposed power law or exponential growth equations. By using the latest publicly available USA cancer incidence statistics, comprised of 20 million cancer cases documented over 14 years, I show that cancer incidence by age closely follows the Erlang probability distribution (R2=0.9543-0.9999), which is a special case of the gamma distribution. The Erlang distribution describes the probability y of k independent random events occurring by the time x, but not earlier or later, with each event happening on average every b time intervals. This fits well with the multiple-hit hypothesis, and potentially allows to predict the number k of key carcinogenic events and the average time interval b between them, for each cancer type. Moreover, the amplitude parameter A likely predicts maximal populational susceptibility to a given type of cancer. These parameters are estimated for 20 most common cancer types, and provide clues for further research on cancer development.', u'/content/early/2016/06/27/060970', [], [u'Independent researcher']]
[u'The validity of pairwise models in predicting community dynamics', ['Babak Momeni', 'Wenying Shou'], u'June 27, 2016.', u"Pairwise models are commonly used to describe many-species communities. In these models, the fitness of a species is additively affected by its pairwise interactions with every other species ('pairwise additivity assumption'), and all pairwise interactions are represented by a single canonical equation form ('universality assumption'). Here, we analyze the validity of pairwise modeling. We build mechanistic reference models for chemical-mediated interactions in microbial communities, and attempt to derive corresponding pairwise models. Even when one species affects another via a single chemical mediator, different forms of pairwise models are appropriate for consumable versus reusable mediators, with the wrong model producing qualitatively wrong predictions. For multi-mediator interactions, a canonical model becomes even less tenable. These results, combined with potential violation of the pairwise additivity assumption in communities of more than two species, suggest that although pairwise modeling can be useful, we should examine its validity before employing it.", u'/content/early/2016/06/27/060988', [], [u'Boston College;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Elucidating Combinatorial Chromatin States by Co-ImmunoPrecipitation (comb-ChIP)', ['Ronen Sadeh', 'Roee Launer-Wachs', 'Hava Wandel', 'Ayelet Rahat', 'Nir Friedman'], u'June 27, 2016.', u'Chromatin ImmunoPrecipitation followed by massively parallel sequencing (ChIP-Seq) has been instrumental to our current view of chromatin structure and function, and identifies correlating histone marks, which together demarcate biologically-relevant domains. However, as with most genome-wide assays, ChIP-seq is an ensemble measurement that reports on the average occupancy of individual modifications in a population of cells. Consequently, our understanding of the combinatorial nature of chromatin states relies almost exclusively on spatial correlations. Here, we report the development of a novel protocol, called indexed Combinatorial ChIP (comb-ChIP), which has the power to determine the genome-wide co-occurrence of histone marks at single nucleosome resolution.  We show that at regions of overlapping ChIP signals, certain combinations of marks (H3K36me3 and H3K79me3) tend to co-occur on the same nucleosome, while other combinations (H3K4me3 and H3K36me3) do not, reflecting differences in the underlying chromatin pathways. We further use comb-ChIP to detect changes in histone mark co-occurrence upon genetic perturbation, illuminating new aspects of the Set2-RPD3S pathway. Overall, comb-ChIP promises to greatly improve our understanding of the structural and functional complexity of chromatin.', u'/content/early/2016/06/27/060962', [], [u'Hebrew University;', u'The Hebrew Univ.']]
