[u'Prevalence of Congenital Amusia', ['Isabelle Peretz', 'Dominique Vuvan'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Congenital amusia (commonly known as tone-deafness) is a lifelong musical disorder that should affect 4% of the population according to a single estimate based on a single test from 1980. Here we present the first large-based measure of prevalence with a sample of 20,000 participants that does not rely on self-referral. On the basis of three objective tests and a questionnaire, we show that (a) the prevalence of congenital amusia is only 1.5% with slightly more females than males, unlike other developmental disorders where males often predominate; (b) self-disclosure is a reliable index of congenital amusia, that suggests that congenital amusia is hereditary with 46% first-degree relatives similarly affected; c) that the deficit is not attenuated by musical training and d) it emerges in relative isolation from other cognitive disorder except for spatial orientation problems. Hence, we suggest that congenital amusia is likely to result from genetic variations that affect musical abilities specifically.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070961', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'BRAMS, University of Montreal;', u'Skidmore College']]
[u'Population dynamics of Arabis alpina in the French Alps: evidence for demographic compensation?', ['Marco Andrello', 'Pierre de Villemereuil', 'Delphine Busson', 'Oscar E. Gaggiotti', 'Irene Till-Bottraud'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Due to its genetic proximity with Arabidopsis thaliana, Arabis alpina (Brassicaceae) is increasingly used as a perennial model species in studies of molecular evolution and adaptation.\nWe studied the demography of A. alpina in six natural sites widely differing in their degree of disturbance, slope and vegetation, and encompassing the full altitudinal range of the species.\nWe estimated three vital rates (growth, reproductive effort and survival) for individually-marked plants, studied for six years (2008-2014). We characterized the thermic conditions of each site with different thermal variables obtained using in situ continuous-time data loggers.\nAlthough A. alpina is described as a perennial species, the average life expectancy was only 1.82 years and most plants died before setting seeds. Plant size was a strong predictor of all three vital rates.\nMean daily temperature showed a positive effect on growth and a negative effect on survival. Furthermore, reproductive effort covaried negatively with survival, suggesting a mechanism of demographic compensation acting on an elevational gradient.\nSynthesis. These results are informative of the selective pressures experienced by A. alpina in natural conditions and will help design experimental and molecular studies of local adaptation in this species.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070847', [u'Ecology'], [u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS);', u'Universite Grenoble Alpes;', u'University of St Andrews;', u'Universite Blaise Pascal']]
[u'Influence of cognitive control on semantic representation', ['Waitsang Keung', 'Jonathan Cohen', 'Daniel Osherson'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'The neural representation of an object can change depending on its context. For instance, a horse may be more similar to a bear than to a dog in terms of size, but more similar to a dog in terms of domesticity. We used behavioral measures of similarity together with representational similarity analysis and functional connectivity of fMRI data in humans to reveal how the neural representation of semantic knowledge can change to match the current goal demand. Here we present evidence that objects similar to each other in a given context are also represented more similarly in the brain and that these similarity relationships are modulated by context specific activations in frontal areas.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/067553', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Synchronization principles of gamma rhythms in monkey visual cortex', ['Eric Lowet', 'Mark Roberts', 'Alina Peter', 'Bart Gips', 'Peter De Weerd'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Neural synchronization in the gamma-band (25-80Hz) can enhance and route information flow during sensory and cognitive processing. However, it is not understood how synchronization between neural groups is robustly achieved and regulated despite of large variability in the precise oscillation frequency. A common belief is that continuous frequency matching over time is required for synchronization and that thus rhythms with different frequencies cannot establish preferred phase-relations. Here, by studying gamma rhythms in monkey visual area V1, we found that the temporal variation of the frequency difference was to the contrary essential for synchronization. Gamma rhythms synchronized by continuously varying their frequency difference in a phase-dependent manner. The synchronization level and the preferred phase-relation were determined by the amplitude and the mean of the frequency difference variations. Strikingly, stronger variation of the frequency difference led to stronger synchronization. These observations were reproduced by a biophysical model of gamma rhythms and were explained within the theory of weakly coupled oscillators. Using a single and general equation, we derived analytical predictions that precisely matched our V1 gamma data across different stimulus conditions. Our work reveals the principles of how gamma rhythms synchronize, where phase-dependent frequency variations play a central role. These frequency variations are characteristic for the intermittent synchronization regime, a non-stationary regime naturally occurring between the state of complete synchrony and asynchrony. This regime allows for synchronization between rhythms of variable frequencies, which is essential for achieving robust synchronization in the complex and noisy networks of the brain.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070672', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Maastricht University;', u'Ernst Struengmann Institute (ESI) for Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society;', u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen']]
[u'Thousands of primer-free, high-quality, full-length SSU rRNA sequences from all domains of life', ['Soeren M Karst', 'Morten S Dueholm', 'Simon J McIlroy', 'Rasmus H Kirkegaard', 'Per H Nielsen', 'Mads Albertsen'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes are the consensus marker for determination of microbial diversity on the planet, invaluable in studies of evolution and, for the past decade, high-throughput sequencing of variable regions of ribosomal RNA genes has become the backbone of most microbial ecology studies. However, the underlying reference databases of full-length rRNA gene sequences are underpopulated, ecosystem skewed, and subject to primer bias, which hamper our ability to study the true diversity of ecosystems. Here we present an approach that combines reverse transcription of full-length small subunit (SSU) rRNA genes and synthetic long read sequencing by molecular tagging, to generate primer-free, full-length SSU rRNA gene sequences from all domains of life, with a median raw error rate of 0.17%. We generated thousands of full-length SSU rRNA sequences from five well-studied ecosystems (soil, human gut, fresh water, anaerobic digestion, and activated sludge) and obtained sequences covering all domains of life and the majority of all described phyla. Interestingly, 30% of all bacterial operational taxonomic units were novel, compared to the SILVA database (less than 97% similarity). For the Eukaryotes, the novelty was even larger with 63% of all OTUs representing novel taxa. In addition, 15% of the 18S rRNA OTUs were highly novel sequences with less than 80% similarity to the databases. The generation of primer-free full-length SSU rRNA sequences enabled eco-system specific estimation of primer-bias and, especially for eukaryotes, showed a dramatic discrepancy between the in-silico evaluation and primer-free data generated in this study. The large amount of novel sequences obtained here reaffirms that there is still vast, untapped microbial diversity lacking representatives in the SSU rRNA databases and that there might be more than millions after all. With our new approach, it is possible to readily expand the rRNA databases by orders of magnitude within a short timeframe. This will, for the first time, enable a broad census of the tree of life.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070771', [u'Ecology'], [u'Aalborg University']]
[u'SNP analysis implicates the role of cytosine methylation in introducing consequential mutations in Vibrio cholerae genomes.', ['Supriya Khedkar', 'Aswin Sai Narain Seshasayee', 'Mohak Sharda'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Epigenetic modifications play a key role in gene regulation and in recognition of self DNA in bacteria. In-spite of their positive role in cell survival, modifications like cytosine methylation incur a mutational cost. Cytosine methylation, specifically 5-methylcytosine, is prone to hydrolytic deamination which leads to C \u2192 T and G \u2192 A transitions. Here, we first study the abundance of mutagenic cytosine methylation target motifs and show that bacteria like Vibrio cholerae might use motif avoidance as a strategy to minimize mutational effect of the deamination of methylated cytosine. Second by performing SNP analysis on whole genome sequence data from Vibrio cholerae patient isolates we show a) high abundance of methylation-dependent mutations in the cytosine methylation target motif RCCGGY, b) 95% of these C \u2192 T and G \u2192 A transitions in the coding region lead to non-synonymous substitutions and c) many of these transitions are associated with membrane proteins and are implicated in virulence. Thus, our SNP analysis of V. cholerae genomes implicates role of cytosine methylation in generating genotypic diversity with adaptive potential.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070839', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'National Centre for Biological sciences']]
[u'A genome-wide haplotype association analysis of major depressive disorder identifies two genome-wide significant haplotypes', ['David M Howard', 'Lynsey S Hall', 'Jonathan D Hafferty', 'Yanni Zeng', 'Mark J Adams', 'Toni-Kim Clarke', 'David J Porteous', 'Caroline Hayward', 'Blair H Smith', 'Alison D Murray', 'Niamh M Ryan', 'Kathryn L Evans', 'Chris S Haley', 'Ian J Deary', 'Pippa A Thomson', 'Andrew M McIntosh'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies using SNP genotype data have had limited success in the identification of variants associated with major depressive disorder (MDD). Haplotype data provide an alternative method for detecting associations between variants in weak linkage disequilibrium with genotyped variants and a given trait of interest. A genome-wide haplotype association study for MDD was undertaken utilising a family-based population cohort, Generation Scotland: Scottish Family Health Study, as a discovery sample with a population-based cohort, UK Biobank, used as a replication sample. Fine mapping of haplotype boundaries was used to account for overlapping haplotypes tagging causal variants. Within the discovery cohort, two haplotypes exceeded genome-wide significance (P<5 x 10-8) for an association for MDD. One of these haplotypes was located in 6q21, in a region which has been previously associated with bipolar disorder, a psychiatric disorder that is phenotypically and genetically correlated with MDD. The detection of associated haplotypes potentially allows the causal stratification of MDD into biologically informative aetiological subtypes.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/068643', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Dundee;', u'University of Aberdeen']]
[u'OrchID: a Generalized Framework for Taxonomic Classification of Images Using Evolved Artificial Neural Networks', ['Serano Pereira', 'Barbara Gravendeel', 'Patrick Wijntjes', 'Rutger Vos'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Taxonomic expertise for the identification of species is rare and costly. On-going advances in computer vision and machine learning have led to the development of numerous semi- and fully automated species identification systems. However, these systems are rarely agnostic to specific morphology, rarely can perform taxonomic "approximation" (by which we mean partial identification at least to higher taxonomic level if not to species), and frequently rely on costly scientific imaging technologies. We present a generic, hierarchical identification system for automated taxonomic approximation of organisms from images. We assessed the effectiveness of this system using photographs of slipper orchids (Cypripedioideae), for which we implemented image pre-processing, segmentation, and colour and shape feature extraction algorithms to obtain digital phenotypes for 116 species. The identification system trained on these digital phenotypes uses a nested hierarchy of artificial neural networks for pattern recognition and automated classification that mirrors the Linnean taxonomy, such that user-submitted photos can be assigned a genus, section, and species classification by traversing this hierarchy. Performance of the identification system varied depending on photo quality, number of species included for training, and desired taxonomic level for identification. High quality photos were scarce for some taxa and were under-represented in the training set, resulting in imbalanced network training. The image features used for training were sufficient to reliably identify photos to the correct genus but less so to the correct section and species. The outcomes of this project include a library of feature extraction algorithms called ImgPheno, a collection of scripts for neural network training called NBClassify, a library for evolutionary optimization of artificial neural network construction called AI::FANN::Evolving and a planned web application called OrchID for identification of user-submitted images. All project outcomes are open source and freely available.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070904', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center;', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center, University of Applied Sciences Leiden;', u'University of Applied Sciences, Leiden']]
[u'Opponent surrounds explain diversity of contextual phenomena across visual modalities', ['David A. Mely', 'Thomas Serre'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Context is known to affect how a stimulus is perceived. A variety of illusions have been attributed to contextual processing -- from orientation tilt effects to chromatic induction phenomena, but their neural underpinnings remain poorly understood. Here, we present a recurrent network model of classical and extra-classical receptive fields that is constrained by the anatomy and physiology of the visual cortex. A key feature of the model is the postulated existence of two spatially disjoint near- vs. far- extra-classical regions with complementary facilitatory and suppressive contributions to the classical receptive field. The model accounts for a variety of contextual illusions, reveals commonalities between seemingly disparate phenomena, and helps organize them into a novel taxonomy. It explains how center-surround interactions may shift from attraction to repulsion in tilt effects, and from contrast to assimilation in induction phenomena. The model further explains enhanced perceptual shifts generated by a class of patterned background stimuli that activate the two opponent extra-classical regions cooperatively. Overall, the ability of the model to account for the variety and complexity of contextual illusions provides computational evidence for a novel canonical circuit that is shared across visual modalities.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070821', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Brown University']]
[u'MINT: A multivariate integrative method to identify reproducible molecular signatures across independent experiments and platforms', ['Florian Rohart', 'Aida Eslami', 'Nicholas Matigian', 'Stephanie Bougeard', 'Kim-Anh Le Cao'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'The solution to identify a reliable molecular signature in transcriptomics high-throughput experiments is to increase sample size by combining independent but related studies.  However, those data sets are generated using different protocols and technological platforms, which results in unwanted systematic variation that strongly confounds the integrative analysis results. We introduce a Multivariate INTegrative method, MINT, that identifies a highly reproducible, accurate and predictive gene signature to classify sample phenotypes while accounting for platform and study variation. MINT led to superior and unbiased classification performance compared to other existing methods, and identified highly relevant gene signatures when integrating two multi-transcriptomics studies.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070813', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Queensland Diamantina Institute;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'French agency for food, environmental and occupational health safety']]
[u'ChimPipe: Accurate detection of fusion genes and transcription-induced chimeras from RNA-seq data', ['Bernardo Rodriguez Martin', 'Emilio Palumbo', 'Santiago Marco-Sola', 'Thasso Griebel', 'Paolo Ribeca', 'Graciela Alonso', 'Alberto Rastrojo', 'Begona Aguado', 'Roderic Guigo', 'Sarah Djebali'], u'August 22, 2016.', u'Background: Chimeric transcripts are commonly defined as transcripts linking two or more different genes in the genome, and can be explained by various biological mechanisms such as genomic rearrangement, read-through or trans-splicing, but also by technical or biological artefacts. Several studies have shown their importance in cancer, cell pluripotency and motility. Many programs have recently been developed to identify chimeras from Illumina RNA-seq data (mostly fusion genes in cancer). However outputs of different programs on the same dataset can be widely inconsistent, and tend to include many false positives. Other issues relate to simulated datasets restricted to fusion genes, real datasets with limited numbers of validated cases, result inconsistencies between simulated and real datasets, and gene rather than junction level assessment. \n\nResults: Here we present ChimPipe, a modular and easy-to-use method to reliably identify chimeras from paired-end Illumina RNA-seq data. We have also produced realistic simulated datasets for three different read lengths, and enhanced two gold-standard cancer datasets by associating exact junction points to validated gene fusions. Benchmarking ChimPipe together with four other state-of-the-art tools on this data showed ChimPipe to be the top program at identifying exact junction coordinates for both kinds of datasets, and the one showing the best trade-off between sensitivity and precision. Applied to 106 ENCODE human RNA-seq datasets, ChimPipe identified 137 high confidence chimeras connecting the protein coding sequence of their parent genes. In subsequent experiments, three out of four predicted chimeras, two of which recurrently expressed in a large majority of the samples, could be validated. Cloning and sequencing of the three cases revealed several new chimeric transcript structures, 3 of which with the potential to encode a chimeric protein for which we hypothesized a new role.\n\nConclusions: ChimPipe combines spanning and paired end RNA-seq reads to detect any kind of chimeras, including read-throughs, and shows an excellent trade-off between sensitivity and precision. The chimeras found by ChimPipe can be validated in-vitro with high accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070888', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CRG;', u'CNAG;', u'The PirBright Institute;', u'CMBSO;', u'INRA']]
[u'Information theory and the phenotypic complexity of evolutionary adaptations and innovations', ['Andreas Wagner'], u'August 22, 2016.', u"Two main lines of research link information theory to evolutionary biology. The first focuses on organismal phenotypes, and on the information that organisms acquire about their environment. The second connects information-theoretic concepts to genotypic change. The genotypic and phenotypic level can be linked by experimental high-throughput genotyping and computational models of genotype-phenotype relationships. I here use a simple information-theoretic framework to compute a phenotype's information content (its phenotypic complexity), and the information gain or change that comes with a new phenotype. I apply this framework to experimental data on DNA-binding phenotypes of multiple transcription factors. Low phenotypic\ncomplexity is associated with a biological system's ability to discover novel phenotypes in evolution. I show that DNA duplications lower phenotypic complexity, which illustrates how information theory can help explain why gene duplications accelerate evolutionary adaptation. I also demonstrate that with the right experimental design, sequencing data can be used to infer the information gain associated with novel evolutionary adaptations, for example in laboratory\nevolution experiments. Information theory can help quantify the evolutionary progress embodied in the discovery of novel adaptive phenotypes.", u'/content/early/2016/08/22/070854', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Zurich']]
