[u'Capacity-approaching DNA storage', ['Yaniv Erlich', 'Dina Zielinski'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Humanity produces data at exponential rates, creating a growing demand for better storage devices. DNA molecules are an attractive medium to store digital information due to their durability and high information density. Recent studies have made large strides in developing DNA storage schemes by exploiting the advent of massive parallel synthesis of DNA oligos and the high throughput of sequencing platforms. However, most of these experiments reported small gaps and errors in the retrieved information. Here, we report a strategy to store and retrieve DNA information that is robust and approaches the theoretical maximum of information that can be stored per nucleotide. The success of our strategy lies in careful adaption of recent developments in coding theory to the domain specific constrains of DNA storage. To test our strategy, we stored an entire computer operating system, a movie, a gift card, and other computer files with a total of 2.14*10^6 bytes in DNA oligos. We were able to fully retrieve the information without a single error even with a sequencing throughput on the scale of a single tile of an Illumina sequencing flow cell. To further stress our strategy, we created a deep copy of the data by PCR amplifying the oligo pool in a total of nine successive reactions, reflecting one complete path of an exponential process to copy the file 218*10^12 times. We perfectly retrieved the original data with only five million reads. Taken together, our approach opens the possibility of highly reliable DNA-based storage that approaches the information capacity of DNA molecules and enables virtually unlimited data retrieval.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074237.2', [], [u'Columbia University/NY Genome Center;', u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Stochastic dynamics of genetic broadcasting networks', ['Davit Potoyan', 'Peter Wolynes'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'The complex genetic programs of eukaryotic cells are often regulated by key transcription factors occupying or clearing out of a large number of genomic locations. Orchestrating the residence times of these factors is therefore important for the well organized functioning of a large network. The classic models of genetic switches sidestep this timing issue by assuming the binding of transcription factors to be governed entirely by thermodynamic protein-DNA affinities. Here we show that relying on passive thermodynamics and random release times can lead to a \u2033time-scale\u2033 crisis of master genes that broadcast their signals to large number of binding sites. We demonstrate that this \u2033time-scale crisis\u2033 can be resolved by actively regulating residence times through molecular stripping. We illustrate these ideas by studying the stochastic dynamics of the genetic network of the central eukaryotic master regulator NF\u03baB which broadcasts its signals to many downstream genes that regulate immune response, apoptosis etc.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074401', [], [u'Rice University']]
[u'A single intracellular protein governs the critical transition from an individual to a coordinated population response during quorum sensing: Origins of primordial language', ['Celina Vila-Sanjurjo', 'Christoph Engwer', 'Xiaofei Qin', 'Lea Hembach', 'Tania Verdia-Cotelo', 'Carmen Remunan-Lopez', 'Anton Vila-Sanjurjo', 'Francisco M. Goycoolea'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Quorum sensing (QS) explains a type of bacterial cell-cell communication mediated by exocellular compounds that act as autoinducers (AIs). As such, QS can be considered the most primordial form of language. QS has profound implications for the control of many important traits (e.g. biofilm formation, secretion of virulence factors, etc.). Conceptually, the QS response can be split into its "listening" and "speaking" components, i.e. the power to sense AI levels vs. the ability to synthesize and release these molecules. By explaining the cell-density dependence of QS behavior as the consequence of the system\'s arrival to a threshold AI concentration, models of QS have traditionally assumed a salient role for the "QS speaking" module during bacterial cell-to-cell communication. In this paper, we have provided evidence that challenges this AI-centered view of QS and establishes LuxR-like activators at the center of QS. Our observation that highly coordinated, cell-density dependent responses can occur in the absence of AI production, implies that the ability to launch such responses is engrained within the "QS listening" module. Our data indicates that once a critical threshold of intracellular activator monomers in complex with AI is reached, a highly orchestrated QS response ensues. While displaying a clear cell-density dependence, such response does not strictly require the sensing of population levels by individual cells. We additionally show, both in vivo and in silico, that despite their synchronous nature, QS responses do not require that all the cells in the population participate in the response. Central to our analysis was the discovery that percolation theory (PT) can be used to mathematically describe QS responses. While groundbreaking, our results are in agreement with and integrate the latest conclusions reached in the field. We explain for the first time, the cell-density-dependent synchronicity of QS responses as the function of a single protein, the LuxR-like activator, capable of coordinating the temporal response of a population of cells in the absence of cell-to-cell communication. Being QS the most primordial form of speech, our results have important implications for the evolution of language in its ancient chemical form.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074369', [], [u'Westf\xe4lische Wilhelms-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnster, Univerdade de Santiago de Compostela;', u'Westf\xe4lische Wilhelms-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnster;', u'Universidade da Coru\xf1a;', u'Univerdade de Santiago de Compostela']]
[u'Fitness effects of thermal stress differ between outcrossing and selfing populations in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Agata Plesnar-Bielak', 'Marta K. Labocha', 'Paulina Kosztya', 'Katarzyna R. Woch', 'Woronika M. Banot', 'Karolina Markot', 'Magdalena Skarbon', 'Monika A. Prus', 'Zofia M. Prokop'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'The maintenance of males and outcrossing is widespread, despite considerable costs of males. By enabling recombination between distinct genotypes, outcrossing may be advantageous during adaptation to a novel environments and if so, it should be selected for under environmental challenge. However, a given environmental change may influence fitness of male, female, and hermaphrodite or asexual individuals differently, and hence the relationship between reproductive system and dynamics of adaptation to novel conditions may not be driven solely by the level of outcrossing and recombination. This has important implications for studies investigating the evolution of reproductive modes in the context of environmental changes, and for the extent to which their findings can be generalized. Here, we use Caenorhabditis elegans, a free-living nematode species in which hermaphrodites (capable of selfing but not cross-fertilizing each other) coexist with males (capable of fertilizing hermaphrodites),to investigate the response of wild type as well as obligatorily outcrossing and obligatorily selfing lines to stressfully increased ambient temperature. We found that thermal stress affects fitness of outcrossers much more drastically than that of selfers. This shows that apart from the potential for recombination, the selective pressures imposed by the same environmental change can differ between populations expressing different reproductive systems and affect their adaptive potential.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074328', [u'Ecology'], [u'Jagiellonian University, Institute of Environmental Sciences']]
[u"Who's who? Detecting and resolving sample anomalies in human DNA sequencing studies with peddy.", ['Aaron R Quinlan', 'Brent S Pedersen'], u'September 9, 2016.', u"The potential for genetic discovery in human DNA sequencing studies is greatly diminished if DNA samples from the cohort are mislabelled, swapped, contaminated, or include unintended individuals. Unfortunately, the potential for such errors is significant since DNA samples are often manipulated by several protocols, labs or scientists in the process of sequencing. We have developed peddy to identify and facilitate the remediation of such errors via interactive visualizations and reports comparing the stated sex, relatedness, and ancestry to what is inferred from each individual's genotypes. Peddy predicts a sample's ancestry using a machine learning model trained on individuals of diverse ancestries from the 1000 Genomes Project reference panel. Peddy's speed, text reports and web interface facilitate both automated and visual detection of sample swaps, poor sequencing quality and other indicators of sample problems that, were they left undetected, would inhibit discovery. \n\nSoftware Availability: https://github.com/brentp/peddy\nDemonstration (Chrome suggested): http://home.chpc.utah.edu/~u6000771//plots/ceph1463.html", u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074385', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Utah']]
[u'Shared roles of dorsal and subgenual anterior cingulate cortices in economic decisions', ['Habiba Azab', 'Benjamin Y. Hayden'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Theories of dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) function generally emphasize its cognitive and regulatory functions while theories of subgenual ACC (sgACC) emphasize its emotional, limbic, and arousal-related roles. But how different are these areas when compared in the same task? We recorded neuronal responses in both regions in macaques in a task with cognitive and limbic aspects, a token gambling task. Using tokens allowed us to compare responses to wins and losses. Both regions phasically encoded several important economic variables in similar ways; these included offered values, remembered values, attended values, and obtained values, and number of current tokens. Signal-to-noise ratio in sgACC was substantially lower than in dACC, and sgACC neurons responded more strongly to losses and in anticipation of large rewards. These results highlight the common economic functions of the anterior cingulum and suggest different functional emphases between regions, rather than a strict cognitive vs. emotional division.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074484', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Rochester']]
[u'MAPPING OF LONG-RANGE CHROMATIN INTERACTIONS BY PROXIMITY LIGATION ASSISTED CHIP-SEQ', ['Rongxin Fang', 'Miao Yu', 'Guoqiang Li', 'Sora Chee', 'Tristin Liu', 'Anthony Schmitt', 'Bing Ren'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'We report a highly sensitive and cost-effective method for genome-wide identification of chromatin interactions in eukaryotic cells. Combining proximity ligation with chromatin immunoprecipitation and sequencing, the method outperforms the state of art approach in sensitivity, accuracy and ease of operation. Application of the method to mouse embryonic stem cells improves mapping of enhancer-promoter interactions.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074294', [u'Genomics'], [u'Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research; University of California, San Diego;', u'Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research']]
[u'Prefrontal cortical control of a brainstem social behavior circuit', ['Tamara B. Franklin', 'Bianca A. Silva', 'Zinaida Perova', 'Livia Marrone', 'Maria E. Masferrer', 'Yang Zhan', 'Angie Kaplan', 'Louise Greetham', 'Voilaine Verrechia', 'Andreas Halman', 'Sara Pagella', 'Alexei L. Vyssotski', 'Anna Illarianova', 'Tiago Branco', 'Cornelius T. Gross'], u'September 9, 2016.', u"The prefrontal cortex plays a critical role in adjusting an organism's behavior to its environment. In particular, numerous studies have implicated the prefrontal cortex in the\ncontrol of social behavior, but the neural circuits that mediate these effects remain unknown. Here we investigated behavioral adaptation to social defeat in mice and uncovered a critical contribution of neural projections from the medial prefrontal cortex to the dorsal periaqueductal grey, a brainstem area vital for defensive responses. Social defeat caused a weakening of functional connectivity between these two areas and selective inhibition of these projections mimicked the behavioral effects of social defeat. These findings define a\nspecific neural projection by which the prefrontal cortex can control and adapt social behavior.", u'/content/early/2016/09/09/073734', [], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology;', u'Brain Cognition and Brain Disease Institute, Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology;', u'Institut of Neuroinformatics, University of Zurich;', u'German Cancer Center DKFZ']]
[u'The impact of rare variation on gene expression across tissues', ['Xin Li', 'Yungil Kim', 'Emily K. Tsang', 'Joe R. Davis', 'Farhan N. Damani', 'Colby Chiang', 'Zachary Zappala', 'Benjamin J. Strober', 'Alexandra J. Scott', 'Andrea Ganna', 'Jason Merker', 'Ira M. Hall', 'Alexis Battle', 'Stephen B. Montgomery'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Rare genetic variants are abundant in humans yet their functional effects are often unknown and challenging to predict. The Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project provides a unique opportunity to identify the functional impact of rare variants through combined analyses of whole genomes and multi-tissue RNA-sequencing data. Here, we identify gene expression outliers, or individuals with extreme expression levels, across 44 human tissues, and characterize the contribution of rare variation to these large changes in expression. We find 58% of underexpression and 28% of overexpression outliers have underlying rare variants compared with 9% of non-outliers. Large expression effects are enriched for proximal loss-of-function, splicing, and structural variants, particularly variants near the TSS and at evolutionarily conserved sites. Known disease genes have expression outliers, underscoring that rare variants can contribute to genetic disease risk. To prioritize functional rare regulatory variants, we develop RIVER, a Bayesian approach that integrates RNA and whole genome sequencing data from the same individual. RIVER predicts functional variants significantly better than models using genomic annotations alone, and is an extensible tool for personal genome interpretation. Overall, we demonstrate that rare variants contribute to large gene expression changes across tissues with potential health consequences, and provide an integrative method for interpreting rare variants in individual genomes.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074443', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Washington University School of Medicine;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Re-evaluation of SNP heritability in complex human traits', ['Doug Speed', 'Na Cai', 'Michael Johnson', 'Sergey Nejentsev', 'David Balding'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'SNP heritability, the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by SNPs, has been estimated for many hundreds of traits, and these estimates are being used to explore genetic architecture and guide future research. To estimate SNP heritability requires strong assumptions about how heritability is distributed across the genome, but the assumptions in current use have not been thoroughly tested. By analyzing imputed data for 42 human traits, we empirically derive an improved model for heritability estimation. It is commonly assumed that the expected heritability of a SNP does not depend on its allele frequency; we instead identify a more realistic relationship which reflects that heritability tends to decrease with minor allele frequency. Two methods for estimating SNP heritability, GCTA and LDAK, make contrasting assumptions about how heritability varies with linkage disequilibrium; we demonstrate that the model used by LDAK better reflects the properties of real data. Additionally, we show how genotype certainty can be incorporated in the heritability model; this enables the inclusion of poorly-imputed SNPs, which can capture substantial extra heritability. Our revised method typically results in substantially higher estimates of SNP heritability: for example, across 19 traits (mainly diseases), the estimates based on common SNPs (minor allele frequency >0.01) are on average 40% (SD 3) higher than those obtained using original GCTA, and 25% (SD 2) higher than those from the recently-proposed extension GCTA-LDMS. We conclude that for a wide range of traits, common SNPs tag a greater fraction of causal variation than is currently appreciated. When we also include rare SNPs (minor allele frequency <0.01), we find that across 23 quantitative traits, estimates of SNP heritability increase by on average 29% (SD 12), and that rare SNPs tend to contribute about half the heritability of common SNPs.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074310', [], [u'University College London;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger / EMBL-EBI;', u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'Local genetic effects on gene expression across 44 human tissues', ['Francois Aguet', 'Andrew A Brown', 'Stephane Castel', 'Joe R Davis', 'Pejman Mohammadi', 'Ayellet V Segre', 'Zachary Zappala', 'Nathan S Abell', 'Laure Fresard', 'Eric R Gamazon', 'Ellen Gelfand', 'Machael J Gloudemans', 'Yuan He', 'Farhad Hormozdiari', 'Xiao Li', 'Xin Li', 'Boxiang Liu', 'Diego Garrido-Martin', 'Halit Ongen', 'John J Palowitch', 'YoSon Park', 'Christine B Peterson', 'Gerald Quon', 'Stephan Ripke', 'Andrey A Shabalin', 'Tyler C Shimko', 'Benjamin J Strober', 'Timothy J Sullivan', 'Nicole A Teran', 'Emily K Tsang', 'Hailei Zhang', 'Yi-Hui Zhou', 'Alexis Battle', 'Carlos D Bustamonte', 'Nancy J Cox', 'Barbara E Engelhardt', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Gad Getz', 'Manolis Kellis', 'Gen Li', 'Daniel G MacArthur', 'Andrew B Nobel', 'Chiara Sabbati', 'Xiaoquan Wen', 'Fred A Wright', 'Tuuli Lappalainen', 'Kristin G Ardlie', 'Emmanouil T Dermitzakis', 'Christopher D Brown', 'Stephen B Montgomery'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) mapping provides a powerful means to identify functional variants influencing gene expression and disease pathogenesis. We report the identification of cis-eQTLs from 7,051 post-mortem samples representing 44 tissues and 449 individuals as part of the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) project. We find a cis-eQTL for 88% of all annotated protein-coding genes, with one-third having multiple independent effects. We identify numerous tissue-specific cis-eQTLs, highlighting the unique functional impact of regulatory variation in diverse tissues. By integrating large-scale functional genomics data and state-of-the-art fine-mapping algorithms, we identify multiple features predictive of tissue-specific and shared regulatory effects. We improve estimates of cis-eQTL sharing and effect sizes using allele specific expression across tissues. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of this large compendium of cis-eQTLs for understanding the tissue-specific etiology of complex traits, including coronary artery disease. The GTEx project provides an exceptional resource that has improved our understanding of gene regulation across tiss', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074450', [u'Genomics'], [u'The Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'University of Geneva Medical School;', u'New York Genome Center;', u'Stanford University;', u'Vanderbilt University;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'he Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology;', u'University of North Carolina;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'North Carolina State University;', u'Princeton University;', u'Columbia University;', u'University of Michigan']]
[u'SINTAX: a simple non-Bayesian taxonomy classifier for 16S and ITS sequences', ['Robert Edgar'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Metagenomics experiments often characterize microbial communities by sequencing the ribosomal 16S and ITS regions. Taxonomy prediction is a fundamental step in such studies. The SINTAX algorithm predicts taxonomy by using k-mer similarity to identify the top hit in a reference database and provides bootstrap confidence for all ranks in the prediction. SINTAX achieves comparable or better accuracy to the RDP Naive Bayesian Classifier with a simpler algorithm that does not require training. Most tested methods are shown to have high rates of over-classification errors where novel taxa are incorrectly predicted to have known names.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074161', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Independent Scientist']]
[u'A framework for RNA quality correction in differential expression analysis', ['Andrew E Jaffe', 'Ran Tao', 'Alexis Norris', 'Marc Kealhofer', 'Abhinav Nellore', 'Yankai Jia', 'Thomas Hyde', 'Joel Kleinman', 'Richard Straub', 'Jeffrey T Leek', 'Daniel Weinberger'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) is a powerful approach for measuring gene expression levels in cells and tissues, but it relies on high-quality RNA. We demonstrate here that statistical adjustment employing existing quality measures largely fails to remove the effects of RNA degradation when RNA quality associates with the outcome of interest. Using RNA-seq data from a molecular degradation experiment of human brain tissue, we introduce the quality surrogate variable (qSVA) analysis framework for estimating and removing the confounding effect of RNA quality in differential expression analysis. We show this approach results in greatly improved replication rates (>3x) across two large independent postmortem human brain studies of schizophrenia. Finally, we explored public datasets to demonstrate potential RNA quality confounding when comparing expression levels of different brain regions and diagnostic groups beyond schizophrenia. Our approach can therefore improve the interpretation of differential expression analysis of transcriptomic data from the human brain.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074245', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Lieber Institute for Brain Development;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health']]
[u'Distant regulatory effects of genetic variation in multiple human tissues', ['Brian Jo', 'Yuan He', 'Benjamin J Strober', 'Princy Parsana', 'Francois Aguet', 'Andrew A Brown', 'Stephane E Castel', 'Eric R Gamazon', 'Ariel Gewirtz', 'Genna Gliner', 'Buhm Han', 'Amy Z He', 'Eun Yong Kang', 'Ian C McDowell', 'Xiao Li', 'Pejman Mohammadi', 'Christine B Peterson', 'Gerald Quon', 'Ashis Saha', 'Ayellet V Segre', 'Jae Hoon Sul', 'Timothy J Sullivan', 'Kristin G Ardlie', 'Christopher D Brown', 'Donald F Conrad', 'Nancy J Cox', 'Emmanouil T Dermitzakis', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Manolis Kellis', 'Tuuli Lappalainen', 'Chiara Sabatti', 'Barbara E Engelhardt', 'Alexis Battle'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Understanding the genetics of gene regulation provides information on the cellular mechanisms through which genetic variation influences complex traits. Expression quantitative trait loci, or eQTLs, are enriched for polymorphisms that have been found to be associated with disease risk. While most analyses of human data has focused on regulation of expression by nearby variants (cis-eQTLs), distal or trans-eQTLs may have broader effects on the transcriptome and important phenotypic consequences, necessitating a comprehensive study of the effects of genetic variants on distal gene transcription levels. In this work, we identify trans-eQTLs in the Genotype Tissue Expression (GTEx) project data, consisting of 449 individuals with RNA-sequencing data across 44 tissue types. We find 81 genes with a trans-eQTL in at least one tissue, and we demonstrate that trans-eQTLs are more likely than cis-eQTLs to have effects specific to a single tissue. We evaluate the genomic and functional properties of trans-eQTL variants, identifying strong enrichment in enhancer elements and Piwi-interacting RNA clusters.  Finally, we describe three tissue-specific regulatory loci underlying relevant disease associations: 9q22 in thyroid that has a role in thyroid cancer, 5q31 in skeletal muscle, and a previously reported master regulator near KLF14 in adipose. These analyses provide a comprehensive characterization of trans-eQTLs across human tissues, which contribute to an improved understanding of the tissue-specific cellular mechanisms of regulatory genetic variation.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074419', [], [u'Princeton University;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'The Broad Institute of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard University;', u'University of Geneva Medical School;', u'New York Genome Center;', u'Vanderbilt University Medical School;', u'Asian Medical Center;', u'UCLA;', u'Duke University;', u'MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'UC Davis;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Washington University School of Medicine;', u'Vanderbilt University Medical Center;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Comparing individual-based approaches to modelling the self-organization of multicellular tissues', ['James M. Osborne', 'Alexander G. Fletcher', 'Joseph M. Pitt-Francis', 'Philip K. Maini', 'David J. Gavaghan'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'The coordinated behaviour of populations of cells plays a central role in tissue growth and renewal. Cells react to their microenvironment by modulating processes such as movement, growth and proliferation, and signalling. Alongside experimental studies, computational models offer a useful means by which to investigate these processes. To this end a variety of cell-based modelling approaches have been developed, ranging from lattice-based cellular automata to lattice-free models that treat cells as point-like particles or extended shapes. It is difficult to accurately compare between different modelling approaches, since one cannot distinguish between differences in behaviour due to the underlying model assumptions and those due to differences in the numerical implementation of the model. Here, we exploit the availability of an implementation of five popular cell-based modelling approaches within a consistent computational framework, Chaste (http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/chaste). This framework allows one to easily change constitutive assumptions within these models. In each case we provide full details of all technical aspects of our model implementations. We compare model implementations using four case studies, chosen to reflect the key cellular processes of proliferation, adhesion, and short- and long-range signalling. These case studies demonstrate the applicability of each model and provide a guide for model usage.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074351', [], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Automated Visualization of Rule-based Models', ['John A.P. Sekar', 'Jose-Juan Tapia', 'James R. Faeder'], u'September 9, 2016.', u'Rule-based modeling frameworks provide a specification format in which kinetic interactions are modeled as "reaction rules". These rules are specified on phosphorylation motifs, domains, binding sites and other sub-molecular structures, and have proved useful for modeling signal transduction. Visual representations are necessary to understand individual rules as well as analyze interactions of hundreds of rules, which motivates the need for automated diagramming tools for rule-based models. Here, we present a theoretical framework that unifies the layers of information in a rule-based model and enables automated visualization of (i) the mechanism encoded in a rule, (ii) the regulatory interaction of two or more rules, and (iii) the emergent network architecture of a large rule set. Specifically, we present a compact rule visualization that conveys the action of a rule explicitly (unlike conventional visualizations), a regulatory graph visualization that conveys regulatory interactions between rules, and a set of graph compression methods that synthesize informative pathway diagrams from complex regulatory graphs. These methods enable inference of network motifs (such as feedback and feed-forward loops), automated generation of signal flow diagrams for hundreds of rules, and tunable network compression using heuristics and graph analysis, all of which are advances over the state of the art for rule-based models. These methods also produce more readable diagrams than currently available tools as we show with an empirical comparison across 27 published rule-based models of various sizes. We provide an implementation in the open source and freely available BioNetGen framework, but the underlying methods are applicable to all current rule-based models in BioNetGen, Kappa and Simmune frameworks. We expect that these tools will promote communication and analysis of rule-based models and their eventual integration into whole cell models.', u'/content/early/2016/09/09/074138', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine']]
