[u'Colonization and diversification of aquatic insects on three Macaronesian archipelagos using 59 nuclear loci derived from a draft genome', ['Sereina Rutschmann', 'Harald Detering', 'Sabrina Simon', 'David H Funk', 'Jean-Luc Gattolliat', 'Samantha J Hughes', 'Pedro M Raposeiro', 'Rob DeSalle', 'Michel Sartori', 'Michael T Monaghan'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'The study of processes driving diversification requires a fully sampled and well resolved phylogeny. Multilocus approaches to the study of recent diversification provide a powerful means to study the evolutionary process, but their application remains restricted because multiple unlinked loci with suitable variation for phylogenetic or coalescent analysis are not available for most non-model taxa. Here we identify novel, putative single-copy nuclear DNA (nDNA) phylogenetic markers to study the colonization and diversification of an aquatic insect species complex, Cloeon dipterum L. 1761 (Ephemeroptera: Baetidae), in Macaronesia. Whole-genome sequencing data from one member of the species complex were used to identify 59 nDNA loci (32,213 base pairs), followed by Sanger sequencing of 29 individuals sampled from 13 islands of three Macaronesian archipelagos. Multispecies coalescent analyses established six putative species. Three island species formed a monophyletic clade, with one species occurring on the Azores, Europe and North America. Ancestral state reconstruction indicated at least two colonization events from the mainland (Canaries, Azores) and one within the archipelago (between Madeira and the Canaries). Using random subsets of the 59 loci showed a positive linear relationship between number of loci and node support. In contrast, node support in the multispecies coalescent tree was negatively correlated with mean number of phylogenetically informative sites per locus, suggesting a complex relationship between tree resolution and marker variability. Our approach highlights the value of combining coalescent-based phylogeography, species delimitation, and phylogenetic reconstruction to resolve recent diversification events in an archipelago species complex.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063859.1', [], [u'University of Vigo;', u'Wageningen University;', u'Stroud Water Research Center;', u'Musee cantonal de zoologie;', u'Universidade de Tras-os-Montes e Alto Douro;', u'University of Azores;', u'American Museum of Natural History;', u'Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB)']]
[u'Distance Sampling in R', ['David Lawrence Miller', 'Eric Rexstad', 'Len Thomas', 'Laura Marshall', 'Jeffrey Laake'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'Estimating the abundance and spatial distribution of animal and plant populations is essential for conservation and management. We introduce the R package Distance that implements distance sampling methods to estimate abundance. We describe how users can obtain estimates of abundance (and density) using the package as well documenting the links it provides with other more specialized R packages. We also demonstrate how Distance provides a migration pathway from previous software, thereby allowing us to deliver cutting-edge methods to the users more quickly.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063891', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of St Andrews;', u'Marine Mammal Laboratory']]
[u'The Missing Link: Predicting Connectomes from Noisy and Partially Observed Tract Tracing Data', ['Max Hinne', 'Annet Meijers', 'Rembrandt Bakker', 'Paul H.E. Tiesinga', 'Morten Mrup', 'Marcel A.J. van Gerven'], u'July 14, 2016.', u"Our understanding of the wiring map of the brain, known as the connectome, has increased greatly in the last decade, mostly due to technological advancements in neuroimaging techniques and improvements in computational tools to interpret the vast amount of available data. Despite this, with the exception of the C. elegans roundworm, no definitive connectome has been established for any species. In order to obtain this, tracer studies are particularly appealing, as these have proven highly reliable. The downside of tract tracing is that it is costly to perform, and can only be applied ex vivo. In this paper, we suggest that instead of probing all possible connections, hitherto unknown connections may be predicted from the data that is already available. Our approach uses a `latent space model' that embeds the connectivity in an abstract physical space. Regions that are close in the latent space have a high chance of being connected, while regions far apart are most likely disconnected in the connectome. After learning the latent embedding from the connections that we did observe, the latent space allows us to predict connections that have not been probed previously. We apply the methodology to two connectivity data sets of the macaque and we demonstrate that the latent space model is successful in predicting unobserved connectivity, outperforming two alternative baselines in nearly all cases. Furthermore, we show how the latent spatial embedding may be used to integrate multimodal observations (i.e. anterograde and retrograde tracers) for the mouse neocortex. Finally, our probabilistic approach enables us to make explicit which connections are easy to predict and which prove difficult, allowing for informed follow-up studies.", u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063867', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Radboud University;', u'Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-6) and Institute for Advanced Simulation (IAS-6);', u'Denmark Technical University']]
[u'Multi-rate Poisson Tree Processes for single-locus species delimitation under Maximum Likelihood and Markov Chain Monte Carlo.', ['Paschalia Kapli', 'Sarah Lutteropp', 'Jiajie Zhang', 'Kassian Kobert', 'Pavlos Pavlidis', 'Alexandros Stamatakis', 'Tomas Flouri'], u'July 14, 2016.', u"In recent years, molecular species delimitation has become a routine approach for quantifying and classifying biodiversity. Barcoding methods are of particular importance in large-scale surveys as they promote fast species discovery and biodiversity estimates. Among those, distance-based methods are the most common choice as they scale well with large datasets; however, they are sensitive to similarity threshold parameters and they ignore evolutionary relationships. The recently introduced 'Poisson Tree Processes' (PTP) method is a phylogeny-aware approach that does not rely on such thresholds. Yet, two weaknesses of PTP impact its accuracy and practicality when applied to large datasets; it does not account for divergent intraspecific variation and is slow for a large number of sequences.\n\nWe introduce the multi-rate PTP (mPTP), an improved method that alleviates the theoretical and technical shortcomings of PTP. It incorporates different levels of intraspecific genetic diversity deriving from differences in either the evolutionary history or sampling of each species. Results on empirical data suggest that mPTP is superior to PTP and popular distance-based methods as it, consistently, yields more accurate delimitations with respect to the taxonomy (i.e., identifies more taxonomic species, infers species numbers closer to the taxonomy). Moreover, mPTP does not require any similarity threshold as input. The novel dynamic programming algorithm attains a speedup of at least five orders of magnitude compared to PTP, allowing it to delimit species in large (meta-) barcoding data. In addition, Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling provides a comprehensive evaluation of the inferred delimitation in just a few seconds for millions of steps, independently of tree size.\n\nmPTP is implemented in C and is available for download at http://github.com/Pas-Kapli/mptp under the GNU Affero 3 license. A web-service is available at http://mptp.h-its.org", u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063875', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies;', u'Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Heraklion, Crete;', u'HITS gGmbH']]
[u'Recent Outbreaks of Shigellosis in California Caused by Two Distinct Populations of Shigella sonnei With Increased Virulence or Fluoroquinolone Resistance', ['Varvara K. Kozyreva', 'Guillaume Jospin', 'Alex Greninger', 'James P. Watt', 'Jonathan A. Eisen', 'Vishnu Chaturvedi'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'Shigella sonnei has caused unusually large outbreaks of shigellosis in California in 2014 - 2015.  Preliminary data indicated the involvement of two distinct yet related bacterial populations, one from San Diego and San Joaquin (SD/SJ) and one from the San Francisco (SF) Bay area.  Whole genome sequencing of sixty-eight outbreak and archival isolates of S. sonnei was performed to investigate the microbiological factors related to these outbreaks. Both SD/SJ and SF populations, as well as almost all of the archival S. sonnei isolates belonged to sequence type 152 (ST152).  Genome-wide SNP analysis clustered the majority of California (CA) isolates to an earlier described global Lineage III, which has persisted in CA since 1986.  Isolates in the SD/SJ population had a novel Shiga-toxin (STX)-encoding lambdoid bacteriophage, most closely related to that found in an Escherichia coli O104:H4 strain responsible for a large outbreak.  However, the STX genes (stx1a and stx1b) from this novel phage had sequences most similar to the phages from S. flexneri and S. dysenteriae.  The isolates in the SF population yielded evidence of fluoroquinolone resistance acquired via the accumulation of point mutations in gyrA and parC genes.  Thus, the CA S. sonnei lineage continues to evolve by the acquisition of increased virulence and antibiotic resistance, and enhanced monitoring is advocated for its early detection in future outbreaks.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063818', [u'Microbiology'], [u'California Department of Public Health;', u'University of California, Davis;', u'University of Washington;', u'Univ. of California Davis']]
[u'Age-dependent changes in mean and variance of gene expression across tissues in a twin cohort', ['Ana Vinuela', 'Andrew Anand Brown', 'Alfonso Buil', 'Pei-Chien Tsai', 'Matthew N Davies', 'Jordana Tzenova Bell', 'Emmanouil Dermitzakis', 'Timothy Spector', 'Kerrin Small'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'Gene expression changes with age have consequences for healthy aging and disease development. Here we investigate age-related changes in gene expression measured by RNA-seq of fat, skin, whole blood and derived lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) expression from ~800 adult female twins. We see evidence of up to 60% shared transcriptional age-related effects across tissues on level of expression and 47% on splicing; amongst these we highlight effects on genes involved in diseases such as Alzheimer and cancer. We identify 137 genes with age-related changes in variance and 42 genes with age-related discordance between genetically identical individuals; implying the latter are driven by environmental effects. Investigation of methylation effects observed a widespread and stronger effect of age on methylation than expression however we did not find a strong relationship between changes in both expression and methylation. In contrast, we find 4 significant examples where the ageing process is modulated by genetic variants. In summary, we demonstrate that aging affects the splicing, level and variance of expression, and that these processes can be both environmentally and genetically influenced.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063883', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Geneva;', u"King's College London;", u'Geneva Medical School']]
[u'Biophysical assay for tethered signaling reactions reveals tether-controlled activity for the phosphatase SHP-1', ['Jesse Goyette', 'Citlali Solis Salas', 'Nicola Coker Gordon', 'Marcus Bridge', 'Samuel I Isaacson', 'Jun Allard', 'Omer Dushek'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'Tethered enzymatic reactions are ubiquitous in signalling networks but are poorly understood. Here, a novel mathematical analysis is established for tethered signalling reactions in surface plasmon resonance (SPR). Applying the method to the phosphatase SHP-1 interacting with a phosphorylated tether corresponding to an immune receptor cytoplasmic tail provides 5 biophysical/biochemical constants from a single SPR experiment: two binding rates, two catalytic rates, and a reach parameter. Tether binding increased the activity of SHP-1 by 900-fold through a binding-induced allosteric activation (20-fold) and a more significant increase in local sub- strate concentration (45-fold). The reach parameter indicates that this local substrate concentration is exquisitely sensitive to receptor clustering. We further show that truncation of the tether leads not only to a lower reach but also to lower binding and catalysis. The work establishes a new framework for studying tethered signalling processes and highlights the tether as a control parameter in clustered signalling.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063776', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Boston University;', u'University of California, Irvine']]
[u'The queenslandensis and the type form of the dengue fever mosquito (Aedes aegypti L.) are genomically indistinguishable', ['Gordana Rasic', 'Igor Filipovic', 'Ashley G Callahan', 'Darren Stanford', 'Abigail Chan', 'Sai Gek Lam-Phua', 'Cheong Huat Tan', 'Ary Anthony Hoffmann'], u'July 14, 2016.', u"Background\nThe mosquito Aedes aegypti (L.) is a major vector of viral diseases like dengue fever, Zika and chikungunya. Aedes aegypti exhibits high morphological and behavioral variation, some of which is thought to be of epidemiological significance. Globally distributed domestic Ae. aegypti have been traditionally grouped into (i) the very pale variety queenslandensis and (ii) the type form. Because the two color forms co-occur across most of their range, there is interest in understanding how freely they interbreed. This knowledge is particularly important for control strategies that rely on mating compatibilities between the release and target mosquitoes, such as Wolbachia releases and SIT. To answer this question, we analyzed nuclear and mitochondrial genome-wide variation in the co-occurring pale and type Ae. aegypti from northern Queensland (Australia) and Singapore. \nMethods/Findings\nWe typed 74 individuals at a 1170 bp-long mitochondrial sequence and at 16,569 nuclear SNPs using a customized double-digest RAD sequencing. 11/29 genotyped individuals from Singapore and 11/45 from Queensland were identified as var. queenslandensis based on the diagnostic scaling patterns. We found 24 different mitochondrial haplotypes, seven of which were shared between the two forms. Multivariate genetic clustering based on nuclear SNPs corresponded to individuals' geographic location, not their color. Several family groups consisted of both forms and three queenslandensis individuals were Wolbachia infected, indicating previous breeding with the type form which has been used to introduce Wolbachia into Ae. aegypti populations.\nConclusion\nAedes aegypti queenslandensis are genomically indistinguishable from the type form, which points to these forms freely interbreeding at least in Australia and Singapore. Based on our findings, it is unlikely that the presence of very pale Ae. aegypti will affect the success of Aedes control programs based on Wolbachia-infected, sterile or RIDL mosquitoes.", u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063792', [u'Genomics'], [u'Bio21 Institute, School of BioSciences, The University of Melbourne;', u'Institute of Vector Borne Disease, Monash University, Australia;', u'Environmental Health Institute, National Environment Agency, Singapore']]
[u'Precision of readout at the hunchback gene', ['Jonathan Desponds', 'Huy Tran', 'Teresa Ferraro', 'Tanguy Lucas', 'Carmina Perez Romero', 'Aurelien Guillou', 'Cecile Fradin', 'Mathieu Coppey', 'Nathalie Dostatni', 'Aleksandra M Walczak'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'The simultaneous expression of the hunchback gene in the multiple nuclei of the developing fly embryo gives us a unique opportunity to study how\ntranscription is regulated in functional organisms. A recently developed\nMS2-MCP technique for imaging transcription in living Drosophila embryos allows us to quantify the dynamics of the developmental transcription process. The initial measurement of the morphogens by the hunchback promoter takes place during very short cell cycles, not only giving each nucleus little time for a precise readout, but also resulting in short time traces. Additionally, the relationship between the measured signal and the promoter state depends on the molecular design of the reporting probe. We develop an analysis approach based on tailor made autocorrelation functions that overcomes the short trace problems and quantifies the dynamics of transcription initiation. Based on life imaging data, we identify signatures of bursty transcription initiation from the hunchback promoter. We show that the precision of the expression of the\nhunchback gene to measure its position along the anterior-posterior axis is low both at the boundary and in the anterior even at cycle 13, suggesting additional post-translational averaging mechanisms to provide the precision observed in fixed material.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063784', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Ecole normale superieure;', u'Institut Curie']]
[u'Measurements of translation initiation from all 64 codons in E. coli', ['Ariel Hecht', 'Jeff Glasgow', 'Paul R. Jaschke', 'Lukmaan Bawazer', 'Matthew S. Munson', 'Jennifer Cochran', 'Drew Endy', 'Marc Salit'], u'July 14, 2016.', u'Our understanding of translation is one cornerstone of molecular biology that underpins our capacity to engineer living matter. The canonical start codon (AUG) and a few near-cognates (GUG, UUG) are typically considered as the start codons for translation initiation in Escherichia coli (E. coli). Translation is typically not thought to initiate from the 61 remaining codons. Here, we systematically quantified translation initiation in E. coli from all 64 triplet codons. We detected protein synthesis above background initiating from at least 46 codons. Translation initiated from these non-canonical start codons at levels ranging from 0.01% to 2% relative to AUG.  Translation initiation from non-canonical start codons may contribute to the synthesis of peptides in both natural and synthetic biological systems.', u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063800', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'NIST/JIMB;', u'NIST-JIMB;', u'Macquarie University;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Killing by Type VI secretion drives clonal phase separation and the evolution of cooperation', ['Luke McNally', 'Eryn Bernardy', 'Jacob Thomas', 'Arben Kalziqi', 'Jennifer T Pentz', 'Sam Brown', 'Brian Hammer', 'Peter Yunker', 'William Ratcliff'], u'July 14, 2016.', u"By nature of their small size, dense growth and frequent need for extracellular metabolism, microbes face persistent public goods dilemmas1-5. Spatial assortment can act as a general solution to social conflict by allowing extracellular goods to be utilized preferentially by productive genotypes1,6,7. Established mechanisms that generate microbial assortment depend on the availability of free space8-14; however, microbes often live in densely-packed environments, wherein these mechanisms are ineffective. Here, we describe a novel class of self-organized pattern formation that facilitates the development of spatial structure within densely-packed bacterial colonies. Contact-mediated killing through the Type VI secretion system (T6SS) drives high levels of assortment by precipitating phase separation, even in initially well-mixed populations that do not necessarily exhibit net growth. We examine these dynamics using three different classes of mathematical models and experiments with mutually antagonistic strains of Vibrio cholerae growing on solid media, and find that all appear to de-mix via the same 'Model A' universality class of order-disorder transition. We mathematically demonstrate that contact killing should favour the evolution of public goods cooperation, and empirically examine the relationship between T6SSs and potential cooperation through phylogenetic analysis. Across 26 genera of Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes, the proportion of a strain's genome that codes for potentially-exploitable secreted proteins increases significantly with both the number of Type 6 secretion systems and the number of T6SS effectors that it possesses. This work demonstrates how antagonistic traits --likely evolved for the purpose of killing competitors-- can indirectly lead to the evolution of cooperation by driving genetic phase separation.", u'/content/early/2016/07/14/063487', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
