[u'Flux through lipid synthesis dictates bacterial cell size.', ['Stephen Vadia', 'Jessica L. Tse', 'Jue D. Wang', 'Petra Anne Levin'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Nutrients-and by extension biosynthetic capacity-positively impact cell size in organisms throughout the tree of life. In bacteria, cell size is reduced three-fold in response to nutrient starvation or accumulation of the alarmone ppGpp, a global inhibitor of biosynthesis. However, whether biosynthetic capacity as a whole determines cell size or if particular anabolic pathways are more important than others remains an open question. Utilizing a top-down approach, here we identify flux through lipid synthesis as the primary biosynthetic determinant of Escherichia coli cell size. Altering flux through lipid synthesis recapitulated the impact of altering nutrients on cell size and morphology, while defects in other biosynthetic pathways either did not impact size or altered size in a lipid-dependent manner. Together our findings support a model in which lipid availability dictates cell envelope capacity and ppGpp functions as a linchpin linking surface area expansion with cytoplasmic volume to maintain cellular integrity.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092684', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'Local genetic correlation gives insights into the shared genetic architecture of complex traits', ['Huwenbo Shi', 'Nicholas Mancuso', 'Sarah Spendlove', 'Bogdan Pasaniuc'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Although genetic correlations between complex traits provide valuable insights into epidemiological and etiological studies, a precise quantification of which genomic regions contribute to the genome-wide genetic correlation is currently lacking. Here, we introduce \u03c1-HESS, a technique to quantify the correlation between pairs of traits due to genetic variation at a small region in the genome. Our approach only requires GWAS summary data and makes no distributional assumption on the causal variant effects sizes while accounting for linkage disequilibrium (LD) and overlapping GWAS samples. We analyzed large-scale GWAS summary data across 35 complex traits, and identified 27 genomic regions that contribute significantly to the genetic correlation among these traits. Notably, we find 7 genomic regions that contribute to the genetic correlation of 12 pairs of traits that show negligible genome-wide correlation, further showcasing the power of local genetic correlation analyses. Finally, we leverage the distribution of local genetic correlations across the genome to assign putative direction of causality for 15 pairs of traits.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092668', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California at Los Angeles;', u'Department of Biology, Brigham Young University']]
[u'Serum extracellular vesicle depletion processes affect release and infectivity of HIV-1 in culture', ['Zhaohao Liao', 'Dillon C Muth', 'Erez Eitan', 'Meghan Travers', 'Elin Lehrmann', 'Kenneth W Witwer'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in intercellular communication in health and disease and affect processes including immune and antiviral responses. Ultracentrifuged serum is depleted of EVs and, when used in culture media, reduces growth and viability of some cell types. In this study, we examined the effects of serum EV depletion processes on HIV-1 replication in primary cells and cell lines, including two HIV-1 latency models. Increased HIV-1 production was observed in certain EV-depleted conditions, along with cell morphology changes and decreased cell viability. Add-back of ultracentrifuge pellets rescued baseline HIV-1 production. Primary cells appeared to be less sensitive to EV depletion. ACH-2 and U1 latency models produced more HIV-1 under EV-depleted conditions, while virus produced under processed serum conditions was more infectious. Finally, changes in cellular metabolism and gene expression were associated with EV-depleted culture. In conclusion, the EV environment of HIV-1 infected cells has a substantial effect on virus production and infectivity. EV-dependence of cell cultures should be examined carefully along with other experimental variables. However, EVs may not be the only particles depleted by ultracentrifugation or other processes. Effects of EVs may be accompanied by or confused with those of closely associated or physically similar particles.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/081687.1', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'National Institute on Aging']]
[u'New single-molecule imaging of the eisosome BAR domain protein Pil1p reveals filament-like dynamics', ['Michael Lacy', 'David Baddeley', 'Julien Berro'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Molecular assemblies can have highly heterogeneous dynamics within the cell, but the limitations of conventional fluorescence microscopy can mask nanometer-scale features. We have developed a novel, broadly applicable, fluorescent labeling and imaging protocol, called Single-molecule Recovery After Photobleaching (SRAP), which allowed us to reveal the heterogeneous dynamics of the eisosome, a multi-protein structure on the cytoplasmic face of the plasma membrane in fungi. By fluorescently labeling only a small fraction of cellular Pil1p, the core eisosome BAR domain protein in fission yeast, we visualized whole eisosomes and, after photobleaching, recorded the binding of individual Pil1p molecules with ~20 nm precision. Further analysis of these dynamic structures and comparison to computer simulations allowed us to show that Pil1p exchange is spatially heterogeneous, supporting a new model of the eisosome as a dynamic filament.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092536', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Yale University']]
[u'IMPORT AND EXPORT OF GOLD NANOPARTICLES: EXCHANGE RATE IN CANCER CELLS AND FIBROBLASTS', ['Vladimir Ivosev', 'Gloria Jimenez Sanchez', 'Darine Abi Haidar', 'Rana Bazzi', 'Stephane Roux', 'Sandrine Lacombe'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Cancer is one of the leading causes of death. Radiation therapy is an important modality used in cancer treatment being highly cost-effective. Major flaw of radiotherapy is lack of selectivity between cancerous and healthy tissues. Amelioration of radiotherapy by using high-Z nanoparticles as radiation enhancers is one of potential solutions. Gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) are commonly used as radioenhancers. Understanding the interaction between cancer cells and AuNPs is essential in order to achieve best possible radioenhancing effects, while sparing healthy tissues. This work aims to elucidate interactions of ultrasmall (core size: 2.4 nm and hydrodynamic diameter (Dh): 4.5 nm) fluorescently labeled AuNPs with various human cell lines. In this perspective we measured uptake dynamics, characterized route of internalization and time of intracellular retention in various cancer cell lines and fibroblasts. Our results show that uptake dynamics and internalization pathways are strongly cell line-dependant. We also demonstrate that higher proportion of internalized nanoparticles resides in cancer cells, compared to fibroblasts, in in vitro conditions. This work highlights great complexity of cancerous cells and underlines the necessity for excellent knowledge of biological behaviour for each type of cancer. It also emphasizes the major effort needed for efficient cancer treatments and makes an appeal for further development of highly selective nanoparticles in order to hasten their utilization in clinical conditions.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092601', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University Paris Saclay;', u'University of Bourgogne Franche-Comte;', u'University Paris-Saclay']]
[u'Evidence that the ventral stream codes the errors used in hierarchical inference and learning', ['Elias B. Issa', 'Charles F. Cadieu', 'James J. DiCarlo'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Hierarchical feedforward processing makes object identity explicit at the highest stages of the ventral visual stream. We leveraged this computational goal to study the fine-scale temporal dynamics of neural populations in posterior and anterior inferior temporal cortex (pIT, aIT) during face detection. As expected, we found that a neural spiking preference for natural over distorted face images was rapidly produced, first in pIT and then in aIT. Strikingly, in the next 30 milliseconds of processing, this pattern of selectivity in pIT completely reversed, while selectivity in aIT remained unchanged. Although these dynamics were difficult to explain from a pure feedforward perspective, a model class computing errors through feedback closely matched the observed neural dynamics and parsimoniously explained a range of seemingly disparate IT neural response phenomena. This new perspective augments the standard model of online vision by suggesting that neural signals of states (e.g. likelihood of a face being present) are intermixed with the error signals found in deep hierarchical networks.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092551', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Resolving the Functional Significance of BRCA1 RING Domain Missense Substitutions', ['Andrew Paquette', 'Kayoko Tao', 'Alex W Stark', 'Judith Rosenthal', 'Russell Bell', 'Bryony A Thompson', 'Brett A Milash', 'Jason Gertz', 'Katherine E Varley', 'Alun Thomas', 'Kenneth Boucher', 'William D Foulkes', 'David E Goldgar', 'Sean V Tavtigian'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Development and calibration of suitably accurate functional assays for BRCA1 RING domain and BRCT domain missense substitutions could dramatically accelerate clinical classification of rare missense substitutions observed in that gene.  Leveraging data from 68,000 full sequence tests of BRCA1 and BRCA2, plus data from the limited number of already classified BRCA1 RING domain missense substitutions, we used logistic regression and related techniques to evaluate three BRCA1 RING domain assays.  These were recently described high throughput yeast 2-hybrid and E3 ubiquitin ligase assays, plus a newly developed mammalian 2- hybrid assay.  While there were concerns about the accuracy of the yeast 2-hybrid assay and the indirect nature of the ubiquitin ligase assay, the mammalian 2-hybrid assay had excellent correlation with existing missense substitution classifications.  After calibration, this assay contributed to classification of one newly reported BRCA1 missense substitution.  In principal, the mammalian 2-hybrid assay could be converted to a high-throughput format that would likely retain suitable accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092619', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Utah;', u'University of Utah and University of Melbourne;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Tracking the embryonic stem cell transition from ground state pluripotency', ['Tuzer Kalkan', 'Nelly Olova', 'Mila Roode', 'Carla Mulas', 'Heather J Lee', 'Isabelle Nett', 'Hendrik Marks', 'Rachael Walker', 'Hendrik G Stunnenberg', 'Kathryn Lilley', 'Jennifer Nichols', 'Wolf Reik', 'Paul Bertone', 'Austin Smith'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells are locked into self-renewal by shielding from inductive cues. Release from this ground state in minimal conditions offers a system for delineating developmental progression from naive pluripotency. Here we examined the initial transition of ES cells. The population behaves asynchronously. We therefore exploited a short-half-life Rex1::GFP reporter to isolate cells either side of exit from naive status. Extinction of ES cell identity in single cells is acute. It occurs only after near-complete elimination of naive pluripotency factors, but precedes appearance of lineage specification markers. Cells newly departed from the ES cell state exhibit global transcriptome features consistent with features of early post-implantation epiblast and distinct from primed epiblast. They also exhibit a genome-wide increase in DNA methylation, intermediate between early and late epiblast. These findings are consistent with the proposition that naive cells transition to a discrete formative phase of pluripotency preparatory to lineage priming.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092510', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'BAbraham Institute;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Babraham Institute;', u'Horizon Discovery;', u'Radboud University;', u'Radbound University']]
[u'Fast and Stable Signal Deconvolution via Compressible State-Space Models', ['Abbas Kazemipour', 'Ji Liu', 'Krystyna Solarana', 'Daniel A. Nagode', 'Patrick O. Kanold', 'Min Wu', 'Behtash Babadi'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Objective: Common biological measurements are in the form of noisy convolutions of signals of interest with possibly unknown and transient blurring kernels. Examples include EEG and calcium imaging data. Thus, signal deconvolution of these measurements is crucial in understanding the underlying biological processes. The objective of this paper is to develop fast and stable solutions for signal deconvolution from noisy, blurred and undersampled data, where the signals are in the form of discrete events distributed in time and space. Methods: We introduce compressible state-space models as a framework to model and estimate such discrete events. These state-space models admit abrupt changes in the states and have a convergent transition matrix, and are coupled with compressive linear measurements. We consider a dynamic compressive sensing optimization problem and develop a fast solution, using two nested Expectation Maximization algorithms, to jointly estimate the states as well as their transition matrices. Under suitable sparsity assumptions on the dynamics, we prove optimal stability guarantees for the recovery of the states and present a method for the identification of the underlying discrete events with precise confidence bounds. Results: We present simulation studies as well as application to calcium deconvolution and sleep spindle detection, which verify our theoretical results and show significant improvement over existing techniques. Conclusion: Our results show that by explicitly modeling the dynamics of the underlying signals, it is possible to construct signal deconvolution solutions that are scalable, statistically robust, and achieve high temporal resolution. Significance: Our proposed methodology provides a framework for modeling and deconvolution of noisy, blurred, and undersampled measurements in a fast and stable fashion, with potential application to a wide range of biological data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092643', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Maryland, College Park']]
[u'Paired CRISPR/Cas9 guide-RNAs enable high-throughput deletion scanning (ScanDel) of a Mendelian disease locus for functionally critical non-coding elements', ['Molly Gasperini', 'Gregory M Findlay', 'Aaron McKenna', 'Jennifer H Milbank', 'Choli Lee', 'Melissa D Zhang', 'Darren A Cusanovich', 'Jay Shendure'], u'December 8, 2016.', u"The extent to which distal non-coding mutations contribute to Mendelian disease remains a major unknown in human genetics. Given that a gene's in vivo function can be appropriately modeled in vitro, CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing enables the large-scale perturbation of distal non-coding regions to identify functional elements in their native context. However, early attempts at such screens have relied on one individual guide RNA (gRNA) per cell, resulting in sparse mutagenesis with minimal redundancy across regions of interest. To address this, we developed a system that uses pairs of gRNAs to program thousands of kilobase-scale deletions that scan across a targeted region in a tiling fashion (\u201cScanDel\u201d). As a proof-of-concept, we applied ScanDel to program 4,342 overlapping 1- and 2- kilobase (Kb) deletions that tile a 206 Kb region centered on HPRT1, the gene underlying Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, with median 27-fold redundancy per base. Programmed deletions were functionally assayed by selecting for loss of HPRT1 function with 6-thioguanine. HPRT1 exons served as positive controls, and all were successfully identified as functionally critical by the screen. Remarkably, HPRT1 function appeared robust to deletion of any intergenic or deeply intronic non-coding region across the 206 Kb locus, indicating that proximal regulatory sequences are sufficient for its expression. A sparser mutagenesis screen of the same 206 Kb with individual gRNAs also failed to identify critical distal regulatory elements. Although our screen did find programmed deletions and individual gRNAs with putative functional consequences that targeted exon-proximal non-coding sequences (e.g. the promoter), long-read sequencing revealed that this signal was driven almost entirely by rare, unexpected deletions that extended into exonic sequence. These targeted validation experiments defined a small region surrounding the transcriptional start site as the only non-coding sequence essential to HPRT1 function. Overall, our results suggest that distal regulatory elements are not critical for HPRT1 expression, and underscore the necessity of comprehensive edited-locus genotyping for validating the results of CRISPR screens. The application of ScanDel to additional loci will enable more insight into the extent to which the disruption of distal non-coding elements contributes to Mendelian diseases. In addition, dense, redundant, large-scale deletion scanning with gRNA pairs will facilitate a deeper understanding of endogenous gene regulation in the human genome.", u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092445', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute,Seattle, WA, USA']]
[u'Recombinant DNA resources for the comparative genomics of Ancylostoma ceylanicum.', ['Wadim J Kapulkin', 'Adriana Magalska', 'Ewa Janecka', 'Arkadiusz Ciesielski', 'Malgorzata Lobocka', 'Jerzy Behnke', 'Halina Wedrychowicz'], u'December 8, 2016.', u"We describe the construction and initial characterization of genomic resources (a set of recombinant DNA libraries, representing in total over 90,000 independent plasmid clones), originating from the genome of a hamster adapted hookworm, Ancylostoma ceylanicum. First, with the improved methodology, we generated sets of SL1 (5'- linker - GGTTAATTACCCAAGTTTGAG), and captured cDNAs from two different hookworm developmental stages: pre-infective L3 and parasitic adults. Second, we constructed a small insert (2-10kb) genomic library. Third, we generated a Bacterial Artificial Chromosome library (30-60kb). To evaluate the quality of our libraries we characterized sequence tags on randomly chosen clones and with first pass screening, we generated almost a hundred novel hookworm sequence tags. The sequence tags detected two broad classes of genes: i. conserved nematode genes and ii. putative hookworm-specific proteins. Importantly, some of the identified genes encode proteins of general interest including potential targets for hookworm control. Additionally, we identified a syntenic region in the mitochondrial genome, where the gene order is shared between the free-living nematode C. elegans and A. ceylanicum. Our results validate the use of recombinant DNA resources for comparative genomics of nematodes, including the free-living genetic model organism C. elegans and closely related parasitic species. We discuss the potential and relevance of Ancylostoma ceylanicum data and resources generated by the recombinant DNA approach.", u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092494', [u'Genomics'], [u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Grochowska 272, 03-849 Warsaw, Poland;', u'Institute for Biochemistry and Biophysics PAS, Pawinskiego 5a, 02-106 Warsaw, Poland;', u'School of Life Science, University of Nottingham, University Park, NG7 2RD Nottingham, U.K.']]
[u'Detection and characterization of low and high genome coverage regions using an efficient running median and a double threshold approach.', ['Dimitri Desvillechabrol', 'Christiane Bouchier', 'Sean Kennedy', 'Thomas Cokelaer'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Motivation: Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) provides researchers with powerful tools to investigate both prokaryotic and eukaryotic genetics. An accurate assessment of reads mapped to a specific genome consists of inspecting the genome coverage as number of reads mapped to a specific genome location. Most current methods use the average of the genome coverage (sequencing depth) to summarize the overall coverage. This metric quickly assess the sequencing quality but ignores valuable biological information like the presence of repetitive regions or deleted genes. The detection of such information may be challenging due to a wide spectrum of heterogeneous coverage regions, a mixture of  underlying models or the presence of a non-constant trend along the genome. Using robust statistics to systematically identify genomic regions with unusual coverage is needed to characterize these regions more precisely.\nResults: We implemented an efficient running median algorithm to estimate the genome coverage trend. The distribution of the normalized genome coverage is then estimated using a Gaussian mixture model. A z-score statistics is then assigned to each base position and used to separate the central distribution from the regions of interest (ROI) (i.e., under- and over-covered regions). Finally, a double threshold mechanism is used to cluster the genomic ROIs. HTML reports provide a summary with interactive visual representations of the genomic ROIs.\nAvailability: An implementation of the genome coverage characterization is available within the Sequana project. The standalone application is called sequana_coverage. The source code is available on GitHub (http://github.com/sequana/sequana), and documentation on ReadTheDocs (http://sequana.readtheodcs.org). An example of HTML report is provided on http://sequana.github.io .', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092478', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institut Pasteur']]
[u'VIP36 preferentially binds to core-fucosylated N-glycans: a molecular docking study', ['Klaus Fiedler'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Alpha 1-6 fucosyltransferase (Fut8) is known for its properties as an enhancer of nonsmall cell lung cancer metastasis and as a suppressor in hepatocellular carcinoma cells (Hep3B). Promising candidates of affected molecules include E-cadherin. In its absence, during epithelial-mesenchymal transition,the pathway triggers signaling to the nucleus via \u03b2-catenin-TCF/LEF. Contrarily, in less metastatic tumors, Fut8 stimulates cell-cell adhesion. Regulated classes of molecules could also include the sorting machinery of polarized epithelial cells, sorted ligands or both, that may be altered in cellular transformation. I have analyzed here the cargo receptor VIP36 (Vesicular-integral membrane protein of 36 kD) for carbohydrate interaction. It has been described as a lectin in the ERGIC (endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi intermediate compartment), Golgi apparatus and plasma membrane. The docking reveals top-interacting carbohydrates of the N-glycan and O-glycan class that encompass N-linked glycans of high mannose and equally complex type which likely function as sorted ligands in epithelial cells. O-glycans score lower and include core 2 residue binding. I show that fucose core modifications by Fut8 stimulate binding of N-linked glycans to VIP36, which is known to be different from binding of galectins 3 and 9. This suggests that Fut8-upregulation may directly alter the affinity of sorted cargo and may enhance the sorting to the apical pathway as exemplified in hepatocytes and traffic to bile. High affinity binding of the ganglioside GM1 carbohydrate headgroup to VIP36 suggests a linkage with protein and glycosphingolipid apical transfer in epithelial cells. Thus, this fundamental approach with large scale docking of 165 carbohydrates including 19 N-glycan high mannose, 17 Nglycan hybrid, 9 N-glycan complex, 17 O-glycan core, 27 Sialoside, 25 Fucoside and 51 other glycan residues suggests, that linked cargo-receptor apical transport may provide a path to epithelial polarization that may be modulated by core fucosylation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092460', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Fribourg']]
[u'Lysine methyltransferase SETD6 modifies histones and non-histone proteins', ['Olivier Binda'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Although central in regulating the access to genetic information, most lysine methyltransferases remain relatively poorly characterised. Herein, I report new substrates for the lysine methyltransferase SETD6. Based on the SETD6-catalysed site on the histone variant H2AZ, I identified similar sequences in the canonical histones H2A, H3, and H4 that are modified by SETD6 in vitro, and putative non-histone substrates. I herein expend the repertoire of substrates for lysine methylation by SETD6.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092031', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Universite Lyon 1']]
[u'Mapping Autosomal Recessive Intellectual Disability: Combined Microarray and Exome Sequencing Identifies 26 Novel Candidate Genes in 192 Consanguineous Families', ['Ricardo Harripaul', 'Nasim Vasli', 'Anna Mikhailov', 'Muhammad Arshad Rafiq', 'Kirti Mittal', 'Christian Windpassinger', 'Taimoor Sheikh', 'Abdul Noor', 'Huda Mahmood', 'Samantha Downey', 'Maneesha Johnson', 'Kayla Vleuten', 'Lauren Bell', 'Muhammad Ilyas', 'Falak Sher Khan', 'Valeed Khan', 'Mohammad Moradi', 'Muhammad Ayaz', 'Farooq Naeem', 'Abolfazl Heidari', 'Iltaf Ahmed', 'Shirin Ghadami', 'Zehra Agha', 'Sirous Zeinali', 'Raheel Qamar', 'Hossein Mozhdehipanah', 'Peter John', 'Asif Mir', 'Muhammad Ansar', 'Leon French', 'Muhammad Ayub', 'John B Vincent'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Approximately 1% of the population worldwide are affected by intellectual disability (ID), the vast majority of whom currently receive no molecular diagnosis. Previous studies indicate high levels of genetic heterogeneity, with estimates of over 2500 autosomal ID genes, with the majority being autosomal recessive (AR). Here, we combined microarray genotyping, homozygosity-by-descent (HBD) mapping, copy number variation (CNV) analysis, and whole exome sequencing (WES) to identify disease genes/mutations for 192 multiplex Pakistani and Iranian consanguineous families ascertained for non-syndromic ID. We identified definite or candidate mutations (or CNVs) in 51% of families, in 72 different genes, including 26 not previously reported for ARID. The new ARID genes include nine with loss-of-function mutations (ABI2, MAPK8, MPDZ, PIDD1, SLAIN1, TBC1D23, TRAPPC6B, UBA7, and USP44), and missense mutations include the first reports of variants in BDNF or TET1 associated with ID. The genes identified also showed overlap with de novo gene-sets for other neuropsychiatric disorders. Transcriptional studies show prominent expression in the prenatal brain. The high yield of AR mutations for ID signals that this approach has excellent clinical potential, will inform clinical diagnostics, including clinical whole exome and genome sequencing, for populations where consanguinity is common. As with other AR disorders, the relevance will also impact outbred populations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092346', [u'Genetics'], [u'Centre for Addiction and Mental Health;', u'Institute of Human Genetics, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria;', u'Mount Sinai Hospital;', u'International Islamic University, Islamabad, Pakistan;', u'Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan;', u'Qazvin University of Medical Science, Qazvin, Iran;', u'Lahore Institute of Research & Development, Lahore, Pakistan;', u'Queens University, Kingston, ON, Canada;', u'National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST), Islamabad, Pakistan;', u'Pasteur Institute of Iran, Tehran, Iran;', u'COMSATS Institute of Information Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan;', u'Qazvin University of Medical Sciences, Qazvin, Iran;', u'Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, ON, Canada']]
[u'Mobile introns shape the genetic diversity of their host genes', ['Jelena Repar', 'Tobias Warnecke'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Self-splicing introns populate several highly conserved protein-coding genes in fungal and plant mitochondria. In fungi, many of these introns have retained their ability to spread to intron-free target sites, often assisted by intron-encoded endonucleases that initiate the homing process. Here, leveraging population genomic data from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and Lachancea kluyveri, we expose non-random patterns of genetic diversity in exons that border self-splicing introns. In particular, we show that, in all three species, the density of single nucleotide polymorphisms increases as one approaches a mobile intron. Through multiple lines of evidence we rule out relaxed purifying selection as the cause of uneven nucleotide diversity. Instead, our findings implicate intron mobility as a direct driver of host gene diversity. We discuss two mechanistic scenarios that are consistent with the data: either endonuclease activity and subsequent error-prone repair have left a mutational footprint on the insertion environment of mobile introns or non-random patterns of genetic diversity are caused by exonic co-conversion, which occurs when introns spread to empty target sites via homologous recombination. Importantly, however, we show that exonic co-conversion can only explain diversity gradients near intron-exon boundaries if the conversion templates comes from outside the population. In other words, there must be pervasive and ongoing horizontal gene transfer of self-splicing introns into extant fungal populations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092585', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, United Kingdom']]
[u'The architectural balance of the Ventral Nerve Cord depends on the level of JNK signaling activity', ['Katerina Karkali', 'George Panayotou', 'Timothy E Saunders', 'Enrique Martin-Blanco'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'The segmented nervous system of bilaterians is organized in structural and functional modules. Modules share across species a robust structural stability. How this robustness is acquired during\ndevelopment is currently unknown. Here, we investigate the sequence of events involved in the establishment of the architectural balance of the nervous system. We demonstrate that a unique robustness pattern is common to the arthropods nervous system plan. This pattern depends on the fine control of the JNK signaling in a subset of early-specified pioneer neurons. JNK activity affects the level of expression of cell adhesion molecules (Fas 2), in part through the modulation of the transcription factor zfh1. A deficit in Fas 2 affects the fasciculation of the axons of primary neurons, leading to secondary bundling defects that result in a general reduction in spatial correlations. Failure to fasciculate affects both architectural robustness and tensional balance,\nultimately impeding nervous system condensation.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092486', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'IBMB (CSIC);', u'BSRC Alexander Fleming;', u'Mechanobiology Institute']]
[u'Perfluorooctane sulfonate affects proliferation and differentiation of pluripotent human teratocarcinoma cells', ['Mina Popovic', 'Brett A Neilan', 'Francesco Pomati'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Perfluorinated compounds have raised concern due to their potential association with detrimental postnatal outcomes in animals and humans. We tested the effects of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) on a human pluripotent teratocarcinoma (known as NCCIT) cells as an in vitro prototype for developmental toxicity in mammals. NCCIT contains stem-cells able to differentiate into endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm. We tested our cell model using a teratogenic compound, retinoic acid (RA), a cytotoxin, nocodazole (ND), and PFOS. We assayed cells proliferation, morphology and expression of stem cell and germ layer marker genes. PFOS reduced NCCIT cell proliferation in a concentration-dependent manner and induced morphological changes in cell cultures that resembled ectodermal phenotypes. A tendency towards a differentiated state in NCCIT was confirmed by real-time gene expression. PFOS triggered up-regulation of the gene nestin, indicative of ectodermal lineage differentiation, and interfered with the expression of the pluripotency stem-cell marker TERT. PFOS produced effects on both cells proliferation and differentiation, although not as severe as those observed for RA and ND, at levels that fall within the range of concentrations found in animal and human plasma. We discuss our findings in the context of possible interference of PFOS with the processes governing the early development of mammalian tissues.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/089698', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'University of Ghent;', u'University of New South Wales;', u'Eawag, Swiss Federal Institue of Water Science and Technology']]
[u'Decoding the nonconscious dynamics of thought generation', ['Roger Koenig-Robert', 'Joel Pearson'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Much of economics, psychology and neuroscience have focused on thought dynamics and how they control our behavior, from individual moral choices to the irrationality of market dynamics. However, how much of our thoughts we actually control when we feel we make deliberate choices remains unknown. Here we show that the content of thoughts can be decoded from activity patterns as early as 11 seconds before individuals report having formed the volitional thought. Participants freely chose which of two differently oriented and colored gratings to think about. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and pattern classification methods, we consistently classified the contents of thoughts using activity patterns recorded before and after the thought was reported. We found that activity patterns were predictive as far as 11 seconds before the conscious thought, in visual, frontal and subcortical areas. These predictive patterns contained similar information to the responses evoked by unattended perceptual gratings and were evident in individual visual areas. Interestingly, neural information present before the decision was associated with the vividness of future thoughts, suggesting that preceding nonconscious sensory-like representations can impact the content and strength of future conscious thoughts. Our results suggest that thoughts and their strength can be biased by prior spontaneous nonconscious perception-like representations, advancing theories of free will and models of intrusive and repetitive thought production.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/090712', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'The detection of covariation of mRNA levels of large sets of genes across multiple human populations', ['Yu Quan', 'Chao Xie', 'Rohan B. H. Williams', 'Peter Little'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'In this study we report that, measured in human lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs), different individuals exhibit correlated changes in the mRNA levels of multiple groups of genes; the largest group of genes such variation contains 2168 members and over 52% of all genes expressed in these cell lines are members of one or more groups. We show that these gene groups are replicable across different human populations and across different methods of analysis, supporting the view that the covariation is caused by biological and not experimental batch effects. This view is also supported by enrichment in the covarying genes of single and combinations of transcription factors (TFs) binding to cognate promoter regions, enrichment of genes shown to be sensitive to the knockdown of individual TFs and by enrichment of functional pathways and finally of protein-protein interactions. The properties of the groups of genes are therefore most readily explained by the influence of cumulative variations in the effectors of gene expression that act in trans on cognate genes. We suggest that covariation has functional outcomes by showing that covariation of 83 genes involved in the spliceosome pathway accounts for 21-43% of the variation in the alternative splicing patterns of genes expressed in human LCLs.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/082842', [u'Genetics'], [u'Life Sciences Institute, National University of Singapore;', u'Singapore Centre for Environmental Life Sciences Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Systematic morphological profiling of human gene and allele function reveals Hippo-NF-\u03baB pathway connectivity', ['Mohammad Hossein Rohban', 'Shantanu Singh', 'Xiaoyun Wu', 'Julia B Berthet', 'Mark-Anthony Bray', 'Yashaswi Shrestha', 'Xaralabos Varelas', 'Jesse S Boehm', 'Anne E Carpenter'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'We hypothesized that human genes and disease-associated alleles might be systematically functionally annotated using morphological profiling of cDNA constructs, via a microscopy-based Cell Painting assay. Indeed, 50% of the 220 tested genes yielded detectable morphological profiles, which grouped into biologically meaningful gene clusters consistent with known functional annotation (e.g., the RAS-RAF-MEK-ERK cascade). We used novel subpopulation-based visualization methods to interpret the morphological changes for specific clusters. This unbiased morphologic map of gene function revealed TRAF2/c-REL negative regulation of YAP1/WWTR1-responsive pathways. We confirmed this discovery of functional connectivity between the NF-\u03baB pathway and Hippo pathway effectors at the transcriptional level, thereby expanding knowledge of these two signaling pathways that critically regulate tumor initiation and progression. We make the images and raw data publicly available, providing an initial morphological map of major biological pathways for future study.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092403', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Boston University;', u'Novartis']]
[u'Decoding Single Molecule Time Traces with Dynamic Disorder', ['Wonseok Hwang', 'Il-Buem Lee', 'Seok-Cheol Hong', 'Changbong Hyeon'], u'December 8, 2016.', u'Single molecule time trajectories of biomolecules provide glimpses into complex folding landscapes that are difficult to visualize using conventional ensemble measurements. Recent experiments and theoretical analyses have highlighted dynamic disorder in certain classes of biomolecules, whose dynamic pattern of conformational transitions is affected by slower transition dynamics of internal state hidden in a low dimensional projection. A systematic means to analyze such data is, however, currently not well developed. Here we report a new algorithm - Variational Bayes-double chain Markov model (VB-DCMM) - to analyze single molecule time trajectories that display dynamic disorder. The proposed analysis employing VB-DCMM allows us to detect the presence of dynamic disorder, if any, in each trajectory, identify the number of internal states, and estimate transition rates between the internal states as well as the rates of conformational transition within each internal state. Applying VB-DCMM algorithm to single molecule FRET data of H-DNA in 100 mM-Na+ solution, followed by data clustering, we show that at least 6 kinetic paths linking 4 distinct internal states are required to correctly interpret the duplex-triplex transitions of H-DNA.', u'/content/early/2016/12/08/092387', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Korea Institute of Advanced Study;', u'Korea University;', u'Korea Institute for Advanced Study']]
