[u'Functional genetic characterization by CRISPR-Cas9 of two enhancers of FOXP2 in a child with speech and language impairment', ['Raul Torres-Ruiz', 'Antonio Benitez-Burraco', 'Marta Martinez-Lage', 'Sandra Rodriguez-Perales', 'Paloma Garcia-Bellido'], u'July 16, 2016.', u'Mutations in the coding region of FOXP2 are known to cause speech and language impairment. Microdeletions involving the region downstream the gene have been also associated to speech and cognitive deficits. We recently described a girl harbouring a complex chromosomal rearrangement with one breakpoint downstream the gene that might affect their speech and cognitive abilities via physical separation of distant regulatory DNA elements. In this study, we have used highly efficient targeted chromosomal deletions induced by the CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing tool to demonstrate the functionality of two enhancers (FOXP2-Eproximal and FOXP2-Edistal) located in the intergenic region between FOXP2 and its adjacent MDFIC gene. Deletion of any of these two functional enhancers in the neuroblastomic cell line SK-N-MC downregulates FOXP2 and decreases FOXP2 protein levels, conversely it upregulates MDFIC and increases MDFIC protein levels. This suggests that both regulatory elements may be shared between FOXP2 and MDFIC. We expect these findings contribute to a deeper understanding of how FOXP2 and MDFIC are regulated to pace neuronal development supporting speech and language.', u'/content/early/2016/07/16/064196', [], [u'CNIO;', u'University of Huelva;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Revealing neuro-computational mechanisms of reinforcement learning and decision-making with the hBayesDM package', ['Woo-Young Ahn', 'Nathaniel Haines', 'Lei Zhang'], u'July 16, 2016.', u'Reinforcement learning and decision-making (RLDM) provide a quantitative framework, which allows us to specify psychiatric conditions with basic dimensions of neurocognitive functioning. RLDM offer a novel approach to assess and potentially diagnose psychiatric patients, and there is growing enthusiasm on RLDM and Computational Psychiatry among clinical researchers. Such a framework can also provide insights into the brain substrates of particular RLDM processes as exemplified by model-based functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) or electroencephalogram (EEG). However, many researchers often find the approach too technical and have difficulty adopting it for their research. Thus, there remains a critical need to develop a user-friendly tool for the wide dissemination of computational psychiatric methods. We introduce an R package called hBayesDM (hierarchical Bayesian modeling of Decision-Making tasks), which offers computational modeling on an array of RLDM tasks and social exchange games. The hBayesDM package offers state-of-the-art hierarchical Bayesian modeling, where both individual and group parameters (i.e., posterior distributions) are estimated simultaneously in a mutually constraining fashion. At the same time, it is extremely user-friendly: users can perform computational modeling, output visualization, and Bayesian model comparisons - each with a single line of coding. Users can also extract trial-by-trial latent variables (e.g., prediction errors) required for model-based fMRI/EEG. With the hBayesDM package, we anticipate that anyone with minimal knowledge of programming can take advantage of cutting-edge computational modeling approaches and investigate the underlying processes of and interactions between multiple decision-making (e.g., goal-directed, habitual, and Pavlovian) systems. In this way, it is our expectation that the hBayesDM package will contribute to the dissemination of advanced modeling approaches and enable a wide range of researchers to easily perform computational psychiatric research within their populations.', u'/content/early/2016/07/16/064287', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Ohio State University;', u'Institute for Systems Neuroscience, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany']]
[u'Transport efficiency of membrane-anchored kinesin-1 motors depends on motor density and diffusivity', ['Stefan Diez', 'Rahul Grover', 'Janine Fischer', 'Friedrich Schwarz', 'Wilhelm J Walter', 'Petra Schwille'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'In eukaryotic cells, membranous vesicles and organelles are transported by ensembles of motor proteins. These motors, such as kinesin-1, have been well characterized in vitro as single molecules or as ensembles rigidly attached to non-biological substrates. However, the collective transport by membrane-anchored motors, i.e. motors attached to a fluid lipid bilayer, is poorly understood. Here, we investigate the influence of motors anchorage to a lipid bilayer on the collective transport characteristics. We reconstituted membrane-anchored gliding motility assays using truncated kinesin-1 motors with a streptavidin-binding-peptide tag that can attach to streptavidin-loaded, supported lipid bilayers. We found that the diffusing kinesin-1 motors propelled the microtubules in presence of ATP. Notably, we found the gliding velocity of the microtubules to be strongly dependent on the number of motors and their diffusivity in the lipid bilayer. The microtubule gliding velocity increased with increasing motor density and membrane viscosity, reaching up to the stepping velocity of single-motors. This finding is in contrast to conventional gliding motility assays where the density of surface-immobilized kinesin-1 motors does not influence the microtubule velocity over a wide range. We reason, that the transport efficiency of membrane-anchored motors is reduced because of their slippage in the lipid bilayer, an effect which we directly observed using single-molecule fluorescence microscopy. Our results illustrate the importance of the motor-cargo coupling, which potentially provides cells with an additional means of regulating the efficiency of cargo transport.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064246', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Technische Universitaet Dresden;', u'Universitaet Hamburg;', u'MPI Martinsried']]
[u'A hidden Markov model approach for simultaneously estimating local ancestry and admixture time using next generation sequence data in samples of arbitrary ploidy', ['Russell Corbett-Detig', 'Rasmus Nielsen'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Admixture-the mixing of genomes from divergent populations-is increasingly appreciated as a central process in evolution. To characterize and quantify patterns of admixture across the genome, a number of methods have been developed for local ancestry inference. However, existing approaches have a number of shortcomings. First, all local ancestry inference methods require some prior assumption about the expected ancestry tract lengths. Second, existing methods generally require diploid genotypes, which is not feasible to obtain for many sequencing projects. Third, many methods assume samples are diploid, however a wide variety of sequencing applications will fail to meet this assumption. To address these issues, we introduce a novel hidden Markov model for estimating local ancestry that models the read pileup data, rather than genotypes, is generalized to arbitrary ploidy, and can estimate the time since admixture during local ancestry inference. We demonstrate that our method can simultaneously estimate the time since admixture and local ancestry with good accuracy, and that it performs well on samples of high ploidy-i.e. 100 or more chromosomes. We apply our method to pooled sequencing data derived from populations of Drosophila melanogaster on an ancestry cline on the east coast of North America. We find that regions of low recombination show steeper clines than regions of high recombination, suggesting that selection against foreign ancestry has had the largest effect in these regions presumably due to increased linkage between neutral and selected sites. We also identify numerous outlier loci associated with behavior suggesting selection associated with prezygotic reproductive isolation. Finally, we identify candidate genes associated with reproductive isolation between ancestral subpopulations of D. melanogaster. Our results illustrate the potential of local ancestry inference for elucidating fundamental evolutionary processes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064238', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UC Santa Cruz;', u'UC Berkeley']]
[u'Comparative phylogenetic analysis of bacterial associates in Pyrrhocoroidea and evidence for ancient and persistent environmental symbiont reacquisition in Largidae (Hemiptera: Heteroptera).', ['Eric Robert Lucien Gordon', 'Quinn S McFrederick', 'Christiane Weirauch'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'The ancient insect order Hemiptera, one of the most well-studied insect lineages with respect to bacterial symbioses, still contains major branches which lack robust phylogenies and comprehensive characterization of associated bacterial symbionts. The Pyrrhocoroidea (Largidae [220 species]; Pyrrhocoridae [~300 species]) is a superfamily of the primarily-herbivorous hemipteran infraorder Pentatomomorpha, though relationships to related superfamilies are controversial. Studies on bacterial symbionts of this group have focused on members of Pyrrhocoridae, but recent examination of species of two genera of Largidae demonstrated divergent symbiotic complexes between these putative sister families. We surveyed bacterial diversity of this group using paired-end Illumina and targeted Sanger sequencing of bacterial 16S amplicons of 30 pyrrhocoroid taxa, including 17 species of Largidae, in order to determine the identity of bacterial associates and similarity of associated microbial communities among species. We also constructed the first comprehensive phylogeny of this superfamily (4,800 bp; 5 loci; 57 ingroup + 12 outgroup taxa) in order accurately trace the evolution of symbiotic complexes among Pentatomomorpha. We undertook multiple lines of investigation (i.e., experimental rearing, FISH microscopy, phylogenetic and co-evolutionary analyses) to understand potential transmission routes of largid symbionts. We found a prevalent, specific association of Largidae with plant-beneficial-environmental clade Burkholderia housed in midgut tubules. As in other distantly-related Heteroptera, symbiotic bacteria seem to be acquired from the environment every generation. We review current understanding of symbiotic complexes within the Pentatomomorpha and discuss means to further investigations of the evolution and function of these symbioses.\nImportance. Obligate symbioses with bacteria are common in insects, particularly for Hemiptera wherein varied forms of symbiosis occur, though knowledge of symbionts remains incomplete for major lineages. Thus, an accurate understanding of how these partnerships evolved and changed over millions of years is not yet achievable. We contribute to our understanding of the evolution of symbiotic complexes in Hemiptera by characterizing bacterial associates of Pyrrhocoroidea focusing on the family Largidae and by constructing a phylogeny to establish evolutionary relationships of and within this group. Members of Largidae are associated with specific symbiotic Burkholderia from a different clade than Burkholderia symbionts in other Hemiptera and are members of the earliest-diverging superfamily of Burkholderia-associated Hemiptera. Evidence suggests that species of Largidae reacquire specific symbiotic bacteria every generation environmentally, a rare strategy for insects with potentially volatile evolutionary ramifications, but one that has persisted in Largidae and other related lineages since the Cretaceous.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064022', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of California - Riverside']]
[u'Nonadaptive Radiation: Pervasive diet specialization by drift in scale insects?', ['Nate B Hardy', 'Daniel A Peterson', 'Benjamin B Normark'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'At least half of metazoan species are herbivorous insects. Why are they so diverse? Most herbivorous insects feed on few plant species, and adaptive host specialization is often invoked to explain their diversification. Nevertheless, it is possible that the narrow host ranges of many herbivorous insects are non-adaptive. Here, we test predictions of this hypothesis with comparative phylogenetic analyses of scale insects, a group for which there appears to be few host-use tradeoffs that would select against polyphagy, and for which passive wind-dispersal should make host specificity costly. We infer a strong positive relationship between host range and diversification rate, and a marked asymmetry in cladogenetic changes in diet breadth. These results are consonant with a system of pervasive non-adaptive host specialization in which small, drift- and extinction-prone populations are frequently isolated from persistent and polyphagous source populations. They also contrast with the negative relationship between diet breadth and taxonomic diversification that has been estimated in butterflies, a disparity which likely stems from differences in the average costs and benefits of host specificity and generalism in scale insects vs. butterflies. Our results indicate the potential for non-adaptive processes to be important to diet-breadth evolution and taxonomic diversification across herbivorous insects.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064220', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Auburn University;', u'University of Massachusetts']]
[u'Antibody-Based Affinity Cryo-Electron Microscopy at 2.6 \xc5 Resolution', ['Guimei Yu', 'Kunpeng Li', 'Pengwei Huang', 'Xi Jiang', 'Wen Jiang'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'The affinity cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) approach has been explored in recent years to simplify and improve the sample preparation for cryo-EM. Despite the demonstrated successes for low-concentration and unpurified specimens, the lack of near-atomic structures using this approach has led to a common perception of affinity cryo-EM as a niche technique incapable of reaching high resolutions. Here, we report a ~2.6 \xc5 structure solved using the antibody-based affinity grid approach with a Tulane virus sample of low concentration. This is the first near-atomic structure solved using the affinity cryo-EM approach. Quantitative analyses of the structure indicate data and reconstruction quality comparable to conventional grid preparation method using samples at high concentration. With the shifting of bottlenecks of cryo-EM structural studies to sample grid preparation, our demonstration of the sub-3 \xc5 capability of affinity cryo-EM approach indicates its potential in revolutionizing cryo-EM sample preparation for a broader spectrum of specimens.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064188', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Purdue University;', u"Divisions of Infectious Diseases, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA"]]
[u'An Empirical Biomarker-based Calculator for Autosomal Recessive Polycystic Kidney Disease The Nieto-Narayan Formula', ['Jake A Nieto', 'Itzhak D. Goldberg', 'Prakash Narayan'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Autosomal polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD) is associated with progressive enlargement of the kidneys fuelled by the formation and expansion of fluid-filled cysts. The disease is congenital and children that do not succumb to it during the neonatal period will, by age 10 years, more often than not, require nephrectomy+renal replacement therapy for management of both pain and renal insufficiency. Since increasing cystic index (CI; percent of kidney occupied by cysts) drives both renal expansion and organ dysfunction, management of these patients, including decisions such as elective nephrectomy and prioritization on the transplant waitlist, could clearly benefit from serial determination of CI. So also, clinical trials in ARPKD evaluating efficacy of novel drug candidates could benefit from serial determination of CI. Although ultrasound is currently the imaging modality of choice for diagnosis of ARPKD, its utilization for assessing disease progression is highly limited. Magnetic resonance imaging or computed tomography, although more reliable for determination of CI, are expensive, time-consuming and somewhat impractical in the pediatric population. Using a well-established mammalian model of ARPKD, we undertook a big data-like analysis of minimally- or non-invasive serum and urine biomarkers of renal injury/dysfunction to derive a family of equations for estimating CI. We then applied a signal averaging protocol to distil these equations to a single empirical formula for calculation of CI. Such a formula will eventually find use in identifying and monitoring patients at high risk for progressing to end-stage renal disease and aid in the conduct of clinical trials.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064139', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Angion Biomedica Corp.']]
[u'Influence of rotational nucleosome positioning on transcription start site selection in animals promoters', ['Rene Dreos', 'Giovanna Ambrosini', 'Philipp Bucher'], u'July 15, 2016.', u"The recruitment of RNA PolII to the transcription start site (TSS) is an important step in gene regulation in all organisms. Core promoter elements (CPE) are conserved sequence motifs that guide PolII to the TSS by interacting with specific transcription factors (TFs). However, only a minority of animal promoters contains CPEs. It is still unknown how PolII selects the TSS in their absence. Here we present a comparative analysis of promoters' sequence composition and chromatin architecture in five eukaryotic model organisms, which shows the presence of common and unique DNA encoded features used to organize chromatin. Analysis of Pol II initiation patterns uncovers that, in the absence of certain CPEs, there is a strong correlation between the spread of initiation and the intensity of the 10 bp periodic signal in the nearest downstream nucleosome. Moreover, promoters' primary and secondary initiation sites show a characteristic 10 bp periodicity in the absence of CPEs. We also show that DNA natural variants in the region immediately downstream the TSS are able to affect both the nucleosome DNA affinity and Pol-II initiation pattern. These findings support the notion that, in addition to CPEs mediated selection, sequence induced nucleosome positioning could be a common and conserved mechanism of TSS selection in animals.", u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064113', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'EPFL']]
[u'The Forest, the Trees, and the Phylo-diversity Jungle', ['Florent Mazel', 'Caroline Tucker', 'Marc Cadotte', 'Silvia Carvalho', 'Jonathan Davies', 'Suzanne Fritz', 'Rich Grenyer', 'Matthew Helmus', 'Arne Mooers', 'Sandrine Pavoine', 'Oliver Purschke', 'Dan Rosauer', 'Marten Winter'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'The joint use of phylogenetic trees and ecological data has proven useful for many aspects of ecology. However, there are a multitude of phylo-diversity metrics with complex interdependencies and mathematical redundancies (the so-called \u2018jungle\u2019 of metrics). Several recent papers have been trying to \u2018map\u2019 this jungle but appear at a first glance to contradict each other. We suggest that these contradictory results are in fact complementary and reflect two approaches to understand diversity metrics: the first focuses on general mathematical properties, the second focuses on assessing metric performance in relation to particular questions. In this manuscript, we discuss the complementarity of the two approaches and in particular how recent papers fit into this categorisation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/063461', [u'Ecology'], [u'Grenoble Alpes University;', u'2 Centre Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive;', u'University of Toronto-Scarborough;', u'Universidade do Porto;', u'McGill University;', u'Senckenberg Biodiversity & Climate Research Centre;', u'School of Geography and the Environment, University of Oxford;', u'Vrije Universiteit;', u'Simon Fraser University;', u'Museum National Histoire Naturelle de Paris;', u'German Centre of Integrative Biodiversity Research, Halle-Jena-Leipzig;', u'18Research School of Biology, Australian National University']]
[u'Accelerating computational Bayesian inference for stochastic biochemical reaction network models using multilevel Monte Carlo sampling', ['David J Warne', 'Ruth E Baker', 'Matthew J Simpson'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Investigating the behavior of stochastic models of biochemical reaction networks generally relies upon numerical stochastic simulation methods to generate many realizations of the model. For many practical applications, such numerical simulation can be computationally expensive. The statistical inference of reaction rate parameters based on observed data is, however, a significantly greater computational challenge; often relying upon likelihood-free methods such as approximate Bayesian computation, that require the generation of millions of individual stochastic realizations. In this study, we investigate a new approach to computational inference, based on multilevel Monte Carlo sampling: we approximate the posterior cumulative distribution function through a combination of model samples taken over a range of acceptance thresholds. We demonstrate this approach using a variety of discrete-state, continuous-time Markov models of biochemical reaction networks. Results show that a computational gain over standard rejection schemes of up to an order of magnitude is achievable without significant loss in estimator accuracy.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064170', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Queensland Univeristy of Technology;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'3D sorghum reconstructions from depth images enable identification of quantitative trait loci regulating shoot architecture', ['Ryan F. McCormick', 'Sandra K. Truong', 'John E. Mullet'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Dissecting the genetic basis of complex traits is aided by frequent and non-destructive measurements. Advances in range imaging technologies enable the rapid acquisition of three-dimensional (3D) data from an imaged scene. A depth camera was used to acquire images of Sorghum bicolor, an important grain, forage, and bioenergy crop, at multiple developmental timepoints from a greenhouse-grown recombinant inbred line population. A semi-automated software pipeline was developed and used to generate segmented, 3D plant reconstructions from the images. Automated measurements made from 3D plant reconstructions identified quantitative trait loci (QTL) for standard measures of shoot architecture such as shoot height, leaf angle and leaf length, and for novel composite traits such as shoot compactness. The phenotypic variability associated with some of the QTL displayed differences in temporal prevalence; for example, alleles closely linked with the sorghum Dwarf3 gene, an auxin transporter and pleiotropic regulator of both leaf inclination angle and shoot height, influence leaf angle prior to an effect on shoot height. Furthermore, variability in composite phenotypes that measure overall shoot architecture, such as shoot compactness, is regulated by loci underlying component phenotypes like leaf angle. As such, depth imaging is an economical and rapid method to acquire shoot architecture phenotypes in agriculturally important plants like sorghum to study the genetic basis of complex traits.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/062174', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Texas A&M University']]
[u'Is the Statistic Value All We Should Care about in Neuroimaging?', ['Gang Chen', 'Paul A Taylor', 'Robert W Cox'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Here we address an important issue that has been embedded within the neuroimaging community for a long time: the absence of effect estimates in results reporting in the literature. The statistic value itself, as a dimensionless measure, does not provide information on the biophysical interpretation of a study, and it certainly does not represent the whole picture of a study. Unfortunately, in contrast to standard practice in most scientific fields, effect (or amplitude) estimates are usually not provided in most results reporting in the current neuroimaging publications and presentations. Possible reasons underlying this general trend include: 1) lack of general awareness, 2) software limitations, 3) inaccurate estimation of the BOLD response, and 4) poor modeling due to our relatively limited understanding of FMRI signal components. However, as we discuss here, such reporting damages the reliability and interpretability of the scientific findings themselves, and there is in fact no overwhelming reason for such a practice to persist. In order to promote meaningful interpretation, cross validation, reproducibility, meta and power analyses in neuroimaging, we strongly suggest that, as part of good scientific practice, effect estimates should be reported together with their corresponding statistic values. We provide several easily adaptable recommendations for facilitating this process.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064212', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National Institutes of Health']]
[u'Single cell transcriptomics, mega-phylogeny and the genetic basis of morphological innovations in Rhizaria', ['Anders K Krabberoed', 'Russell J. S. Orr', 'Jon Braate', 'Tom Kristensen', 'Kjell R. Bjoerklund', 'Kamran Shalchian-Tabrizi'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'The innovation of the eukaryote cytoskeleton enabled phagocytosis, intracellular transport and cytokinesis, and is responsible for diverse eukaryotic morphologies. Still, the relationship between phenotypic innovations in the cytoskeleton and their underlying genotype is poorly understood. To explore the genetic mechanism of morphological evolution of the eukaryotic cytoskeleton we provide the first single cell transcriptomes from uncultivable, free-living unicellular eukaryotes: the radiolarian species Lithomelissa setosa and Sticholonche zanclea. Analysis of the genetic components of the cytoskeleton and mapping of the evolution of these to a revised phylogeny of Rhizaria reveals lineage-specific gene duplications and neo-functionalization of \u03b1 and \u03b2 tubulin in Retaria, actin in Retaria and Endomyxa, and Arp2/3 complex genes in Chlorarachniophyta. We show how genetic innovations have shaped cytoskeletal structures in Rhizaria, and how single cell transcriptomics can be applied for resolving deep phylogenies and studying gene evolution of uncultivable protist species.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064030', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Centre for Epigenetics, Development and Evolution (CEDE), University of Oslo, Norway;', u'Centre for Integrative Microbial Evolution, University of Oslo, Norway']]
[u'Metabolic complementation in bacterial communities: necessary conditions and optimality', ['Matteo Mori', 'Miguel Ponce-de-Leon', 'Juli Pereto', 'Francisco Montero Montero'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Bacterial communities may display metabolic complementation, in which different members of the association partially contribute to the same biosynthetic pathway. In this way, the end product of the pathway is synthesized by the community as a whole. However, the emergence and the benefits of such complementation are poorly understood. Herein we present a simple model to analyze the metabolic interactions among bacteria, including the host in the case of endosymbiotic bacteria. The model considers two cell populations, with both cell types encoding for the same linear biosynthetic pathway. We have found that, for metabolic complementation to emerge as an optimal strategy, both product inhibition and large permeabilities are needed. In the light of these results, we then consider the patterns found in the case of tryptophan biosynthesis in the endosymbiont consortium hosted by the aphid Cinara cedri. Using in-silico computed physicochemical properties of metabolites of this and other biosynthetic pathways, we verified that the splitting point of the pathway corresponds to the most permeable intermediate.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064121', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Physics, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA;', u'Departamento de Bioquimica y Biologia Molecular I, Facultad de Ciencias Quimicas, UCM, Madrid, Spain;', u'Institute for Integrative Systems Biology (I2SysBio), Universitat de Valencia-CSIC, Valencia, Spain']]
[u'MIGS: Methylation Interpolated Gene Signatures Determine Associations Between Differential Methylation and Gene Expression', ['Christopher E Schlosberg', 'Nathan D VanderKraats', 'John R Edwards'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'A large number of genomic studies are underway to determine which genes are abnormally regulated by methylation in disease. However, our understanding of how disease-specific methylation changes potentially affect expression is poorly understood. We need better tools to explain specific variation in methylation that potentially affects gene expression in clinical sequencing. We have developed a model, Methylation Interpolated Gene Signatures (MIGS), that captures the complexity of DNA methylation changes around a gene promoter. Using data from the Roadmap Epigenomics Project, we show that MIGS significantly outperforms current methods to use methylation data to predict differential expression. We find that methylation changes at the TSS and downstream ~2kb are most predictive of expression change. MIGS will be an invaluable tool to analyze genome-wide methylation data as MIGS produces a longer and more accurate list of genes with methylation-associated expression changes.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/063941', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis;', u'Washington University in Saint Louis']]
[u'Zika virus may not be alone: proteomics associates a bovine-like viral diarrhea virus to microcephaly', ['Fabio CS Nogueira', 'Erika Velasquez', 'Adriana SO Melo', 'Gilberto B Domont'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'No direct experimental causal evidence confirms that the Zika virus is the sole etiological agent responsible for the development of brain malformations in human fetuses during pregnancy. We used a discovery-driven approach to analyze protein extracts of three Zika positive brains. Shotgun mass spectrometry (MS) proteomics did not identify any Zika protein in all samples. However, MS detected the presence of peptide(s) from the polyprotein of a Bovine-like viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-like) in Zika-positive brains. These results indicate that Zika virus may not be, per se, the only etiological agent responsible for microcephaly and suggests that discovery-driven approaches play an essential role in the screening of fluids or tissues for virus or other etiological agents.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/062596', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Institute of Chemistry, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro;', u'Instituto Paraibano de Pesquisa Professor de Pesquisa Joaquim Amorim Neto (IPESQ)']]
[u'The Influence of Canalization on the Robustness of Boolean Networks', ['Claus Kadelka', 'Jack Kuipers', 'Reinhard Laubenbacher'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Time- and state-discrete dynamical systems are frequently used to model molecular networks. This paper provides a collection of mathematical and computational tools for the study of robustness in Boolean network models. The focus is on networks governed by k-canalizing functions, a recently introduced class of Boolean functions that contains the well-studied class of nested canalizing functions. The activities and sensitivity of a function quantify the impact of input changes on the function output. This paper generalizes the latter concept to c-sensitivity and provides formulas for the activities and c-sensitivity of general k-canalizing functions as well as canalizing functions with more precisely defined structure. A popular measure for the robustness of a network, the Derrida value, can be expressed as a weighted sum of the c-sensitivities of the governing canalizing functions, and can also be calculated for a stochastic extension of Boolean networks. These findings provide a computationally efficient way to obtain Derrida values of Boolean networks, deterministic or stochastic, that does not involve simulation.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064089', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Zurich;', u'D-BSSE, ETH Zurich;', u'Center for Quantitative Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center']]
[u'Falco: A quick and flexible single-cell RNA-seq processing framework on the cloud', ['Andrian Yang', 'Michael Troup', 'Joshua W.K. Ho'], u'July 15, 2016.', u"Summary: Single-cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) is increasingly used in a range of biomedical studies. Nonetheless, current RNA-seq analysis tools are not specifically designed to efficiently process scRNA-seq data due to their limited scalability. Here we introduce Falco, a cloud-based framework for parallelised processing of large-scale transcriptomic data. The pipeline utilises state-of-the-art big data technology of Apache Hadoop and Apache Spark to perform massively parallel alignment, quality control, and feature quantification of single-cell transcriptomic data in Amazon Web Service (AWS) cloud-computing environment. We have evaluated the performance of Falco using two public scRNA-seq datasets and demonstrated Falco's scalability. The result shows Falco performs at least 2.6x faster against a highly optimized single node analysis and a reduction in runtime with increasing number of computing nodes. Falco also allows user to the utilise low-cost spot instances of AWS, providing a 65% reduction in cost of analysis.\nAvailability: Falco is available via an open source license in https://github.com/VCCRI/Falco/", u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064006', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Victor Chang Cardiac Research Institute']]
[u'Temperature determines Zika, dengue and chikungunya transmission potential in the Americas', ['Erin Mordecai', 'Jeremy Cohen', 'Michelle V Evans', 'Prithvi Gudapati', 'Leah R Johnson', 'Kerri Miazgowicz', 'Courtney C Murdock', 'Jason R Rohr', 'Sadie J Ryan', 'Van Savage', 'Marta Shocket', 'Anna Stewart Ibarra', 'Matthew B Thomas', 'Daniel P Weikel'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Recent epidemics of Zika, dengue, and chikungunya have heightened the need to understand virus transmission ecology for Aedes aegypti and Ae. albopictus mosquitoes. An estimated 3.9 billion people in 120 countries are at risk for these diseases. Temperature defines the fundamental potential for vector-borne disease transmission, yet the potential for transmission in sub-tropical and temperate regions remains uncertain. Using mechanistic transmission models fit to mosquito and virus physiology data and validated with human case data, we show that mean temperature accurately bounds transmission risk for Zika, chikungunya, and dengue in the Americas. Transmission occurs between 18-34 degrees C and peaks at 29 degrees C for Ae. aegypti (between 11-28 degrees C with a peak at 26 degrees C for Ae. albopictus). As predicted, high relative incidence of Zika, dengue, and chikungunya in humans occurs between 23-32 degrees C, peaks at 27-29 degrees C, and is very low outside the predicted range.  As a proxy for infrastructure and vector control effort, economic reliance on tourism explains some departures from areas otherwise suitable for high rates of transmission. Nonetheless, the temperature-based models alone provide fundamental eco-physiological measures of transmission potential. Tropical and subtropical regions are suitable for extended seasonal or year-round transmission by Ae. aegypti and Ae. albopictus. By contrast, potential transmission in temperate areas is constrained to at most three months per year even if vectors are present (which is currently not the case for large parts of the US). Such brief transmission windows limit the likelihood and potential extent of epidemics following disease introduction in temperate zones.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/063735', [u'Ecology'], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of South Florida;', u'University of Georgia;', u'University of Florida;', u'UCLA;', u'Indiana University;', u'SUNY Upstate Medical University;', u'Penn State University;', u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Neural signatures of value comparison in human cingulate cortex during decisions requiring an effort-reward trade-off', ['Miriam C Klein-Flugge', 'Steven W Kennerley', 'Karl Friston', 'Sven Bestmann'], u'July 15, 2016.', u"Integrating costs and benefits is crucial for optimal decision-making. While much is known about decisions that involve outcome-related costs (e.g., delay, risk), many of our choices are attached to actions and require an evaluation of the associated motor costs. Yet how the brain incorporates motor costs into choices remains largely unclear. We used human functional magnetic resonance imaging during choices involving monetary reward and physical effort to identify brain regions that serve as a choice comparator for effort-reward trade-offs. By independently varying both options' effort and reward levels, we were able to identify the neural signature of a comparator mechanism. A network involving supplementary motor area (SMA) and the caudal portion of dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) encoded the difference in reward (positively) and effort levels (negatively) between chosen and unchosen choice options. We next modelled effort-discounted subjective values using a novel behavioural model. This revealed that the same network of regions involving dACC and SMA encoded the difference between the chosen and unchosen options' subjective values, and that activity was best described using a concave model of effort-discounting. In addition, this signal reflected how precisely value determined participants' choices. By contrast, separate signals in SMA and ventro-medial PFC (vmPFC) correlated with participants' tendency to avoid effort and seek reward, respectively. This suggests that the critical neural signature of decision-making for choices involving motor costs is found in human cingulate cortex and not vmPFC as typically reported for outcome-based choice. Furthermore, distinct frontal circuits 'drive' behaviour towards reward-maximization and effort-minimization.", u'/content/early/2016/07/15/064105', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Oxford University;', u'University College London']]
[u'The metabolic profile of lag and exponential phases of Saccharomyces cerevisiae growth changes continuously', ['Rafael N. Bento', 'Miguel A. Rendas', 'Valdir A.R. Semedo', 'Carlos E.S. Bernardes', 'Manuel E.M. Piedade', 'Fernando Antunes'], u'July 15, 2016.', u'Cellular growth is usually separated in well-defined phases. For microorganism like Saccharomyces cerevisiae, two phases usually defined are (1) a lag phase, in which no growth is observed and cells adapt to a new environment, followed by (2) an exponential phase, in which rapid proliferation occurs. Here we investigate whether these well-defined phases are uniform. By using flow-microcalorimetry, we found that the metabolic profile of the culture is continuously changing, both in the lag and exponential phases of growth. Along the lag phase there is a continuous increase in the energy that is dissipated irreversibly as heat, while in the exponential phase the opposite occurs.  We also confirm recent observations that the oxidative component of metabolism decreases along the exponential phase. Interestingly, nutrient limitation further decreases the amount of energy that is dissipated irreversibly.  Altogether, this points to a picture in which cells respond rapidly to minute environmental changes by adjusting their metabolic profile.', u'/content/early/2016/07/15/063909', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Centro de Quimica e Bioquimica, Departamento de Quimica e Bioquimica, FCUL']]
