[u'Interaction between distinct pools controls activity-dependent actin dynamics in the dendritic spine', ['Oleg O. Glebov', 'Juan Burrone'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Actin cytoskeleton is composed of functionally distinct pools of filamentous (F)-actin defined by their regulatory machinery and dynamics. Although these networks may compete for actin monomers and regulatory factors1-4, the interaction between them remains poorly understood. Here, we show that disruption of the labile F-actin pool in neurons by limited actin depolymerization5,6 unexpectedly triggers rapid enhancement of the F-actin content at the dendritic spine. Long-term blockade of NMDA-type receptors decreases spine actin polymerization, which is specifically restored by the labile pool ablation. Increase in the spine actin is triggered by blockade of formin-induced actin polymerization in a manner dependent on Arp2/3 complex activity. Finally, limited actin depolymerization increases F-actin levels in a cultured cell line, suggesting the generality of the two-tiered actin dynamics. Based on these findings, we propose a model whereby the labile pool of F-actin controlled by formin restricts the polymerization state of the Arp2/3-regulated stable spine actin, suggesting a feedback principle at the core of cytoskeletal organization in neurons.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077933', [], [u"King's College London;", u"Department of Developmental Neurobiology, King's College London"]]
[u'Developmental dysfunction of VIP interneurons impairs cortical circuits', ['Renata Batista-Brito', 'Martin Vinck', 'Katie Ferguson', 'David Laubender', 'Gyorgy Lur', 'Michael Higley', 'Jessica A Cardin'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Current evidence suggests that dysregulation of GABAergic interneurons contributes to neural and behavioral deficits in several neurodevelopmental disorders, including schizophrenia.  However, there are multiple populations of interneurons and their respective roles in psychiatric disease remain poorly explored.  Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) and its interneuron-specific tyrosine kinase receptor ERBB4 are risk genes for schizophrenia, and the Nrg1/ErbB4 pathway is important for normal cortical development.  Using a conditional ErbB4 deletion model, we directly tested the role of vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-expressing interneurons in schizophrenia-related deficits in vivo.  ErbB4 removal from VIP interneurons during development leads to changes in their activity, along with severe dysregulation of the temporal organization and state-dependence of cortical activity.  As a result of these neural circuit alterations, animals in which VIP interneurons lack ErbB4 exhibit behavioral abnormalities, reduced cortical responses to sensory stimuli, and impaired sensory learning.  Our data support a key role for VIP interneurons in normal cortical circuit development and suggest that their disruption contributes to pathophysiology in the ErbB4 model of schizophrenia.  These findings provide a new perspective on the role of GABAergic interneuron diversity in the disruption of cortical function in complex psychiatric diseases.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077891', [], [u'Yale University']]
[u'"Same Difference": Comprehensive evaluation of three DNA methylation measurement platforms.', ['Thadeous J Kacmarczyk', 'Mame P Fall', 'Xihui Zhang', 'Yuan Xin', 'Yushan Li', 'Alicia Alonso', 'Doron Betel'], u'September 27, 2016.', u"Background:  DNA methylation in CpG context is fundamental to the epigenetic regulation of gene expression in high eukaryotes. Disorganization of methylation status is implicated in many diseases, cellular differentiation, imprinting, and other biological processes. Techniques that enrich for biologically relevant genomic regions with high CpG content are desired, since, depending on the size of an organism's methylome, the depth of sequencing required to cover all CpGs can be prohibitively expensive. Currently, restriction enzyme based reduced representation bisulfite sequencing and its modified protocols are widely used to study methylation differences. Recently, Agilent Technologies and Roche NimbleGen have ventured to both reduce sequencing costs and capture CpGs of known biological relevance by marketing in-solution custom-capture hybridization platforms. We aimed to evaluate the similarities and differences of these three methods considering each targets approximately 10-13% of the human methylome. \nResults:  Overall, the regions covered per platform were as expected:  targeted capture based methods covered >95% of their designed regions whereas the restriction enzyme-based method covered >70% of the expected fragments. While the total number of CpG loci shared by all methods was low, ~30% of any platform, the methylation levels of CpGs common across platforms were concordant. Annotation of CpG loci with genomic features revealed roughly the same proportions of feature annotations across the three platforms. Targeted capture methods encompass similar amounts of annotations with the restriction enzyme based method covering fewer promoters (~9%) and shores (~8%) and more unannotated loci (7-14%).\nConclusions:  Although all methods are largely consistent in terms of covered CpG loci and cover similar proportions of annotated CpG loci, the restriction based enrichment results in more unannotated regions and the commercially available capture methods result in less off-target regions. Quality of DNA is very important for restriction based enrichment and starting material can be low. Conversely, quality of the starting material is less important for capture methods, and at least twice the amount of starting material is required. Pricing is marginally less for restriction based enrichment, and number of samples to be prepared is not restricted to the number of samples a kit supports. The one advantage of capture libraries is the ability to custom design areas of interest. The choice of the technique should be decided by the number of samples, the quality and quantity of DNA available and the biological areas of interest since comparable data are obtained from all platforms.", u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077941', [], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine']]
[u'Spatially periodic calcium profiles around single channels', ['Sergej Mironov'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'The concept of calcium nanodomains established around the sites of calcium entry into the cell is fundamental for mechanistic consideration of key physiological responses. It stems from linear models of calcium diffusion from single channel into the cytoplasm, but is only valid for calcium increases smaller than the concentration of calcium-binding species. Recent experiments indicate much higher calcium levels in the vicinity of channel exit that should cause buffer saturation. I here derive explicit solutions of respective non-linear reaction-diffusion problem and found dichotomous solution - for small fluxes the steady state calcium profiles have quasi-exponential form, whereas in the case of buffer saturation calcium distributions show spatial periodicity. These non-trivial and novel spatial calcium profiles are supported by Monte-Carlo simulations. Imaging of 1D- and radial distributions around single \u03b1-synuclein channels measured in cell-free conditions supports the theory. I suggest that periodic patterns may arise under different physiological conditions and play specific role in cell physiology.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077909', [], [u'Georg-August-University']]
[u'Transcriptional regulatory logic of the diurnal cycle in the mouse liver', ['Jonathan Aryeh Sobel', 'Irina Krier', 'Teemu Andersin', 'Sunil Raghav', 'Donatella Canella', 'Federica Gilardi', 'Alexandra Styliani Kalantzi', 'Guillaume Rey', 'Benjamin Weger', 'Frederic Gachon', 'Matteo Dal Peraro', 'Nouria Hernandez', 'Ueli Schibler', 'Bart Deplancke', 'Felix Naef'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Many organisms exhibit temporal rhythms in gene expression that propel diurnal cycles in physiology. In the liver of mammals, these rhythms are controlled by transcription-translation feedback loops of the core circadian clock and by feeding-fasting cycles. To better understand the regulatory interplay between the circadian clock and feeding rhythms, we mapped DNase I hypersensitive sites (DHSs) in mouse liver during a diurnal cycle. The intensity of DNase I cleavages cycled at a substantial fraction of all DHSs, suggesting that DHSs harbor regulatory elements that control rhythmic transcription. Using ChIP-seq, we found that hypersensitivity cycled in phase with RNA polymerase II (Pol II) loading and H3K27ac histone marks. We then combined the DHSs with temporal Pol II profiles in wild-type (WT) and Bmal1-/- livers to computationally identify transcription factors through which the core clock and feeding-fasting cycles control diurnal rhythms in transcription. While a similar number of mRNAs accumulated rhythmically in Bmal1-/- compared to WT livers, the amplitudes in Bmal1-/- were generally lower. The residual rhythms in Bmal1-/- reflected transcriptional regulators mediating feeding-fasting responses as well as responses to rhythmic systemic signals. Finally, the analysis of DNase I cuts at nucleotide resolution showed dynamically changing footprint consistent with dynamic binding of CLOCK:BMAL1 complexes. Structural modeling suggested that these footprints are driven by a transient hetero-tetramer binding configuration at peak activity. Together, our temporal DNase I mappings allowed us to decipher the global regulation of diurnal transcription rhythms in mouse liver.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077818', [], [u'Institute of Bioengineering, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'Department of Molecular Biology, University of Geneva;', u'Center for Integrative Genomics, Faculty of Biology and Medicine, University of Lausanne;', u'Department of Diabetes and Circadian Rhythms, Nestle Institute of Health Sciences']]
[u'Genome-wide profiling of heritable and de novo STR variations', ['Thomas Willems', 'Dina Zielinski', 'Assaf Gordon', 'Melissa Gymrek', 'Yaniv Erlich'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Short  tandem  repeats  (STRs)  are  highly  variable  elements  that  play  a  pivotal  role  in  multiple  genetic diseases,   population   genetics   applications,   and   forensic   casework.   However,   STRs   have   proven problematic  to  genotype  from  high-throughput  sequencing  data. Here,  we  describe  HipSTR,  a  novel haplotype-based  method  for  robustly  genotyping,  haplotyping,  and  phasing  STRs  from  whole  genome sequencing data and report a genome-wide analysis and validation of de novo STR mutations.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077727', [], [u'MIT;', u'New York Genome Center;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'The hemodynamic signal as a first-order low-pass temporal filter: Evidence and implications for neuroimaging studies', ['Antoine Sauvage', 'Guillaume Hubert', 'Jonathan Touboul', 'Jerome Ribot'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Neuronal activation triggers blood flow and hemoglobin deoxygenation. These hemodynamic signals can be recorded through magnetic resonance or optical imaging, and allows inferring neural activity in response to stimuli. These techniques are widely used to uncover functional brain architectures. However, their accuracy suffers from distortions inherent to hemodynamic responses and noise. The analysis of these signals currently relies on models of impulse hemodynamic responses to brief stimuli. Here, in order to infer precise functional architectures, we focused on integrated signals associated to the dynamical response of functional maps. To this end, we recorded orientation and direction maps in cat primary visual cortex and confronted two protocols: the conventional episodic stimulation technique and a continuous, periodic stimulation paradigm. Conventional methods show that the dynamics of activation and deactivation of the functional maps follows a linear first-order differential equation representing a low-pass filter. Comparison with the periodic stimulation methods confirmed this observation: the phase shifts and magnitude attenuations extracted at various frequencies were consistent with a low-pass filter with a 5 s time constant.  This dynamics open new avenues in the analysis of neuroimaging data that differs from common methods based on the hemodynamic response function. In particular, we demonstrate that inverting this first-order low-pass filter minimized the distortions of the signal and enabled a much faster and accurate reconstruction of functional maps.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077859', [], [u'CIRB - College de France']]
[u'PCR artifact in testing for homologous recombination in genomic editing in zebrafish', ['Minho Won', 'Igor B Dawid'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'We report a PCR-induced artifact in testing for homologous recombination in zebrafish. We attempted to replace the lnx2a gene with a donor cassette, mediated by a TALEN induced double stranded cut. The donor construct was flanked with homology arms of about 1 kb at the 5-prime and 3-prime ends. Injected embryos (G0) were raised and outcrossed to wild type fish. A fraction of the progeny appeared to have undergone the desired homologous recombination, as tested by PCR using primer pairs extending from genomic DNA outside the homology region to a site within the donor cassette. However, Southern blots revealed that no recombination had taken place. We conclude that recombination happened during PCR in vitro between the donor integrated elsewhere in the genome and the lnx2a locus, as suggested by earlier work. We conclude that PCR alone may be insufficient to verify homologous recombination in genome editing experiments in zebrafish.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077883', [], [u'Chungnam National University, Daejeon, Korea;', u'NIH, Bethesda MD, USA']]
[u'Data-driven identification of potential Zika virus vectors', ['Michelle Evans', 'Tad A Dallas', 'Barbara A Han', 'Courtney C Murdock', 'John M Drake'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Zika is an emerging, mosquito-borne virus recently introduced to the Americas, whose rapid spread is unprecedented and of great public health concern.  Knowledge about transmission -- which depends on the presence of competent vectors -- remains incomplete, especially concerning potential transmission in geographic areas in which it has not yet been introduced. To identify presently unknown vectors of Zika, we developed a data-driven model linking candidate vector species and the Zika virus via vector-virus trait combinations that confer a propensity toward associations in the larger ecological network connecting flaviviruses and their mosquito vectors. Our model predicts that thirty-five species may be able to transmit the virus, twenty-six of which are not currently known vectors of Zika virus. Seven of these species are found in the continental United States, including Culex quinquefasciatus and Cx. pipiens, both of which are common mosquito pests and vectors of West Nile Virus. Because the range of these predicted species is wider than that of known vectors Aedes aeygpti and Ae. albopictus, we reason that a larger geographic area is at risk for autochthonous transmission of Zika virus than reported by maps constructed from the ranges of only the two Aedes species.\nConsequently, the reach of existing vector control activities and public health campaigns may need to be expanded.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077966', [], [u'University of Georgia;', u'University of California-Davis;', u'Cary Institute of Ecosystem Studies']]
[u'Resting high frequency heart rate variability is not associated with the recognition of emotional facial expressions in healthy human adults.', ['Brice Beffara', 'Nicolas Vermeulen', 'Martial Mermillod'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'This study explores whether the myelinated vagal connection between the heart and the brain is involved in emotion recognition. The Polyvagal theory postulates that the activity of the myelinated vagus nerve underlies socio-emotional skills. It has been proposed that the perception of emotions could be one of this skills dependent on heart-brain interactions. However, this assumption was differently supported by diverging results suggesting that it could be related to confounded factors. In the current study, we recorded the resting state vagal activity (reflected by High Frequency Heart Rate Variability, HF-HRV) of 77 (68 suitable for analysis) healthy human adults and measured their ability to identify dynamic emotional facial expressions. Results show that HF-HRV is not related to the recognition of emotional facial expressions in healthy human adults. We discuss this result in the frameworks of the polyvagal theory and the neurovisceral integration model.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077784', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Grenoble Alpes University,  CNRS, France and UCLouvain, Belgium;', u'UCLouvain, FNRS, Belgium;', u'Grenoble Alpes University,  CNRS, France']]
[u'DNA Compass: a secure, client-side site for navigating personal genetic information', ['Charles Curnin', 'Assaf Gordon', 'Yaniv Erlich'], u'September 27, 2016.', u"Motivation: Millions of individuals have access to raw genomic data using direct-to-consumer companies. The advent of large-scale sequencing projects, such as the Precision Medicine Initiative, will further increase the number of individuals with access to their own genomic information. However, querying genomic data requires a computer terminal - an impediment for the general public. \n\nResults: DNA Compass is a website designed to empower the public by enabling simple navigation of personal genomic data. Users can query the status of their genomic variants for over 400 conditions or tens of millions of documented SNPs. DNA Compass presents the relevant genotypes of the user side-by-side with explanatory scientific resources. The genotypes data never leaves the user's computer, a feature that provides improved security and performance. Nearly 2500 unique users have used our tool, mainly from the general genetic genealogy community, demonstrating its utility. \n\nAvailability: DNA Compass is freely available on https://compass.dna.land.", u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077867', [u'Genomics'], [u'New York Genome Center;', u'New York Genome Center/Columbia University']]
[u'Prevalence of Zika virus infection in wild African primates', ['Connor R Buechler', 'Adam L Bailey', 'Andrea M Weiler', 'Gabrielle L Barry', 'Anna J Jasinska', 'Nelson B Freimer', 'Cristian Apetrei', 'Jane E Phillips-Conroy', 'Clifford J Jolly', 'Jeffrey Rogers', 'Thomas C Friedrich', "David H O'Connor"], u'September 27, 2016.', u'The recent spread of Zika virus (ZIKV) is alarming due to its association with birth defects. Though the natural reservoir of ZIKV remains poorly defined, the virus was first described in a captive sentinel macaque in Africa. Here, we examined blood from 239 wild African monkeys and found variable seropositivity.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077628', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison and Wisconsin National Primate Research Center;', u'Wisconsin National Primate Research Center;', u'University of California-Los Angeles;', u'University of Pittsburgh;', u'Washington University School of Medicine and Washington University, St. Louis;', u'New York University;', u'Baylor College of Medicine']]
[u'Modelling the impact of curtailing antibiotic usage in food animals on antibiotic resistance in humans', ['Bram van Bunnik', 'Mark Woolhouse'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Consumption of antibiotics in food animals is increasing worldwide and is approaching, if not already surpassing, the volume consumed by humans. It is often suggested that reducing the volume of antibiotics consumed by food animals could have a public health benefits. Although this notion is widely regarded as intuitively obvious there is a lack of robust, quantitative evidence to either support or contradict the suggestion.\nAs a first step towards addressing this knowledge gap, we develop a simple mathematical model for exploring the relationship between antibiotic consumption by food animals and levels of resistant bacterial infections in humans. We use the model to investigate the impact of restricting antibiotic consumption by animals and to identify which model parameters most strongly determine that impact. \nOur results suggest that for a wide range of scenarios curtailing the volume of antibiotics consumed by food animals has, as a stand-alone measure, little impact on the level of resistance in humans. We also find that reducing the rate of transmission of resistance from animals to humans may often be more effective than an equivalent reduction in the consumption of antibiotics in food animals. Moreover, the response to any intervention is strongly determined by the rate of transmission from humans to animals, an aspect which is rarely considered.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077776', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'The genetic basis and fitness consequences of sperm midpiece size in deer mice', ['Heidi S Fisher', 'Emily Jacobs-Palmer', 'Jean-Marc Lassance', 'Hopi E Hoekstra'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'An extraordinary array of reproductive traits vary among species, yet the genetic mechanisms that enable divergence, often over short evolutionary timescales, remain elusive. Here we examine two sister-species of Peromyscus mice with divergent mating systems. We find that the promiscuous species produces sperm with longer midpiece than the monogamous species, and midpiece size correlates positively with competitive ability and swimming performance. Using forward genetics, we identify a gene associated with midpiece length: Prkar1a, which encodes the R1\u03b1 regulatory subunit of PKA. R1\u03b1 localizes to midpiece in Peromyscus and is differentially expressed in mature sperm of the two species yet is similarly abundant in the testis. We also show that genetic variation at this locus accurately predicts male reproductive success. Our findings suggest that rapid evolution of reproductive traits can occur through cell type-specific changes to ubiquitously expressed genes and have an important effect on fitness.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077826', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Maryland;', u'Harvard University;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Harvard University']]
[u'Human Endometrial Stromal Cells Are Highly Permissive To Productive Infection by Zika Virus', ['Isabel Pagani', 'Silvia Ghezzi', 'Adele Ulisse', 'Alicia Rubio', 'Filippo Turrini', 'Elisabetta Garavaglia', 'Massimo Candiani', 'Concetta Castilletti', 'Giuseppe Ippolito', 'Guido Poli', 'Vania Broccoli', 'Paola Panina-Bordignon', 'Elisa Vicenzi'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Zika virus (ZIKV) is a recently re-emerged flavivirus transmitted to humans by mosquito bites but also from mother to fetus and by sexual intercourse. We here show for the first time that primary human endometrial stromal cells (HESC) are highly permissive to ZIKV infection and support its in vitro replication. ZIKV envelope expression was detected in the endoplasmic reticulum whereas double-stranded viral RNA colocalized with vimentin filaments to the perinuclear region. ZIKV productive infection also occurred in the human T-HESC cell line with the induction of interferon-\u03b2 (IFN-\u03b2) and of IFN-stimulated genes. Notably, in vitro decidualization of T-HESC with cyclic AMP and progesterone upregulated the cell surface expression of the ZIKV entry co-receptor AXL and boosted ZIKV replication by ca. 100-fold. Thus, endometrial stromal cells, particularly if decidualized, likely represent a crucial cell target of sexual virus transmission and a relevant source of ZIKV spreading to placental trophoblasts during pregnancy.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077305', [u'Microbiology'], [u'San Raffaele Scientific Institute;', u'San Raffaele Scientific Institute and Vita-Salute San Raffaele University;', u'National Institute for Infectious Diseases Lazzaro Spallanzani;', u'National Research Council']]
[u'Change-point detection without needing to detect change-points?', ['Chaitanya K Ryali', 'Angela J Yu'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Online change-point detection is an important and much-studied problem in both\nneuroscience and machine learning. While most theoretical analysis has focused\non this problem in the context of real-valued data, relatively little attention has\nbeen paid to the specific case when the observations are categorical (e.g. binary),\neven though the latter case is common in both neuroscience experiments and\nsome engineering applications. In this paper, we focus on the latter scenario and\ndemonstrate that, due to the information poverty of categorical data, near-Bayes-\noptimal data prediction can be achieved using a simple linear-exponential filter\nfor binary data, or, more generally, m \u2212 1 separate linear-exponential filters for\nm-nary data. The computations are dramatically simpler than exact Bayesian\ninference, requiring only O(m) computation per observation instead of O(e km ),\nwhere k depends on representation. We demonstrate how parameters of this\napproximation depend on the parameters of the generative model, and characterize\nthe parameter regime in which the approximation can be expected to perform well,\nas well as how its performance degrades away from that regime. Interestingly, our\nresults imply that, under appropriate parameter settings, change-point detection\ncan be done near-optimally without the explicit computation of the probability\nof a change having taken place. Paradoxically, while detecting a change-point\npromptly based on sequentially presented categorical data is difficult, making\nnear Bayes-optimal predictions about future data turns out to be quite simple.\nThis work demonstrates that greater attention needs to be paid, in the context of\nonline change-point detection, to a theoretical distinction between the problem of\npredicting future data and that of deciding that a change has taken place. With\nrespect to neuroscience, our approximate algorithm is equivalent to the dynamics of\nan appropriately-tuned leaky integrating neuron with constant gain, or a particular\nvariant of the delta learning rule with fixed learning rate, with obvious implications\nfor the neuroscientific investigation of human and animal change-point detection.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077719', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UC San Diego']]
[u'Population-level characterization of pathway alterations with SLAPenrich dissects heterogeneity of cancer hallmark acquisition', ['Francesco Iorio', 'Luz Garcia-Alonso', 'Jonathan Brammeld', 'Inigo Martincorena', 'David R Wille', 'Ultan McDermott', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Cancer genomics has revealed complex landscapes of molecular aberrations in human tumours. These tend to converge into a limited set of cellular processes, suggesting that the knowledge of signaling pathways can be used to functionally characterize large sets of cancer somatic alterations. A rigorous identification of significantly altered biological pathways is challenged by the high heterogeneity among samples, their differences in mutation rates, and the combinatorial properties arising from cancer evolution.\n\nWe present SLAPenrich, a statistical approach implemented in an open source R package to search for pathways that are genomically altered in a recurrent manner across the mutations observed in heterogeneous populations of samples. Differently from other tools, our approach assumes the functionality of a given pathway to be potentially disregulated if at least one of its genes is somatically altered. SLAPenrich performs enrichment analysis of pathways at the population level, accounting for differences in mutation rates between samples, exonic lengths of genes in a given pathway, and possible trends of mutational mutual exclusivity among genes of the same pathway. Analyzing a set of somatic mutations from a cohort of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients we show that SLAPenrich is able to detect well-known LUAD altered pathways, novel pathways recently proposed as therapeutic targets, and to detect established associations with clinicopathological features. Most importantly, we used SLAPenrich to explore, for the first time, the landscape of pathways contributing to the acquisition of the canonical cancer hallmarks, and we show how this analysis can point at novel cancer driver genes and networks.\n\nSLAPenrich is a tool to analyze any type of biological dataset amenable to be modeled as a binary matrix equipped with routines to report and visualize results. Our versatile formalism allows differential enrichment analysis of sub-populations, and enabled us to assemble a data-driven landscape of cancer hallmark acquisitions across different cancer types.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077701', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'EMBL - European BIoinformatics Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'GlaxoSmithKline;', u'RWTH Aachen University']]
[u'When the Good Guy Becomes the Bad Boy: Social Information Modulates the Neural, Physiological and Subjective Responses to Emotional Facial Expressions', ['Martial Mermillod', 'Delphine Grynberg', 'Brice Beffara', 'Magdalena Rychlowska', 'Leo Lopez', 'Nicolas Vermeulen', 'Paula Niedenthal', 'Sylvie Droit-Volet'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'In the past decade, different studies have suggested that high-order factors could influence the perceptual processing of emotional stimuli. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of congruent vs. incongruent social information (positive, negative or no information related to the character of the target) on subjective (perceived and felt valence and arousal), physiological (facial mimicry) as well as on neural (P100 and N170) responses to dynamic emotoional facial expressions (EFE) that varied from neutral to one of the six basic emotions. Across three studies, the results showed (1) reduced valence and arousal evaluation of EFE when associated with incongruent social information (Study 1), (2) increased electromyographical responses (Study 2) and significant modulation of P100 and N170 components (Study 3) when EFE were associated with social (positive and negative) information (vs. no information). These studies revealed that positive or negative social information reduced subjective responses to incongruent EFE and produces a similar neural and physiological boost of the early perceptual processing of EFE irrespective of their congruency. In conclusion, this study suggested that social context (positive or negative) enhances the necessity to be alert to any subsequent cues.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077834', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Univ. Grenoble Alpes, LPNC, F-38000 Grenoble, France & CNRS, LPNC, F-38000 Grenoble, France;', u"SCALab, CNRS UMR 9193, 59653 Villeneuve d'Ascq, France;", u'University Blaise Pascal;', u'IPSY, University Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'Nanopore DNA Sequencing and Genome Assembly on the International Space Station', ['Sarah L Castro-Wallace', 'Charles Y Chiu', 'Kristen K John', 'Sarah E Stahl', 'Kathleen H Rubins', 'Alexa B. R. McIntyre', 'Jason P Dworkin', 'Mark L Lupisella', 'David J Smith', 'Douglas J Botkin', 'Timothy A Stephenson', 'Sissel Juul', 'Daniel J Turner', 'Fernando Izquierdo', 'Scot Federman', 'Doug Stryke', 'Sneha Somasekar', 'Noah Alexander', 'Guixia Yu', 'Christopher Mason', 'Aaron S Burton'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'The emergence of nanopore-based sequencers greatly expands the reach of sequencing into low-resource field environments, enabling in situ molecular analysis. In this work, we evaluated the performance of the MinION DNA sequencer (Oxford Nanopore Technologies)  in-flight on the International Space Station (ISS), and benchmarked its performance off-Earth  against the MinION, Illumina MiSeq, and PacBio RS II sequencing platforms in terrestrial laboratories. The samples contained mixtures of genomic DNA extracted from lambda bacteriophage, Escherichia coli (strain K12) and Mus musculus (BALB/c). The in-flight sequencing experiments generated more than 80,000 total reads on with mean 2D accuracies of 85 to 90%, mean 1D accuracies of 75 to 80%, and median read lengths of approximately 6,000 bases. We were able to make directed assemblies of the ~4.7 Mb E. coli genome, ~48.5 kb lambda genome, and a representative M. musculus sequence (the ~16.3 kb mitochondrial genome), at 100%, 100%, and 96.7% pairwise identity, and de novo assemblies of the lambda and E. coli genomes solely with yielded 100% and 99.8% genome coverage, respectively, at 100% and 98.5% pairwise identity. Across all surveyed metrics (base quality, throughput, stays/base, skips/base), no observable decrease in MinION performance was observed while sequencing DNA in space. Simulated runs of in-flight nanopore data using an automated bioinformatic pipeline demonstrated the feasibility of real-time sequencing analysis and metagenomic identification of microbes in space.  Additionally, cloud and laptop based-assembly illustrated the plausibility of automated, de novo genomic assembly from nanopore data on the ISS. Applications of sequencing for space exploration include infectious disease diagnosis, environmental monitoring, evaluating biological responses to spaceflight, and even potentially the detection of extraterrestrial life on other planetary bodies.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077651', [u'Genomics'], [u'NASA Johnson Space Center;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'USRA/NASA Johnson Space Center;', u'Wyle / NASA Johnson Space Center;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'NASA Goddard Space Flight Center;', u'NASA Ames Research Center;', u'formerly Wyle / NASA Johnson Space Center;', u'Oxford Nanopore Technologies;', u'University of California at San Francisco']]
[u'SuperTranscript: a reference for analysis and visualization of the transcriptome', ['Anthony DK Hawkins', 'Alicia Oshlack', 'Nadia Davidson'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Transcriptomes are tremendously diverse and highly dynamic; visualizing and analysing this complexity is a major challenge. Here we present superTranscript, a single linear representation for each gene. SuperTranscripts contain all unique exonic sequence, built from any combination of transcripts, including reference assemblies, de novo assemblies and long-read sequencing. Our approach enables visualization of transcript structure and provides increased power to detect differential isoform usage.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077750', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Murdoch Childrens Research Institute;', u'Murdoch Childrens Research Insitute']]
[u'Real-time observation of replicative helicase assembly onto single-stranded DNA', ['David Dulin', 'Zhongbo Yu', 'Tao Ju Cui', 'Bojk A Berghuis', 'Martin Depken', 'Nynke H. Dekker'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Replicative helicases load onto DNA at the start of replication, and play a vital role by driving the replication fork forward. These helicases assemble into closed multimeric rings that need to encircle single-stranded (ss)DNA to be activated. Though helicase loading on substrates with accessible free ends has been well characterized for the T7 gp4 helicase, a model system for superfamily IV replicative helicases, the physiologically more relevant loading onto exposed ssDNA without free ends remains less well understood. Here, using a label-free assay that exploits changes in the DNA hairpin hopping dynamics to detect gp4 binding and activity, we characterize loading and activation of gp4 on exposed ssDNA without free ends, and find clear evidence of stepwise assembly of the helicase at the fork at physiologically relevant concentrations. The gradual loading onto ssDNA, rather than pre-forming in solution followed by spontaneous ring opening which appears favored at higher concentrations, suggests a new paradigm of stepwise assembly for the helicases in superfamily IV that do not require a separate loading enzyme.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077800', [u'Biophysics'], [u'IZKF Junior Research Group, Interdisciplinary Center for Clinical Research, Friedrich-Alexander-Univ;', u'The State Key Laboratory of Medicinal Chemical Biology, College of Pharmacy, Nankai University;', u'Department of Bionanoscience, Kavli Institute of Nanoscience, Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Co-operation, competition and crowding: a discrete framework linking Allee kinetics, nonlinear diffusion, shocks and sharp-fronted travelling waves', ['Stuart Johnston', 'Ruth Baker', 'Sean McElwain', 'Matthew Simpson'], u'September 27, 2016.', u'Invasion processes are ubiquitous throughout cell biology and ecology. During invasion, individuals can become isolated from the bulk population and behave differently. We present a discrete, exclusion-based process that models the birth, death and movement of individuals. The model distinguishes between individuals that are part of, or are isolated from, the bulk population by imposing different rates of birth, death and movement. This enables the simulation of various co-operative or competitive mechanisms, where there is a positive or negative benefit associated with being part of the bulk population, respectively.  The mean-field approximation of the discrete process gives rise to 22 different classes of partial differential equation, which include Allee kinetics and nonlinear diffusion. Here we examine the ability of each class of partial differential equation to support travelling wave solutions and interpret the long time behaviour in terms of the individual-level parameters. For the first time we show that the strong Allee effect and nonlinear diffusion can result in shock-fronted travelling waves. We also demonstrate how differences in group and individual motility rates can influence the persistence of a population and provide conditions for the successful invasion of a population.', u'/content/early/2016/09/27/077743', [u'Biophysics'], [u'QUT;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'GTPase activity-coupled treadmilling of the bacterial tubulin FtsZ organizes septal cell-wall synthesis', ['Xinxing Yang', 'Zhixin Lyu', 'Amanda Miguel', 'Ryan McQuillen', 'Kerwyn Kerwyn Casey Huang', 'Jie Xiao'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'The bacterial tubulin FtsZ is the central component of the division machinery, coordinating an ensemble of proteins involved in septal cell-wall synthesis to ensure successful constriction. How cells achieve this coordination is unknown. We used a combination of imaging, genetic and biochemical approaches to demonstrate that in Escherichia coli cells FtsZ exhibits dynamic treadmilling predominantly determined by its GTPase activity, and that the treadmilling dynamics directs processive movement of the septal cell-wall synthesis machinery. In FtsZ mutants with severely reduced treadmilling, the spatial distribution of septal synthesis and the molecular composition and ultrastructure of the septal cell wall are substantially altered. Thus, the treadmilling of FtsZ provides a novel and robust mechanism for achieving uniform septal cell-wall synthesis to enable correct new pole morphology.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077610', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'The appressorium of Magnaporthe oryzae remains mitotically active during post-penetration hyphal growth in rice cells', ['Kiersun Jones', 'Cory B Jenkinson', 'Jie Zhu', 'Sara Dorhmi', 'Chang Hyun Khang'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'To investigate the mitotic dynamics of an appressorium, we used time-lapse confocal imaging of a fluorescence-based mitotic reporter strain of Magnaporthe oryzae. We present evidence that: (i) appressoria remain viable and mitotically active after host penetration, (ii) appressorial mitosis, like invasive hyphal mitosis, is semi-closed, (iii) sister chromatids separate within the appressorium, (iv) a mitotic appressorial nucleus undergoes extreme constriction and elongation as it migrates through the penetration peg in a manner analogous to mitosis during cell-to-cell movement of invasive hyphae. These results provide new insight into the potential roles of the appressorium after host penetration and highlight the unique mitotic dynamics during rice blast infection.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077669', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Nuclear and structural dynamics during the establishment of a specialized effector-secreting cell by Magnaporthe oryzae in living rice cells', ['Emma N. Shipman', 'Kiersun Jones', 'Cory B. Jenkinson', 'Dong Won Kim', 'Jie Zhu', 'Chang Hyun Khang'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Background: To cause an economically important blast disease on rice, the filamentous fungus Magnaporthe oryzae forms a specialized infection structure, called an appressorium, to penetrate host cells. Once inside host cells, the fungus produces a filamentous primary hypha that differentiates into multicellular bulbous invasive hyphae (IH), which are surrounded by a host-derived membrane. These hyphae secrete cytoplasmic effectors that enter host cells presumably via the biotrophic interfacial complex (BIC). The first IH cell, also known as the side BIC-associated cell, is a specialized effector-secreting cell essential for a successful infection. This study aims to determine cellular processes that lead to the development of this effector-secreting first IH cell inside susceptible rice cells. \nResults: Using live-cell confocal imaging, we determined a series of cellular events by which the appressorium gives rise to the first IH cell in live rice cells. The filamentous primary hypha extended from the appressorium and underwent asymmetric swelling at its apex. The single nucleus in the appressorium divided, and then one nucleus migrated into the swollen apex. Septation occurred in the filamentous region of the primary hypha, establishing the first IH cell. The tip BIC that was initially associated with the primary hypha becomes the side BIC on the swollen apex prior to nuclear division in the appressorium. The average distance between the early side BIC and the nearest nucleus in the appressorium was estimated to be more than 32 \u03bcm. These results suggest an unknown mechanism by which effectors that are expressed in the appressorium are transported through the primary hypha for their secretion to the distantly located BIC. When M. oryzae was inoculated on heat-killed rice cells, penetration proceeded as normal, but there was no differentiation of a bulbous IH cell, suggesting its specialization for establishment of biotrophic infection.\nConclusions: Our studies reveal cellular dynamics associated with the development of the effector-secreting first IH cell. Our data raise new mechanistic questions concerning hyphal differentiation in response to host environmental cues and effector trafficking from the appressorium to the BIC.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077693', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Control without controllers: Towards a distributed neuroscience of executive control', ['Benjamin Eisenreich', 'Rei Akaishi', 'Benjamin Hayden'], u'September 26, 2016.', u'Executive control refers to the regulation of cognition and behavior by mental processes and is a hallmark of higher cognition. Most approaches to understanding its mechanisms begin with the assumption that our brains have anatomically segregated and functionally specialized control modules. The modular approach is intuitive: control is conceptually distinct from basic mental processing, so an organization that reifies that distinction makes sense. An alternative approach sees executive control as self-organizing principles of a distributed organization. In distributed systems, control and controlled processes are co-localized within large numbers of dispersed computational agents. Control then is often an emergent consequence of simple rules governing the interaction between agents. Because these systems are unfamiliar and unintuitive, here we review several well-understood examples of distributed control systems, group living insects and social animals, and emphasize their parallels with neural systems. We then re-examine the cognitive neuroscience literature on executive control for evidence that its neural control systems may be distributed.', u'/content/early/2016/09/26/077685', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Rochester']]
