[u'The ATP synthase subunit \u03b2 (ATP5B) is an entry factor for the hepatitis E virus', ['Zulfazal Ahmed', 'Prasida Holla', 'Imran Ahmad', 'Shahid Jameel'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Hepatitis E occurs sporadically and as outbreaks due to contamination of drinking water. The causative agent, hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a hepatotropic non-enveloped RNA virus, which grows poorly in vitro. Consequently, many aspects of HEV biology are poorly characterized, including its cellular receptor and entry mechanism(s). Previous studies from our laboratory have shown that heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) act as attachment factors for the virus. In the absence of purified high titer infectious virus, we have used hepatitis E virus-like particles (HEV-LPs) expressed and purified from E. coli to identify HEV entry factor(s) on liver cells in culture. Using a pull down and mass spectrometric approach, we identified the ATP synthase subunit \u03b2 (ATP5B) to bind the HEV capsid protein. Its role in the entry of HEV was then validated using antibody and siRNA mediated approaches, and infectious HEV from the stools of a hepatitis E patient. Though ATP synthase is largely a mitochondrial protein, the cell surface expressed form of ATP5B is implicated in other viral infections.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060434', [], [u'International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology']]
[u'Ouija: Incorporating prior knowledge in single-cell trajectory learning using Bayesian nonlinear factor analysis', ['Kieran Campbell', 'Christopher Yau'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Pseudotime estimation algorithms from single cell molecular profiling allows the recovery of temporal information from otherwise static profiles of individual cells. This pseudotemporal information can be used to characterise transient events in temporally evolving biological systems. Conventional algorithms typically employ an unsupervised approach that do not model any explicit gene behaviours making them hard to apply in the context of strong prior knowledge. Our approach Ouija takes an alternate approach to pseudotime by explicitly focusing on switch-like marker genes that are ordinarily used to confirm the accuracy of unsupervised pseudotime algorithms. Instead of using the marker genes for confirmation, we derive pseudotimes directly from the marker genes. We show that in many instances a small panel of marker genes can recover pseudotimes that are consistent with those obtained using the whole transcriptome. Ouija therefore provides a powerful complimentary approach to existing approaches to pseudotime estimation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060442', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Translational contributions to tissue-specificity in rhythmic and constitutive gene expression.', ['Violeta Castelo-Szekely', 'A. Bulak Arpat', 'Peggy Janich', 'David Gatfield'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Gene expression oscillations constitute the molecular basis of circadian rhythms in mammalian physiology and behavior. Two molecularly poorly understood aspects of rhythmic gene expression are (1) its striking tissue-specificity and (2) the contribution of post-transcriptional mechanisms to the generation of mRNA and protein abundance oscillations. We have used ribosome profiling in mouse kidney to quantify the translation of mRNAs intro protein transcriptome-wide and around-the-clock, and we have compared the protein biosynthesis rates in this organ with those from the livers of the same cohort of animals that we reported on recently. Our analyses revealed a small set of constantly abundant transcripts in kidney (<100 genes) that underwent daily rhythms in translation. Interestingly, these translational oscillations were almost exclusively tissue-specific, as neither the identity of genes showing this phenomenon, nor the global phase distribution of translational rhythms were shared between the two organs. The analysis of the rhythmically abundant transcripts in both tissues further revealed organ specificity in the relative timing of translational vs. RNA abundance oscillations, as well as in the protein biosynthetic output of core clock genes. Finally, our transcriptome-wide data uncovered marked tissue-specificity in translation rates across constitutively expressed genes. Although in magnitude less divergent than mRNA abundances, translation efficiency was identified as an important contributor to tissue-specificity in gene expression levels. Notably, we detected a clear signature of compensation of RNA expression differences at the translational level, leading globally to higher concordance across organs at the level of ribosome footprints than of RNA abundances.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060368', [], [u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'The mitotic kinesin-14 KlpA contains a context-dependent directionality switch', ['Andrew R Popchock', 'Kuo-Fu Tseng', 'Pan Wang', 'P. Andrew Karplus', 'Xin Xiang', 'Weihong Qiu'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Kinesins are microtubule-based motor proteins that convert chemical energy from ATP hydrolysis into mechanical work for a variety of essential intracellular processes. Kinesin-14s (i.e. kinesins with a C-terminal motor domain) are commonly considered to be nonprocessive minus end-directed motors that mainly function for mitotic spindle assembly and maintenance. Here, we show that KlpA - a mitotic kinesin-14 motor from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans - contains a context-dependent directionality switch. KlpA exhibits canonical minus end-directed motility inside microtubule bundles, but on individual microtubules it unexpectedly moves processively toward the plus ends. Removal of the N-terminal nonmotor microtubule-binding domain renders KlpA diffusive on individual microtubules but does not abolish its minus end-directed motility to collectively glide microtubules, suggesting that the nonmotor microtubule-binding domain likely acts as a switch for controlling the direction of KlpA motility. Collectively, these findings provide important insights into the mechanism and regulation of KlpA functions inside the mitotic spindle.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/058602', [], [u'Oregon State University;', u'Henan University;', u'The Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences']]
[u'Systematic analysis of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of metabolism in yeast', ['Emanuel Goncalves', 'Zrinka Raguz', 'Mattia Zampieri', 'Omar Wagih', 'David Ochoa', 'Uwe Sauer', 'Pedro Beltrao', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Cells react to extracellular perturbations with complex and intertwined responses. Systematic identification of the regulatory mechanisms that control these responses is still a challenge and requires tailored analyses integrating different types of molecular data. Here we acquired time-resolved metabolomics measurements in yeast under salt and pheromone stimulation and developed a machine learning approach to explore regulatory associations between metabolism and signal transduction. Existing phosphoproteomics measurements under the same conditions and kinase-substrate regulatory interactions were used to estimate the enzymatic activity of signalling kinases. Our approach identified informative associations between kinases and metabolic enzymes capable of predicting metabolic changes. We extended our analysis to two studies containing transcriptomics, phosphoproteomics and metabolomics measurements across a comprehensive panel of kinases/phosphatases knockouts and time-resolved perturbations to the nitrogen metabolism, conveying a total of 143 unique conditions. Our approach accurately estimated the change in activity of transcription factors, kinases and phosphatases and these were capable of building predictive models to infer the metabolic adaptations of previously unseen conditions across different dynamic experiments. Time-resolved experiments were significantly more informative than genetic perturbations to infer metabolic adaptation. This difference may be due to the indirect nature of the associations and of general cellular states that can hinder the identification of causal relationships. This work provides a novel genome-scale integrative analysis to propose putative transcriptional and post-translational regulatory mechanisms of metabolic processes.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/057398', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI);', u'Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich;', u'RWTH Aachen University']]
[u'Evaluating the Evaluation of Cancer Driver Genes', ['Collin Tokheim', 'Nickolas Papadopoulis', 'Kenneth W Kinzler', 'Bert Vogelstein', 'Rachel Karchin'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Sequencing has identified millions of somatic mutations in human cancers, but distinguishing cancer driver genes remains a major challenge. Numerous methods have been developed to identify driver genes, but evaluation of the performance of these methods is hindered by the lack of a gold standard, i.e., bona fide driver gene mutations. Here, we establish an evaluation framework that can be applied when a gold standard is not available.   We used this framework to compare the performance of eight driver gene prediction methods.  One of these methods, newly described here, incorporated a machine learning-based ratiometric approach.  We show that the driver genes predicted by each of these eight methods vary widely.  Moreover, the p-values reported by several of the methods were inconsistent with the uniform values expected, thus calling into question the assumptions that were used to generate them.  Finally, we evaluated the potential effects of unexplained variability in mutation rates on false positive driver gene predictions.   Our analysis points to the strengths and weaknesses of each of the currently available methods and offers guidance for improving them in the future.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060426', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions']]
[u'Optimization of an anti Staphylococcus antibiotic produced by tropical soil dwelling Streptomyces parvulus', ['Sonashia Velho-Pereira', 'Nandkumar M Kamat'], u'June 23, 2016.', u"An antibiotic produced by strain Streptomyces parvulus showing activity against\nStaphylococcus citreus was subjected to various optimization parameters for enhancing its production.\nNutritional and physiological parameters produced by S. parvulus under shaken flask conditions were determined. Optimization of these parameters led to 11% increase in antibiotic activity with a mean zone of inhibition of 42 mm. Highest antibiotic production was obtained at 250 rpm for 14 days with optimum temperature of 28\xb0C\nand pH 7. Kuster's modified medium containing glycerol 0.7% (v/v), casein 0.03% (w/v), NaCl 0% (w/v), phosphate 0.25% (w/v), KNO3 0.1% (w/v) and CaCO3 0.0015% (w/v) concentration was found ideal.", u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060392', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Goa University']]
[u'Whole Exome Sequencing in Neurogenetic Diagnostic Odysseys: An Argentinian Experience', ['Marta Cordoba', 'Sergio Rodriguez-Quiroga', 'Patricia Vega', 'Hernan Amartino', 'Cecilia Vazquez-Dusefante', 'Nancy Medina', 'Dolores Gonzalez-Moron', 'Marcelo Andres Kauffman'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Clinical variability is a hallmark of neurogenetic disorders. They involve widespread neurological entities such as neuropathies, ataxias, myopathies, mitochondrial encephalopathies, leukodystrophies, epilepsy and intellectual disabilities. Despite the use of considerable time and resources, the diagnostic yield in this field has been disappointingly low. This etiologic search has been called a diagnostic odyssey for many families. Whole exome sequencing (WES) has proved to be useful across a variety of genetic disorders, simplifying the odyssey of many patients and their families and leading to subsequent changes in clinical management in a proportion of them. Although a diagnostic yield of about 30% in neurogenetic disorders can be extrapolated from the results of large series that have included other medical conditions as well, there are not specific reports assessing its utility in a setting such as ours: a neurogeneticist led academic group serving in a low-income country. Herein, we report on a series of our first 40 consecutive cases that were selected for WES in a research-based neurogenetics laboratory. We demonstrated the clinical utility of WES in our patient cohort, obtaining a diagnostic yield of 40% (95% CI, 24.8%-55.2%), describing cases in which clinical management was altered, and suggesting the potential cost-effectiveness of WES as a single test by examining the number and types of tests that were performed prior to WES which added up to a median cost of $3537.6 ($2892 to $5084) for the diagnostic odysseys experienced by our cohort.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060319', [u'Genomics'], [u'Consultorio y Laboratorio de Neurogenetica. Hospital JM Ramos Mejia. IBCN UBA-CONICET;', u'Servicio de Neurologia Infantil. Hospital Universitario Austral, Buenos Aires, Argentina']]
[u'A discrete event simulation to evaluate the cost effectiveness of germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 testing in UK women with ovarian cancer', ['Anthony Eccleston', 'Anthony Bentley', 'Matthew Dyer', 'Ann Strydom', 'Wim Vereecken', 'Angela George', 'Nazneen Rahman'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'Objectives: The objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 (collectively termed &#8216BRCA&#8217) testing in women with epithelial ovarian cancer, and testing for the relevant mutation in first and second degree relatives of BRCA mutation-positive individuals, compared with no testing. Female BRCA mutation-positive relatives of ovarian cancer patients could undergo risk-reducing mastectomy and/or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.\n\nMethods: A discrete event simulation model was developed that included the risks of breast and ovarian cancer, the costs, utilities and effects of risk-reducing surgery on cancer rates, and the costs, utilities and mortality rates associated with cancer.\n\nResults: BRCA testing all women with epithelial ovarian cancer each year is cost-effective at a UK willingness-to-pay threshold of &pound20,000/QALY compared with no testing, with an ICER of &pound4,339/QALY. The result was primarily driven by fewer cases of breast (142) and ovarian (141) cancer and associated reductions in mortality (77 fewer deaths) in relatives over the subsequent 50 years. Sensitivity analyses showed that the results were robust to variations in the input parameters. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the probability of germline BRCA mutation testing being cost-effective at a threshold of &pound20,000/QALY was 99.9&#37.\n\nConclusions: Implementing germline BRCA testing in all ovarian cancer patients would be cost-effective in the UK. The consequent reduction of future cases of breast and ovarian cancer in relatives of mutation-positive individuals would ease the burden of cancer treatments in subsequent years and result in significantly better outcomes and reduced mortality rates for these individuals.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060418', [u'Genetics'], [u'DRG Abacus, Bicester, Oxfordshire, UK;', u'AstraZeneca UK Ltd;', u'Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK;', u'Division of Genetics and Epidemiology, Institute of Cancer Research, London, UK; Cancer Genetics Uni']]
[u'Dissociation of reinforcement and Hebbian learning induces covert acquisition of value in the basal ganglia', ['Meropi Topalidou', 'Daisuke Kase', 'Thomas Boraud', 'Nicolas P. Rougier'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'This paper introduces a new hypothesis concerning the formation of habits in the cortex of primates under the implicit supervision of the basal ganglia. This hypothesis has been formulated using a theoretical model and confirmed experimentally in monkeys. To do so, and prior to learning, we inactivated the internal part of the globus pallidus (GPi, the main output structure of the BG) with injections of muscimol and we tested monkeys on a variant of a two-armed bandit task where two stimuli are associated with two distinct reward probabilities (0.25 and 0.75 respectively). Unsurprisingly, their performance in such conditions are at the chance level. However, the theoretical model predicts that even if the performance is random, the value of the stimuli are implicitly evaluated and learned. This has been tested and confirmed on the next day, when inhibition has been removed: monkeys instantly showed quasi-optimal performances, demonstrating they knew the relative value of the two stimuli. Said differently, we managed to explicitly dissociate reinforcement learning from Hebbian learning and demonstrated covert learning inside the basal ganglia. These results suggest that a behavioral decision results from both the cooperation (acquisition) and competition (expression) of two distinct but entangled memory systems, the goal-directed system and the habit system that may represent the two ends of the same graded phenomenon.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060236', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'INRIA, IMN CNRS UMR 5293, University of Bordeaux, Labri CNRS UMR 5800, Bordeaux, France;', u'INRIA, IMN CNRS UMR 5293, University of Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France']]
[u"Breaking Lander-Waterman's Coverage Bound", ['Damoun Nashta-ali', 'Seyed Abolfazl Motahari', 'Babak Hossein Khalaj'], u'June 23, 2016.', u"Lander-Waterman's coverage bound establishes the total number of reads required to cover the whole genome of size G bases. In fact, their bound is a direct consequence of the well-known solution to the coupon collector's problem which proves that for such genome, the total number of bases to be sequenced should be O (G ln G). Although the result leads to a tight bound, it is based on a tacit assumption that the set of reads are first collected through a sequencing process and then are processed through a computation process, i.e., there are two different machines: one for sequencing and one for processing. In this paper, we present a significant improvement compared to Lander-Waterman's result and prove that by combining the sequencing and computing processes, one can re-sequence the whole genome with as low as O(G) sequenced bases in total. Our approach also dramatically reduces the required computational power for the combined process. Simulation results are performed on real genomes with different sequencing error rates. The results support our theory predicting the log G improvement on coverage bound and corresponding reduction in the total number of bases required to be sequenced.", u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060384', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Sharif University of Technology']]
[u'Optimal inventorying and monitoring of taxon, phylogenetic and functional diversity', ['Pedro Cardoso', 'Jose C Carvalho', 'Luis C Crespo', 'Miquel A Arnedo'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'1. Inventorying requires comprehensive sampling, while monitoring should build on it and focus on as few components as possible to detect changes in time or space. To sample or acquire information for both purposes can therefore be viewed as different processes, herewith called \u03b1-sampling and \u03b2-sampling. Biodiversity covers species, their genetic diversity and the way they interact in communities and ecosystems. Quantifying these aspects leads to the need to study taxon (TD), phylogenetic (PD) and functional diversity (FD). Here we propose and test a method for the optimization of sampling protocols to inventorying and monitoring TD, PD and FD for a wide range of taxa.\n2. We used spiders as a case-study, although the same optimization procedure could be applied to any taxon requiring a combination of sampling methods. Spiders were sampled in multiple sites in the Iberian Peninsula. PD and FD were measured as the sum of the length of branches on a phylogenetic or functional tree. To reach the optimal combination of methods for inventory, we followed an iterative procedure optimizing the accumulation curve of diversity values. Optimal monitoring in space or time required minimizing the difference between sampled and true \u03b2-diversity. We used a framework that disentangles species replacement and richness differences contributions to overall \u03b2-diversity.\n3. For \u03b1-diversity, the optimal combination of 24 samples for TD, PD and FD allowed sampling more than 50% of real diversity. For \u03b2-diversity, the optimal combination of six samples for all measures allowed reaching a bias (difference between sampled and true diversity) below 0.08.\n4. The widespread use of similar sampling protocols worldwide and regular repetition in time can have a major impact on the scope and usefulness of global monitoring projects. In addition, the comparable sampling of biodiversity in space and/or time allows reusing of data collected for specific purposes, potentiating a synergistic effect among different projects. This makes data useful much beyond their initial plan. We strongly advocate the optimization, standardization and widespread adoption of sampling protocols for all taxa at a global level, for both inventory and monitoring of all levels of biodiversity: taxon, phylogenetic and functional.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060400', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Helsinki;', u'University of Minho;', u'University of Barcelona']]
[u'Genome-wide screen of cell-cycle regulators in normal and tumor cells identifies a differential response to nucleosome depletion', ['Maria Sokolova', 'Mikko Turunen', 'Oliver Mortusewicz', 'Teemu Kivioja', 'Patrick Herr', 'Anna Vaharautio', 'Mikael Bjorklund', 'Minna Taipale', 'Thomas Helleday', 'Jussi Taipale'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'To identify cell cycle regulators that enable cancer cells to replicate DNA and divide in an unrestricted manner, we performed a parallel genome-wide RNAi screen in normal and cancer cell lines. In addition to many shared regulators, we found that tumor and normal cells are differentially sensitive to loss of the histone genes transcriptional regulator CASP8AP2. In cancer cells, loss of CASP8AP2 leads to a failure to synthesize sufficient amount of histones in the S-phase of the cell cycle, resulting in slowing of individual replication forks. Despite this, DNA replication fails to arrest, and tumor cells progress in an elongated S-phase that lasts several days, finally resulting in death of most of the affected cells. In contrast, depletion of CASP8AP2 in normal cells triggers a response that arrests viable cells in S-phase. The arrest is dependent on p53, and preceded by accumulation of markers of DNA damage, indicating that nucleosome depletion is sensed in normal cells via a DNA-damage -like response that is defective in tumor cells.\nIntroduction', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060350', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Genome-Scale Biology Program, P.O. Box 63, FI-00014 University of Helsinki, Finland;', u'Science for Life laboratory, Division of Translational Medicine and Chemical Biology, Department of;', u'Science for Life laboratory, Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, SE-141']]
[u'Next-generation sequencing identifies novel gene variants and pathways involved in specific language impairment', ['Xiaowei Sylvia Chen', 'Rose H Reader', 'Alexander Hoischen', 'Joris A Veltman', 'Nuala H Simpson', 'Clyde Francks', 'Dianne F Newbury', 'Simon E Fisher'], u'June 23, 2016.', u'A significant proportion of children suffer from unexplained problems acquiring proficient linguistic skills despite adequate intelligence and opportunity. These developmental speech and language disorders are highly heritable and have a substantial impact on society. Molecular studies have begun to identify candidate loci, but much of the underlying genetic architecture remains undetermined. Here, we performed whole exome sequencing of 43 unrelated probands affected by severe forms of specific language impairment, followed by independent validations with Sanger sequencing, and analyses of segregation patterns in parents and siblings, to try to shed new light on the aetiology of the disorder. By first focusing on a pre-defined set of known candidates from the literature, we identified potentially pathogenic variants in genes already implicated in diverse language-related syndromes, including ERC1, GRIN2A, and SRPX2. Complementary analyses suggested novel putative candidate genes carrying validated variants which were predicted to have functional effects, such as OXR1, SCN9A and KMT2D. We also searched for potential "multiple-hit" cases; one proband carried a rare AUTS2 variant in combination with a rare inherited haplotype affecting STARD9, while another carried a novel nonsynonymous variant in SEMA6D together with a rare stop-gain in SYNPR. When we broadened our scope to all rare and novel variants throughout the exomes, we identified several biological themes that were enriched for such variants, most notably microtubule transport and cytoskeletal regulation.', u'/content/early/2016/06/23/060301', [u'Genetics'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford;', u'Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen; University of Maastricht; Donders Institute;', u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Donders Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Oxford; Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Oxford']]
