[u'DMAP - Graphical representation of physical and genetic map correlation', ['David Michael Alan Martin', 'Glenn Bryan'], u'November 29, 2016.', u"Next-generation sequencing approaches coupled with appropriate assembly software can provide draft genome sequences of complex organisms as a series of unordered contigs in a timely and cost effective manner. Likewise, high throughput mapping technologies such as DArT and SNP platforms can provide a high density of sequence-anchored markers with which high resolution genetic maps can be constructed.  Visualising and interpreting these data requires a new generation of tools as the volume of data leads to considerable redundancy and information overload in graphical representation. DMAP provides a highly configurable visual representation of physical and genetic map correlation, reducing data representation to an aesthetically acceptable degree. It also calculates an optimal orientation for the ordered sequence contigs, highlighting markers that are anomalous and contigs which may be in erroneous positions. Output is as PDF, allowing subsequent refinement prior to print publication and vector based representation for online supplementary figures. The perl scripts have few dependencies and code is freely available under a creative commons license (CC-BY) from the author's GitHub repository at http://github.com/davidmam/DMAP.git .", u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090415', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'James Hutton Institute']]
[u'Estimation of time-varying decision thresholds from the choice and reaction times without assumptions on the shape', ['Yul Hyoung Ryul Kang'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'When a decision is made based on a series of samples of evidence, the threshold for decision may change over time. Here we propose a one-shot algorithm that gives the entire threshold from the choice and decision times. Combined with a standard gradient descent procedure, the algorithm can efficiently identify the correct shape of the threshold without any hyperparameter for the threshold.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090217', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'NLR signaling network mediates immunity to diverse plant pathogens', ['Chih-Hang Wu', 'Ahmed Abd-El-Haliem', 'Tolga O. Bozkurt', 'Khaoula Belhaj', 'Ryohei Terauchi', 'Jack H. Vossen', 'Sophien Kamoun'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Plant and animal nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat-containing (NLR) proteins often function in pairs to mediate innate immunity to pathogens. However, the degree to which NLR proteins form signaling networks beyond genetically linked pairs is poorly understood. In this study, we discovered that a large NLR immune signaling network with a complex genetic architecture confers immunity to oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, nematodes, and insects. The network emerged over 100 million years ago from a linked NLR pair that diversified into up to one half of the NLR of asterid plants. We propose that this NLR network increases robustness of immune signaling to counteract rapidly evolving plant pathogens.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090449', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'The Sainsbury Laboratory;', u'Wageningen University and Research;', u'Imperial College London;', u'Iwate Biotechnology Research Center']]
[u'Structural covariance networks across the lifespan, from 6-94 years of age', ['Elizabeth DuPre', 'R. Nathan Spreng'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Structural covariance examines interindividual differences in the covariation of grey matter morphology between brain regions. Although structural covariance has been used to examine the development of brain networks in either adolescence or aging, no study to date has provided a lifespan perspective on the development of structural covariance networks, bridging childhood with early and late adulthood. Here, we investigate the lifespan trajectories of structural covariance in six canonical neurocognitive networks default, dorsal attention, frontoparietal control, somatomotor, ventral attention, and visual networks. By combining data from five open access data sources, we examine the structural covariance trajectories of these networks from 6-94 years of age in a sample of 1580 participants. Using partial least squares, we show that structural covariance patterns across the lifespan exhibit two significant, age-dependent trends. The first trend is a rapid decline that levels off in later life, suggestive of reduced within-network covariance. The second trend is an inverted-U that peaks in young adulthood, suggestive of the patterns of integration followed by de-differentiation as observed in functional brain networks. Hub regions, including posterior cingulate cortex and anterior insula, appear particularly influential in the expression of this second age-dependent trend. Overall, we suggest that these results provide evidence for the importance of a persistent pattern of functional coupling in the developmental trajectories of structural covariance networks.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090233', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'foxQ2 evolved a key role in anterior head and central brain patterning in protostomes', ['Peter Kitzmann', 'Matthias Weisskopf', 'Magdalena Ines Schacht', 'Gregor Bucher'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Anterior patterning of animals is based on a set of highly conserved transcription factors but the interactions within the protostome anterior gene regulatory network (aGRN) remain enigmatic. Here, we identify the foxQ2 ortholog of the red flour beetle Tribolium castaneum as novel upstream component of the insect aGRN. It is required for the development of the labrum and higher order brain structures, namely the central complex and the mushroom bodies. We reveal Tc-foxQ2 interactions by RNAi and heat shock-mediated misexpression. Surprisingly, Tc-foxQ2 and Tc-six3 mutually activate each other forming a novel regulatory module at the top of the insect aGRN. Comparisons of our results with those of sea urchins and cnidarians suggest that foxQ2 has acquired functions in head and brain patterning during protostome evolution. Our findings expand the knowledge on foxQ2 gene function to include essential roles in epidermal development and central brain patterning.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090340', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Georg-August-University Goettingen;', u'Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen/Nuremberg']]
[u'Voltage-dependent K+ Channels Improve the Energy Efficiency of Signalling in Blowfly Photoreceptors', ['Francisco J H Heras', 'John Anderson', 'Simon B Laughlin', 'Jeremy E Niven'], u'November 29, 2016.', u"Voltage-dependent conductances in many spiking neurons are tuned to reduce action potential energy consumption, so improving the energy efficiency of spike coding. However, the contribution of voltage-dependent conductances to the energy efficiency of analogue coding, by graded potentials in dendrites and non-spiking neurons, remains unclear. We investigate the contribution of voltage-dependent conductances to the energy efficiency of analogue coding by modelling blowfly R1-6 photoreceptor membrane. Two voltage-dependent delayed rectifier K+ conductances (DRs) shape the membrane's voltage response and contribute to light adaptation. They make two types of energy saving. By reducing membrane resistance upon depolarisation they convert the cheap, low bandwidth membrane needed in dim light to the expensive high bandwidth membrane needed in bright light. This investment of energy in bandwidth according to functional requirements can halve daily energy consumption. Second, DRs produce negative feedback that reduces membrane impedance and increases bandwidth. This negative feedback allows an active membrane with DRs to consume at least 30% less energy than a passive membrane with the same capacitance and bandwidth. Voltage gated conductances in other non-spiking neurons, and in dendrites, might be organized to make similar savings.", u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090308', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Sussex']]
[u'Evaluation of quantum dot conjugated antibodies for immunofluorescent labelling of cellular targets', ['Jennifer Elizabeth Francis', 'David Mason', 'Raphael Levy'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Semiconductor quantum dots (Qdots) have been utilised as probes in fluorescent microscopy and provide an alternative to fluorescent dyes and fluorescent proteins, due to their brightness, photostability, and the possibility to excite different Qdots with a single wavelength. In spite of these attractive properties, their take up by biologists has been somewhat limited and only a few Qdot conjugates are commercially available for the labelling of cellular targets. Although, many protocols have been reported for the specific labelling of proteins with Qdots, the majority of these relied on Qdot-conjugated antibodies synthesised specifically by the authors and therefore not broadly available, which limits the scope of applications and complicates replication. Here, the specificity of a commercially available Qdot conjugated secondary antibody (Qdot-Ab), for different antigens, was tested. Antigens were labelled simultaneously with a fluorescent dye coupled to a secondary antibody (Dye-Ab) and the Qdot-Ab. Although, the Dye-Ab labelled all of the intended target proteins, the Qdot-Ab only bound to some of the protein targets in the cytosol and could not reach the nucleus even after extensive cell permeabilisation.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090357', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Liverpool']]
[u'SPRING: a kinetic interface for visualizing high dimensional single-cell expression data', ['Caleb Weinreb', 'Samuel Wolock', 'Allon Klein'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Motivation: Single-cell gene expression profiling technologies can map the cell states in a tissue or organism. As these technologies become more common, there is a need for computational tools to explore the data they produce. In particular, existing data visualization approaches are imperfect for studying continuous gene expression topologies. \n\nResults: Force-directed layouts of k-nearest-neighbor graphs can visualize continuous gene expression topologies in a manner that preserves high-dimensional relationships and allows manually exploration of different stable two- dimensional representations of the same data. We implemented an interactive web-tool to visualize single-cell data using force-directed graph layouts, called SPRING. SPRING reveals more detailed biological relationships than existing approaches when applied to branching gene expression trajectories from hematopoietic progenitor cells. Visualizations from SPRING are also more reproducible than those of stochastic visualization methods such as tSNE, a state-of-the-art tool.\n\nAvailability: https://kleintools.hms.harvard.edu/tools/spring.html, https://github.com/AllonKleinLab/SPRING/', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090332', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Genome-level parameters describe the pan-nuclear fractal nature of eukaryotic interphase chromosomal arrangement', ['Sarosh N. Fatakia', 'Basuthkar J Rao'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Long-range inter-chromosomal interactions in the interphase nucleus subsume critical genome-level regulatory functions such as transcription and gene expression. To decipher the physical basis of diverse pan-nuclear patterns of chromosomal arrangement that facilitates these processes, we investigate the scaling effects within disparate genomes and compared their total number of genes with chromosome size. First, we derived the pan-nuclear average fractal dimension of inter-chromosomal arrangement in interphase nuclei of different species and corroborated our predictions with independently reported results. Then, we described the different patterns across disparate unicellular and multicellular eukaryotes. We report that, unicellular lower eukaryotes have inter-chromosomal fractal dimension \u2248 1 at the pan-nuclear scales, which is analogous to the multi-polymer crumpled globule model. Multi-fractal dimensions, corresponding to different inter-chromosomal arrangements emerged from multicellular eukaryotes, such that closely related species have relatively similar patterns. Using this theoretical approach, we could distinguish fractal patterns from human acrocentric versus metacentric chromosomes, implying that the multi-fractal nature of inter-chromosomal geometry facilitates viable large-scale chromosomal aberrations, such as Robertsonian translocations. We report that the nature of such an average multi-fractal dimension for nocturnal mammals is very different in diurnal mammals, which suggests a greatly enhanced plasticity in arrangement across different cell types, for example retinal versus dermal fibroblasts. Altogether, our results substantiate that genome-level constraints have also co-evolved with the average pan-nuclear fractal dimension of inter-chromosomal folding during eukaryotic evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/083121', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Tata Institute of Fundamental Research;', u'Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR)']]
[u'Temporal Genetic Dynamics of an Experimental, Biparental Field Population of Phytophthora capsici', ['Maryn O. Carlson', 'Elodie Gazave', 'Michael A. Gore', 'Christine D. Smart'], u'November 29, 2016.', u"Defining the contributions of dispersal, reproductive mode, and mating system to the population structure of a pathogenic organism is essential to estimating its evolutionary potential. After introduction of the devastating plant pathogen, Phytophthora capsici, into a grower's field, a lack of aerial spore dispersal restricts migration. Once established, coexistence of both mating types results in formation of overwintering recombinant oospores, engendering persistent pathogen populations. To mimic these conditions, in 2008, we inoculated a field with two P. capsici isolates of opposite mating type. We analyzed pathogenic isolates collected in 2009-13 from this experimental population, using genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphism markers. By tracking heterozygosity across years, we show that the population underwent a generational shift; transitioning from exclusively F1 in 2009-10; mixed generational in 2011; and ultimately all inbred in 2012-13. Survival of F1 oospores, characterized by heterozygosity excess, coupled with a low rate of selfing, delayed declines in heterozygosity due to inbreeding and attainment of equilibrium genotypic frequencies. Large allele and haplotype frequency changes in specific genomic regions accompanied the generational shift, representing putative signatures of selection. Finally, we identified an approximately 1.6 Mb region associated with mating type determination, constituting the first detailed genomic analysis of a mating type region (MTR) in Phytophthora. Segregation patterns in the MTR exhibited tropes of sex-linkage, where maintenance of allele frequency differences between isolates of opposite mating type was associated with elevated heterozygosity despite inbreeding. Characterizing the trajectory of this experimental system provides key insights into the processes driving persistent, sexual pathogen populations.", u'/content/early/2016/11/29/089953', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'The evolutionary history of bears is shaped by gene flow across species', ['Vikas Kumar', 'Fritjof Lammers', 'Tobias Bidon', 'Markus Pfenninger', 'Lydia Kolter', 'Maria A Nilsson', 'Axel Janke'], u'November 29, 2016.', u'Bears are iconic mammals with a complex evolutionary history. Natural bear hybrids and studies of few nuclear genes indicate that gene flow among bears may be more common than expected and not limited to the closely related polar and brown bears. Here we present a genome analysis of the bear family with representatives of all living species. Phylogenomic analyses of 869 mega base pairs divided into 18,621 genome fragments yielded a well-resolved coalescent species tree despite signals for extensive gene flow across species. However, genome analyses using three different statistical methods show that gene flow is not limited to closely related species pairs. Strong ancestral gene flow between the Asiatic black bear and the ancestor to polar, brown and American black bear explains numerous uncertainties in reconstructing the bear phylogeny. Gene flow across the bear clade may be mediated by intermediate species such as the geographically wide-spread brown bears leading to massive amounts of phylogenetic conflict. Genome-scale analyses lead to a more complete understanding of complex evolutionary processes. The increasing evidence for extensive inter-specific gene flow, found also in other animal species, necessitates shifting the attention from speciation processes achieving genome-wide reproductive isolation to the selective processes that maintain species divergence in the face of gene flow.', u'/content/early/2016/11/29/090126', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre;', u'AG Zoologischer Garten Cologne']]
[u'The accuracy and bias of single-step genomic prediction for populations under selection', ['Wan-Ling Hsu', 'Dorian J Garrick', 'Rohan L Fernando'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'ABSTRACT In single-step analyses, missing genotypes are explicitly or implicitly imputed, and this requires centering the observed genotypes, ideally using the mean of the unselected founders. If genotypes are only available on selected individuals, centering on the unselected founder mean is impossible. Here, computer simulation is used to study an alternative analysis that does not require centering genotypes but fits the mean \u03bcg of unselected individuals as a fixed effect. To improve numerical properties of the analysis, centering the entire matrix of observed and imputed genotypes, using their sample means can be done in addition to fitting \u03bcg. Starting with observed diplotypes from 721 cattle, a 5 generation population was simulated with sire selection to produce 40,000 individuals with phenotypes of which the 1,000 sires had genotypes. The next generation of 8,000 genotyped individuals was used for validation. Evaluations were undertaken: with (J) or without (N) \u03bcg when marker covariates were not centered; and with (JC) or without (C) \u03bcg when all marker covariates were centered. A pedigree based evaluation was less accurate than genomic analyses. Centering did not influence accuracy of genomic prediction, but fitting \u03bcg did. Accuracies were improved when the panel comprised only QTL, models JC and J had accuracies of 99.2%; and models C and N had accuracies of 85.6%. When only markers were in the panel, the 4 models had accuracies of 63.9%. In panels that included causal variants, fitting \u03bcg in the model improved accuracy, but had little impact when the panel contained only markers.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090274', [u'Genomics'], [u'Iowa State University, United States']]
[u'Tuning the course of evolution on the biophysical fitness landscape of an RNA virus', ['Assaf Rotem', 'Adrian Serohijos', 'Connie Chang', 'Joshua Wolfe', 'Audrey Fischer', 'Thomas Mehoke', 'Huidan Zhang', 'Ye Tao', 'Lloyd Ung', 'Jeong-Mo Choi', 'Abimbola Kolawole', 'Stephan Koehler', 'Susan Wu', 'Peter Thielen', 'Naiwen Cui', 'Plamen Demirev', 'Nicholas Giacobbi', 'Timothy Julian', 'Kellogg Schwab', 'Jeffrey Lin', 'Thomas Smith', 'James Pipas', 'Christiane Wobus', 'Andrew Feldman', 'David Weitz', 'Eugene Shakhnovich'], u'November 28, 2016.', u'Predicting viral evolution remains a major challenge with profound implications for public health. Viral evolutionary pathways are determined by the fitness landscape, which maps viral genotype to fitness.  However, a quantitative description of the landscape and the evolutionary forces on it remain elusive. Here, we apply a biophysical fitness model based on capsid folding stability and antibody binding affinity to predict the evolutionary pathway of norovirus escaping a neutralizing antibody. The model is validated by experimental evolution in bulk culture and in a drop-based microfluidics device, the Evolution Chip, which propagates millions of independent viral sub-populations. We demonstrate that along the axis of binding affinity, selection for escape variants and drift due to random mutations have the same direction.  However, along folding stability, selection and drift are opposing forces whose balance is tuned by viral population size. Our results demonstrate that predictable epistatic tradeoffs shape viral evolution.', u'/content/early/2016/11/28/090258', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'University of Montreal;', u'Montana State University;', u'Johns Hopkins University APL;', u'University of Michigan-Ann Arbor;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'University of Pittsburgh;', u'Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology;', u'University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston;', u'University of Pittsburg;', u'Johns Hopkins Medicine']]
[u'Ten simple rules for structuring papers', ['Konrad P Kording', 'Brett Mensh'], u'November 28, 2016.', u"Good scientific writing is essential to career development and to the progress of science. A well-structured manuscript allows readers and reviewers to get excited about the subject matter, to understand and verify the paper's contributions, and to integrate them into a broader context. However, many scientists struggle with producing high-quality manuscripts and are typically given little training in paper writing. Focusing on how readers consume information, we present a set of 10 simple rules to help you get across the main idea of your paper. These rules are designed to make your paper more influential and the process of writing more efficient and pleasurable.", u'/content/early/2016/11/28/088278', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Northwestern University;', u'optimize sciene']]
