[u'DECONTEXTUALIZING BIG DATA FOR A BETTER PERCEPTION OF MACROECOLOGY', ['Christian Mulder', 'Giorgio Mancinelli'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'Fish species are charismatic subjects widely used for ecological assessment and modelling. We investigated the influence of electrofishing in an attempt to illuminate the extent to which datasets might be merged together. Three American Midwestern regions in Ohio were chosen as study area and the changes in the size-biomass spectra of more than 2000 fish assemblages were analysed. These communities behaved differently according to the sampling method in conjunction to the morphology of the investigated streams and rivers, as shown by decreasing predatory species and lowering of allometric slopes. There are here several lines of evidence indicating that the chosen sampling method, as determined by different habitats, acts as a pitfall and strongly influences the allometry of fish spectra. In the ongoing data-rich era, our results highlight that macroecological investigations, often performed by machine-learning systems without considering the different procedures adopted to collect original data, can easily produce artefactual allometric scalings.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/059915', [], [u'National Institute for Public Health and the Environment;', u'University of Salento']]
[u'Numerical and Spatial Patterning of Yeast Meiotic DNA Breaks by Tel1', ['Neeman Mohibullah', 'Scott Keeney'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'The Spo11-generated double-strand breaks (DSBs) that initiate meiotic recombination are dangerous lesions that can disrupt genome integrity, so meiotic cells regulate their number, timing, and distribution. Here, we use Spo11-oligonucleotide complexes, a byproduct of DSB formation, to examine the contribution of the DNA damage-responsive kinase Tel1 (ortholog of mammalian ATM) to this regulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A tel1\u0394 mutant had globally increased amounts of Spo11-oligonucleotide complexes and altered Spo11-oligonucleotide lengths, consistent with conserved roles for Tel1 in control of DSB number and processing. A kinase-dead tel1 mutation also increased Spo11-oligonucleotide levels, but mutating known Tel1 phosphotargets on Hop1 and Rec114 did not. Deep sequencing of Spo11 oligonucleotides from tel1\u0394 mutants demonstrated that Tel1 shapes the nonrandom DSB distribution in ways that are distinct but partially overlapping with previously described contributions of the recombination regulator Zip3. Finally, we uncover a context-dependent role for Tel1 in hotspot competition, in which an artificial DSB hotspot inhibits nearby hotspots. Evidence for Tel1-dependent competition involving strong natural hotspots is also provided.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/059022', [], [u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'Temperature-Induced Transcriptional Responses of a Deep-Biosphere Bacterium Illuminate its Adaptation to Growth from 20\xb0C to 79\xb0C', ['Stephen M. J. Pollo', 'Abigail A. Adebusuy', 'Timothy J. Straub', 'Julia M. Foght', 'Olga Zhaxybayeva', 'Camilla L. Nesbo'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'Temperature affects cell function and survival. Most organisms are adapted to growing within a temperature range that rarely exceeds ~ 30\xb0C, but the anaerobic thermophilic bacterium Kosmotoga olearia TBF 19.5.1 (phylum Thermotogae) is capable of growing over an extremely wide temperature range (20\xb0C - 79\xb0C). We used transcriptomic and comparative genomic analyses to elucidate the mechanisms enabling this extraordinary trait. When growth of K. olearia at 30\xb0C, 40\xb0C, and 77\xb0C was compared to its optimal growth at 65\xb0C, 573 of 2,224 genes (25%) were significantly differentially expressed. We find that K. olearia remodels its metabolism significantly at different temperatures, with increased expression of genes involved in energy and carbohydrate metabolism at high temperatures and up-regulation of amino acid metabolism at lower temperatures. At sub-optimal temperatures, many transcriptional changes were similar to those observed in mesophilic bacteria at physiologically low temperatures, including up-regulation of genes encoding enzymes for fatty acid synthesis, typical cold stress genes, and ribosomal proteins. In comparison to other Thermotogae, K. olearia has multiple copies of some cold-associated genes, suggesting that an increase in gene copy number is a strategy for cold adaptation. Many of these cold response genes were likely acquired by lateral gene transfer, highlighting the role of gene exchange in bacterial thermoadaptation. Notably, at 77\xb0C a large number of the up-regulated genes encode proteins with hypothetical functions, indicating that many features of adaptations to high temperature growth are still unknown.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060053', [], [u'University of Alberta;', u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'Finding functional disease-associated non-coding variation using next-generation sequencing', ['Paolo Devanna', 'Xiaowei Sylvia Chen', 'Joses Ho', 'Dario Gajewski', 'Alessandro Gialluisi', 'Clyde Francks', 'Simon E Fisher', 'Dianne F Newbury', 'Sonja C Vernes'], u'June 22, 2016.', u"Next generation sequencing has opened the way for the large scale interrogation of cohorts at the whole exome, or whole genome level. Currently, the field largely focuses on potential disease causing variants that fall within coding sequences and that are predicted to cause protein sequence changes, generally discarding non-coding variants. However non-coding DNA makes up ~98% of the genome and contains a range of sequences essential for controlling the expression of protein coding genes. Thus, potentially causative non-coding variation is currently being overlooked. To address this, we have designed an approach to assess variation in one class of non-coding regulatory DNA; the 3\u2032UTRome. Variants in the 3\u2032UTR region of genes are of particular interest because 3\u2032UTRs are responsible for modulating protein expression levels via their interactions with microRNAs. Furthermore they are amenable to large scale analysis as 3\u2032UTR-microRNA interactions are based on complementary base pairing and as such can be predicted in silico at the genome-wide level. We report a strategy for identifying and functionally testing variants in microRNA binding sites within the 3'UTRome and demonstrate the efficacy of this pipeline in a cohort of language impaired children. Using whole exome sequence data from 43 probands, we extracted variants that lay within 3\u2032UTR microRNA binding sites. We identified a common variant (SNP) in a microRNA binding site and found this SNP to be associated with an endophenotype of language impairment (non-word repetition). We showed that this variant disrupted microRNA regulation in cells and was linked to altered gene expression in the brain, suggesting it may represent a risk factor contributing to SLI. This work demonstrates that biologically relevant variants are currently being under-investigated despite the wealth of next-generation sequencing data available and presents a simple strategy for interrogating non-coding regions of the genome. We propose that this strategy should be routinely applied to whole exome and whole genome sequence data in order to broaden our understanding of how non-coding genetic variation underlies complex phenotypes such as neurodevelopmental disorders.", u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060285', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics;', u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics and Max-Planck-Institut fur Psychiatrie;', u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics and Radboud University, Donders Institute;', u'Oxford University, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics']]
[u'aRNApipe: A balanced, efficient and distributed pipeline for processing RNA-seq data in high performance computing environments', ['Arnald Alonso', 'Brittany N. Lasseigne', 'Kelly Williams', 'Josh Nielsen', 'Ryne C. Ramaker', 'Andrew A Hardigan', 'Bobbi Johnston', 'Brian S. Roberts', 'Sara J. Cooper', 'Sara Marsal', 'Richard M. Myers'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'The wide range of RNA-seq applications and their high computational needs require the development of pipelines orchestrating the entire workflow and optimizing usage of available computational resources. We present aRNApipe, a project-oriented pipeline for processing of RNA-seq data in high performance cluster environments. aRNApipe is highly modular and can be easily migrated to any high performance computing (HPC) environment. The current applications included in aRNApipe combine the essential RNA-seq primary analyses, including quality control metrics, transcript alignment, count generation, transcript fusion identification, and sequence variant calling. aRNApipe is project-oriented and dynamic so users can easily update analyses to include or exclude samples or enable additional processing modules. Workflow parameters are easily set using a single configuration file that provides centralized tracking of all analytical processes. Finally, aRNApipe incorporates interactive web reports for sample tracking and a tool for managing the genome assemblies available to perform an analysis.\nhttps://github.com/HudsonAlpha/aRNAPipe', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060277', [], [u"HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, Vall d'Hebron Hospital Research Institute;", u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham;', u"Vall d'Hebron Hospital Research Institute"]]
[u'A wireless centrifuge force microscope (CFM) enables multiplexed single-molecule experiments in a commercial centrifuge', ['Tony Hoang', 'Dhruv S. Patel', 'Ken Halvorsen'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'The centrifuge force microscope (CFM) was recently introduced as a platform for massively parallel single-molecule manipulation and analysis. Here we developed a low-cost and self-contained CFM module that works directly within a commercial centrifuge, greatly improving accessibility and ease of use. Our instrument incorporates research grade video microscopy, a power source, a computer, and wireless transmission capability to simultaneously monitor many individually tethered microspheres. We validated the instrument by performing single-molecule force shearing of short DNA duplexes. For a 7 bp duplex, we collected over 1000 statistics of force dependent shearing kinetics from 2 pN to 12 pN with dissociation times in the range of 10-100 seconds. We extended the measurement to a 10 bp duplex, applying a 12 pN force clamp and directly observing single-molecule dissociation over an 85 minute experiment. Our new CFM module facilitates simple and inexpensive experiments that dramatically improve access to single-molecule analysis.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060269', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University at Albany']]
[u'Suboptimality in perception', ['Dobromir Rahnev', 'Rachel Denison'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'Human perception is increasingly described as optimal. This view reflects recent successes of Bayesian approaches to perception but ignores an extensive literature documenting suboptimal performance in perceptual tasks. Here we review several classes of suboptimal perceptual decisions, including improper placement, maintenance, and adjustment of perceptual criteria, inadequate tradeoff between speed and accuracy, and inappropriate confidence ratings. We examine suboptimalities in the cue combination literature, which has often been taken as evidence for optimality in perception. We further discuss how findings regarding visual illusions, adaptation, and appearance relate to the concept of optimality. We extract a number of principles that account for suboptimal behavior across all of these studies. Finally, we outline an "Objectives-Constraints-Mechanisms" approach for guiding future investigations and discussions of optimal and suboptimal perception. In this approach, findings of optimality or suboptimality are not ends in themselves but serve to characterize the perceptual system\'s objectives (i.e., what it aims to achieve), constraints (i.e., what costs it incurs), and mechanisms (what processes it uses to trade off the objectives and constraints). We suggest that this conceptual framework, more than a focus on optimality per se, can advance our understanding of perception.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060194', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology;', u'New York University']]
[u'Evolutionary genomics of peach and almond domestication', ['Dianne Velasco', 'Mallikarjuna Aradhya', 'Jeff Ross-Ibarra'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'The domesticated almond [Prunus dulcis (L.) Batsch] and peach [P. persica (Mill.) D. A. Webb] originate on opposite sides of Asia and were independently domesticated approximately 5000 years ago. While interfertile, they possess alternate mating systems and differ in a number of morphological and physiological traits. Here we evaluated thirteen resequenced genomes of both almond and peach for signatures of selection and to better understand their relationship. Almond has ~7X the genetic diversity of peach and high genome- wide FST values support their status as separate species. We estimated a divergence time of approximately 8 Mya, coinciding with an active period of uplift in the northeast Tibetan Plateau and subsequent Asian climate change. We identify a number of regions in both genomes showing signatures of selection during domestication, and a significant overlap in candidate regions between peach and almond. While we expected gene expression in fruit to overlap with candidate selected regions, instead we find enrichment for loci highly differentiated between the species, consistent with recent fossil evidence suggesting fruit divergence long preceded domestication. Taken together this study tells us how closely related tree species evolve and are domesticated, the impact of these events on their genomes, and the utility of genomic information for long-lived species. Further exploration of this data will contribute to the genetic knowledge of these species and provide information regarding targets of selection for breeding application and further the understanding of evolution in these species.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060160', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of California, Davis;', u'USDA ARS National Clonal Germplasm Repository (Davis);', u'UCDavis']]
[u'Natural DEET substitutes that are strong olfactory repellents of mosquitoes and flies', ['Sean Michael Boyle', 'Tom Guda', 'Christine Krause Pham', 'Sana Khalid Tharadra', 'Anupama Dahanukar', 'Anandasankar Ray'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'Despite shortcomings, N,N-Diethyl-3-methylbenzamide (DEET) has remained the gold-standard of insect repellents for >60 years. There are significant impediments to finding improved substitutes because the molecular targets causing repellency are unclear, new chemistries will require significant human-safety testing, and predicted costs for development are exorbitant. Here we identify shared structural features important for repellency and using a supervised chemical-informatics method screen insilico >400,000 compounds to identify >100 natural compounds as candidate repellents. We select 4 candidates that are affordable, 3 approved as safe for human food use, and demonstrate that they are strong olfactory and gustatory repellents to both mosquitoes and Drosophila. The chemicals do not dissolve plastic and have a mild and pleasant odor. These repellents are representative of a new generation of affordable substitutes for DEET that can be rapidly deployed globally because of excellent human-safety profiles, and have great potential in reducing deadly diseases by reducing mosquito-human contact.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060178', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California Riverside']]
[u'Prioritizing 2nd and 3rd order interactions via support vector ranking using sensitivity indices on time series Wnt measurements - Part B', ['shriprakash sinha'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'It is widely known that the sensitivity analysis plays a major role in computing the strength of the influence of involved factors in any phenomena under investigation. When applied to expression profiles of various intra/extracellular factors that form an integral part of a signaling pathway, the variance and density based analysis yields a range of sensitivity indices for individual as well as various combinations of factors. These combinations denote the higher order interactions among the involved factors. Computation of higher order interactions is often time consuming but they give a chance to explore the various combinations that might be of interest in the working mechanism of the pathway. For example, in a range of fourth order combinations among the various factors of the Wnt pathway, it would be easy to assess the influence of the destruction complex formed by APC, AXIN, CSKI and GSK3 interaction. But the effect of these combinations vary over time as measurements of fold changes and deviations in fold changes vary. In this work, after estimating the individual effects of factors for a higher order combination, the individual indices are considered as discriminative features. A combination, then is a multivariate feature set in higher order (>2). With an excessively large number of factors involved in the pathway, it is difficult to search for important combinations in a wide search space over different orders. Exploiting the analogy with the issues of prioritizing webpages using ranking algorithms, for a particular order, a full set of combinations of interactions can then be prioritized based on these features using a powerful ranking algorithm via support vectors. Recording the changing rankings of the combinations over time reveals of how higher order interactions behave within the pathway and when an intervention might be necessary to influence the interaction within the pathway. This could lead to development of time based therapeutic interventions. Code has been made available on Google drive at https://drive.google.com/folderview?id=0B7Kkv8wlhPU- V1Fkd1dMSTd5ak0&usp=sharing', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060228', [u'Systems Biology'], []]
[u'Using reference-free compressed data structures to analyse sequencing reads from thousands of human genomes', ['Dirk-Dominic Dolle', 'Zhicheng Liu', 'Matthew L Cotten', 'Jared T Simpson', 'Zamin Iqbal', 'Richard Durbin', 'Shane McCarthy', 'Thomas Keane'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'We are rapidly approaching the point where we have sequenced millions of human genomes. There is a pressing need for new data structures to store raw sequencing data and efficient algorithms for population scale analysis. Current reference based data formats do not fully exploit the redundancy in population sequencing nor take advantage of shared genetic variation. In recent years, the Burrows-Wheeler transform (BWT) and FM-index have been widely employed as a full text searchable index for read alignment and de novo assembly. We introduce the concept of a population BWT and use it to store and index the sequencing reads of 2,705 samples from the 1000 Genomes Project. A key feature is that as more genomes are added, identical read sequences are increasingly observed and compression becomes more efficient. We assess the support in the 1000 Genomes read data for every base position of two human reference assembly versions, identifying that 3.2 Mbp with population support was lost in the transition from GRCh37 with 13.7 Mbp added to GRCh38. We show that the vast majority of variant alleles can be uniquely described by overlapping 31-mers and show how rapid and accurate SNP and indel genotyping can be carried out across the genomes in the population BWT. We use the population BWT to carry out non-reference queries to search for the presence of all known viral genomes, and discover human T-lymphotropic virus 1 integrations in six samples in a recognised epidemiological distribution.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060186', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Sanger Institute']]
[u'DNA methylation adjusts the specificity of memories depending on the learning context and promotes relearning', ['Stephanie D Biergans', 'Charles Claudianos', 'Judith Reinhard', 'C. Giovanni Galizia'], u'June 22, 2016.', u"The activity of the epigenetic writers DNA methyltransferases (Dnmts) after olfactory reward conditioning is important for both stimulus-specific long-term memory (LTM) formation and extinction. It, however, remains unknown which components of memory formation Dnmts regulate (e.g. associative vs. non-associative) and in what context (e.g. varying training conditions). Here we address these aspects in order to clarify the role of Dnmt-mediated DNA methylation in memory formation. We used a pharmacological Dnmt inhibitor and classical appetitive conditioning in the honeybee Apis mellifera, a well characterized model for classical conditioning. We quantified the effect of DNA methylation on naive odour and sugar responses, and on responses following olfactory reward conditioning. We show that (1) Dnmts do not influence naive odour or sugar responses, (2) Dnmts do not affect the learning of new stimuli, but (3) Dnmts influence odour-coding, i.e. 'correct' (stimulus-specific) LTM formation. Particularly, Dnmts reduce memory specificity when experience is low (one-trial training), and increase memory specificity when experience is high (multiple-trial training), generating an ecologically more useful response to learning. (4) In reversal learning conditions, Dnmts are involved in regulating both excitatory (re-acquisition) and inhibitory (forgetting) processes.", u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060152', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'University of Konstanz']]
[u'High virulence does not necessarily impede viral adaptation to a new host: A case study using a plant RNA virus', ['Anouk Willemsen', 'Mark Peter Zwart', 'Santiago F. Elena'], u'June 22, 2016.', u"Background: When between-host selection pressures predominate, theory suggests that high virulence could hinder between-host transmission of microparasites, and that virulence therefore will evolve to lower levels that optimize between-host transmission. Highly virulent microparasites could also curtail host development, thereby limiting both the host resources available to them and their own within-host effective population size. High virulence might therefore curtail the mutation supply rate and increase the strength with which genetic drift acts on microparasite populations, thereby limiting the potential to adapt to the host and ultimately perhaps the ability to evolve lower virulence. As a first exploration of this hypothesis, we evolved Tobacco etch virus carrying an eGFP fluorescent marker in two semi-permissive host species, Nicotiana benthamiana and Datura stramonium, for which it has a large difference in virulence. We compared the results to those previously obtained in the typical host, Nicotiana tabacum, where we have shown that carriage of eGFP has a high fitness cost and its loss serves as a real-time indicator of adaptation.\nResults: After over half a year of evolution, we sequenced the genomes of the evolved lineages and measured their fitness. During the evolution experiment, marker loss leading to viable virus variants was only observed in one lineage of the host for which the virus has low virulence, D. stramonium. This result was consistent with the observation that there was a fitness cost of eGFP in this host, while surprisingly no fitness cost was observed in the host for which the virus has high virulence, N. benthamiana. Furthermore, in both hosts we observed few lineages with increases in viral fitness, and host-specific convergent evolution at the genomic level was only found in N. benthamiana.\nConclusions: The results of this study do not lend support to the hypothesis that high virulence impedes microparasites' evolution. Rather, they exemplify that jumps between host species can be game changers for evolutionary dynamics. When considering the evolution of genome architecture, host species jumps might play a very important role, by allowing evolutionary intermediates to be competitive.", u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060137', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Instituto de Biolog\xeda Molecular y Celular de Plantas (CSIC-UPV);', u'Institute of Theoretical Physics, University of Cologne']]
[u'Dynamic changes in Sox2 spatio-temporal expression direct the second cell fate decision through Fgf4/Fgfr2 signaling in preimplantation mouse embryos', ['Tapan Kumar Mistri', 'Wibowo Arindrarto', 'Wei Ping Ng', 'Choayang Wang', 'Hiong Lim Leng', 'Lili Sun', 'Ian Chambers', 'Thorsten Wohland', 'Paul Robson'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'Oct4 and Sox2 regulate the expression of target genes such as Nanog, Fgf4, and Utf1, by\nbinding to their respective regulatory motifs. Their functional cooperation is reflected in their\nability to heterodimerise on adjacent cis regulatory elements, the composite Sox/Oct motif.\nGiven that Oct4 and Sox2 regulate many developmental genes, a quantitative analysis of their\nsynergistic action on different Sox/Oct motifs would yield valuable insights into the\nmechanisms of early embryonic development. In this study, we measured binding affinities of\nOct4 and Sox2 to different Sox/Oct motifs using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy\n(FCS). We found that the synergistic binding interaction is driven mainly by the level of Sox2\nin the case of the Sox/Oct motif of Fgf4. Taking into account that Sox2 expression levels\nfluctuate more than Oct4, our finding could explain how Sox2 controls the segregation of the\ncells of the inner cell mass (ICM) into the epiblast (EPI) and the primitive endoderm (PE)\npopulations within the developing rodent blastocyst.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/052530', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Leiden University Medical Center;', u'National University of Singapore;', u'Genome Institute of Singapore;', u'MRC Center for Regenerative Medicine;', u'The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine']]
[u'Disordered clusters of Bak dimers rupture mitochondria during apoptosis', ['Rachel T Uren', "Martin O'Hely", 'Sweta Iyer', 'Ray Bartolo', 'Jason M Brouwer', 'Amber E Alsop', 'Grant Dewson', 'Ruth M Kluck'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'During apoptosis, Bak and Bax undergo major conformational change and form symmetric dimers that coalesce to perforate the mitochondrial outer membrane via an unknown mechanism. We have employed cysteine labelling and linkage analysis to the full length of Bak in mitochondria. This comprehensive survey showed that in each Bak dimer the N-termini are fully solvent-exposed and mobile, the core is highly structured, and the C-termini are flexible but restrained by their contact with the membrane. Dimer-dimer interactions were more labile than the BH3:groove interaction within dimers, suggesting there is no extensive protein interface between dimers. In addition, linkage in the mobile Bak N-terminus (V61C) specifically quantified association between dimers, allowing mathematical simulations of dimer aggregation. Together, our biochemical data and mathematical modelling show that Bak dimers form disordered, compact clusters to generate lipidic pores. These findings provide a molecular explanation for the observed structural heterogeneity of the apoptotic pore.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/059899', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research']]
[u'Age-related differences in self-reported sleep quality predict healthy ageing across multiple domains: a multi-modal cohort of 2406 adults', ['Andrew Gadie', 'Meredith Shafto', 'Yue Leng', 'Rogier A. Kievit'], u'June 22, 2016.', u'Abstract\nBackground: Sleep is a fundamental human behaviour with many functions, and disruptions to sleep can lead to a variety of adverse health outcomes. Previous research suggests that age can impair sleep quality, contributing to age-related declines in health. In the current study we examine lifespan changes in self-reported sleep quality and their associations with health outcomes across four domains: Physical Health, Cognitive Health, Mental Health and Neural Health. Methods: This paper reports on analyses of a large (N=2406) sample of healthy adults (age 18-98) from the Cambridge Centre for Ageing and Neuroscience (Cam-CAN; www.cam-can.com) cohort. We measured sleep quality (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index) and measures of Physical, Cognitive, Mental, and Neural Health. We use Latent Class Analysis to identify sleep types across the lifespan. Using Bayesian regressions we quantified the presence, and absence, of relationships between sleep quality and health measures and how these are affected by age. Results: Using LCA we identified four sleep types: Good Sleepers (68.1% of the population, most frequent in middle age), Inefficient Sleepers (14.01% of the population, most frequent in old age), Delayed Sleepers (9.28%, most frequent in young adults) and Poor Sleepers (8.5% of the population, most frequent in old age). Second, we find that better sleep is generally associated with better health outcomes, strongly so for mental health, moderately for cognitive and physical health, but not for sleep quality and neural health. Finally, we find little evidence for interactions between sleep quality and age on health outcomes. Conclusions: Lifespan changes in sleep quality are multifaceted and not captured well by summary measures. Instead, we find distinct sleep subtypes that vary in prevalence across the lifespan. Second, better self-reported sleep is associated with better health outcomes, and the strength of these associations differs across health domains. Notably, the absence of associations between sleep quality and white matter suggests that previously observed associations may depend on clinical samples with pathological sleep deficiencies that do not necessarily generalise to healthy cohorts. While our measure of sleep quality is self-reported, these findings suggest that such measures can provide valuable insight when examining large, typically-ageing samples.', u'/content/early/2016/06/22/060145', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC-CBSU;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'UCSF']]
