[u'Meta-analysis of 2,104 trios provides support for 10 novel candidate genes for intellectual disability', ['Stefan H. Lelieveld', 'Margot R.F. Reijnders', 'Rolph Pfundt', 'Helger G. Yntema', 'Erik-Jan Kamsteeg', 'Petra de Vries', 'Bert B.A. de Vries', 'Marjolein H. Willemsen', 'Tjitske Kleefstra', 'Katharina Lohner', 'Maaike Vreeburg', 'Servi Stevens', 'Ineke van der Burgt', 'Ernie M.H.F. Bongers', 'Alexander P.A. Stegmann', 'Patrick Rump', 'Tuula Rinne', 'Marcel R. Nelen', 'Joris A. Veltman', 'Lisenka E.L.M. Vissers', 'Han G. Brunner', 'Christian Gilissen'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'To identify novel candidate intellectual disability genes, we performed a meta-analysis on 2,637 de novo mutations, identified from the exomes of 2,104 ID trios. Statistical analyses identified 10 novel candidate ID genes, including DLG4, PPM1D, RAC1, SMAD6, SON, SOX5, SYNCRIP, TCF20, TLK2 and TRIP12. In addition, we show that these genes are intolerant to non-synonymous variation, and that mutations in these genes are associated with specific clinical ID phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052670', [], [u'Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center;', u'Department of Genetics, University Medical Center Groningen;', u'Department of Clinical Genetics, Maastricht University Medical Centre']]
[u'How human behavior drives the propagation of an emerging infection: the case of the 2014 Chikungunya outbreak in Martinique', ['Benjamin Roche', 'Beatrice Gaillard', 'Lucas Leger', 'Renelise Moutenda', 'Thomas Sochaki', 'Bernard Cazelles', 'Martine Ledrans', 'Alain Blateau', 'Didier Fontenille', 'Manuel Etienne', 'Frederic Simard', 'Marcel Salante', 'Andre Yebakima'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'Understanding the spatio-temporal dynamics of endemic infections is of critical importance for a deeper understanding of pathogen transmission, and for the design of more efficient public health strategies. However, very few studies in this domain have focused on emerging infections, generating a gap of knowledge that hampers epidemiological response planning. Here, we analyze the case of a Chikungunya outbreak that occurred in Martinique in 2014. Using time series estimates from a network of sentinel practitioners covering the entire island, we first analyze the spatio-temporal dynamics and show that the largest city has served as the epicenter of this epidemic. We further show that the epidemic spread from there through two different propagation waves moving northwards and southwards, probably by individuals moving along the road network. We then develop a mathematical model to explore the drivers of the temporal dynamics of this mosquito-borne virus. Finally, we show that human behavior, inferred by a textual analysis of messages published on the social network Twitter, is required to explain the epidemiological dynamics over time. Overall, our results suggest that human behavior has been a key component of the outbreak propagation, and we argue that such results can lead to more efficient public health strategies specifically targeting the propagation process.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052183', [], [u'IRD;', u'Conseil General de la Martinique;', u'Ecole Normale Superieure;', u'UPMC;', u'CIRE Antilles Guyane;', u'Pasteur Institute of Cambodia;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne']]
[u'Systematic Reconstruction of Autism Biology with Multi-Level Whole Exome Analysis', ['Weijun Luo', 'Chaolin Zhang', 'Cory Brouwer'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'Whole exome/genome studies on autism spectrum disorder (ASD) identified thousands of variants, yet not a coherent and systematic disease mechanism. We conduct novel integrated analyses across multiple levels on ASD exomes. These mutations do not recur or replicate at variant level, but significantly and increasingly so at gene and pathway level. Genetic association reveals a novel gene+pathway dual-hit model, better explaining ASD risk than the well-accepted mutation burden model.\nIn multiple analyses with independent datasets, hundreds of variants or genes consistently converge to several canonical pathways. Unlike the reported gene groups or networks, these pathways define novel, relevant, recurrent and systematic ASD biology. At sub-pathway level, most variants disrupt the pathway-related gene functions, and multiple interacting variants spotlight key modules, e.g. cAMP second-messenger system and mGluR signaling regulation by GRK in synapses. At super-pathway level, these distinct pathways are highly interconnected, and further converge to a few biology themes, i.e. synaptic function, morphology and plasticity. Therefore, ASD is a not just multi-genic but a multi-pathway disease.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052878', [], [u'UNC Charlotte;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Genetic overlap between schizophrenia and developmental psychopathology: a longitudinal approach applied to common childhood disorders between age 7 and 15 years', ['Michel G Nivard', 'Suzanne H Gage', 'Jouke-Jan Hottenga', 'Catherina E.M. van Beijsterveldt', 'Abdel Abdellaoui', 'Bart M.L. Baselmans', 'Lannie Ligthart', 'Beate St Pourcain', 'Dorret I Boomsma', 'Marcus M Munafo', 'Christel M Middeldorp'], u'May 11, 2016.', u"Various non-psychotic psychiatric disorders in childhood and adolescence can precede the onset of schizophrenia, but the nature of this relationship remains unclear. We investigated to what extent the association between schizophrenia and psychiatric disorders in childhood is explained by shared genetic risk factors. \nPolygenic risk scores (PRS), reflecting an individual's genetic risk for schizophrenia, were constructed for participants in two birth cohorts (2,588 children from the Netherlands Twin Register (NTR) and 6,127 from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents And Children (ALSPAC)). The associations between schizophrenia PRS and measures of anxiety, depression, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and oppositional defiant disorder/conduct disorder (ODD/CD) were estimated at age 7, 10, 12/13 and 15 years in the two cohorts. Results were then meta-analyzed, and age-effects and differences in the associations between disorders and PRS were formally tested in a meta-regression. \nThe schizophrenia PRS was associated with childhood and adolescent psychopathology Where the association was weaker for ODD/CD at age 7. The associations increased with age this increase was steepest for ADHD and ODD/CD. The results are consistent with a common genetic etiology of schizophrenia and developmental psychopathology as well as with a stronger shared genetic etiology between schizophrenia and adolescent onset psychopathology.\nA multivariate meta-analysis of multiple and repeated observations enabled to optimally use the longitudinal data across diagnoses in order to provide knowledge on how childhood disorders develop into severe adult psychiatric disorders.", u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052829', [], [u'Biological Psychology, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands;', u'University of Bristol, UK;', u'MRC Integrative Epidemiology Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Biological Psychology, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands & Department of Child and Adoles']]
[u'Splice Variants of the SWR1-type Nucleosome Remodeling Factor Domino Have Distinct Functions during Drosophila melanogaster Oogenesis', ['Kenneth Boerner', 'Peter B. B Becker'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'SWR1-type nucleosome remodeling factors replace histone H2A by variants to endow chromatin locally with specialized functionality. In Drosophila melanogaster a single H2A variant, H2A.V, combines functions of mammalian H2A.Z and H2A.X in transcription regulation and DNA damage response. A major role in H2A.V incorporation for the only SWR1-like enzyme in flies, Domino, is assumed, but not well documented in vivo. It is also unclear, whether the two alternatively spliced isoforms, dom-A and dom-B, have redundant or specialized functions. Loss of both DOM isoforms compromises oogenesis causing female sterility. Therefore, we systematically explored roles of the two DOM isoforms during oogenesis using a cell type-specific knockdown approach. Despite their ubiquitous expression, DOM-A and DOM-B have non-redundant functions in germline and soma for egg chamber formation. We show that chromatin incorporation of H2A.V in germline and somatic cells depends on DOM-B, while incorporation in endoreplicating germline nurse cells is independent of DOM. In contrast, DOM-A promotes the removal of H2A.V from stage 5 nurse cells. Remarkably, the two DOM isoforms have distinct functions in cell type-specific development and H2A.V exchange.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052746', [], [u'Biomedical Center and Center for Integrated Protein Science Munich, Ludwig-Maximilians-University']]
[u'A novel independence test for somatic alterations in cancer shows that biology drives mutual exclusivity but chance explains co-occurrence', ['Sander Canisius', 'John Martens', 'Lodewyk Wessels'], u'May 11, 2016.', u"Just like recurrent somatic alterations characterize cancer genes, mutually exclusive or co-occurring alterations across genes suggest functional interactions. Identifying such patterns in large cancer studies thus helps the discovery of unknown interactions. Many studies use Fisher's exact test or simple permutation procedures for this purpose. These tests assume identical gene alteration probabilities across tumors, which is not true for cancer. We show that violating this assumption yields many spurious co-occurrences and misses many mutual exclusivities. We present DISCOVER, a novel statistical test that addresses the problems with common tests. A pan-cancer analysis using DISCOVER finds no evidence for widespread co-occurrence. Most co-occurrences previously detected do not exceed expectation by chance. In contrast, many mutual exclusivities are identified. These cover well known genes involved in the cell cycle and growth factor signaling. Interestingly, also lesser known regulators of the cell cycle and Hedgehog signaling are identified.\n\nAvailability: R and Python implementations of DISCOVER, as well as Jupyter notebooks for reproducing all results and figures from this paper can be found at http://ccb.nki.nl/software/discover .", u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052803', [], [u'The Netherlands Cancer Institute;', u'Erasmus University Medical Center']]
[u'Whole organism lineage tracing by combinatorial and cumulative genome editing', ['Aaron McKenna', 'Gregory Findlay', 'James A Gagnon', 'Marshall Horwitz', 'Alexander Franz F Schier', 'Jay Shendure'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'Multicellular systems develop from single cells through a lineage, but current lineage tracing approaches scale poorly to whole organisms. Here we use genome editing to progressively introduce and accumulate diverse mutations in a DNA barcode over multiple rounds of cell division. The barcode, an array of CRISPR/Cas9 target sites, records lineage relationships in the patterns of mutations shared between cells. In cell culture and zebrafish, we show that rates and patterns of editing are tunable, and that thousands of lineage-informative barcode alleles can be generated. By sampling hundreds of thousands of cells from individual zebrafish, we find that most cells in adult zebrafish organs derive from relatively few embryonic progenitors. Genome editing of synthetic target arrays for lineage tracing (GESTALT) will help generate large-scale maps of cell lineage in multicellular systems.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052712', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Efficient Maximum-Likelihood Inference For The Isolation-With-Initial-Migration Model With Potentially Asymmetric Gene Flow', ['Rui J. Costa', 'Hilde Wilkinson-Herbots'], u'May 11, 2016.', u"The isolation-with-migration (IM) model is commonly used to make inferences about gene flow during speciation, using polymorphism data. However, Becquet and Przeworski (2009) report that the parameter estimates obtained by fitting the IM model are very sensitive to the model's assumptions (including the assumption of constant gene flow until the present). This paper is concerned with the isolation-with-initial-migration (IIM) model of Wilkinson-Herbots (2012), which drops precisely this assumption. In the IIM model, one ancestral population divides into two descendant subpopulations, between which there is an initial period of gene flow and a subsequent period of isolation. We derive a very fast method of fitting an extended version of the IIM model, which also allows for asymmetric gene flow and unequal population sizes. This is a maximum-likelihood method, applicable to data on the number of segregating sites between pairs of DNA sequences from a large number of independent loci. In addition to obtaining parameter estimates, our method can also be used to distinguish between alternative models representing different evolutionary scenarios, by means of likelihood ratio tests. We illustrate the procedure on pairs of Drosophila sequences from approximately 30,000 loci. The computing time needed to fit the most complex version of the model to this data set is only a couple of minutes. The R code to fit the IIM model can be found in the supplementary files of this paper.", u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052894', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Statistical Science, University College London, United Kingdom']]
[u'The Drosophila genes disconnected and disco-related together specify development of adult legs', ['James Mahaffey', 'Juan Rosario'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'In the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, specification of the legs begins during embryogenesis when Wingless signaling induces small groups of cells to form the imaginal disc primordia in the thoracic segments. This signal initiates expression of transcription factors that will later be used to pattern the legs. The paralogous genes disconnected and disco-related encode transcription factors that are expressed in the disc primordia during early embryogenesis, and their expression continues in the leg discs during larval and pupal stages. The importance of these two genes in establishing the leg development trajectory was indicated by our previous observation that ectopic expression of either gene in the wing discs cells caused legs to develop in place of wings. However, because of their redundancy and requirement for survival during embryogenesis, we were unable to define their role in development of the adult legs. Here, we report loss-of-function analyses of the disco genes during development of the legs. We discovered that loss of both genes functions causes both truncation of the distal leg with apparent overgrowth of proximal regions and complete loss of legs and ventral thoracic body patterning. At the molecular level we noted reduction or loss of signaling and transcription factors that pattern the proximal-distal axis of the legs. We conclude from these studies that the disco genes promote leg development through regulation of signaling processes, but also by stabilizing expression of the leg determination gene network.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052811', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'North Carolina State University;', u'Integra laboratories']]
[u'Nicotine affects protein complex rearrangement in Caenorhabditis elegans cells', ['Robert Sobkowiak', 'Andrzej Zielezinski', 'Wojciech M Karlowski', 'Andrzej Lesicki'], u'May 11, 2016.', u"Nicotine may affect cell function by rearranging protein complexes. We aimed to determine nicotine-induced alterations of protein complexes in Caenorhabditis elegans cells, thereby revealing links between nicotine exposure and protein complex modulation. We compared the proteomic alterations induced by low and high nicotine concentrations (0.01 mM and 1 mM) with the control (no nicotine) in vivo by using mass spectrometry (MS)-based techniques, specifically the CTAB discontinuous gel electrophoresis coupled with liquid chromatography (LC)-MS/MS and spectral counting. As a result, we identified dozens of C. elegans proteins that are present exclusively or in higher abundance in either nicotine-treated or untreated worms. Based on these results, we report a network that captures the key protein components of nicotine-induced protein complexes and speculate how the different protein modules relate to their distinct physiological roles. Using functional annotation of detected proteins, we hypothesize that the identified complexes can modulate the energy metabolism and level of oxidative stress. These proteins can also be involved in modulation of gene expression and may be crucial in Alzheimer's disease. The findings reported in our study reveal intracellular interactions of many proteins with cytoskeleton and may contribute to the understanding of the mechanisms of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) signaling and trafficking in cells.", u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052738', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Adam Mickiewicz University']]
[u'Suitability of different mapping algorithms for genome-wide polymorphism scans with Pool-Seq data', ['Robert Kofler', 'Anna Maria Langmueller', 'Pierre Nouhaud', 'Kathrin Anna Otte', 'Christian Schloetterer'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'The cost-effectiveness of sequencing pools of individuals (Pool-Seq) provides the basis for the popularity and wide-spread use of this method for many research questions, ranging from unravelling the genetic basis of complex traits to the clonal evolution of cancer cells. Because the accuracy of Pool-Seq could be affected by many potential sources of error, several studies determined, for example, the influence of the sequencing technology, the library preparation protocol, and mapping parameters. Nevertheless, the impact of the mapping tools has not yet been evaluated. Using simulated and real Pool-Seq data, we demonstrate a substantial impact of the mapping tools leading to characteristic false positives in genome-wide scans. The problem of false positives was particularly pronounced when data with different read lengths and insert sizes were compared. Out of 14 evaluated algorithms novoalign, bwa mem and clc4 are most suitable for mapping Pool-Seq data. Nevertheless, no single algorithm is sufficient for avoiding all false positives. We show that the intersection of the results of two mapping algorithms provides a simple, yet effective strategy to eliminate false positives. We propose that the implementation of a consistent Pool-seq bioinformatics pipeline building on the recommendations of this study can substantially increase the reliability of Pool-Seq results, in particular when libraries generated with different protocols are being compared', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052845', [u'Genomics'], [u'VetMedUni Wien']]
[u'The relative values of the turnover number and the dissociation rate constant determine the definition of the Michaelis-constant', ['Gassan Nazzal'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'Abstract . The Km value is widely used and defined as a measure of the stability of the ES-complex , however, this is true if the first  reaction  step exists in rapid equilibrium and the reaction is activation controlled . This paper will discuss the theoretical limitation of each case of the quasi-steady-state approximation using the statistical thermodynamic and the diffusion theory to define the Km value .', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052514', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Independent author']]
[u'Spatial mnemonic encoding: Theta power decreases co-occur with medial temporal lobe BOLD increases during the usage of the Method of Loci', ['Marie-Chrisin Fellner', 'Gregor Volberg', 'Maria Wimber', 'Markus Goldhacker', 'Mark W Greenlee', 'Simon Hanslmayr'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'The Method of Loci is one, if not the most, efficient mnemonic encoding strategy. This\nstrategy combines the core cognitive processes commonly linked to medial temporal lobe (MTL)\nactivity: spatial processing and associative memory processes. During such tasks fMRI studies consistently demonstrate increases in medial temporal lobe (MTL) activity, while electrophysiological studies have emphasized the important role of theta oscillations (3-8 Hz) in the MTL. How MTL activity is linked to theta oscillatory EEG power, however, is unknown. Specifically, it is not known\nwhether increases or decreases in MTL theta power are associated with increased BOLD signal. To investigate this question we recorded EEG and fMRI while participants used the spatial Method of Loci contrasted to the Pegword Method, a similarly associative but non spatial mnemonic. Surprisingly, the more effective spatial mnemonic induced a pronounced theta power decrease in the left MTL compared to the non-spatial associative mnemonic strategy. This effect was mirrored by\nBOLD signal increases in the MTL. This pattern of results suggests that theta oscillations in the MTL are negatively related to BOLD signal increases. These findings extend the well-known negative relation of alpha/beta oscillations and BOLD signals in the cortex to theta oscillations in the MTL. The results also demonstrate that decreases in theta power can index MTL involvement during encoding.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052720', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ruhr University Bochum;', u'University of Regensburg;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'Maftools: Efficient analysis, visualization and summarization of MAF files from large-scale cohort based cancer studies.', ['Anand Mayakonda', 'H Phillip Koeffler'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'Mutation Annotation Format (MAF) has become a standard file format for storing somatic/germline variants derived from sequencing of large cohort of cancer samples. MAF files contain a list of all variants detected in a sample along with various annotations associated with the putative variant. MAF file forms the basis for many downstream analyses and provides complete landscape of the cohort. Here we introduce maftools - an R package that provides rich source of functions for performing various analyses, visualizations and summarization of MAF files. Maftools uses data.table library for faster processing/summarization and ggplot2 for generating rich and publication quality visualizations. Maftools also takes advantages of S4 class system for better data representation, with easy to use and flexible functions. Availability and Implementation: maftools is implemented as an R package available at https://github.com/PoisonAlien/maftools\nContact: csiamt@nus.edu.sg', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052662', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Cancer Science Institute of Singapore, National University of Singapore, Singapore.']]
[u'Robust high throughput prokaryote de novo assembly and improvement pipeline for Illumina data', ['Andrew J. Page', 'Nishadi De Silva', 'Martin Hunt', 'Michael A. Quail', 'Julian Parkhill', 'Simon R. Harris', 'Thomas D. Otto', 'Jacqueline A. Keane'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'The rapidly reducing cost of bacterial genome sequencing has lead to its routine use in large scale microbial analysis. Though mapping approaches can be used to find differences relative to the reference, many bacteria are subject to constant evolutionary pressures resulting in events such as the loss and gain of mobile genetic elements, horizontal gene transfer through recombination and genomic rearrangements. De novo assembly is the reconstruction of the underlying genome sequence, an essential step to understanding bacterial genome diversity.  Here we present a high throughput bacterial assembly and improvement pipeline that has been used to generate nearly 20,000 draft genome assemblies in public databases. We demonstrate its performance on a public data set of 9,404 genomes. We find all the genes used in MLST schema present in 99.6% of assembled genomes. When tested on low, neutral and high GC organisms, more than 94% of genes were present and completely intact.  The pipeline has proven to be scalable and robust with a wide variety of datasets without requiring human intervention. All of the software is available on GitHub under the GNU GPL open source license.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052688', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Rescuing perishable neuroanatomical information from a threatened biodiversity hotspot: Remote field methods for brain tissue preservation validated by cytoarchitectonic analysis, immunohistochemistry, and X-ray microcomputed tomography', ['Daniel F. Hughes', 'Ellen M. Walker', 'Paul M. Gignac', 'Anais Martinez', 'Kenichiro Negishi', 'Carl S. Lieb', 'Eli Greenbaum', 'Arshad M. Khan'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'Biodiversity hotspots, which harbor more endemic species than elsewhere on Earth, are increasingly threatened. There is a need to accelerate collection efforts in these regions before threatened or endangered species become extinct. The diverse geographical, ecological, genetic, morphological, and behavioral data generated from the on-site collection of an individual specimen are useful for many scientific purposes. However, traditional methods for specimen preparation in the field do not permit researchers to retrieve neuroanatomical data, disregarding potentially useful data for increasing our understanding of brain diversity. These data have helped clarify brain evolution, deciphered relationships between structure and function, and revealed constraints and selective pressures that provide context about the evolution of complex behavior. Here, we report our field-testing of two commonly used laboratory-based techniques for brain preservation while on a collecting expedition in the Congo Basin and Albertine Rift, two poorly known regions associated with the Eastern Afromontane biodiversity hotspot. \nFirst, we found that transcardial perfusion fixation and long-term brain storage, conducted in remote field conditions with no access to cold storage laboratory equipment, had no observable impact on cytoarchitectural features of lizard brain tissue when compared to lizard brain tissue processed under laboratory conditions. Second, field-perfused brain tissue subjected to prolonged post-fixation remained readily compatible with subsequent immunohistochemical detection of neural antigens, with immunostaining that was comparable to that of laboratory-perfused brain tissue. Third, immersion-fixation of lizard brains, prepared under identical environmental conditions, was readily compatible with subsequent iodine-enhanced X-ray microcomputed tomography, which facilitated the non-destructive imaging of the intact brain within its skull. \nIn summary, we have validated multiple approaches to preserving intact lizard brains in remote field conditions with limited access to supplies and a high degree of environmental exposure. This protocol should serve as a malleable framework for researchers attempting to rescue perishable and irreplaceable morphological and molecular data from regions of disappearing biodiversity. Our approach can be harnessed to extend the numbers of species being actively studied by the neuroscience community, by reducing some of the difficulty associated with acquiring brains of animal species that are not readily available in captivity.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052415', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Texas at El Paso;', u'Oklahoma State University Center for Health Sciences']]
[u'Self-driven jamming in growing microbial populations', ['Morgan Delarue', 'Jorn Hartung', 'Carl Schreck', 'Pawel Gniewek', 'Lucy Hu', 'Stephan Herminghaus', 'Oskar Hallatschek'], u'May 11, 2016.', u'In natural settings, microbes tend to grow in dense populations where they need to push against their surroundings to accommodate space for new cells. The associated contact forces play a critical role in a variety of population-level processes, including biofilm formation, the colonization of porous media, and the invasion of biological tissues. Although mechanical forces have been characterized at the single cell level, it remains elusive how collective pushing forces result from the combination of single cell forces. Here, we reveal a collective mechanism of confinement, which we call self- driven jamming, that promotes the build-up of large me- chanical pressures in microbial populations. Microfluidic experiments on budding yeast populations in space-limited environments show that self-driven jamming arises from the gradual formation and sudden collapse of force chains driven by microbial proliferation, extending the framework of driven granular matter. The resulting contact pressures can become large enough to slow down cell growth by delaying the cell cycle in the G1 phase and to strain or even destroy the microenvironment through crack propagation. Our results suggest that self-driven jamming and build-up of large mechanical pressures is a natural ten- dency of microbes growing in confined spaces, contributing to microbial pathogenesis and biofouling.', u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052480', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Departments of Physics and Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720;', u'Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organization G\xf6ttingen, Germany;', u'Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Berkeley, USA.']]
[u'Blind tests of RNA nearest neighbor energy prediction', ['Fang-Chieh Chou', 'Wipapat Kladwang', 'Kalli Kappel', 'Rhiju Das'], u'May 11, 2016.', u"The predictive modeling and design of biologically active RNA molecules requires understanding the energetic balance amongst their basic components. Rapid developments in computer simulation promise increasingly accurate recovery of RNA's nearest neighbor (NN) free energy parameters, but these methods have not been tested in predictive trials or on non-standard nucleotides. Here, we present the first such tests through a RECCES-Rosetta (Reweighting of Energy-function Collection with Conformational Ensemble Sampling in Rosetta) framework that rigorously models conformational entropy, predicts previously unmeasured NN parameters, and estimates these values' systematic uncertainties. RECCES-Rosetta recovers the ten NN parameters for Watson-Crick stacked base pairs and thirty-two single-nucleotide dangling-end parameters with unprecedented accuracies - root-mean-square deviations (RMSD) of 0.28 kcal/mol and 0.41 kcal/mol, respectively. For set-aside test sets, RECCES-Rosetta gives an RMSD of 0.32 kcal/mol on eight stacked pairs involving G-U wobble pairs and an RMSD of 0.99 kcal/mol on seven stacked pairs involving non-standard isocytidine-isoguanosine pairs. To more rigorously assess RECCES-Rosetta, we carried out four blind predictions for stacked pairs involving 2,6-diaminopurine-U pairs, which achieved 0.64 kcal/mol RMSD accuracy when tested by subsequent experiments. Overall, these results establish that computational methods can now blindly predict energetics of basic RNA motifs, including chemically modified variants, with consistently better than 1 kcal/mol accuracy.  Systematic tests indicate that resolving the remaining discrepancies will require energy function improvements beyond simply reweighting component terms, and we propose further blind trials to test such efforts.", u'/content/early/2016/05/11/052621', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford;', u'Stanford University']]
