[u'RsrR: a novel redox sensitive Rrf2 family transcription factor in Streptomyces venezuelae', ['John Tyson Munnoch', 'Ma Teresa Pellicer Martinez', 'Dimitri Svistunenko', 'Jason C Crack', 'Nick E Le Brun', 'Matthew I Hutchings'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Members of the Rrf2 superfamily of transcription factors are widespread in bacteria but their biological functions are largely unknown. The few that have been characterised in detail sense nitric oxide (NsrR), iron limitation (RirA), cysteine availability (CymR) and the iron sulphur (Fe-S) cluster status of the cell (IscR). Here we combine ChIP-seq, ChIP-exo and dRNA-seq with in vitro biochemistry to characterise a new member of the Rrf2 family in the model organism Streptomyces venezuelae. We show that Sven6563 has a redox active [2Fe-2S] cluster and that the switch from oxidized to reduced cluster switches off DNA binding activity. We have named the protein RsrR for Redox sensitive response Regulator. Binding site positions at target promoters combined with expression data suggest RsrR acts primarily as a repressor, like other Rrf2 proteins. ChIP shows that RsrR can bind to class 1 target promoters containing an 11-3-11bp inverted repeat motif and class 2 target promoters containing a single 11 bp motif. All 630 ChIP-exo peaks contain at least one motif, suggesting a global role for RsrR. However, the strongest targets are class 1 and include NAD(P)+ dependent enzymes, NAD(P)+ biosynthetic enzymes, the NADH and NADPH dehydrogenases and a putative NAD(P)+ binding regulator that is divergently transcribed from rsrR. Thus, our data suggest RsrR senses redox changes in the cell and has a primary role in regulating NAD(P)H metabolism.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/050989', [], [u'University of East Anglia;', u'University of Essex']]
[u'Uncovering the genomic basis of local adaptation by coherent synthesis of associations with phenotypes and home environments', ['Jesse Lasky', 'Matthew Reimherr'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'A substantial portion of intraspecific diversity is associated with local adaptation to environment, which is driven by genotype-by-environment interactions (G\xd7E) for fitness. Local adaptation is often studied via 1) multiple common garden experiments comparing performance of genotypes in different environments and 2) sequencing genotypes from multiple locations and characterizing geographic patterns in allele frequency. Both approaches aim to identify the same pattern (local adaptation), yet the complementary information from each approach has not been coherently integrated into a modeling framework. Here, we develop a genome-wide association model of genotype interactions with continuous environmental gradients (G\xd7E). We employ an imputation approach to synthesize evidence from common garden and genome-environment associations, allowing us to identify loci exhibiting climatic clines where alleles are associated with higher fitness in home environments. We apply this model to published data on natural Arabidopsis thaliana accessions. Our approach reveals candidate genes for local adaptation based on known involvement in environmental stress response. Most outlier SNPs exhibit home allele advantage and fitness tradeoffs along climate gradients, suggesting selective gradients may maintain allelic clines. SNPs exhibiting G\xd7E associations with fitness are enriched in genic regions, putative partial selective sweeps, and G\xd7E associations with an important adaptive phenotype (flowering time). We discuss extensions for situations where only adaptive phenotypes other than fitness are available. Many types of data may point toward the loci underlying G\xd7E and local adaptation; coherent models of these diverse data provide a principled basis for synthesis.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051110', [], [u'Penn State, United States']]
[u'Reduced spatial integration in the ventral visual cortex underlies face recognition deficits in developmental prosopagnosia', ['Nathaniel Witthoft', 'Sonia Poltoratski', 'Mai Nguyen', 'Golijeh Golarai', 'Alina Liberman', 'Karen F LaRocque', 'Mary E Smith', 'Kalanit Grill-Spector'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Developmental prosopagnosia (DP) is characterized by deficits in face recognition without gross brain abnormalities. However, the neural basis of DP is not well understood. We measured population receptive fields (pRFs) in ventral visual cortex of DPs and typical adults to assess the contribution of spatial integration to face processing. While DPs showed typical retinotopic organization of ventral visual cortex and normal pRF sizes in early visual areas, we found significantly reduced pRF sizes in face-selective regions and in intermediate areas hV4 and VO1. Across both typicals and DPs, face recognition ability correlated positively with pRF size in both face-selective regions and VO1, whereby participants with larger pRFs perform better. However, face recognition ability is correlated with both pRF size and ROI volume only in face-selective regions. These findings suggest that smaller pRF sizes in DP may reflect a deficit in spatial integration affecting holistic processing required for face recognition.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051102', [], [u'Stanford University;', u'Vanderbilt University;', u'Princeton University;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Zika Fetal Neuropathogenesis: Etiology of a Viral Syndrome', ['Robert W Malone', 'Zachary Klase', 'Svetlana Khakhina', 'Michael V Callahan', 'Jill Glasspool-Malone', 'Adriano De Bernardi Schneider'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'The ongoing Zika Virus epidemic in the Americas, and the observed association with both fetal abnormalities (primary microcephaly) and adult autoimmune pathology (Guillain-Barre syndrome) has brought attention to this neglected pathogen.  While initial case studies generated significant interest in the Zika virus outbreak, larger prospective epidemiology and basic virology studies examining the mechanisms of Zika viral infection and associated pathophysiology are only now starting to be published.  In this review, we analyze Zika fetal neuropathogenesis from a comparative pathology perspective, using the historic metaphor of TORCH viral pathogenesis to provide context.  By drawing parallels to other viral infections of the fetus, we identify common themes and mechanisms that may illuminate the observed pathology.  The existing data on the susceptibility of various cells to both Zika and other flavivirus infections are summarized.  Finally, we highlight relevant aspects of the known molecular mechanisms of flavivirus replication.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/050674', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Atheric Pharmaceutical;', u'University of the Sciences;', u'Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'University of North Carolina']]
[u'Serotonin-dependent kinetics of bursts of feeding underlie a graded response to food availability', ['Kyung Suk Lee', 'Shachar Iwanir', 'Ronen Kopito', 'Monika Scholz', 'David Biron', 'Erel Levine'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Animals integrate physiological and environmental signals to modulate their food uptake. Failure to regulate feeding may have devastating results, including obesity and diabetes, underscoring the importance of understanding its underlying mechanisms. The nematode C. elegans, whose food uptake consists of pumping bacteria from the environment into the gut, provides excellent opportunities for discovering principles of conserved regulatory mechanisms. Here we show that worms implement a graded feeding response to the concentration of environmental bacteria by modulating a commitment to bursts of fast pumping. Using longterm, high-resolution, longitudinal recordings of feeding dynamics under defined conditions, we find that the frequency and duration of pumping bursts increase and the duration of long pauses diminishes in environments richer in bacteria. The bioamine serotonin, a known feeding regulator in metazoa, is required for food-dependent induction of bursts as well as for maintaining their high rate of pumping through two distinct mechanisms. Following this phenotype quantitatively we identify the essential serotonergic neurons and the differential roles of distinct families of serotonin receptors. We propose that regulation of bursts is a conserved mechanism of behavior and motor control.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051086', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Department of Physics and Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138;', u'Department of Physics and the James Franck Institute, The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637']]
[u'Demographic and immune-based selection shifts before and after European contact inferred from 50 ancient and modern exomes from the Northwest Coast of North America', ['John Lindo', 'Emilia Huerta-Sanchez', 'Shigeki Nakagome', 'Morten Rasmussen', 'Barbara Petzelt', 'Joycellyn Mitchell', 'Jerome S Cybulski', 'Eske Willerslev', 'Michael DeGiorgio', 'Ripan S Malhi'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'The susceptibility of Native Americans to infectious disease has been postulated as a major factor for their population decline after European contact. To investigate if a preexisting genetic component contributed to this phenomenon, we analyzed 50 exomes of both ancient and modern individuals from the Northwest Coast of North America, dating from before and after European contact. We confirmed the genetic continuity between the ancient and modern individuals and modeled the population collapse after European contact, inferring a 57% reduction in effective population size. We also identified signatures of positive selection on immune-related genes in the ancient but not the modern group. The strongest selection signal in the ancients came from the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) gene HLA-DQA1, with alleles that are close to fixation. The important immune function of HLA-DQA1 supports an ancient adaptation to the environments of the Americas. The modern individuals show a marked decrease in the frequency of the associated alleles (the most pronounced variant showing a 64% difference). This decrease is likely due to the environmental change associated with European colonization, which resulted in a shift of selection pressures, whereby negative selection may have acted on the same gene after contact. Furthermore, the selection pressure shift could correlate to the European-borne epidemics of the 1800s, suffered in the Northwest Coast region. This is among the first studies to examine a single population through time and exemplifies the power of such studies in uncovering nuanced demographic and adaptive histories.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051078', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Chicago;', u'University of California at Merced;', u'Stanford University;', u'Metlakatla Treaty Office;', u'Canadian Museum of History;', u'Centre for GeoGenetics, Natural History Museum of Denmark;', u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana']]
[u'How strongly does appetite counter weight loss? Quantification of the homeostatic control of human energy intake', ['David Polidori', 'Arjun Sanghvi', 'Randy Seeley', 'Kevin D Hall'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Objective: To quantify the homeostatic feedback control of energy intake in response to long-term covert manipulation of energy balance in free-living humans. \n\nMethods: We used a validated mathematical method to calculate energy intake changes during a 52 week placebo-controlled trial in 153 patients treated with canagliflozin, a sodium glucose co-transporter inhibitor that increases urinary glucose excretion thereby resulting in weight loss without patients being directly aware of the energy deficit. We analyzed the relationship between the body weight time course and the calculated energy intake changes using principles from engineering control theory.\n\nResults: We discovered that weight loss leads to a proportional homeostatic drive to increase energy intake above baseline by ~100 kcal/day per kg of lost weight - an amount more than 3-fold larger than the corresponding energy expenditure adaptations. \n\nConclusions: While energy expenditure adaptations are often thought to be the main reason for slowing of weight loss and subsequent regain, feedback control of energy intake plays an even larger role and helps explain why long-term maintenance of a reduced body weight is so difficult.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051045', [u'Physiology'], [u'Janssen Research & Development, LLC.;', u'NIDDK/NIH;', u'University of Michigan;', u'National Institutes of Health']]
[u'Soil Protists in Three Neotropical Rainforests are Hyperdiverse and Dominated by Parasites', ['Frederic Mahe', 'Colomban de Vargas', 'David Bass', 'Lucas Czech', 'Alexandros Stamatakis', 'Enrique Lara', 'Jordan Mayor', 'John Bunge', 'Sarah Sernaker', 'Tobias Siemensmeyer', 'Isabelle Trautmann', 'Sarah Romac', 'Cedric Berney', 'Alexey Kozlov', 'Edward Mitchell', 'Christophe Seppey', 'David Singer', 'Elianne Egge', 'Rainer Wirth', 'Gabriel Trueba', 'Micah Dunthorn'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Although animals and plants in tropical rainforests are known to be hyperdiverse within and between communities, it is unknown if similar patterns are reflected at the microbial scale with unicellular eukaryotes or protists. Using environmental DNA sequencing of soils sampled in rainforests from Costa Rica, Panama, and Ecuador, we found that the Apicomplexa dominated the protist communities; these parasites potentially promote animal diversity in the forests by reducing population growth rates in a density-dependent manner similar to the Janzen-Connell hypothesis for tropical trees. Extremely high OTU diversity and high OTU turnover between samples within the same forests suggest that protists, not arthropods, are the most diverse eukaryotes in tropical rainforests, and that rainforest soil protists are at least as diverse, and potentially more diverse, than those in the marine plankton.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/050997', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Kaiserslautern;', u'Station Biologique de Roscoff;', u'The Natural History Museum London;', u'Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies;', u'HITS gGmbH;', u'Universite de Neuchatel;', u'Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of Oslo;', u'Universidad San Francisco de Quito']]
[u'Artefactual origin of biphasic cortical spike-LFP correlation', ['Michael Okun'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Electrophysiological data acquisition systems introduce various distortions into the signals they record. While such distortions were discussed previously, their effects are often not appreciated. Here I show that the biphasic shape of cortical spike-triggered LFP average (stLFP), reported in multiple studies, is likely an artefact introduced by high-pass filter of the neural data acquisition system when the actual stLFP has a single trough around the zero lag.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051029', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London']]
[u'Origin of modern syphilis and emergence of a contemporary pandemic cluster', ['Natasha Arora', 'Verena J. J Schuenemann', 'Gunter Jager', 'Alexander Peltzer', 'Alexander Seitz', 'Alexander Herbig', 'Michal Strouhal', 'Linda Grillova', 'Leonor Sanchez-Buso', 'Denise Kuhnert', 'Kirsten I. I Bos', 'Leyla Rivero Rivero Davis', 'Lenka Mikalova', 'Sylvia Bruisten', 'Peter Komericki', 'Patrick French', 'Paul R. R Grant', 'Maria A Pando', 'Lucia Gallo Vaulet', 'Marcelo Rodriguez-Fermepin', 'Antonio Martinez', 'Arturo Centurion-Lara', 'Lorenzo Giacani', 'Steven J. J Norris', 'David Smajs', 'Philipp P. P Bosshard', 'Fernando Gonzalez-Candelas', 'Kay Nieselt', 'Johannes Krause', 'Homayoun C. C Bagheri'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Syphilis swept across the world in the 16th century as one of most prominent documented pandemics and is re-emerging worldwide despite the availability of effective antibiotics. Little is known about the genetic patterns in current infections or the evolutionary origins of the disease due to the non-cultivable and clonal nature of the causative bacterium Treponema pallidum subsp. pallidum. In this study, we used DNA capture and next generation sequencing to obtain whole genome data from syphilis patient specimens and from treponemes propagated in laboratory settings. Phylogenetic analyses indicate that the syphilis strains examined here share a common ancestor after the 15th century. Moreover, most contemporary strains are azithromycin resistant and members of a globally dominant cluster named here as SS14- \u03a9. This cluster diversified from a common ancestor in the mid-20th century and has the population genetic and epidemiological features indicative of the emergence of a pandemic strain cluster.', u'/content/early/2016/04/29/051037', [u'Microbiology'], [u'IEU/ZIFM, University of Zurich;', u'Institute for Archaeological Sciences, University of Tubingen, Tubingen, Germany.;', u'Center for Bioinformatics, University of Tubingen, Tubingen, Germany.;', u'Department of Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.;', u'Department of Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic;', u'Unidad Mixta Infecci\xf3on y Salud P\xfablica FISABIO/Universidad de Valencia;', u'Institute of Integrative Biology, Department of Environmental Systems Science, ETH Zurich;', u'Institute for Archaeological Sciences, University of Tubingen, Germany.;', u'IEU, University of Zurich;', u'Public Health Laboratory, GGD Amsterdam, Department of Infectious Diseases, Amsterdam, Netherlands;', u'Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria.;', u'The Mortimer Market Centre CNWL, Camden Provider Services, UK;', u'Department of Clinical Microbiology and Virology, University College London Hospitals NHS Fdn;', u'Instituto de Investigaciones Biomedicas en Retrovirus y SIDA, Universidad de Buenos Aires;', u'Universidad de Buenos Aires, Microbiologia Clinica;', u'Servicio de Dermatologia. Hospital General Universitario de Valencia.;', u'University of Washington, Department of Medicine, Division of Allergy and Infectious Diseases;', u'Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, UTHealth McGovern Medical School, Houston, TX USA.;', u'Department of Dermatology, University Hospital of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.']]
[u'LINES between species: Evolutionary dynamics of LINE-1 retrotransposons across the eukaryotic tree of life', ['Atma M Ivancevic', 'R Daniel Kortschak', 'Terry Bertozzi', 'David L Adelson'], u'April 29, 2016.', u"LINE-1 (L1) retrotransposons are dynamic elements. They have the potential to cause great genomic change due to their ability to 'jump' around the genome and amplify themselves, resulting in the duplication and rearrangement of regulatory DNA. Active L1, in particular, are often thought of as tightly constrained, homologous and ubiquitous elements with well-characterised domain organisation. For the past 30 years, model organisms have been used to define L1s as 6-8kb sequences containing a 5'-UTR, two open reading frames working harmoniously in cis, and a 3'-UTR with a polyA tail.\n\nIn this study, we demonstrate the remarkable and overlooked diversity of L1s via a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis of over 500 species from widely divergent branches of the tree of life. The rapid and recent growth of L1 elements in mammalian species is juxtaposed against their decline in plant species and complete extinction in most reptiles and insects. In fact, some of these previously unexplored mammalian species (e.g. snub-nosed monkey, minke whale) exhibit L1 retrotranspositional 'hyperactivity' far surpassing that of human or mouse. In contrast, non-mammalian L1s have become so varied that the current classification system seems to inadequately capture their structural characteristics. Our findings illustrate how both long-term inherited evolutionary patterns and random bursts of activity in individual species can significantly alter genomes, highlighting the importance of L1 dynamics in eukaryotes.", u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050880', [u'Genomics'], [u'The University of Adelaide;', u'South Australian Museum']]
[u'Neighborhood regulation by lncRNA promoters, transcription, and splicing', ['Jesse M Engreitz', 'Jenna E Haines', 'Glen Munson', 'Jenny Chen', 'Elizabeth M Perez', 'Michael Kane', 'Patrick E McDonel', 'Mitchell Guttman', 'Eric S Lander'], u'April 29, 2016.', u"Mammalian genomes are pervasively transcribed to produce thousands of spliced long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), whose functions remain poorly understood. Because recent evidence has implicated several specific lncRNA loci in the local regulation of gene expression, we sought to determine whether such local regulation is a property of many lncRNA loci. We used genetic manipulations to dissect 12 genomic loci that produce lncRNAs and found that 5 of these loci influence the expression of a neighboring gene in cis. Surprisingly, however, none of these effects required the specific lncRNA transcripts themselves and instead involved general processes associated with their production, including enhancer-like activity of gene promoters, the process of transcription, and the splicing of the transcript. Interestingly, such effects are not limited to lncRNA loci: we found similar effects on local gene expression at 4 of 6 protein-coding loci. These results demonstrate that 'crosstalk' among neighboring genes is a prevalent phenomenon that can involve multiple mechanisms and cis regulatory signals, including a novel role for RNA splicing. These mechanisms may explain the function and evolution of some genomic loci that produce lncRNAs.", u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050948', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT;', u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u"Graph analysis of structural brain networks in Alzheimer's disease", ['Majnu John', 'Toshikazu Ikuta', 'Janina D Ferbinteanu'], u'April 29, 2016.', u"ABSTRACT\nBackground\nChanges in brain connectivity in patients with early Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been investigated using graph analysis.  However, these studies were based on small data sets, explored a limited range of network parameters, and did not focus on more restricted sub-networks, where neurodegenerative processes may introduce more prominent alterations. \nMethods\nIn this study, we constructed structural brain networks out of 87 regions by using data from 135 healthy elders and 100 early AD patients selected from the Open Access Series of Imaging Studies (OASIS) database. We evaluated the graph properties of these networks by investigating metrics of network efficiency, small world properties, segregation, product measures of complexity, and entropy. Because degenerative processes take place at different rates in different brain areas, analysis restricted to sub-networks may reveal changes otherwise undetected. Therefore, we first analyzed the graph properties of a network encompassing all brain areas considered together, and then repeated the analysis after dividing the brain areas into two sub-networks constructed by applying a clustering algorithm.  \nResults\nAt the level of large scale network, the analysis did not reveal differences between AD patients and controls. In contrast, the same analysis performed on the two sub-networks revealed modifications accompanying AD. Changes in small world properties suggested that the ability to engage concomitantly in integration and segregation of information diminished with AD in the sub-network containing the areas of medial temporal lobe known to be heaviest and earliest affected. In contrast, we found that the second network showed an increase in small world propensity, a novel metric that unbiasedly quantifies small world structure. Complexity and entropy measures indicated that the intricacy of connection patterns and structural diversity decreased in both sub-networks.  \nConclusions\nThese results show that neurodegenerative processes impact volumetric networks in a non-global fashion. Our findings provide new quantitative insights into topological principles of structural brain networks and their modifications during early stages of Alzheimer's disease.", u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050708', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, North Shore-LIJ;', u'University of Mississipi;', u'SUNY Downstate Medical Center']]
[u'Efficiency of genome-wide association study in open-pollinated populations', ['Jose Marcelo Soriano Viana', 'Gabriel Borges Mundim', 'Fabyano Fonseca Silva', 'Antonio Augusto F Garcia'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) with plant species have employed inbred lines panels. Thus, to our knowledge, no information is available on theory and efficiency of GWAS in open-pollinated populations. Our objectives are to present quantitative genetics theory for GWAS, evaluate the relative efficiency of GWAS in non-inbred and inbred populations and in an inbred lines panel, and assess factors affecting GWAS, such as linkage disequilibrium (LD), sample size, and quantitative trait locus (QTL) heritability. Fifty samples of 400 individuals from populations with LD were simulated. Individuals were genotyped for 10,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and phenotyped for traits with different degrees of dominance controlled by 10 QTLs and 90 minor genes. The average SNP density was 0.1 centiMorgan and the trait heritabilities were 0.4 and 0.8. We assessed GWAS efficiency based on the power of QTL detection, number of false-positive associations, bias in the estimated QTL position, and range of the significant SNPs for the same QTL. When the LD between a QTL and one or more SNPs is restricted to markers very close to or within the QTL, GWAS in open-pollinated populations can be highly efficient, depending mainly on QTL heritability and sample size. GWAS achieved the highest power of QTL detection, the smallest number of false-positive associations, and the lowest bias in the estimated QTL position for the inbred lines panel correcting for population structure. Under low QTL heritability and reduced sample size, GWAS is ineffective for non-inbred and inbred populations and for inbred lines panel.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050955', [u'Genetics'], [u'Federal University of Vi\xe7osa;', u'University of S\xe3o Paulo']]
[u'Evolutionary mysteries in meiosis.', ['Thomas Lenormand', 'Jan Engelstadter', 'Susan E Johnston', 'Erik Wijnker', 'Christoph R Haag'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Meiosis is a key event of sexual life cycles in eukaryotes. Its mechanistic details have been uncovered in several model organisms and most of its essential features have received various and often contradictory evolutionarily interpretations. In this perspective, we present an overview of these often "weird" features. We discuss the origin of meiosis (origin of ploidy reduction and recombination, two-step meiosis), its secondary modifications (in polyploids or asexuals, inverted meiosis), its importance in punctuating life cycles (meiotic arrests, epigenetic resetting, meiotic asymmetry, meiotic fairness) and features associated with recombination (disjunction constraints, heterochiasmy, crossover interference and hotspots). We present the various evolutionary scenarios and selective pressures that have been proposed to account for these features and we highlight that their evolutionary significance often remains largely mysterious. Resolving these mysteries will likely provide decisive steps towards understanding why sex and recombination is found in the majority of eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050831', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u"Centre d'Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CEFE), CNRS, Montpellier;", u'School of Biological Sciences, The University of Queensland;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Laboratory of Genetics, Wageningen University']]
[u'Complex molecular mixtures under cycling gradients as basis for lifes origins', ['Bert Poolman', 'Jan Spitzer'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'We consider life as a cyclic physicochemical process that makes heredity and Darwinian evolution observable through living cells. We elaborate four principles that constrain current speculations about lifes emergence to natural processes driven by diurnal physicochemical gradients, primarily of temperature, water activity and electromagnetic radiation. First, Earths prebiotic chemical evolution is historically continuous with Darwinian evolution; second, cycling energies of solar radiation are primary drivers of chemical evolution; third, environmental molecular complexity must be high at the origin of life; and fourth, noncovalent molecular forces determine molecular recognition and cellular organization. Under normal physiological conditions of high ionic strength and high macromolecular crowding, hydration interactions (hydrogen bonding), screened electrostatic forces and excluded volume repulsions act over a commensurate distance of about one nanometer. This intermolecular distance governs chemical coevolution of protobiomacromolecular surfaces (nucleic acids, proteins and membranes) toward Darwinian thresholds and living states. The above physicochemical principles of lifes emergence are consistent with the second law of thermodynamics, and with the current facts of molecular microbiology and planetary sciences. New kinds of experimentation with crowded molecular mixtures under oscillating temperature gradients, a PCR-like mechanism of lives origins, can further illuminate how living states come about.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050740', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Groningen;', u'Mallard Creek Polymers']]
[u'Effects of elevated CO2 on predator avoidance behaviour by reef fishes is not altered by experimental test water', ['Philip Munday', 'Megan Welch', 'Bridie Allan', 'Sue-Ann Watson', 'Shannon McMahon', 'Mark I McCormick'], u'April 29, 2016.', u'Pioneering studies into the effects of elevated CO2 on the behaviour of reef fishes often tested high-CO2 reared fish using control water in the test arena. While subsequent studies using rearing treatment water (control or high CO2) in the test arena have confirmed the effects of high CO2 on a range of reef fish behaviours, a further investigation into the use of different test water in the experimental arena is warranted. Here, we used a fully factorial design to test the effect of rearing treatment water (control or high CO2) and experimental test water (control or high CO2) on antipredator responses of larval reef fishes. We tested antipredator behaviour in larval clownfish Amphiprion percula and ambon damselfish Pomacentrus amboinensis, two species that have been used in previous high CO2 experiments. Specifically we tested if: 1) using control or high CO2 water in a two channel flume influenced the response of larval clownfish to predator odour, and 2) using control or high CO2 water in the test arena influenced the escape response of larval damselfish to a startle stimulus. Finally, 3) because the effects of high CO2 on fish behaviour appear to be caused by altered function of the GABA-A neurotransmitter we tested if antipredator behaviours were restored in clownfish treated with a GABA antagonist (gabazine) in high CO2 water. Larval clownfish reared from hatching in control water (496 uatm) strongly avoided predator cue whereas larval clownfish reared from hatching in high CO2 (1022 uatm) were attracted to the predator cue, as has been reported in previous studies. There was no effect of testing fish using control or high CO2 water in the flume. Larval damselfish reared for 4 days in high CO2 (1051 uatm) exhibited a slower response to a startle stimulus, slower escape speed and a shorter escape distance compared with fish reared in control conditions (464 uatm). There was no effect of test water on escape responses. Treatment of high-CO2 reared clownfish with 4 mg l-1 gabazine in high CO2 seawater restored the normal response to predator odour, as has been previously reported with fish tested in control water. Our results show that using control water in the experimental trials did not influence the results of previous studies on antipredator behaviour of reef fishes and also supports the results of novel experiments conducted in natural reef habitat at ambient CO2 levels.', u'/content/early/2016/04/28/050062', [u'Ecology'], [u'James Cook University']]
