[u'Cytomegalovirus Antigenic Mimicry of Human Alloreactive Peptides: A Potential Trigger for Graft versus Host Disease', ['Charles Hall', 'Vishal Koparde', 'Max Jameson-Lee', 'Abdelrhman Elnasseh', 'Allison Scalora', 'Jared Kobulnicky', 'Myrna Serrano', 'Catherine Roberts', 'Gregory Buck', 'Michael Neale', 'Daniel Nixon', 'Amir Toor'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'The association between human cytomegalovirus (hCMV) reactivation and the development of graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) has been observed in stem cell transplantation (SCT).  Seventy seven SCT donor-recipient pairs (DRP) (HLA matched unrelated donor (MUD), n=50;  matched related donor (MRD), n=27) underwent whole exome sequencing to identify single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) generating alloreactive peptide libraries for each DRP (9-mer peptide-HLA complexes); Human CMV CROSS (Cross-Reactive Open Source Sequence) Database was compiled from NCBI; HLA class I binding affinity for each DRPs HLA was calculated by NetMHCpan 2.8 and hCMV- derived 9-mers algorithmically compared to the alloreactive peptide-HLA complex libraries. Short consecutive (6 or greater) amino acid (AA) sequence homology matching hCMV to recipient peptides was considered for HLA-bound-peptide (IC50<500nM) cross reactivity. Of the 70,686 hCMV 9-mers contained within the hCMV CROSS database, 29,658.8 +/- 9038.5 were found to match MRD DRP alloreactive peptides and 52,910.2 +/- 16121.8  matched MUD DRP peptides (Students T-test, p<0.001). In silico analysis revealed multiple high affinity, immunogenic CMV-Human peptide matches (IC50<500 nM) expressed in GVHD-affected tissue-specific manner (proteins expressed at 10 RPKM or greater). hCMV+GVHD was found in 18 patients, 13 developing hCMV viremia before GVHD onset with a subset analysis of 7 instances of hCMV viremia prior to acute GVHD onset (n=3), chronic GVHD (n=2) and acute + chronic GVHD (n=2)  indicating cross reactive peptide expression within affected organs. We propose that based on our analysis and preliminary clinical correlations that hCMV immune cross-reactivity may cause antigenic mimicry of human alloreactive peptides triggering GVHD.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066571', [], [u'Virginia Commonwealth University']]
[u'Capture of Vibrio cholerae by charged polymers inhibits pathogeniciy by inducing a sessile lifestyle', ['Nicolas Perez-Soto', 'Lauren Moule', 'Daniel N Crisan', 'Ignacio Insua', 'Leanne M Taylor-Smith', 'Kerstin Voelz', 'Francisco Fernandez-Trillo', 'Anne Krachler'], u'July 28, 2016.', u"Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of cholera, is an abundant environmental bacterium that can efficiently colonize the intestinal tract and trigger severe diarrheal illness. Motility, and the production of colonization factors and cholera toxin, are fundamental for the establishment of disease. In the aquatic environment, V. cholerae persists by forming avirulent biofilms on zooplankton, phytoplankton and chitin debris. Here, we describe the formation of artificial, biofilm-like communities, driven by exposure of planktonic bacteria to synthetic polymers. This recruitment is extremely rapid and charge-driven, and leads to the formation of initial 'seed clusters' which then recruit additional bacteria to extend in size. Bacteria that become entrapped in these 'forced communities' undergo transcriptional changes in motility and virulence genes, and phenotypically mimic features of environmental biofilm communities by forming a matrix that contains polysaccharide and extracellular DNA. As a result of this lifestyle transition, pathogenicity and in vivo host colonization decrease. These findings highlight the potential of synthetic polymers to disarm pathogens by modulating their lifestlye, without creating selective pressure favoring the emergence of antimicrobial resistant strains.", u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066563', [], [u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'de novo assembly and population genomic survey of natural yeast isolates with the Oxford Nanopore MinION sequencer', ['Benjamin Istace', 'Anne Friedrich', "Leo d'Agata", 'Sebastien Faye', 'Emilie Payen', 'Odette Beluche', 'Claudia Caradec', 'Sabrina Davidas', 'Corinne Cruaud', 'Gianni Liti', 'Arnaud Lemainque', 'Stefan Engelen', 'Patrick Wincker', 'Joseph Schacherer', 'Jean-Marc Aury'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd (Oxford, UK) have recently commercialized MinION, a small and low-cost single-molecule nanopore sequencer, that offers the possibility of sequencing long DNA fragments. The Oxford Nanopore technology is truly disruptive and can sequence small genomes in a matter of seconds. It has the potential to revolutionize genomic applications due to its portability, low-cost, and ease of use compared with existing long reads sequencing technologies. The MinION sequencer enables the rapid sequencing of small eukaryotic genomes, such as the yeast genome. Combined with existing assembler algorithms, near complete genome assemblies can be generated and comprehensive population genomic analyses can be performed. Here, we resequenced the genome of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae S288C strain to evaluate the performance of nanopore-only assemblers. Then we de novo sequenced and assembled the genomes of 21 isolates representative of the S. cerevisiae genetic diversity using the MinION platform. The contiguity of our assemblies was 14 times higher than the Illumina-only assemblies and we obtained one or two long contigs for 65% of the chromosomes. This high continuity allowed us to accurately detect large structural variations across the 21 studied genomes. Moreover, because of the high completeness of the nanopore assemblies, we were able to produce a complete cartography of transposable elements insertions and inspect structural variants that are generally missed using a short-read sequencing strategy.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066613', [], [u'CEA/Genoscope;', u'CNRS/University of Strasbourg;', u'IRCAN']]
[u'Self-Organizing Global Gene Expression Regulated Through Criticality: The Mechanism of Cell Fate Change', ['Masa Tsuchiya', 'Alessandro Giuliani', 'Midori Hashimoto', 'Jekaterina Erenpreisa', 'Kenichi Yoshikawa'], u'July 28, 2016.', u"Background\n\tA fundamental issue in bioscience is to understand the underlying mechanism of the dynamic control of genome-wide expression through the complex temporal-spatial self-organization of the genome regulating cell fate change. We address this issue by elucidating a physically motivated self-organizing mechanism. \n\nPrincipal Findings\n\tBuilding upon transcriptome experimental data for seven distinct cell fates, including early embryonic development, we demonstrate that self-organized criticality (SOC) plays an essential role in the dynamic control of global gene expression regulation at both population and single cell levels. The novel findings are: \ni) Mechanism of cell fate changes: A sandpile-type critical transition self-organizes overall expression into a few transcription response domains (critical states). Cell fate change occurs by means of a dissipative pulse-like global perturbation in self-organization through the erasure of an initial-state critical behaviors (criticality). Most notably, reprograming of the early embryo cells destroys the zygote SOC control to initiate self-organization in the new embryonal genome, which passes through a stochastic overall expression pattern. \nii) Perturbation mechanism of SOC controls: Global perturbations of the SOC controls involve the temporal regulation of critical states. Elucidation of the dynamic interaction of critical states in terminal cell fates reveals that sub-critical states (ensembles of genes for which expression undergoes only very limited changes during the process) act as a 'source' to sustain global perturbations, whereas super-critical states (ensembles of genes for which expression varies greatly) behave as a 'sink' to form a dominant cyclic state-flux with sub-critical states through the cell nuclear environment.  \n \nConclusion and Significance\n\tThe 'whole-genome' level of gene expression regulation, where the collective behavior of low-variance genes plays a central role in genome-wide self-organization, complements the microscopic gene-by-gene fine tuning, and represents a still largely unexplored thermodynamically regulated mechanism responsible for massive genome expression reprogramming.", u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066498', [], [u'Keio University;', u'Istituto Superiore di Sanita;', u'The University of Tokyo;', u'Latvian Biomedical Research & Study Centre;', u'Doshisha University']]
[u'Sensitivity in binding free energies due to protein reorganization', ['Nathan M Lim', 'Lingle Wang', 'Robert Abel', 'David Mobley'], u'July 28, 2016.', u"Tremendous recent improvements in computer hardware, coupled with advances in sampling techniques and force fields, are now allowing protein-ligand binding free energy calculations to be routinely used to aid pharmaceutical drug discovery projects.\nHowever, despite these recent innovations, there are still needs for further improvement in sampling algorithms to more adequately sample protein motion relevant to protein-ligand binding.\nHere, we report our work identifying and studying such clear and remaining needs in the apolar cavity of T4 Lysozyme L99A.\nIn this study, we model recent experimental results that show the progressive opening of the binding pocket in response to a series of homologous ligands.\nEven while using enhanced sampling techniques, we demonstrate that the predicted relative binding free energies (RBFE) are sensitive to the initial protein conformational state.\nParticularly, we highlight the importance of sufficient sampling of protein conformational changes and demonstrate how inclusion of three key protein residues in the 'hot' region of the FEP/REST simulation improves the sampling and resolves this sensitivity.", u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066621', [], [u'University of California, Irvine;', u'Schrodinger']]
[u'Estimate of disease heritability using 4.7 million familial relationships inferred from electronic health records', ['Fernanda Polubriaginof', 'Kayla Quinnies', 'Rami Vanguri', 'Alexandre Yahi', 'Mary Simmerling', 'Iuliana Ionita-Laza', 'Hojjat Salmasian', 'Suzanne Bakken', 'George Hripcsak', 'David Goldstein', 'Krzysztof Kiryluk', 'David K Vawdrey', 'Nicholas P Tatonetti'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Heritability is a fundamental characteristic of human disease essential to the development of a biological understanding of the causes of disease. Traditionally, heritability studies are a laborious process of patient recruitment and phenotype ascertainment. Electronic health records (EHR) passively capture a wide range and depth of clinically relevant data and represent a novel resource for studying heritability of many traits and conditions that are not typically accessible. In addition to a wealth of disease phenotypes, nearly every hospital collects and stores next-of-kin information on the emergency contact forms when a patient is admitted. Until now, these data have gone completely unused for research purposes. We introduce a novel algorithm to infer familial relationships using emergency contact information while maintaining privacy. Here we show that EHR data yield accurate estimates of heritability across all available phenotypes using millions familial relationships mined from emergency contact data at two large academic medical centers. Estimates of heritability were consistent between sites and with previously reported estimates.  Inconsistencies were indicative of limitations and opportunities unique to EHR research. Critically, these analyses provide a novel validation of the utility of electronic health records in inferences about the biological basis of disease.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066068', [], [u'Columbia University;', u'Cornell University;', u'NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital']]
[u'Genome-wide chemical mutagenesis screens allow unbiased saturation of the cancer genome and identification of drug resistance mutations.', ['Jonathan Brammeld', 'Mia Petljak', 'Carla Daniela Robles-Espinoza', 'Stacey Price', 'Syd Barthorpe', 'Patrick Tarpey', 'Constantine Alifrangis', 'Graham Bignell', 'Mathew Garnett', 'Jamie Young', 'Lucy Stebbings', 'Kathryn Beal', 'Michael R Stratton', 'Clara Montagut', 'Alba Dalmases', 'Beatriz Bellosillo', 'Joana Vidal', 'Julio Saez-Rodriguez', 'Luz Garcia Alonso', 'Francesco Iorio', 'Ultan McDermott'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Drug resistance is an almost inevitable consequence of cancer therapy and ultimately proves fatal for the majority of patients. In many cases this is the consequence of specific gene mutations that have the potential to be targeted and re-sensitize the tumor. The means therefore to saturate the genome with point mutations and that avoids chromosome or nucleotide sequence context bias would open the door to identify all possible drug resistance mutations in cancer models. Here we describe such a method for elucidating drug resistance mechanisms using genome-wide chemical mutagenesis allied to next-generation sequencing. We show that chemically mutagenizing the genome of cancer cells dramatically increases the number of drug-resistant clones and allows the detection of both known and novel drug resistance mutations. We have developed an efficient computational process that allows for the rapid identification of involved pathways and druggable targets. Such a priori knowledge would greatly empower serial monitoring strategies for drug resistance in the clinic as well as the development of trials for drug resistant patients.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066555', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'FIMIM and Medical Oncology Department, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona;', u'ADalmases@parcdesalutmar.cat;', u'Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain;', u'WTH Aachen University Hospital, Aachen, Germany;', u'EBI, Hinxton, UK']]
[u'On the independent loci assumption in phylogenomic studies', ['W. Bryan Jennings'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Studies using multi-locus coalescent methods to infer species trees or historical demographic parameters usually require the assumption that the gene tree for each locus (or SNP) is genealogically independent from the gene trees of other sampled loci. In practice, however, researchers have used two different criteria to delimit independent loci in phylogenomic studies. The first criterion, which directly addresses the condition of genealogical independence of sampled loci, considers the long-term effects of homologous recombination and effective population size on linkage between two loci. In contrast, the second criterion, which only considers the single-generation effects of recombination in the meioses of individuals, identifies sampled loci as being independent of each other if they undergo Mendelian independent assortment. Methods that use these criteria to estimate the number of independent loci per genome as well as intra-chromosomal distance thresholds that can be used to delimit independent loci in phylogenomic datasets are reviewed. To compare the efficacy of each criterion, they are applied to two species (an invertebrate and vertebrate) for which relevant genetic and genomic data are available. Although the independent assortment criterion is relatively easy to apply, the results of this study show that it is overly conservative and therefore its use would unfairly restrict the sizes of phylogenomic datasets. It is therefore recommended that researchers only refer to genealogically independent loci when discussing the independent loci assumption in phylogenomics and avoid using terms that may conflate this assumption with independent assortment. Moreover, whenever feasible, researchers should use methods for delimiting putatively independent loci that take into account both homologous recombination and effective population size (i.e., long-term effective recombination).', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066332', [], [u'Museu Nacional, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Waves of chromatin modifications in mouse dendritic cells in response to LPS stimulation', ['Alexis Vandenbon', 'Yutaro Kumagai', 'Mengjie Lin', 'Yutaka Suzuki', 'Kenta Nakai'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Background: The importance of transcription factors (TFs) and epigenetic modifications in the control of gene expression is widely accepted. However, causal relationships between changes in TF binding, histone modifications, and gene expression during the response to extracellular stimuli are not well understood. Here, we analyzed the ordering of these events on a genome-wide scale in dendritic cells (DCs) in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. \n\nResults: We found that LPS-induced increases in several histone modifications at promoters and enhancers occur in \u201cwaves\u201d within specific time frames after stimulation, independent of the timing of transcriptional induction. Integrative analysis with TF binding data revealed potential links between TF binding and histone modifications. Especially, binding by STAT1/2 coincided with induction of H3K9K14ac, and was followed by increases in H3K4me3. In a subset of LPS-induced genes the induction of these modifications was found to be TRIF-, IRF3-, and IFNR-dependent, further supporting a possible role for STAT1/2 in the regulation of these histone modifications.\n\nConclusions: The timing of stimulus-induced, short-term changes in histone modifications appears to be relatively independent of dynamics in activity of regulatory regions. This suggests a lack of a direct causal relationship. Changes in modifications more likely reflect the activation of stimulus-dependent TFs and their interactions with chromatin modifiers.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066472', [], [u'IFReC, Osaka University;', u'Graduate School of Frontier Sciences, The University of Tokyo;', u'The Institute of Medical Science, The University of Tokyo']]
[u'Ingested double-stranded RNA and their mobile RNA derivatives have different requirements for gene silencing in C. elegans.', ['Pravrutha Raman', 'Soriayah Zaghab', 'Edward Traver', 'Antony Jose'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) can cause specific gene silencing upon ingestion in many invertebrates and is being developed as a pesticide to target essential genes in animal pests. Silencing by ingested dsRNA is best understood in the worm C. elegans, where ingested dsRNA is recruited into the RNA interference (RNAi) pathway by the dsRNA-binding protein RDE-4 for eventual gene silencing by Argonaute proteins. Although silencing is thought to rely on both the ingested dsRNA and on additional dsRNA-derived RNAs called mobile RNAs that are transported between cells, the specific forms of RNA that enter different tissues and the proteins they engage to cause silencing are unclear. We found that when RDE-4 was expressed at high levels within a\nsomatic tissue, silencing by ingested dsRNA could occur in rde-4(-) somatic tissues but not in the rde-4(-) germline. Consistent with the spread of dsRNA-derived mobile RNAs between cells, silencing was more efficient in rde-4(-) cells located near rde-4(+) cells. Surprisingly, silencing by mobile RNAs derived from ingested dsRNA could bypass the requirement for a nuclear Argonaute that both ingested dsRNA and mobile RNAs derived from neuronal dsRNA require for silencing the same target gene. Furthermore, silencing by mobile RNAs could bypass inhibition of silencing within a tissue that can be caused by expression from repetitive DNA in that tissue. These results identify possible\nmechanisms that animals can use to evade RNAi and suggest that mobile RNA\nderivatives of ingested dsRNA can bypass these resistance mechanisms and cause gene silencing.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066415', [], [u'University of Maryland, United States']]
[u'A tutorial on how (not) to over-interpret STRUCTURE/ADMIXTURE bar plots', ['Daniel Falush', 'Lucy van Dorp', 'Daniel Lawson'], u'July 28, 2016.', u"Genetic clustering algorithms, implemented in popular programs such as STRUCTURE and ADMIXTURE, have been used extensively in the characterisation of individuals and populations based on genetic data. A successful example is reconstruction of the genetic history of African Americans who are a product of recent admixture between highly differentiated populations. Histories can also be reconstructed using the same procedure for groups which do not have admixture in their recent history, where recent genetic drift is strong or that deviate in other ways from the underlying inference model. Unfortunately, such histories can be misleading. We have implemented an approach (available at www.paintmychromsomes.com) to assessing the goodness of fit of the model using the ancestry 'palettes' estimated by CHROMOPAINTER and apply it to both simulated and real examples. Combining these complementary analyses with additional methods that are designed to test specific hypothesis allows a richer and more robust analysis of recent demographic history based on genetic data.", u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066431', [], [u'University of Bath;', u'University College London;', u'University of Bristol']]
[u'Projected spread of Zika virus in the Americas', ['Qian Zhang', 'Kaiyuan Sun', 'Matteo Chinazzi', 'Ana Pastore-Piontti', 'Natalie E Dean', 'Diana P Rojas', 'Stefano Merler', 'Dina Mistry', 'Piero Poletti', 'Luca Rossi', 'Margaret Bray', 'M. Elizabeth Halloran', 'Ira M Longini', 'Alessandro Vespignani'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'We use a data-driven global stochastic epidemic model to project past and future spread\nof the Zika virus (ZIKV) in the Americas. The model has high spatial and temporal resolution,\nand integrates real-world demographic, human mobility, socioeconomic, temperature,\nand vector density data. We estimate that the first introduction of ZIKV to Brazil likely\noccurred between August 2013 and April 2014. We provide simulated epidemic profiles of\nincident ZIKV infections for several countries in the Americas through December 2016. The\nZIKV epidemic is characterized by slow growth and high spatial and seasonal heterogeneity,\nattributable to the dynamics of the mosquito vector and to the characteristics and mobility\nof the human populations. We project the expected timing and number of cases of microcephaly\nassuming three levels of risk associated with ZIKV infection during the first trimester\nof pregnancy. Our approach represents an early modeling effort aimed at projecting the potential\nmagnitude and timing of the ZIKV epidemic that might be refined as new and more\naccurate data from the region will be available.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066456', [], [u'Northeastern University;', u'University of Florida;', u'Bruno Kessler Foundation;', u'Bocconi University;', u'Institute for Scientific Interchange Foundation;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Genome Editing With Targeted Deaminases', ['Luhan Yang', 'Adrian Briggs', 'Wei Leong Chew', 'Prashant Mali', 'Marc Guell', 'John Aach', 'Daniel Goodman', 'David Cox', 'Yinan Kan', 'Emal Lesha', 'Venkataramanan Soundararajan', 'Feng Zhang', 'George Church'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'Precise genetic modifications are essential for biomedical research and gene therapy. Yet, traditional homology-directed genome editing is limited by the requirements for DNA cleavage, donor DNA template and the endogenous DNA break-repair machinery. Here we present programmable cytidine deaminases that enable site-specific cytidine to thymidine (C-to-T) genomic edits without the need for DNA cleavage. Our targeted deaminases are efficient and specific in Escherichia coli, converting a genomic C-to-T with 13% efficiency and 95% accuracy. Edited cells do not harbor unintended genomic abnormalities. These novel enzymes also function in human cells, leading to a site-specific C-to-T transition in 2.5% of cells with reduced toxicity compared with zinc-finger nucleases. Targeted deaminases therefore represent a platform for safer and effective genome editing in prokaryotes and eukaryotes, especially in systems where DSBs are toxic, such as human stem cells and repetitive elements targeting.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066597', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Harvard']]
[u'Toxoplasma gondii establishes an extensive filamentous network consisting of stable F-actin during replication', ['Javier Periz', 'Jamie Whitelaw', 'Clare Harding', 'Leandro Lemgruber', 'Simon Gras', 'Madita Reimer', 'Robert Insall', 'Markus Meissner'], u'July 28, 2016.', u"Apicomplexan actin is well conserved and clearly important during the parasite's life cycle. Several studies assert that its polymerization kinetics are unusual, permitting only short, unstable F-actin filaments. However, it has not been possible to study actin in vivo, so its physiological role has remained obscure. This has led to functional models which are mutually conflicting, incompatible with actin behavior from other eukaryotes, and cannot explain actin's importance during basic processes such as parasite replication and egress. Here we use a chromobody that specifically binds F-actin to demonstrate that Toxoplasma forms stable actin filaments in vivo. F-actin is not only important for parasite replication, but also forms an extensive network that connects individuals both within and between parasitophorous vacuoles, and allows vesicles to be exchanged between parasites within a vacuole. During host cell egress, prior to motility, this network collapses in a calcium-dependent manner. This study demonstrates unexpected roles of Toxoplasma actin during the asexual life cycle, and proves that formation of F-actin depends on a critical concentration of G-actin, implying a polymerization mechanism similar to mammalian actin.", u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066522', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Evidence accumulation and change rate inference in dynamic environments', ['Adrian E Radillo', 'Alan Veliz-Cuba', 'Kresimir Josic', 'Zachary Kilpatrick'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'In a constantly changing world, animals must account for environmental volatility when making decisions. To appropriately discount older, irrelevant information, they need to learn the rate at which the environment changes. We develop an ideal observer model capable of inferring the present state of the environment along with its rate of change. Key to this computation is updating the posterior probability of all possible changepoint counts. This computation can be challenging, as the number of possibilities grows rapidly with time. However, we show how the computations can be simplified in the continuum limit by a moment closure approximation. The resulting low-dimensional system can be used to infer the environmental state and change rate with accuracy comparable to the ideal observer. The approximate computations can be performed by a neural network model  via a rate-correlation based plasticity rule. We thus show how optimal observers accumulates evidence in changing environments, and map this computation to reduced models which perform inference using plausible neural mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066480', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Houston;', u'University of Dayton;', u'University of Colorado']]
[u'A Dynamic Mode of Mitotic Bookmarking by Transcription Factors', ['Sheila S Teves', 'Luye An', 'Anders S Hansen', 'Liangqi Xie', 'Xavier Darzacq', 'Robert Tjian'], u'July 28, 2016.', u'During mitosis, transcription is shut off, chromatin condenses, and most transcription factors (TFs) are reported to be excluded from chromosomes. How do daughter cells re-establish the original transcription program? Recent discoveries that a select set of TFs remain bound on mitotic chromosomes suggest a potential mechanism for maintaining transcriptional programs through the cell cycle termed mitotic bookmarking. Here we report instead that many TFs remain associated with chromosomes, and that the exclusion previously described is largely a fixation artifact. In particular, most TFs we tested are significantly enriched on mitotic chromosomes. Studies with Sox2 reveal that this mitotic interaction is more dynamic than in interphase and requires both DNA binding and nuclear import. Furthermore, this dynamic mode results from lack of transcriptional activation rather than decreased accessibility of underlying DNA sequences in mitosis. The nature of the cross-linking artifact prompts careful re-examination of the role of TFs in mitotic bookmarking.', u'/content/early/2016/07/28/066464', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of California Berkeley']]
