[u'A synthesis of over 9,000 mass spectrometry experiments reveals the core set of human protein complexes', ['Kevin Drew', 'Chanjae Lee', 'Ryan L. Huizar', 'Fan Tu', 'Blake Borgeson', 'Claire D. McWhite', 'Yun Ma', 'John B. Wallingford', 'Edward M. Marcotte'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Macromolecular protein complexes carry out many of the essential functions of cells, and many genetic diseases arise from disrupting the functions of such complexes. Currently there is great interest in defining the complete set of human protein complexes, but recent published maps lack comprehensive coverage. Here, through the synthesis of over 9,000 published mass spectrometry experiments, we present hu.MAP, the most comprehensive and accurate human protein complex map to date, containing >4,600 total complexes, >7,700 proteins and >56,000 unique interactions, including thousands of confident protein interactions not identified by the original publications. hu.MAP accurately recapitulates known complexes withheld from the learning procedure, which was optimized with the aid of a new quantitative metric (k-cliques) for comparing sets of sets. The vast majority of complexes in our map are significantly enriched with literature annotations and the map overall shows improved coverage of many disease-associated proteins, as we describe in detail for ciliopathies. Using hu.MAP, we predicted and experimentally validated candidate ciliopathy disease genes in vivo in a model vertebrate, discovering CCDC138, WDR90, and KIAA1328 to be new cilia basal body/centriolar satellite proteins, and identifying ANKRD55 as a novel member of the intraflagellar transport machinery. By offering significant improvements to the accuracy and coverage of human protein complexes, hu.MAP (http://proteincomplexes.org) serves as a valuable resource for better understanding the core cellular functions of human proteins and helping to determine mechanistic foundations of human disease.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092361', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Complete fold annotation of the human proteome using a novel structural feature space', ['Sarah Middleton', 'Joseph Illuminati', 'Junhyong Kim'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Recognition of protein structural fold is the starting point for many structure prediction tools and protein function inference. Fold prediction is computationally demanding and recognizing novel folds is difficult such that the majority of proteins have not been annotated for fold classification. Here we describe a new machine learning approach using a novel feature space that can be used for accurate recognition of all 1,221 currently known folds and inference of unknown novel folds. We show that our method achieves better than 96% accuracy even when many folds have only one training example. We demonstrate the utility of this method by predicting the folds of 34,330 human protein domains and showing that these predictions can yield useful insights into biological function, including the prediction of functional motifs relevant to human diseases. Our method can be applied to de novo fold prediction of entire proteomes and identify candidate novel fold families.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092379', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Recent evolution of cestode growth suppression by threespine stickleback', ['Jesse N Weber', 'Natalie C Steinel', 'Kum C Shim', 'Daniel I Bolnick'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Parasites can be a major cause of natural selection on hosts, which consequently evolve a variety of strategies to avoid, eliminate, or tolerate infection. When ecologically similar host populations present disparate infection loads, this natural variation can reveal immunological strategies underlying adaptation to infection and population divergence. For instance, the tapeworm Schistocephalus solidus persistently infects between 0% to 80% of threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) in lakes on Vancouver Island. To test whether these heterogeneous infection rates are due to evolved differences in immunity, we experimentally exposed lab-reared fish from high- and low-infection populations to controlled doses of Schistocephalus.  We observed heritable between-population differences in immune cell abundance: fish from the naturally uninfected population initiated a stronger granulocyte response to Schistocephalus infection, and constitutively generated three-fold more reactive oxygen species (ROS). Despite these immunological differences, Schistocephalus was equally successful at establishing initial infections in both host populations. However, the low-infection fish dramatically suppressed tapeworm growth relative to high-infection fish, and parasite size was intermediate in F1 hybrid hosts. Our results show that stickleback recently evolved heritable variation in their capacity to suppress helminth growth. Comparative data from many from natural populations indicate that growth suppression is widespread but not universal and, when present, is associated with reduced infection prevalence.  Host suppression of helminth somatic growth may be an important immune strategy that aids in parasite clearance, or in mitigating the fitness costs of persistent infection.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/091942', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Montana;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Neural Homophily: Similar Neural Responses Predict Friendship', ['Carolyn Parkinson', 'Adam M Kleinbaum', 'Thalia Wheatley'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'We resemble our friends on a wide range of dimensions (e.g., age, gender), but do similarities between friends reflect deeper similarities in how we perceive, interpret, and respond to the world? To find out, we characterized the social network of a cohort of 279 students, a subset of whom participated in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study involving free-viewing of video stimuli. We compared fMRI response time series between corresponding brain regions across pairs of individuals and found that neural response similarity decreased with increasing distance in the social network. These effects persisted after controlling for demographic similarity. Further, it was possible to accurately classify the distance between individuals in their social network based on the similarity of their fMRI response time series across brain regions. These results suggest that we are exceptionally similar to our friends in how we perceive and react to the world around us.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092130', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth College;', u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'Review: Population Structure in Genetic Studies: Confounding Factors and Mixed Models', ['Lana S. Martin', 'Eleazar Eskin'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'A genome-wide association study (GWAS) seeks to identify genetic variants that contribute to the development and progression of a specific disease. Over the past 10 years, new approaches using mixed models have emerged to mitigate the deleterious effects of population structure and relatedness in association studies. However, developing GWAS techniques to effectively test for association while correcting for population structure is a computational and statistical challenge. Our review motivates the problem of population structure in association studies using laboratory mouse strains and how it can cause false positives associations. We then motivate mixed models in the context of unmodeled factors.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092106', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Influence Of Desire To Belong And Feelings Of Loneliness On Emotional Prosody Perception In Schizophrenia.', ['Rachel Mitchell', 'Krystal Gamez', 'Christian Kohler', 'Monica E Calkins', 'Bruce I Turetsky', 'David I Leitman'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Objective: Humans are social creatures, with desires to connect or belong, producing loneliness when isolated. Individuals with schizophrenia are often more isolated than healthy adults and demonstrate profound social communication impairments such as vocal affect perception (prosody). Loneliness, levels of desire for social connectedness (need to belong, NTB), and their relationship to perception of social communications have not been investigated in schizophrenia. \nMethod: In a sample of 69 individuals (36 SZ), we measured endorsements of loneliness and NTB, and evaluated their putative relationships to clinical symptoms and social communication abilities, as indexed by emotional prosody and pitch perception. \nResults: Loneliness endorsement was highly variable but particularly so in patients, whilst patients endorsed NTB at levels equivalent to healthy controls. In schizophrenia, pitch and prosody acuity were reduced, and prosody perception correlated with NTB. Loneliness, but not desire for social connectedness, correlated with negative symptoms. \nConclusion: Loneliness and negative symptoms likely exert bidirectional effects on each other. Loneliness and desire to form interpersonal attachments may be pivotal in shaping and stimulating social interactions and, subsequently, the ability to perceive social intent through prosody. Intact NTB levels in patients augurs well for cognitive remediation which, target vocal-communication processing to improve social skills.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092080', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Kings College London;', u'Immaculata University;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Genomic analysis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis reveals complex etiology of tuberculosis in Vietnam including frequent introduction and transmission of Beijing lineage and positive selection for EsxW Beijing variant', ['Kathryn E Holt', 'Paul McAdam', 'Vuong Khac Thai Phan', 'Thi Minh Ha Dang', 'Ngoc Lan Nguyen', 'Huu Lan Nguyen', 'Thi Quynh Nhu Nguyen', 'Thuy Thuong Thuong Nguyen', 'Guy Thwaites', 'David J Edwards', 'Kym Pham', 'Jeremy Farrar', 'Chiea Chuen Khor', 'Yik Ying Teo', 'Michael Inouye', 'Maxine Caws', 'Sarah J Dunstan'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Tuberculosis (TB) is a leading cause of death from infectious disease and the global burden is now higher than at any point in history. Despite coordinated efforts to control TB transmission, the factors contributing to its successful spread remain poorly understood. Vietnam is identified as one of 30 high burden countries for TB and MDR-TB with an incidence of 137 TB cases per 100,000 individuals in 2015. Recent phylogenomic analyses of the causative agent Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) in other high-prevalence regions have provided insights into the complex processes underlying TB transmission. Here we examine the transmission dynamics of Mtb isolated from TB patients in Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC), Vietnam via whole genome analysis of 1,635 isolates and comparison with 3,085 isolates from other locations. The genomic data reveal an underlying burden of disease caused by endemic Mtb Lineage 1 associated with activation of long-term latent infection, on top of which is overlaid a three-fold higher burden associated with introduction of exotic Lineage 2 and 4 Mtb strains. We identify frequent transfer of Beijing lineage Mtb into the country, which are associated with higher levels of transmission in this host population than endemic Lineage 1 Mtb. We identify a mutation in the secreted protein EsxW in Beijing strains that also appears to be under positive selection in other Mtb lineages, which could potentially contribute to the enhanced transmission of the Beijing lineage in Vietnamese and other host populations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092189', [u'Genomics'], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, University of Melbourne;', u'Dept of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Bio21 Molecular Science and Biotechnology Institute;', u'Pham Ngoc Thach Hospital for Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, Ho Chi Minh City, District 5, Viet Nam;', u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit, Ho Chi Minh City, District 5, Viet Nam;', u'Dept of Pathology, University of Melbourne;', u'Genome Institute of Singapore, Singapore;', u'Department of Statistics and Applied Probability, National University of Singapore, Singapore;', u'Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, UK;', u'Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, University of Melbourne']]
[u'A meta-analysis of bioinformatics software benchmarks reveals that publication-bias unduly influences software accuracy', ['Paul Gardner', 'James M Paterson', 'Fatemeh Ashari Ghomi', 'Sinan Ugur U Umu', 'Stephanie McGimpsey', 'Aleksandra Pawlik'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Computational biology has provided widely used and powerful software tools for testing and making inferences about biological data. In the face of increasing volumes of data, heuristic methods that trade software speed for mathematical completeness must be employed. \nWe are interested in whether trade-offs between speed and accuracy are reasonable. Also, what factors are indicative of accurate software?\n\nIn this work we mine published benchmarks of computational biology software, we collect data on the relative accuracy and speed of different software and then test to see what factors influence accuracy e.g. speed, author reputation, journal impact or recency.\n\nWe found that author reputation, journal impact, the number of citations, software speed and age are not reliable predictors of software accuracy. This implies that useful bioinformatics software is not only the domain of famous researchers, and that any researchers are capable of producing good software. In addition, we found that there exists an excessive number of slow and inaccurate software tools across multiple sub-disciplines of bioinformatics. Meanwhile, there are very few tools of middling accuracy and speed. We hypothesise that a strong publication bias is unduly influencing the publication and development of bioinformatic software tools. In other words, at present software that is not highly ranked on speed and not highly ranked on accuracy is difficult to publish due to editorial and reviewer practices. This leaves an unfortunate gap in the literature upon which future software refinements could be constructed.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092205', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Canterbury;', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand;', u'McConomy School of Dance, Derry, Ireland;', u'New Zealand eScience Infrastructure, 49 Symonds St, Auckland, New Zealand']]
[u'What rhythmic perception and amusia can tell us about vocal social communication in schizophrenia', ['Rachel L. C Mitchell', 'Krystal Gamez', 'Joshua Bolgar', 'Eli S Neustadter', 'Monica E Calkins', 'Tyler M Moore', 'David I Leitman'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Background: Perceiving social intent throughvocal intonation is impaired in schizophrenia; thisdysprosodia partly arisingfrom impaired pitch perception.Individuals with amusia (tone-deafness) are insensitive to pitch change andalso demonstrate prosody deficits. Sensitivity to rhythm is reduced in amusia when tonal sequences contain pitch changes (polytonic), but is normal for monotonic sequences, suggestingperceptual impairment originates at a secondary processing stage where pitch- and time- relatedcues are yoked.Here, we sought to ascertain: 1) whether schizophreniapatients demonstrate rhythmic deficits, 2) whether suchdeficits are restricted to polytonic sequences, and 3) how pitch and rhythm perception relate to prosodic processing.Methods: Seventy-sixparticipants (33 schizophrenia) completed tasks assessing pitch and prosody perception, as well as monotonic and polytonic rhythmic perception. Results: Increasing tone-deafness correlated with pitch-dependent rhythm detection impairments. Pitch and prosody correlated across all participants. Schizophreniapatients displayed basic time and pitch deficits. Correlations and path analyses indicated prosodic processing is an associatedfunction of pitch and pitch-dependent rhythm perception,with pure temporal processing playing an indirect role.In schizophrenia, deficits in monotonic and polytonic rhythmic perception did not contribute to prosodic processing dysfunction, and montonic rhythmic dysfunction and pitch perception did not covary. Conclusions: Exploring similarities between amusia and schizophrenia focused our characterization of prosodic processing as the function of sub-processes reflecting pitch and time perception,whichare prerequisite for prosodic processing. The uniqueness of dysprosodia in schizophrenia relative to other illnesses may be measured by idiosyncrasy in the pattern and magnitude of the sub-process task relationships.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092098', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Kings College London;', u'Immaculata University;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of Pennsylavnia']]
[u'Updated reference genome sequence and annotation of Mycobacterium bovis AF2122/97', ['Kerri M Malone', 'Damien Farrell', 'Tod P Stuber', 'Olga T Schubert', 'Ruedi Aebersold', 'Suelee Robbe-Austerman', 'Stephen V Gordon'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'We report an update to the reference genome of the bovine tuberculosis bacillus Mycobacterium bovis AF2122/97 generated using an integrative multi-omics approach. Updates include 42 new CDS, 14 modified annotations, 26 SNP corrections, and disclosure that the RD900 locus, previously described as absent from the genome, is in fact present.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092122', [u'Genomics'], [u'School of Veterinary Medicine, University College Dublin, Ireland;', u'Diagnostic Bacteriology Laboratory, National Veterinary Services Laboratories, Ames, Iowa, USA;', u'Department of Biology, Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich, CH-8093, Switzerland']]
[u'Pan-Cancer Analysis Reveals Technical Artifacts in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Germline Variant Calls', ['Alexandra R Buckley', 'Kristopher A Standish', 'Kunal Bhutani', 'Trey Ideker', 'Olivier Harismendy', 'Hannah Carter', 'Nik J Schork'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'The degree to which germline variation drives cancer development and shapes tumor phenotypes remains largely unexplored, possibly due to a lack of large scale publicly available germline data for a cancer cohort. Here we called germline variants on 9,618 cases from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database representing 31 cancer types. We identified batch effects affecting loss of function (LOF) variant calls that can be traced back to differences in the way the sequence data were generated both within and across cancer types. Overall, LOF indel calls were more sensitive to technical artifacts than LOF Single Nucleotide Variant (SNV) calls. In particular, whole genome amplification of DNA prior to sequencing led to an artificially increased burden of LOF indel calls, which confounded association analyses relating germline variants to tumor type despite stringent indel filtering strategies. Due to the inherent noise we chose to remove all 614 amplified DNA samples, including all acute myeloid leukemia and virtually all ovarian cancer samples, from the final dataset. This study demonstrates how insufficient quality control can lead to false positive germline-tumor type associations and draws attention to the need to be sensitive to problems associated with a lack of uniformity in data generation in TCGA data.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092163', [u'Genomics'], [u'UCSD;', u'JCVI']]
[u'Decoding visual stimuli in human brain by using Anatomical Pattern Analysis on fMRI images', ['Muhammad Yousefnezhad', 'Daoqiang Zhang'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'A universal unanswered question in neuroscience and machine learning is whether computers can decode the patterns of the human brain. Multi-Voxels Pattern Analysis (MVPA) is a critical tool for addressing this question. However, there are two challenges in the previous MVPA methods, which include decreasing sparsity and noises in the extracted features and increasing the performance of prediction. In overcoming mentioned challenges, this paper proposes Anatomical Pattern Analysis (APA) for decoding visual stimuli in the human brain. This framework develops a novel anatomical feature extraction method and a new imbalance AdaBoost algorithm for binary classification. Further, it utilizes an Error-Correcting Output Codes (ECOC) method for multi-class prediction. APA can automatically detect active regions for each category of the visual stimuli. Moreover, it enables us to combine homogeneous datasets for applying advanced classification. Experimental studies on 4 visual categories (words, consonants, objects and scrambled photos) demonstrate that the proposed approach achieves superior performance to state-of-the-art methods.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092221', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics']]
[u'Genomic characterization of serial-passaged Ebola virus in a boa constrictor cell line', ['Greg Fedewa', 'Sheli R Radoshitzky', 'Xiaoli Chi', 'Lian Dong', 'Melissa Spear', 'Nicolas Strauli', 'Mark D Stenglein', 'Ryan Hernandez', 'Peter B Jahrling', 'Jens H Kuhn', 'Joseph DeRisi'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Ebola virus disease (EVD) is a viral hemorrhagic fever with a high case-fatality rate in humans. EVD is caused by four members of the filoviral genus Ebolavirus, with Ebola virus (EBOV) being the most notorious one. Although bats are discussed as potential ebolavirus reservoirs, limited data actually support this hypothesis. Glycoprotein 2 (GP2) of reptarenaviruses, known to infect only boa constrictors and pythons, are similar in sequence and structure to ebolaviral glycoprotein 2 (GP2), suggesting that EBOV may be able to infect snake cells. We therefore serially passaged EBOV and a distantly related filovirus, Marburg virus (MARV), in the boa constrictor kidney cell line, JK, and characterized viral growth and mutational frequency by sequencing. We observed that EBOV efficiently infected and replicated in JK cells, but MARV did not. In contrast to most cell lines, EBOV infected JK cells did not result in obvious cytopathic effect (CPE). Genomic characterization of serial-passaged EBOV in JK cells revealed that genomic adaptation was not required for infection. Deep sequencing coverage (>10,000x) demonstrated the existence of only a single non-synonymous variant (EBOV glycoprotein precursor preGP T544I) of unknown significance within the viral population that exhibited a shift in frequency of at least 10% over six passages. Our data suggest that boid snake derived cells are competent for filovirus infection without appreciable genomic adaptation; that cellular filovirus infection without CPE may be more common than currently appreciated; and that there may be significant differences between the natural host spectra of ebolaviruses and marburgviruses.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/091603', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases;', u'Colorado State University;', u'UCSF;', u'Integrated Research Facility at Fort Detrick, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases;', u'UC San Francisco']]
[u'Markov modeling reveals novel intracellular modulation of the human TREK-2 selectivity filter', ['Matthew P Harrigan', 'Keri A McKiernan', 'Veerabahu Shanmugasundaram', 'Rajiah Aldrin Denny', 'Vijay S Pande'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Two-pore domain potassium (K2P) channel ion conductance is regulated by diverse stimuli that directly or indirectly gate the channel selectivity filter (SF). Recent crystal structures for the TREK-2 member of the K2P family reveal distinct "up" and "down" states assumed during activation via mechanical stretch. We performed 195 \u03bcs of all-atom, unbiased molecular dynamics simulations of the TREK-2 channel to probe how membrane stretch regulates the SF gate. Markov modeling reveals a novel "pinched" SF configuration that stretch activation rapidly destabilizes. Free-energy barrier heights calculated for critical steps in the conduction pathway indicate that this pinched state impairs ion conduction. Our simulations predict that this low-conductance state is accessed exclusively in the compressed, "down" conformation in which the intracellular helix arrangement allosterically pinches the SF. By explicitly relating structure to function, we contribute a critical piece of understanding to the evolving K2P puzzle.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092155', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Pfizer, Inc']]
[u'Local Discriminant Hyperalignment for multi-subject fMRI data alignment', ['Muhammad Yousefnezhad', 'Daoqiang Zhang'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Multivariate Pattern (MVP) classification can map different cognitive states to the brain tasks. One of the main challenges in MVP analysis is validating the generated results across subjects. However, analyzing multi-subject fMRI data requires accurate functional alignments between neuronal activities of different subjects, which can rapidly increase the performance and robustness of the final results. Hyperalignment (HA) is one of the most effective functional alignment methods, which can be mathematically formulated by the Canonical Correlation Analysis (CCA) methods. Since HA mostly uses the unsupervised CCA techniques, its solution may not be optimized for MVP analysis. By incorporating the idea of Local Discriminant Analysis (LDA) into CCA, this paper proposes Local Discriminant Hyperalignment (LDHA) as a novel supervised HA method, which can provide better functional alignment for MVP analysis. Indeed, the locality is defined based on the stimuli categories in the train-set, where the correlation between all stimuli in the same category will be maximized and the correlation between distinct categories of stimuli approaches to near zero. Experimental studies on multi-subject MVP analysis confirm that the LDHA method achieves superior performance to other state-of-the-art HA algorithms.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092247', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics']]
[u'Pathogenic ASXL1 somatic variants in reference databases complicate germline variant interpretation for Bohring-Opitz Syndrome', ['Colleen M. Carlston', "Anne O'Donnell-Luria", 'Hunter R. Underhill', 'Beryl B. Cummings', 'Ben Weisburd', 'Eric V. Minikel', 'Daniel P. Birnbaum', 'Tatiana Tvrdik', 'Daniel G. MacArthur', 'Rong Mao'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'The interpretation of genetic variants identified during clinical sequencing has come to rely heavily on reference population databases such as the Exome Aggregation Consortium (ExAC). Genuinely pathogenic variants, particularly in genes associated with severe autosomal dominant conditions, are assumed to be absent or extremely rare in these databases. Clinical exome sequencing of a six-year-old female patient with seizures, global developmental delay, dysmorphic features and failure to thrive identified an ASXL1 variant that was previously reported as causative of Bohring-Opitz syndrome (BOS). Surprisingly, the variant was observed seven times in the ExAC database, presumably in individuals without BOS. Although the BOS phenotype matched the presentation of the patient, the presence of the variant in reference population databases introduced ambiguity in result interpretation. Interrogation of the literature revealed that acquired somatic mosaicism of ASXL1 variants (including known pathogenic variants) during hematopoietic clonal expansion may be concomitant with aging in healthy individuals. We examined all high quality ASXL1 predicted truncating variant calls in the ExAC database and determined the majority could be attributed to this phenomenon. Failure to consider somatic mosaicism may lead to the inaccurate assumption that conditions like Bohring-Opitz syndrome have reduced penetrance, or the misclassification of potentially pathogenic variants.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/090720', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Utah;', u'Broad Institute;', u'ARUP Institute for Clinical and Experimental Pathology']]
[u'Revising mtDNA haplotypes of the ancient Hungarian conquerors with next generation sequencing', ['Endre Neparaczki', 'Klaudia Kocsy', 'Gabor Endre Toth', 'Zoltan Maroti', 'Tibor Kalmar', 'Peter Bihari', 'Istvan Nagy', 'Gyorgy Palfi', 'Erika Molnar', 'Istvan Rasko', 'Tibor Torok'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'As part of the effort to create a high resolution representative sequence database of the medieval Hungarian conquerors we have resequenced the entire mtDNA genome of 24 published ancient samples with Next Generation Sequencing, whose haplotypes had been previously determined with traditional PCR based methods. We show that PCR based methods are prone to erroneous haplotype or haplogroup determination due to ambiguous sequence reads, and many of the resequenced samples had been classified inaccurately. The SNaPshot method applied with published ancient DNA authenticity criteria is the most  straightforward and cheapest PCR based approach for testing a large number of coding region SNP-s, which greatly facilitates correct haplogroup determination.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092239', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Genetics, University of Szeged, Hungary;', u'Department of Pediatrics and Pediatric Health Center, University of Szeged, Faculty of Medicine;', u'SeqOmics Biotechnology Ltd. Morahalom, Hungary;', u'Department of Biological Anthropology University of Szeged, Hungary;', u'Institute of Genetics, Biological Research Centre, Szeged, Hungary']]
[u'Codon based co-occurrence network motifs in human mitochondria', ['Pramod Shinde', 'Camellia Sarkar', 'Sarika Jalan'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) generates a highly divergent pool of alleles even within species that have dispersed\nand expanded in size. On top of that codon position bias plays a relative role in prompting population wide sequence based\nvariations. Codon positions are immensely studied as independent evolutionary genetic markers, however co-evolution of codon\npositions are still largely unexplored. Using 18,411 genome samples, we analyze nucleotide co-occurrences over mitochondrial\nDNA of human sub-populations covering most of the mtDNA diversity on the earth. Our codon based network motif investigation\nreveals that codon position is one of the critical factor to form higher order motifs. It is interesting to report a different evolution\nof Asian genomes than those of the rest which is divulged by motifs in non-coding regions. Most notably, we demonstrate\nthat there are preferences of codon position co-evolution with respect to codon position sensitivity implying the selective role\nof evolutionary processes on fundamental formation of genetic code in terms of codon bias evolution. These network based\nfindings not only recapitulates the established facts regarding the importance of each codon position in providing codon bias\nbut also highlight their preferential role in resulting correlated mutations. Moreover, codon based nucleotide co-occurrence\nprovides framework to investigate important evolutionary insights into human mitochondrial evolutionary genomics.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092262', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Indore']]
[u'A Resource for Assessing Information Processing in the Developing Brain Using EEG and Eye Tracking', ['Nicolas Langer', 'Erica J. Ho', 'Lindsay M. Alexander', 'Helen Y. Xu', 'Renee K. Jozanovic', 'Simon Henin', 'Samantha Cohen', 'Enitan T. Marcelle', 'Lucas C. Parra', 'Michael P. Milham', 'Simon P. Kelly'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'We present a dataset combining electrophysiology and eye tracking intended as a resource for the investigation of information processing in the developing brain. The dataset includes high-density task-based and task-free EEG, eye tracking, and cognitive and behavioral data collected from 126 individuals (ages: 6-44). The task battery spans both the simple/complex and passive/active dimensions to cover a range of approaches prevalent in modern cognitive neuroscience. The active task paradigms facilitate principled deconstruction of core components of task performance in the developing brain, whereas the passive paradigms permit the examination of intrinsic functional network activity during varying amounts of external stimulation. Alongside these neurophysiological data, we include an abbreviated cognitive test battery and questionnaire-based measures of psychiatric functioning. We hope that this dataset will lead to the development of novel assays of neural processes fundamental to information processing, which can be used to index healthy brain development as well as detect pathologic processes.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092213', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Methods of Plasticity Research, Department of Psychology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland;', u'Center for the Developing Brain, Child Mind Institute, New York, NY, USA;', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, City College of New York, New York, USA;', u'Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley, USA']]
[u'An Estradiol-Inducible Promoter Enables Fast, Graduated Control of Gene Expression in Fission Yeast', ['Makoto Ohira', 'David G. Hendrickson', 'R. Scott McIsaac', 'Nicholas Rhind'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'The fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe lacks a diverse toolkit of inducible promoters for experimental manipulation.  Available inducible promoters suffer from slow induction kinetics, limited control of expression levels and/or a requirement for defined growth medium.  In particular, no S. pombe inducible promoter systems exhibit a linear dose response, which would allow expression to be tuned to specific levels.  We have adapted a fast, orthogonal promoter system with a large dynamic range and a linear dose response, based on \u03b2-estradiol-regulated function of the human estrogen receptor, for use in S. pombe.  We show that this promoter system, termed Z3EV, turns on quickly, reaches a maximal induction of over 20 fold, and exhibits a linear dose response over its entire induction range.  We demonstrate the utility of this system by regulating the mitotic inhibitor Wee1 to create a strain in which cell size is regulated by \u03b2-estradiol concentration.  This promoter system will be of great utility for experimentally regulating gene expression in fission yeast.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092338', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'UMass Medical School;', u'Calico Life Sciences']]
[u'Clostridium difficile colonizes alternative nutrient niches during infection across distinct murine gut environments', ['Matthew L Jenior', 'Jhansi L Leslie', 'Vincent B Young', 'Patrick Schloss'], u'December 7, 2016.', u"Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) has grown to be the most prevalent cause of hospital acquired infection in the United States. Susceptibility to CDI is induced by recent antibiotic exposure, which is known to alter the structure of the gut microbiome and to affect the availability of growth nutrients in the gut. We hypothesized that C. difficile is a generalist that adapts its physiology to the nutrients available within the gut. We orally challenged C57BL/6 mice that previously received one of three antibiotics with C. difficile and demonstrated that it was able to colonize the cecum within 18 hours of infection. However, levels of both spore and toxin production, which are known to be affected by nutrient availability, varied between each antibiotic treatment group. To more closely investigate the specific responses of C. difficile as it colonized the cecum, we performed in vivo transcriptional analysis of C. difficile from cecal content of infected mice. This approach revealed variation in expression of genes that drive life-cycle switches as well as metabolic pathways associated with catabolizing a variety of carbon sources such as carbohydrates, amino acids, and amino sugars. To assess which substrates C. difficile was most likely exploiting in each antibiotic-perturbed microbiome, we developed a novel metabolite scoring algorithm within the genome-scale bipartite metabolic network of C. difficile that incorporated both network topology and transcript abundance to infer the likelihood that a given metabolite was acquired from the environment. Applying this approach, we found that C. difficile indeed occupies alternative nutrient niches across each antibiotic-perturbed microbiome and that the highlighted metabolites support significant growth, in vitro. Results from this analysis support the hypothesis that consumption of N-acetyl-D-glucosamine and Stickland fermentation substrates are central components of C. difficile's metabolic strategy and pathogenesis. This work has implications for elucidating specifics of the nutrient niche of C. difficile during infection and may lead to the discovery of targeted measures to prevent C. difficile colonization including potential pre- or probiotic therapies.", u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092304', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Population history of the Sardinian people inferred from whole-genome sequencing', ['Charleston W.K. Chiang', 'Joseph H. Marcus', 'Carlo Sidore', 'Hussein Al-Asadi', 'Magdalena Zoledziewska', 'Maristella Pitzalis', 'Fabio Busonero', 'Andrea Maschio', 'Giorgio Pistis', 'Maristella Steri', 'Andrea Angius', 'Kirk E. Lohmueller', 'Goncalo R Abecasis', 'David Schlessinger', 'Francesco Cucca', 'John Novembre'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'The population of the Mediterranean island of Sardinia has made important contributions to genome-wide association studies of traits and diseases. The history of the Sardinian population has also been the focus of much research, and in recent ancient DNA (aDNA) studies, Sardinia has provided unique insight into the peopling of Europe and the spread of agriculture.  In this study, we analyze whole-genome sequences of 3,514 Sardinians to address hypotheses regarding the founding of Sardinia and its relation to the peopling of Europe, including examining fine-scale substructure, population size history, and signals of admixture.  We find the population of the mountainous Gennargentu region shows elevated genetic isolation with higher levels of ancestry associated with mainland Neolithic farmers and depleted ancestry associated with more recent Bronze Age Steppe migrations on the mainland.  Notably, the Gennargentu region also has elevated levels of pre-Neolithic hunter-gatherer ancestry and increased affinity to Basque populations. Further, allele sharing with pre-Neolithic and Neolithic mainland populations is larger on the X chromosome compared to the autosome, providing evidence for a sex-biased demographic history in Sardinia. These results give new insight to the demography of ancestral Sardinians and help further the understanding of sharing of disease risk alleles between Sardinia and mainland populations.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092148', [u'Genetics'], [u'UCLA;', u'University of Chicago;', u'Istituto di Ricerca Genetica e Biomedica, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche;', u'University of Michigan;', u'National Institute of Aging, NIH;', u'Universita degli Studi di Sassari']]
[u'C. elegans detect the color of pigmented food sources to guide foraging decisions.', ['D. Dipon Ghosh', 'Xin Jin', 'Michael Nitabach'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Here we establish that contrary to expectations, Caenorhabditis elegans nematode worms possess a color discrimination system despite lacking any opsin or other photoreceptor genes. We found that simulated daylight guides C. elegans foraging decisions with respect to harmful bacteria that secrete a blue pigment toxin. By absorbing yellow-orange light, this blue pigment toxin alters the color of light sensed by the worm, and thereby triggers an increase in avoidance of harmful bacteria. These studies thus establish the existence of a color detection system that is distinct from those of other animals. In addition, these studies reveal an unexpected contribution of microbial color display to visual ecology.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092072', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Yale University;', u'Yale School of Medicine']]
[u'Ras/ERK-signalling promotes tRNA synthesis and growth via the RNA polymerase III repressor Maf1 in Drosophila', ['Shrivani Sriskanthadevan-Pirahas', 'Rujuta Deshpande', 'Byoungchun Lee', 'Savraj Grewal'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'The small G-protein Ras is a conserved regulator of cell and tissue growth. These effects of Ras are mediated largely through activation of a canonical RAF-MEK-ERK kinase cascade. An important challenge is to identify how this Ras/ERK pathway alters cellular metabolism to drive growth. Here we report on stimulation of RNA polymerase III (Pol III)-mediated tRNA synthesis as a growth effector of Ras/ERK signalling in Drosophila. We find that activation of Ras/ERK signalling promotes tRNA synthesis both in vivo and in cultured Drosophila S2 cells. We also show that Pol III function is required for Ras/ERK signalling to drive proliferation in both epithelial and stem cells in Drosophila tissues. We find that the transcription factor Myc is required but not sufficient for Ras-mediated stimulation of tRNA synthesis.  Instead we show that the main way that Ras promotes Pol III function and tRNA synthesis is by inhibiting the nuclear localization and function of the Pol III repressor Maf1. We propose that inhibition of Maf1 and stimulation of tRNA synthesis is one way by which Ras signalling enhances protein synthesis to promote cell and tissue growth.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092114', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Calgary']]
[u'Hoxa1 and TALE proteins display cross-regulatory interactions and form a combinatorial binding code on Hoxa1 targets', ['Bony De Kumar', 'Hugo J Parker', 'Ariel Paulson', 'Mark E Parrish', 'Irina Pushel', 'Brian D Slaughter', 'Jay R Unruh', 'Julia B Zeitlinger', 'Robb Krumlauf'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Hoxa1 has diverse functional roles in differentiation and development. We have identified and characterized properties of regions bound by Hoxa1 on a genome-wide basis in differentiating mouse ES cells. Hoxa1 bound regions are enriched for clusters of consensus binding motifs for Hox, Pbx and Meis and many display co-occupancy of Pbx and Meis. Pbx and Meis are members of the TALE family and genome-wide analysis of multiple TALE members (Pbx, Meis, TGIF, Prep1 and Prep2) show that nearly all Hoxa1 targets display occupancy of one or more TALE members. The combinatorial binding patterns of TALE proteins defines distinct classes of Hoxa1 targets and indicates a role as cofactors in modulating the specificity of Hox proteins. We also discovered extensive auto- and cross-regulatory interactions among the Hoxa1 and TALE genes. This study provides new insight into a regulatory network involving combinatorial interactions between Hoxa1 and TALE proteins.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092296', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Stowers Institute for Medical Research']]
[u'Optimizing Communication of Emergency Response Adaptive Randomization Clinical Trials to Potential Participants', ['William J Meurer', 'David Haidar', 'Jason Tehranisa', 'Brendan McEvoy'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Introduction: \nAcute clinical stroke trials are challenging to communicate to patients and families considering participation. Response adaptive randomization (RAR) is a technique that alters the proportion of trial subjects receiving active treatment, based on the outcomes of previous subjects. We aimed to determine how well interactive videos would improve understanding of a simulated acute stroke trial scenario that incorporated a design with RAR. \nMethods:\nWe performed a cross-sectional study of emergency department patients who were without stroke, altered mental status, or critical illness. Subjects viewed a hypothetical stroke and clinical trial scenario. They were randomized into one of four groups with either an RAR or fixed randomization clinical trial design and with either a standard consent video, or an interactive video. \nResults:\nWe enrolled 720 participants. In the RAR group with interactive video, 128 out of 149 (85.9%) of the subjects were able to correctly identify the allocation method, compared to the 172 out of 285 (61.6%) in the RAR group with the uninterrupted video for an absolute increase of 25.6% (95% CI 17,33%). The RAR group with interactive video had a higher odds of correct identification of allocation method (O.R. 2.767, 95% CI [1.011,7.570] while controlling for age, sex, ethnicity, education, self-reported understanding of protocol, stroke awareness and agreement to participate in trial. \nConclusions:\nThe interactive video increased participant understanding of an RAR design in a simulated stroke scenario. Future research should focus on whether acute trial recruitment can be enhanced using similar techniques.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/091819', [], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University Hospitals of Cleveland']]
[u'Cannabis use and risk of schizophrenia: a Mendelian randomization study', ['Julien Vaucher', 'Brendan J Keating', 'Aurelie M Lasserre', 'Wei Gan', 'Donald Lyall', 'Joey Ward', 'Daniel J Smith', 'Jill Pell', 'Naveed Sattar', 'Guillaume Pare', 'Michael Holmes'], u'December 7, 2016.', u'Cannabis use is observationally associated with an increased risk of schizophrenia, however whether the relationship is causal is not known. To determine the nature of the association between cannabis use on risk of schizophrenia using Mendelian randomization (MR) analysis, we used ten genetic variants previously identified to associate with cannabis use in 32,330 individuals. Genetic variants were used in a MR analyses of the association of genetically determined cannabis on risk of schizophrenia in 34,241 cases and 45,604 controls from predominantly European descent. Estimates from MR were compared to a metaanalysis of observational studies reporting effect estimates for ever use of cannabis and risk of schizophrenia or related disorders. Genetically determined use of cannabis was associated with increased risk of schizophrenia (OR of schizophrenia for users vs. non-users of cannabis: 1.37; 95%CI, 1.09 to 1.67; P-value=0.007). The corresponding estimate from observational analysis was 1.50 (95% CI, 1.10 to 2.00; P-value for heterogeneity = 0.88). The genetic instrument did not show evidence of pleiotropy on MR-Egger (Egger test, P-value=0.292) nor on multivariable MR accounting for tobacco exposure (OR of schizophrenia for users vs. nonusers of cannabis, adjusted for ever vs. never smoker: 1.41; 95% CI, 1.09-1.83). Furthermore, the causal estimate remained robust to sensitivity analyses. These findings strongly support a causal association between genetically determined use of cannabis and risk of schizophrenia. Such robust evidence may inform public health message about the risks of cannabis use, especially regarding its potential mental health consequences.', u'/content/early/2016/12/07/092015', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Lausanne University Hospital;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'McMaster University']]
