[u'The relationship between species richness and ecosystem variability is shaped by the mechanism of coexistence', ['Andrew T Tredennick', 'Peter Adler', 'Frederick Adler'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Theory relating species richness to ecosystem variability typically ignores the potential for environmental variability to promote species coexistence. Failure to account for fluctuation- dependent coexistence mechanisms may explain observed deviations from the expected negative diversity-variability relationship, and limits our ability to predict the consequences of future increases in environmental variability. We use a consumer-resource model to explore how coexistence via the temporal storage effect and relative nonlinearity affects ecosystem variability. We show that a positive, rather than negative, diversity-variability relationship is possible when ecosystem function is sampled across a natural gradient in environmental variability and diversity. We also show how fluctuation-dependent coexistence can buffer ecosystem functioning against increasing environmental variability by promoting species richness and portfolio effects. Our work provides a general explanation for variation in observed diversity-variability relationships and highlights the importance of conserving regional species pools to help buffer ecosystems against predicted increases in environmental variability.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098384', [], [u'Utah State University;', u'University of Utah']]
[u'Frequent recombination of pneumococcal capsule highlights future risks of emergence of novel serotypes.', ['Rafal Mostowy', 'Nicholas Croucher', 'Nicola De Maio', 'Claire Chewapreecha', 'Susannah J. Salter', 'Paul Turner', 'David M Aanensen', 'Stephen D Bentley', 'Xavier Didelot', 'Christophe Fraser'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Capsular diversity of Streptococcus pneumoniae constitutes a major obstacle in eliminating the pneumococcal disease. Such diversity is genetically encoded by almost 100 variants of the capsule polysaccharide locus (cps). However, the evolutionary dynamics of the capsule -- the target of the currently used vaccines -- remains not fully understood. Here, using genetic data from 4,469 bacterial isolates, we found cps to be an evolutionary hotspot with elevated substitution and recombination rates. These rates were a consequence of altered selection at this locus, supporting the hypothesis that the capsule has an increased potential to generate novel diversity compared to the rest of the genome. Analysis of twelve serogroups revealed their complex evolutionary history, which was principally driven by recombination with other serogroups and other streptococci. We observed significant variation in recombination rates between different serogroups. This variation could only be partially explained by the lineage-specific recombination rate, the remaining factors being likely driven by serogroup-specific ecology and epidemiology. Finally, we discovered two previously unobserved mosaic serotypes in the densely sampled collection from Mae La, Thailand, here termed 10X and 21X. Our results thus emphasise the strong adaptive potential of the bacterium by its ability to generate novel serotypes by recombination.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098335', [], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Wellcome Trust Genome Campus;', u'Cambodia-Oxford Medical Research Unit;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Network cloning using DNA barcodes', ['Sergey A. Shuvaev', 'Batuhan Baserdem', 'Anthony Zador', 'Alexei A. Koulakov'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'The connections between neurons determine the computations performed by both artificial and biological neural networks. Recently, we have proposed SYNseq, a method for converting the connectivity of a biological network into a form that can exploit the tremendous efficiencies of high-throughput DNA sequencing. In SYNseq, each neuron is tagged with a random sequence of DNA-a "barcode"-and synapses are represented as barcode pairs. SYNseq addresses the analysis problem, reducing a network into a suspension of barcode pairs. Here we formulate a novel and complementary synthesis problem: How can the suspension of barcode pairs be used to "clone" or copy the network back into an uninitialized tabula rasa network? Although this synthesis problem might be expected to be computationally intractable, we find that, surprisingly, this problem can be solved efficiently, using only neuron-local information. We present the "one barcode one cell" (OBOC) algorithm, which forces all barcodes of a given sequence to coalesce into the same neuron, and show that it converges in a number of steps that is a power law of the network size.  Rapid and reliable network cloning with single synapse precision is thus theoretically possible.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098343', [], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
[u'CircularLogo: A light weighted web application to visualize intra-motif dependencies', ['Zhenqing Ye', 'Tao Ma', 'Michael T Kalmbach', 'Jean-Pierre A Kocher', 'Liguo Wang'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Background: The sequence logo has been widely used to represent DNA or RNA motif for more than three decades. Despite its intelligibility and intuitiveness, the sequence logo is unable to display and reveal the intra-motif dependencies and therefore is insufficient to fully characterize nucleotide motifs.  Result: We developed CircularLogo, a web-based interactive application that is able to not only visualize the position-specific nucleotide consensus and diversity but also unveil the intra-motif dependencies. When applying it to HNF6 binding sites and tRNA sequences, we demonstrated CircularLogo could display intra-motif dependencies and reveal biomolecular structure effectively. CircularLogo is implemented in Javascript and Python based on the Django web framework. Source code and a comprehensive manual are freely available at http://circularlogo.sourceforge.net. The web server can be accessed from http://bioinformaticstools.mayo.edu/circularlogo/index.html.\nConclusion: CircularLogo is an innovative web application that specifically designed to visualize and explore intra-motif dependencies.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098327', [], [u'Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Mayo Clinic;', u'Mayo Clinic']]
[u'Frequency-dependent response of Chromobacterium violaceum to sonic stimulation, and altered gene expression associated with enhanced violacein production at 300 Hz', ['Chinmayi Joshi', 'Pooja Patel', 'Abhishek Singh', 'Jinal Sukhadiya', 'Vidhi Shah', 'Vijay Kothari'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Chromobacterium violaceum was subjected to sonic (100-2000 Hz) stimulation, and the effect on its cell yield and quorum sensing regulated pigment (violacein) production was investigated. Sound corresponding to the 300 Hz was found to promote (by 1.52 fold) violacein production the most, with only marginal impact on cell yield. Whole transcriptome analysis revealed that a total of 342 genes (i.e. 4.63% of whole genome) were significantly up-regulated in the sonic stimulated culture. Enhanced violacein production in the sound stimulated culture seems to have stemmed from enhanced expression of the genes involved in glucose metabolism through pentose phosphate pathway, resulting in increased availability of erythrose-4-phosphate, to be used for synthesis of tryptophan, the precursor for violacein synthesis. Multiple ribosomal subunit genes, enzyme coding genes, and those associated with secretion/transport were up-regulated owing to sonic stimulation. This study is a good demonstration of the ability of sound waves to alter bacterial metabolism.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098186', [], [u'Nirma University']]
[u'Stability and critical transitions in mutualistic ecological systems', ['Wenfeng Feng', 'Richard M. Bailey'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Successful conservation of complex ecosystems, their function and associated services, requires deep understanding of their underlying dynamics and potential instabilities. While the study of ecological dynamics is a mature and diverse field, the lack of a general model that uses basic ecological parameters to predict system-level behaviour has allowed unresolved contradictions to persist. Here, we provide a general model of a mutualistic ecological community and show for the first time how the conditions for instability, the nature of ecological collapse, and potential early-warning signals, can be derived from the basic ecological parameters. We also resolve open questions concerning effects of interaction heterogeneity on both resilience and abundance, and discuss their potential trade-off in real systems. This framework provides a basis for rich investigations of ecological system dynamics, and can be generalised across many ecological contexts.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098046', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'A complex multi-locus, multi-allelic genetic architecture underlying the long-term selection-response in the Virginia body weight line of chickens', ['Yanjun Zan', 'Zheya Sheng', 'Lars Ronnegard', 'Christa F Honaker', 'Paul B Siegel', 'Orjan Carlborg'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'The ability of a population to adapt to changes in their living conditions, whether in nature or captivity, often depends on polymorphisms in multiple genes across the genome. In-depth studies of such polygenic adaptations are difficult in natural populations, but can be approached using the resources provided by artificial selection experiments. Here, we dissect the genetic mechanisms involved in long-term selection responses of the Virginia chicken lines, populations that after 40 generations of divergent selection for 56-day body weight display a nine-fold difference in the selected trait. In the F15 generation of an intercross between the divergent lines, 20 loci explained more than 60% of the additive genetic variance for the selected trait. We focused particularly on seven major QTL and found that only two fine-mapped to single, bi-allelic loci; the other five contained linked loci, multiple alleles or were epistatic. This detailed dissection of the polygenic adaptations in the Virginia lines provides a deeper understanding of genome-wide mechanisms involved in the long-term selection responses. The results illustrate that long-term selection responses, even from populations with a limited genetic diversity, can be polygenic and influenced by a range of genetic mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098160', [], [u'Uppsala University;', u'Huazhong Agricultural University;', u'Dalarna University;', u'Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University']]
[u'How does Mg2+ modulate the RNA folding mechanism - a case study of G:C W:W Trans base pair.', ['Antarip Halder', 'Rohit Roy', 'Dhananjay Bhattacharyya', 'Abhijit Mitra'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Reverse Watson-Crick G:C base pairs (G:C W:W Trans) occur frequently in different functional RNAs. It is one of the few base pairs whose gas phase optimized isolated geometry is inconsistent with the corresponding experimental geometry. Several earlier studies indicate that accumulation of positive charge near N7 of guanine, through posttranscriptional modification, direct protonation or coordination with Mg2+, can stabilize the experimental geometry. Interestingly, recent studies reveal significant variation in the position of putatively bound Mg2+. This, in conjunction with recently raised doubts regarding some of the Mg2+ assignments near the imino nitrogen of guanine, is suggestive of the existence of multiple Mg2+ binding modes for this base pair. Our detailed investigation of Mg2+ bound G:C W:W Trans pairs, occurring in high resolution RNA crystal structures, show that they occur in 14 different contexts, 8 out of which display Mg2+ binding at the Hoogsteen edge of guanine. Further examination of occurrences in these 8 contexts led to the characterization of three different Mg2+ binding modes, (i) direct binding via N7 coordination, (ii) direct binding via O6 coordination and (iii) binding via hydrogen bonding interaction with the first shell water molecules. In the crystal structures, the latter two modes are associated with a buckled and propeller twisted geometry of the base pair. Interestingly, respective optimized geometries of these different Mg2+ binding modes (optimized at B3LYP) are consistent with their corresponding experimental geometries. Subsequent interaction energy calculations at MP2 level, and decomposition of its components, suggest that for G:C W:W Trans, Mg2+ binding can fine tune the base pair geometries without compromising with their stability. Our results, therefore, underline the importance of the mode of binding of Mg2+ ions in shaping RNA structure, folding and function.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098079', [], [u'International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad;', u'Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics']]
[u'Patterns of polymorphism at the self-incompatibility locus in 1,083 Arabidopsis thaliana genomes', ['Takashi Tsuchimatsu', 'Pauline Goubet', 'Sophie Gallina', 'Anne-Catherine Holl', 'Isabelle Fobis-Loisy', 'Helene Berges', 'William Marande', 'Elisa Prat', 'Dazhe Meng', 'Quan Long', 'Alexander Platzer', 'Magnus Nordborg', 'Xavier Vekemans', 'Vincent Castric'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Although the transition to selfing in the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana involved the loss of the self-incompatibility (SI) system, it clearly did not occur due to the fixation of a single inactivating mutation at the locus determining the specificities of SI (the S-locus). At least three groups of divergent haplotypes (haplogroups), corresponding to ancient functional S-alleles, have been maintained at this locus, and extensive functional studies have shown that all three carry distinct inactivating mutations. However, the historical process of loss of SI is not well understood, in particular its relation with the last glaciation. Here, we took advantage of recently published genomic re-sequencing data in 1,083 Arabidopsis thaliana accessions that we combined with BAC sequencing to obtain polymorphism information for the whole S-locus region at a species-wide scale. The accessions differed by several major rearrangements including large deletions and inter-haplogroup recombinations, forming a set of haplogroups that are widely distributed throughout the native range and largely overlap geographically. "Relict" A. thaliana accessions that directly derive from glacial refugia are polymorphic at the S-locus, suggesting that the three haplogroups were already present when glacial refugia from the last Ice Age became isolated. Inter-haplogroup recombinant haplotypes were highly frequent, and detailed analysis of recombination breakpoints suggested multiple independent origins. These findings suggest that the complete loss of SI in A. thaliana involved independent self-compatible mutants that arose prior to the last Ice Age, and experienced further rearrangements during post-glacial colonization.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098228', [], [u'Department of Biology, Chiba University;', u'CNRS-Univ Lille;', u'CNRS-ENS Lyon;', u'CNRGV-INRA;', u'USC-GMI;', u'Univ Calgary;', u'Univ Vienna;', u'GMI']]
[u'EEG correlates of working memory performance in females', ['Yuri G. Pavlov', 'Boris Kotchoubey'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Background:  The study investigates oscillatory brain activity during working memory (WM) tasks. The tasks employed varied in two dimensions. First, they differed in complexity from average to highly demanding. Second, we used two types of tasks, which required either only retention of stimulus set or retention and manipulation of the content. We expected to reveal EEG correlates of temporary storage and central executive components of WM and to assess their contribution to individual differences.  Results:  Generally, as compared with the retention condition, manipulation of stimuli in WM was associated with distributed suppression of alpha1 activity and with the increase of the midline theta activity. Load and task dependent decrement of beta1 power was found during task performance. Beta2 power increased with the increasing WM load and did not significantly depend on the type of the task. At the level of individual differences, we found that the high performance (HP) group was characterized by higher alpha rhythm power. The HP group demonstrated task-related increment of theta power in the left anterior area and a gradual increase of theta power at midline area. In contrast, the low performance (LP) group exhibited a drop of theta power in the most challenging condition. HP group was also characterized by stronger desynchronization of beta1 rhythm over the left posterior area in the manipulation condition. In this condition, beta2 power increased in the HP group over anterior areas, but in the LP group over posterior areas.  Conclusions:  WM performance is accompanied by changes in EEG in a broad frequency range from theta to higher beta bands. The most pronounced differences in oscillatory activity between individuals with high and low WM performance can be observed in the most challenging WM task.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098301', [], [u'University of Tuebingen']]
[u'Encoding variable cortical states with short-term spike patterns', ['Bartosz Telenczuk', 'Richard Kempter', 'Gabriel Curio', 'Alain Destexhe'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Neurons in the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) generate synchronised high-frequency (\u223c600\nHz) bursts in response to peripheral stimulation, and single-cell activity is locked to themacro-\nscopic 600 Hz EEG wavelets. The mechanism of burst generation and synchronisation in S1 is\nnot yet understood. Using a Poisson model with refractoriness that was fitted to to unit record-\nings from macaque monkeys, we can explain the synchronisation of neurons as the consequence\nof coincident synaptic inputs, while their high firing precision stems from the large input am-\nplitude combined with a refractory mechanism. This model reproduced also the distribution of\ntemporal spike patterns over repeated presentation of the same stimulus. In addition, the fine\ntemporal details of the spike patterns are representative of the trial-to-trial variations in popu-\nlation excitability and bear upon the mean population activity. The findings are confirmed in a\nmore detailed computational model of a neuron receiving cortical and thalamic inputs through\ndepressing synapses. Our findings show that a simple feedforward processing of peripheral in-\nputs could give rise to neuronal responses with non-trivial temporal and population statistics.\nWe conclude that neural systems could use refractoriness to encode variable cortical states into\nstereotypical short-term spike patterns amenable to processing at neuronal time scales.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098210', [], [u'UNIC, CNRS;', u'Institute for Theoretical Biology, Humboldt University of Berlin;', u'Neurology, Charite - University Medicine Berlin']]
[u'Tracking Real Time Changes in Working Memory Updating and Gating with Event-Based Eye-Blink Rate', ['Rachel Rac-Lubashevsky', 'Heleen Slagter', 'Yoav Kessler'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Effective working memory (WM) functioning depends on the gating process which regulates between maintenance and updating in WM. The present study used event-based eye-blink rate (ebEBR), which presumably reflects phasic striatal dopamine activity, to examine how the cognitive processes of gating and updating separately facilitate flexible updating of WM contents and the potential involvement of dopamine in these processes. Real-time changes in eye-blinks were tracked during performance on the reference-back task, in which demands on these two processes are independently manipulated. In all three experiments, trials which required WM updating, and trials, which required gate switching, were both associated with increased ebEBR. These results may support the prefrontal cortex basal ganglia WM model (PBWM) by linking updating and gating to striatal dopaminergic activity. In Experiment 3, ebEBR was used to determine what triggers gate switching. We found that switching to an updating mode (gate opening) is more stimulus driven and retroactive than switching to a maintenance mode, which is more context driven. Together, these findings show that ebEBR, a cheap, non-invasive, easy-to-use measure, can be used to track changes in WM demands during task performance, and hence, possibly of striatal dopamine activity.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098103', [], [u'Ben Gurion University of the Negev;', u'University of Amsterdam;', u'Ben-Gurion University of the Negev']]
[u'Adaptive Cortical Parcellations for Source Reconstructed EEG/MEG Connectomes', ['Seyedeh-Rezvan Farahibozorg', 'Richard N Henson', 'Olaf Hauk'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'There is growing interest in the rich temporal and spectral properties of the functional connectome of the brain that are provided by Electro- and Magnetoencephalography (EEG/MEG). However, the problem of leakage between brain sources that arises when reconstructing brain activity from EEG/MEG recordings outside the head makes it difficult to distinguish true connections from spurious connections, even when connections are based on measures that ignore zero-lag dependencies. In particular, standard anatomical parcellations for potential cortical sources tend to over- or under-sample the real spatial resolution of EEG/MEG. By using information from the cross-talk functions (CTFs) that objectively describe leakage for a given sensor configuration and distributed source reconstruction method, we introduce methods for optimising the number of regions of interest (ROIs) while simultaneously minimising the leakage between them. More specifically, we compare two image segmentation algorithms: 1) a split-and-merge (SaM) algorithm based on standard anatomical parcellations and 2) a region growing (RG) algorithm based on all the brain vertices with no prior parcellation. Interestingly, when applied to minimum-norm reconstructions of data from 102 magnetometers, 204 planar gradiometers and 70 EEG sensors, both algorithms yielded approximately 70 ROIs despite their different starting points, suggesting that this reflects the resolution limit of this particular sensor configuration and reconstruction method. Importantly, when compared against standard anatomical parcellations, we found significant improvements in both sensitivity and distinguishability of the ROIs. Furthermore, by simulating a realistic connectome with a single hub, we show that the choice of parcellation can have significant impact on the outcome of graph theoretical analysis of the source-reconstructed EEG/MEG. Thus, CTF-informed, adaptive parcellations allow a more accurate reconstruction of functional connectomes from EEG/MEG data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/097774', [], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'MRC Cognition & Brain Sciences Unit']]
[u'Genome-wide mutational diversity in Escherichia coli population evolving in prolonged stationary-phase', ['Savita Chib', 'Farhan Ali', 'Aswin Sai Narain Seshasayee'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Prolonged stationary-phase is an approximation of natural environments presenting a range of stresses. Survival in prolonged stationary-phase requires alternative metabolic pathways for survival. This study describes the repertoire of mutations accumulating in starving E. coli populations in lysogeny broth. A wide range of mutations accumulate over the course of one month in stationary-phase. SNPs constitute 64% of all mutations. A majority of these mutations are non-synonymous and are located at conserved loci. There is an increase in genetic diversity in the evolving populations over time. Computer simulations of evolution in stationary phase suggest that the maximum frequency obtained by mutations in our experimental populations can not be explained by neutral drift. Moreover there is frequent genetic parallelism across populations suggesting that these mutations are under positive selection. Finally functional analysis of mutations suggests that regulatory mutations are frequent targets of selection.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098202', [], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences']]
[u'Frequent emergence of pathogenic lineages of Klebsiella pneumoniae via mobilisation of yersiniabactin and colibactin', ['Margaret M.C. Lam', 'Ryan R. Wick', 'Kelly L. Wyres', 'Claire Gorrie', 'Louise M. Judd', 'Sylvain Brisse', 'Adam Jenney', 'Kathryn E. Holt'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'Klebsiella pneumoniae (Kp) is a commensal bacterium that causes opportunistic infections. Evidence is mounting that Kp strains carrying acquired siderophores (yersiniabactin, salmochelin and aerobactin) and/or the genotoxin colibactin are highly pathogenic and can cause invasive disease. Here we explored the diversity of the Kp integrative conjugative element (ICEKp), which mobilises the yersiniabactin locus ybt, by comparing 2499 diverse Kp genomes. We identified 17 distinct ybt lineages and 14 ICEKp structural variants (some of which carry colibactin (clb) or salmochelin synthesis loci). Hundreds of ICEKp transmission events were detected affecting hundreds of Kp lineages, including nearly >20 transfers into the globally-disseminated, carbapenem-resistant clonal group CG258. Additionally, we identify a plasmid-encoded lineage of ybt, representing a new mechanism for ybt dispersal in Kp populations. We introduce a novel sequence-based typing approach for identifying ybt and clb variants, to aid the identification of emerging pathogenic lineages and the convergence of antibiotic resistance and hypervirulence.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098178', [], [u'Centre for Systems Genomics, University of Melbourne;', u'Microbial Evolutionary Genomics, Institut Pasteur;', u'Department Infectious Diseases and Microbiology Unit, The Alfred Hospital']]
[u"Age-dependence and aging-dependence: The case of neuronal loss and lifespan in a C. elegans model of Parkinson's disease", ['Javier Apfeld', 'Walter Fontana'], u'January 4, 2017.', u"It is often assumed, but not established, that the major neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, are not just age-dependent (their incidence changes with time) but actually aging-dependent (their incidence is coupled to the process that determines lifespan). To determine a dependence on the aging process requires the joint probability distribution of disease onset and lifespan. For human Parkinson's disease, such a joint distribution is not available because the disease cuts lifespan short. To acquire a joint distribution, we resorted to an established C. elegans model of Parkinson's disease in which the loss of dopaminergic neurons is not fatal. We find that lifespan is not correlated with the loss of neurons and that a lifespan-extending intervention into insulin/IGF1 signaling accelerates neuronal loss, while leaving death and neuronal loss times uncorrelated. This suggests that distinct and compartmentalized instances of the same genetically encoded insulin/IGF1 signaling machinery act independently to control neurodegeneration and lifespan in C. elegans. Although the human context might well be different, our study calls attention to maintaining a rigorous distinction between age-dependence and aging-dependence", u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098038', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Northeastern University;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus and blaCTX-M positive Enterobacteriaceae from retail beef and pork in Singapore', ['Tse Hsien H Koh', 'Darris Wong', 'Nur Khairuddin bin Aron', 'Choon L Quek', 'Delphine Cao', 'Li Yang Hsu'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'A small study was carried out to see if methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Enterobacteriaceae containing blaCTX-M extended spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL) genes could be found in retail meat sold in Singapore. Both were successfully isolated, suggesting the potential for their acquisition in the local community.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098111', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Singapore General Hospital;', u'Ngee Ann Polytechnic;', u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'High resolution spatio-temporal assessment of simian/human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) evolution reveals a highly dynamic process within the host', ['Alison F Feder', 'Christopher Kline', 'Patricia Polacino', 'Mackenzie Cottrell', 'Angela DM Kashuba', 'Brandon F Keele', 'Shiu-Lok Hu', 'Dmitri A Petrov', 'Pleuni Pennings', 'Zandrea Ambrose'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'The process by which drug-resistant HIV-1 arises and spreads spatially within an infected individual is poorly understood. Studies have found variable results relating how HIV-1 in the blood differs from virus sampled in tissues, offering conflicting findings about whether HIV-1 throughout the body is homogeneously distributed. However, most of these studies sample only two compartments and few have data from multiple time points. To directly measure how drug resistance spreads within a host and to assess how spatial structure impacts its emergence, we examined serial sequences from four macaques infected with RT-SHIVmne027, a simian immunodeficiency virus encoding HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT), and treated with RT inhibitors. Both viral DNA and RNA (vDNA and vRNA) were isolated from the blood (including plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells), lymph nodes, gut, and vagina at a median of four time points and RT was characterized via single-genome sequencing. The resulting sequences reveal a dynamic system in which vRNA rapidly acquires drug resistance concomitantly across compartments through multiple independent mutations. Fast migration results in the same viral genotypes present across compartments, but not so fast as to equilibrate their frequencies through time. The blood and lymph nodes were found to be compartmentalized rarely, while both the blood and lymph node were more frequently different from mucosal tissues. There is some evidence for an increase in compartmentalization after the onset of selective pressure. This study suggests that even oft-sampled blood does not fully capture the viral dynamics in other parts of the body, especially the gut where vRNA turnover was faster than the plasma and vDNA retained fewer wild-type viruses than other sampled compartments. Our findings of transient compartmentalization across multiple tissues may help explain the varied results of previous compartmentalization studies in HIV-1.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/097980', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine;', u'University of Washington;', u'University of North Carolina Chapel Hill;', u'Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research;', u'San Francisco State University']]
[u'Bacterial Conversations and Pattern Formation', ['Sarangam Majumdar', 'Sisir Roy', 'Rodolfo Llinas'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'It has long been recognized that certain bacterial groups exhibit cooperative behavioral patterns. Bacteria accomplish such communication via exchange of extracellular signaling molecules called pheromones( autoinducer or quorum sensing molecules). As the bacterial culture grows, signal molecules are released into extracellular milieu accumulate, changing water fluidity. Under such threshold conditions swimming bacterial suspensions impose a coordinated water movement on a length scale of the order 10 to 100 micrometers compared\nwith a bacterial size of the order of 3 micrometers.Here, we investigate the non-local hydrodynamics of the quorum state and pattern formation using forced Burgers equation with Kwak transformation. Such approach resulted in the conversion of the Burgers equation\nparadigm into a reaction-diffusion system. The examination of the dynamics of the quorum sensing system, both analytically as well as numerically result in similar long-time dynamical behaviour.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098053', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Universitat Hamburg, Bundesstrae, 55 20146 Hamburg, Germany;', u'National Institute of Advanced Studies, IISC Campus, Bangalore -560012;', u'Department of Neuroscience and Physiology, New York University, School of Medicine, NY, USA']]
[u'Hierarchical tissue organization as a general mechanism to limit the accumulation of somatic mutations', ['Imre Derenyi', 'Gergely J Szollosi'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'How can tissues generate large numbers of cells, yet keep the divisional load (the number of divisions along cell lineages) low in order to curtail the accumulation of somatic mutations and reduce the risk of cancer? To answer the question we consider a general model of hierarchically organized self-renewing tissues and show that the lifetime divisional load of such a tissue is independent of the details of the cell differentiation processes, and depends only on two structural and two dynamical parameters. Our results demonstrate that a strict analytical relationship exists between two seemingly disparate characteristics of self-renewing tissues: divisional load and tissue organization. Most remarkably, we find that a sufficient number of progressively slower dividing cell types can be almost as efficient in minimizing the divisional load, as non-renewing tissues. We argue that one of the main functions of tissue-specific stem cells and differentiation hierarchies is the prevention of cancer.', u'/content/early/2017/01/04/098129', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Eotvos University, Budapest']]
[u'Multiple zebrafish atoh1 genes specify a diversity of neuronal types in the zebrafish cerebellum', ['Chelsea U. Kidwell', 'Chen-Ying Su', 'Masahiko Hibi', 'Cecilia B. Moens'], u'January 4, 2017.', u'The basic Helix-Loop-Helix transcription factor Atoh1 is required for the specification of multiple neuron types in the mammalian hindbrain including tegmental, precerebellar output neurons and cerebellar granule neurons. How a single proneural gene specifies so many neuron types from a single progenitor zone, the upper rhombic lip (URL), is not known. Here we use the zebrafish to explore the role of atoh1 in cerebellar neurogenesis. Using transgenic reporters we show that zebrafish atoh1c-expressing cells give rise to tegmental and granule cell populations that, together with previously described atoh1a-derived neuron populations, resemble the diversity of atoh1 derivatives observed in mammals. Using genetic mutants we find that of the three zebrafish atoh1 paralogs, atoh1c and atoh1a are required for the full complement of granule neurons in the zebrafish cerebellum. Interestingly, atoh1a and atoh1c specify non-overlapping granule populations, indicating that fish use multiple atoh1 genes to generate granule neuron diversity that is not detected in mammals. By live imaging of neurogenesis at the URL we show that atoh1c is not required for the specification of granule neuron progenitors but promotes their delamination from the URL epithelium and this process is critical for neuronal maturation. This study thus provides a better understanding of how proneural transcription factors regulate neurogenesis in the vertebrate cerebellum.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/098012', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center / University of Washington;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Nagoya University']]
