[u'Amending Published Articles: Time To Rethink Retractions And Corrections?', ['Virginia Barbour', 'Theodora Bloom', 'Jennifer Lin', 'Elizabeth Moylan'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Academic publishing is evolving and our current system of correcting research post-publication is failing, both ideologically and practically. It does not encourage researchers to engage in consistent post-publication changes. Worse yet, post-publication "updates" are misconstrued as punishments or admissions of guilt. We propose a different model that publishers of research can apply to the content they publish, ensuring that any post-publication amendments are seamless, transparent and propagated to all the countless places online where descriptions of research appear. At the center, the neutral term "amendment" describes all forms of post-publication change to an article. We lay out a straightforward and consistent process that applies to each of the three types of amendments: insubstantial, substantial, and complete. This proposed system supports the dynamic nature of the research process itself as researchers continue to refine or extend the work, removing the emotive climate particularly associated with retractions and corrections to published work. It allows researchers to cite and share the correct versions of articles with certainty, and for decision makers to have access to the most up to date information.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118356.1', [], [u'Queensland University of Technology (QUT);', u'BMA House;', u'Crossref;', u'BioMed Central (part of Springer Nature)']]
[u'Structural insights into the light-driven auto-assembly process of the water-oxidizing Mn4CaO5-cluster in photosystem II', ['Miao Zhang', 'Martin Bommer', 'Ruchira Chatterjee', 'Rana Hussein', 'Junko Yano', 'Holger Dau', 'Jan Kern', 'Holger Dobbek', 'Athina Zouni'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'In plants, algae and cyanobacteria, Photosystem II (PSII) catalyzes the light-driven splitting of water at a protein-bound Mn4CaO5-cluster, the water-oxidizing complex (WOC). In the photosynthetic organisms, the light-driven formation of the WOC from dissolved metal ions is a key process because it is essential in both initial activation and continuous repair of PSII. Structural information is required for understanding of this chaperone-free metal-cluster assembly. For the first time, we obtained a structure of PSII from <italic>Thermosynechococcus elongatus</italic> without the Mn4CaO5-cluster. Surprisingly, cluster-removal leaves the positions of all coordinating amino acid residues and most nearby water molecules largely unaffected, resulting in a pre-organized ligand shell for kinetically competent and error-free photo-assembly of the Mn4CaO5-cluster. First experiments initiating (i) partial disassembly and (ii) partial re-assembly after complete depletion of the Mn4CaO5-cluster agree with a specific bi-manganese cluster, likely a di-&micro;-oxo bridged pair of Mn(III) ions, as an assembly intermediate.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118661', [], [u'Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin;', u'Humboldt University']]
[u'Causes and consequences of nuclear gene positioning', ['Sigal Shachar', 'Tom Misteli'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The eukaryotic genome is organized in a manner that allows folding of the genetic material in the confined space of the cell nucleus, while at the same time enabling its physiological function. A major principle of spatial genome organization is the non-random position of genomic loci relative to other loci and to nuclear bodies. The mechanisms that determine the spatial position of a locus, and how position affects function, are just beginning to be characterized. Initial results suggest multiple, gene-specific mechanisms and the involvement of a wide range of cellular machineries. In this Commentary, we review recent findings from candidate approaches and unbiased screening methods that provide initial insight into the cellular mechanisms of positioning and their functional consequences. We highlight several specific mechanisms including tethering to the nuclear periphery, passage through replication and histone modifications that contribute to gene positioning in yeast, plants and mammals.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118711', [], [u'NIH']]
[u'Preservation of Chromatin Organization after Acute Loss of CTCF in Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells', ['Naoki Kubo', 'Haruhiko Ishii', 'David Gorkin', 'Franz Meitinger', 'Xiong Xiong', 'Rongxin Fang', 'Tristin Liu', 'Zhen Ye', 'Bin Li', 'Jesse Dixon', 'Arshad Desai', 'Huimin Zhao', 'Bing Ren'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) is widely regarded as a key player in chromosome organization in mammalian cells, yet direct assessment of the impact of loss of CTCF on genome architecture has been difficult due to its essential role in cell proliferation and early embryogenesis. Here, using auxin-inducible degron techniques to acutely deplete CTCF in mouse embryonic stem cells, we show that cell growth is severely slowed yet chromatin organization remains largely intact after loss of CTCF. Depletion of CTCF reduces interactions between chromatin loop anchors, diminishes occupancy of cohesin complex genome-wide, and slightly weakens topologically associating domain (TAD) structure, but the active and inactive chromatin compartments are maintained and the vast majority of TAD boundaries persist. Furthermore, transcriptional regulation and histone marks associated with enhancers are broadly unchanged upon CTCF depletion. Our results suggest CTCF-independent mechanisms in maintenance of chromatin organization.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118737', [], [u'Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Salk Institute for Biological Studies']]
[u'Identification of drug eQTL interactions from repeat transcriptional and environmental measurements in a lupus clinical trial', ['Emma Elisabeth Davenport', 'Tiffany Amariuta', 'Maria Gutierrez-Arcelus', 'Kamil Slowikowski', 'Harm-Jan Westra', 'Ying Zhang', 'Stephen Pearson', 'David von Schack', 'Jean S. Beebe', 'Nan Bing', 'Michael S. Vincent', 'Baohong Zhang', 'Soumya Raychaudhuri'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'We hypothesize that regulatory mechanisms influenced by an environmental perturbagen may be identified with eQTL (expression quantitative trait locus) interactions, which alter the relationship between a genetic variant and transcript levels. In an anti-IL-6 clinical trial of 157 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) we measured cell counts, interferon (IFN) signature, and drug exposure at three time points alongside genome-wide transcription. Repeated transcriptomic measurements detected 4,976 cis eQTLs, 63% more than detectable from single measurements. We identified 154, 185 and 126 nominal eQTL interactions with T cell count, IFN status and anti-IL-6 drug exposure respectively (more than expected by chance, p<0.001). IFN interactions are enriched for IRF1 motifs, and 91/126 drug-eQTL interactions are consistent with interactions using free IL-6 protein levels. This same approach can be easily used to define informative drug exposure scores, and can be applied to larger drug trials to further our understanding of the drug mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118703', [], [u"Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School;", u'Pfizer Inc.;', u'Pfizer New Haven Clinical Research Unit']]
[u'Correcting for Dependent P-values in Rhythm Detection', ['Alan L Hutchison', 'Aaron R Dinner'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'There is much interest in using genome-wide expression time series to identify circadian genes. Several methods have been developed to test for rhythmicity in sparsely sampled time series typical of such measurements. Because these methods are statistical in nature, they rely on estimating the probabilities that patterns arise by chance (i.e., p-values). Here we show that leading methods implicitly make inappropriate assumptions of independence when estimating p-values. We show how to correct for the dependence to obtain accurate estimates for statistical significance during rhythm detection.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118547', [], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Insect behavioral evidence of spatial memories during environmental reconfiguration', ['Diogo Santos-Pata', 'Alex Escuredo', 'Zenon Mathews', 'Paul FMJ Verschure'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Insects are great explorers, able to navigate through long-distance trajectories and successfully find their way back. Their navigational routes cross dynamic environments suggesting adaptation to novel configurations. Arthropods and vertebrates share neural organizational principles and it has been shown that rodents modulate their neural spatial representation accordingly with environmental changes. However, it is unclear whether insects reflexively adapt to environmental changes or retain memory traces of previously explored situations. We sought to disambiguate between insect behavior at environmental novel situations and reconfiguration conditions. An immersive mixed-reality multi-sensory setup was built to replicate multi-sensory cues. We have designed an experimental setup where female crickets Gryllus Bimaculatus were trained to move towards paired auditory and visual cues during primarily phonotactic driven behavior. We hypothesized that insects were capable of identifying sensory modifications in known environments. Our results show that, regardless of the animals history, novel situation conditions did not compromise the animals performance and navigational directionality towards a novel target location. However, in trials where visual and auditory stimuli were spatially decoupled, the animals heading variability towards a previously known location significantly increased. Our findings showed that crickets are able to behaviorally manifest environmental reconfiguration, suggesting the encoding for spatial representation.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118687', [], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Accurate and Reproducible Functional Maps in 127 Human Cell Types via 2D Genome Segmentation', ['Yu Zhang', 'Ross C. Hardison'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The Roadmap Epigenomics consortium has published whole-genome functional annotation maps in 127 human cell types and cancer cell lines by integrating data from multiple epigenetic marks. These maps have thereby been widely used by the community for studying gene regulation in cell type specific contexts and predicting functional impacts of DNA mutations on disease. Here, we present a new map of functional elements produced by a recently published method called IDEAS on the same data set. The IDEAS method has several unique advantages and was shown to outperform existing methods, including the one used by the Roadmap Epigenomics consortium. We further introduce a simple but highly effective pipeline to greatly improve the reproducibility of functional annotation. Using five categories of independent experimental results, we extensively compared the annotation produced by IDEAS and the Roadmap Epigenomics consortium. While the overall concordance between the two maps was high, we observed many differences in the details and in the position-wise consistency of annotation across cell types. We show that the IDEAS annotation was uniformly and often substantially more accurate than the Roadmap Epigenomics result. This study therefore reports on the quality of an existing functional map in 127 human genomes and provides an alternative and better map to be used by the community. The annotation result can be visualized in the UCSC genome browser via the hub at http://bx.psu.edu/~yuzhang/Roadmap_ideas/ideas_hub.txt', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118752', [], [u'Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Mercury and water level fluctuations in lakes of northern Minnesota', ['James H Larson', 'Ryan P. Maki', 'Victoria G. Christensen', 'Mark B. Sandheinrich', 'Jaime F. LeDuc', 'Claire Kissane', 'Brent C Knights'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Large lake ecosystems support a variety of ecosystem services in surrounding communities, including recreational and commercial fishing.  However, many northern temperate fisheries are contaminated by mercury.  Annual variation in mercury accumulation in fish has previously been linked to water level (WL) fluctuations, opening the possibility of regulating water levels in a manner that minimizes or reduces mercury contamination in fisheries.  Here, we compiled a long-term dataset (1997-2015) of mercury content in young-of-year Yellow Perch (Perca flavescens) from six lakes on the border between the U.S. and Canada and examined whether mercury content appeared to be related to several metrics of WL fluctuation (e.g., spring WL rise, annual maximum WL, and year-to-year change in maximum WL).  Using simple correlation analysis, several WL metrics appear to be strongly correlated to Yellow Perch mercury content, although the strength of these correlations varies by lake.  We also used many WL metrics, water quality measurements, temperature and annual deposition data to build predictive models using partial least squared regression (PLSR) analysis for each lake.  These PLSR models showed some variation among lakes, but also supported strong associations between WL fluctuations and annual variation in Yellow Perch mercury content.  The study lakes underwent a modest change in WL management in 2000, when winter WL minimums were increased by about 1 m in five of the six study lakes.  Using the PLSR models, we estimated how this change in WL management would have affected Yellow Perch mercury content.  For four of the study lakes, the change in WL management that occurred in 2000 likely reduced Yellow Perch mercury content, relative to the previous WL management regime.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118638', [], [u'U.S. Geological Survey;', u'National Park Service;', u'University of Wisconsin-La Crosse']]
[u'On the feasibility of mining CD8+ T-cell receptor patterns underlying immunogenic peptide recognition.', ['Nicolas De Neuter', 'Wout Bittremieux', 'Charlie Beirnaert', 'Bart Cuypers', 'Aida Mrzic', 'Pieter Moris', 'Arvid Suls', 'Viggo Van Tendeloo', 'Benson Ogunjimi', 'Kris Laukens', 'Pieter Meysman'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Current T-cell epitope prediction tools are a valuable resource in designing targeted immunogenicity experiments. They typically focus on, and are able to, accurately predict peptide binding and presentation by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules on the surface of antigen-presenting cells. However, recognition of the peptide-MHC complex by a T-cell receptor is often not included in these tools. We developed a classification approach based on random forest classifiers to predict recognition of a peptide by a T-cell and discover patterns that contribute to recognition. We considered two approaches to solve this problem: (1) distinguishing between two sets of T-cell receptors that each bind to a known peptide and (2) retrieving T-cell receptors that bind to a given peptide from a large pool of T-cell receptors. Evaluation of the models on two HIV-1, B*08-restricted epitopes reveals good performance and hints towards structural CDR3 features that can determine peptide immunogenicity. These results are of particularly importance as they show that prediction of T-cell epitope and T-cell epitope recognition based on sequence data is a feasible approach. In addition, the validity of our models not only serves as a proof of concept for the prediction of immunogenic T-cell epitopes but also paves the way for more general and high performing models.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118539', [], [u'University of Antwerp']]
[u'GAMtools: an automated pipeline for analysis of Genome Architecture Mapping data', ['Robert A Beagrie', 'Markus Schueler'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Genome Architecture Mapping (GAM) is a recently developed method for mapping chromatin interactions genome-wide. GAM is based on sequencing genomic DNA extracted from thin cryosections of cell nuclei. As a new approach, GAM datasets require specialized analytical tools and approaches. Here we present GAMtools, a pipeline for analysing GAM datasets. GAMtools covers the automated mapping of raw next-generation sequencing data generated by GAM, detection of genomic regions present in each nuclear slice, calculation of quality control metrics, generation of inferred proximity matrices, plotting of heatmaps and detection of genomic features for which chromatin interactions are enriched/depleted.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/114710', [], [u'Max-Delbrueck Centre for Molecular Medicine']]
[u'RegCyanoDB: a database of cyanobacterial regulatory interactions', ['Ajay Nair', 'Madhu Chetty', 'Nguyen Xuan Vinh'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Background: Cyanobacteria are photoautotrophic organisms with environmental, evolutionary, and industrial importance. Knowledge of its regulatory interactions are important to predict, optimise, and engineer their characteristics. However, at present, very few of their regulatory interactions are known. The regulatory interactions are known only for a few model organisms such as Escherichia coli due to technical and economical constraints, which are unlikely to change soon. Thus, mapping of regulatory interactions from well-studied organisms to less-studied organisms by using computational techniques is widely used. Reverse Best Hit (RBH), with appropriate algorithm parameters, is a simple and efficient method for detecting functional homologs\n\nDescription: We predict the regulatory interactions in 30 strains of cyanobacteria using the known regulatory interactions from the best-studied organism, E. coli. RBH method with appropriate parameters is used to identify the functional homologs. An interaction is mapped to a cyanobacterial strain if functional homologs exist for a known transcription factor and its target gene. The confidence of the detected homologs and interactions are also provided. Since RBH is a conservative method, homolog-grouping is performed to recover lost putative interactions. A database of the predicted interactions from all the 30 strains of cyanobacteria is constructed.\n\nConclusion: RegcyanoDB contains 20,280 interactions with confidence levels for 30 cyanobacterial strains. The predicted regulatory interactions exhibit a scale free network topology as observed in model organisms. The interacting genes in E. coli and cyanobacteria are mostly found to have the same gene annotation. This database can be used for posing novel hypotheses and validation studies in wet-lab and computational domains.\n\nThe database is available at http://www.che.iitb.ac.in/grn/RegCyanoDB/', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/117127', [], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Bombay;', u'Federation University;', u'The University of Melbourne']]
[u'Bootstrapping and Empirical Bayes Methods Improve Rhythm Detection in Sparsely Sampled Data', ['Alan L Hutchison', 'Ravi Allada', 'Aaron R Dinner'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Motivation: There is much interest in using genome-wide expression time series to identify circadian genes. However, the cost and effort of such measurements often limits data collection. Consequently, it is difficult to assess the experimental uncertainty in the measurements and, in turn, to detect periodic patterns with statistical confidence.  Results: We show that parametric bootstrapping and empirical Bayes methods for variance shrinkage can improve rhythm detection in genome-wide expression time series. We demonstrate these approaches by building on the empirical JTK CYCLE method (eJTK) to formulate a method that we term BooteJTK. Our procedure rapidly and accurately detects cycling time series by combining information about measurement uncertainty with information about the rank order of the time series values. We exploit a publicly available genome-wide dataset with high time resolution to show that BooteJTK provides more consistent rhythm detection than existing methods at typical sampling frequencies. Then, we apply BooteJTK to genome-wide expression time series from multiple tissues and show that it reveals biologically sensible tissue relationships that eJTK misses.  Availability: Bootstrap eJTK (BooteJTK) is implemented in Python and is freely available on GitHub at https://github.com/alanlhutchison/BooteJTK .', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118521', [], [u'University of Chicago;', u'Northwestern']]
[u'A new organotypic model of synaptic competition reveals activity-dependent localization of C1q', ['Ryuta Koyama', 'Yuwen Wu', 'Allison R Bialas', 'Andrew Thompson', 'Christina A Welsh', 'Arnaud Frouin', 'Chinfei Chen', 'Beth Stevens'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Immature neural circuits undergo synaptic refinement, in which activity-dependent competition between synapses results in pruning of inappropriate connections and maintenance of appropriate ones. A longstanding question is how neuronal activity eliminates specific synapses based on their strength. The technical challenges of <italic>in vivo</italic> studies have made it difficult to identify a molecular link between decreased activity and synapse elimination. We developed an organotypic coculture model of the mouse retinogeniculate system that facilitates real-time imaging and elucidation of molecular mechanisms underlying the removal of less active synapses during synaptic competition. Using this model we show for the first time that complement component C1q is necessary for activity-dependent synaptic competition and preferentially localizes to less active, competing presynaptic inputs. In conjunction with classic <italic>in vivo</italic> and <italic>ex vivo </italic>models, this coculture model is a new tool to reveal molecular pathways underlying CNS circuit refinement.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118646', [], [u'University of Tokyo, Japan;', u"Children's Hospital Boston, United States;", u"Boston Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, United States"]]
[u'Preexisting heterogeneities in gene dosage sensitivity\xa0shaped sex chromosome evolution in mammals and birds', ['Sahin Naqvi', 'Daniel W Bellott', 'David C Page'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'<bold>Mammalian X and Y chromosomes evolved from an ordinary autosomal pair; genetic decay decimated the Y, which in turn necessitated X chromosome inactivation (XCI). Genes of the ancestral autosomes are often assumed to have undertaken these transitions on uniform terms, but we hypothesized that they varied in their dosage constraints. We inferred such constraints from conservation of microRNA (miRNA)-mediated repression, validated by analysis of experimental data. X-linked genes with a surviving Y homolog have the most conserved miRNA target sites, followed by genes with no Y homolog and subject to XCI, and then genes with no Y homolog but escaping XCI; this heterogeneity existed on the ancestral autosomes. Similar results for avian Z-linked genes, with or without a W homolog, lead to a model of XY/ZW evolution incorporating preexisting dosage sensitivities of individual genes in determining their evolutionary fates, and ultimately shaping the mammalian and avian sex chromosomes.</bold>', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118729', [], [u'Whitehead Institute, United States']]
[u'Intra- and Inter-individual genetic variation in human ribosomal RNAs', ['Artem Babaian'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The ribosome is an ancient RNA-protein complex essential for translating DNA to protein. At its core are the ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs), the most abundant RNA in the cell. To support high levels of transcription, repetitive arrays of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) are necessary and the long-standing hypothesis is that they undergo sequence homogenization towards rDNA uniformity.\n\tHere I present evidence of the rich genetic diversity in human rDNA, both within and between individuals. Using state-of-the-art genome sequencing data revealed an average of 192.7 intra-individual variants, including some deeply penetrating the rDNA copies, such as the bi-allelically expressed 28S.59A>G. From 104 diverse genomes, 947 high-confidence variants were identified and unmask a hidden genetic diversity of humans.\nThese findings support the emerging concept that ribosomes are heterogeneous within cells and extends the heterogeneity into the realm of population genetics. Fundamentally, do our ribosomal variants determine how our cells interpret the genome?', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118760', [], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Temporal fitness fluctuations in experimental Arabidopsis thaliana populations', ['Jinyong Hu', 'Li Lei', 'Juliette de Meaux'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Understanding the genetics of lifetime fitness is crucial to understand a species ecological preferences and ultimately predict its ability to cope with novel environmental conditions. Yet, there is a dearth of information regarding the impact of the ecological variance experienced by natural populations on expressed phenotypic and fitness differences. Here, we follow the natural dynamics of experimental A. thaliana populations over 5 successive plantings whose timing was determined by the natural progression of the plants life cycle and disentangle the environmental and genetic factors that drive plant ecological performance at a given locality. We show that, at the intermediate latitude where the experiment was conducted, a given genotype can experience different life cycles across successive seasons. Lifetime fitness across these seasons varied strongly, with a fall planting yielding 36-fold higher fitness compared to a spring planting. In addition, the actual life-stage at which plant overwinter oscillated across years, depending on the timing of the end of the summer season. We observed a rare but severe fitness differential after inadequate early flowering in one of the five planting. Substrate variation played a comparatively minor role, but also contributed to modulate the magnitude of fitness differentials between genotypes. Finally, reciprocal introgressions on chromosome 4 demonstrated that the fitness effect of a specific chromosomal region is strongly contingent on micro-geographic and seasonal fluctuations. Our study contributes to emphasize the extent to which the fitness impact of phenotypic traits and the genes that encode them in the genome can fluctuate. Experiments aiming at dissecting the molecular basis of local adaptation must apprehend the complexity introduced by temporal fluctuations because they massively affect the expression of phenotype and fitness differences.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118745', [], [u'Chinese Academy of Science;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Cologne']]
[u'Genomic inferences of domestication events are corroborated by written records in Brassica rapa', ['XInshuai Qi', 'Hong An', 'Aaron Ragsdale', 'Tara Hall', 'Ryan N Gutenkunst', 'J Chris Pires', 'Michael S. Barker'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Demographic modeling is often used with population genomic data to infer the relationships and ages among populations. However, relatively few analyses are able to validate these inferences with independent data. Here, we leverage written records that describe distinct Brassica rapa crops to corroborate demographic models of domestication. Brassica rapa crops are renowned for their outstanding morphological diversity, but the relationships and order of domestication remains unclear. We generated genome-wide SNPs from 126 accessions collected globally using high-throughput transcriptome data. Analyses of more than 31,000 SNPs across the B. rapa genome revealed evidence for five distinct genetic groups and supported a European-Central Asian origin of B. rapa crops. Our results supported the traditionally recognized South Asian and East Asian B. rapa groups with evidence that pak choi, Chinese cabbage, and yellow sarson are likely monophyletic groups. In contrast, the oil-type B. rapa subsp. oleifera and brown sarson were polyphyletic. We also found no evidence to support the contention that rapini is the wild type or the earliest domesticated subspecies of B. rapa. Demographic analyses suggested that B. rapa was introduced to Asia 2400-4100 years ago, and that Chinese cabbage originated 1200-2100 years ago via admixture of pak choi and European-Central Asian B. rapa. We also inferred significantly different levels of founder effect among the B. rapa subspecies. Written records from antiquity that document these crops are consistent with these inferences. The concordance between our age estimates of domestication events with historical records provides unique support for our demographic inferences.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118372', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Arizona;', u'University of Missouri']]
[u'Mapping protein interactions of sodium channel NaV1.7 using epitope-tagged gene targeted mice', ['Alexandros H Kanellopoulos', 'Jennifer Koenig', 'Honglei Huang', 'Martina Pyrski', 'Queensta Millet', 'Stephane Lolignier', 'Toru Morohashi', 'Samuel J Gossage', 'Maude Jay', 'John Linley', 'Georgios Baskozos', 'Benedikt Kessler', 'James J Cox', 'Frank Zufall', 'John N Wood', 'Jing Zhao'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The voltage-gated sodium channel NaV1.7 plays a critical role in pain pathways. Besides action potential propagation, NaV1.7 regulates neurotransmitter release, integrates depolarizing inputs over long periods and regulates transcription. In order to better understand these functions, we generated an epitope-tagged NaV1.7 mouse that showed normal pain behavior. Analysis of NaV1.7 complexes affinity-purified under native conditions by mass spectrometry revealed 267 NaV1.7 associated proteins including known interactors, such as the sodium channel \u03b23 subunit (Scn3b) and collapsin response mediator protein (Crmp2), and novel interactors. Selected novel NaV1.7 protein interactors membrane-trafficking protein synapototagmin-2 (Syt2), G protein-regulated inducer of neurite outgrowth 1 (Gprin1), L-type amino acid transporter 1 (Lat1) and transmembrane P24 trafficking protein 10 (Tmed10) together with Scn3b and Crmp2 were validated using co-immunoprecipitation and functional assays. The information provided with this physiologically normal epitope-tagged mouse should provide useful insights into the pain mechanisms associated with NaV1.7 channel function.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118497', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Saarland University;', u'UCL']]
[u'Long-Term Imaging of Cellular Forces with High Precision by Elastic Resonator Interference Stress Microscopy', ['Nils M Kronenberg', 'Philipp Liehm', 'Anja Steude', 'Johanna A Knipper', 'Jessica G Borger', 'Giuliano Scarcelli', 'Kristian Franze', 'Simon J Powis', 'Malte C Gather'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Cellular forces are crucial for many biological processes but current methods to image them have limitations with respect to online analysis, resolution and throughput. Here, we present a robust approach to measure mechanical cell-substrate interactions in diverse biological systems by interferometrically detecting deformations of an elastic micro-cavity. Elastic Resonator Interference Stress Microscopy (ERISM) yields stress maps with exceptional precision and large dynamic range (2 nm displacement resolution over a >1 \u03bcm range, translating into 1 pN force sensitivity). This enables investigation of minute vertical stresses (<1 Pa) involved in podosome protrusion, protein specific cell-substrate interaction and amoeboid migration through spatial confinement in real time. ERISM requires no zero-force reference and avoids phototoxic effects, which facilitates force monitoring over multiple days and at high frame rates and eliminates the need to detach cells after measurements. This allows observation of slow processes like differentiation and further investigation of cells, e.g. by immunostaining.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118554', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of St Andrews;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Maryland;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Identifiers for the 21st century: How to design, provision, and reuse persistent identifiers to maximize utility and impact of life science data', ['Julie McMurry', 'Navtej Juty', 'Niklas Blomberg', 'Anthony Burdett', 'Tom Conlin', 'Nathalie Conte', 'Melanie Courtot', 'John Deck', 'Michel Dumontier', 'Donal Fellows', 'Alejandra Gonzalez-Beltran', 'Philipp Gormanns', 'Jeffrey Grethe', 'Janna Hastings', 'Henning Hermjakob', 'Jean-Karim Heriche', 'Jon Ison', 'Rafael Jimenez', 'Simon Jupp', 'John Kunze', 'Camille Laibe', 'Nicolas Le Novere', 'James Robert Malone', 'Maria-Jesus Martin', 'Jo McEntyre', 'Chris Morris', 'Juha Muilu', 'Wolfgang Mueller', 'Philippe Rocca-Serra', 'Susanna-Assunta Sansone', 'Murat Sariyar', 'Jacky Snoep', 'Natalie J Stanford', 'Stian Soiland-Reyes', 'Neil Swainston', 'Nicole Washington', 'Alan Williams', 'Sarala Wimalaratne', 'Lilly Winfree', 'Katy Wolstencroft', 'Carole Goble', 'Christopher Mungall', 'Melissa Haendel', 'Helen Parkinson'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'In many disciplines, data is highly decentralized across thousands of online databases (repositories, registries, and knowledgebases). Wringing value from such databases depends on the discipline of data science and on the humble bricks and mortar that make integration possible; identifiers are a core component of this integration infrastructure. Drawing on our experience and on work by other groups, we outline ten lessons we have learned about the identifier qualities and best practices that facilitate large-scale data integration.\nSpecifically, we propose actions that identifier practitioners (database providers) should take in the design, provision and reuse of identifiers; we also outline important considerations for those referencing identifiers in various circumstances, including by authors and data generators. While the importance and relevance of each lesson will vary by context, there is a need for increased awareness about how to avoid and manage common identifier problems, especially those related to persistence and web-accessibility/resolvability. We focus strongly on web-based identifiers in the life sciences; however, the principles are broadly relevant to other disciplines.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/117812', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Dept of Medical Informatics and Epidemiology and OHSU Library, Oregon Health & Science University;', u'EMBL-EBI, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus;', u'ELIXIR Hub, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Berkeley Natural History Museums, University of California at Berkeley;', u'Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA;', u'School of Computer Science, The University of Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom;', u'Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom;', u'Helmholtz Centre Munich-German Research Center for Environmental Health;', u'Center for Research in Biological Systems, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California,;', u'Babraham Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany;', u'Center for Biological Sequence Analysis, Dept of Systems Biology, Technical University of Denmark;', u'California Digital Library (CDL);', u'STFC, Daresbury Laboratory, Warrington, United Kingdom;', u'University Medical Center Groningen and Groningen Bioinformatics Center, U of Groningen;', u'SDBV, HITS, Heidelberg, Germany;', u'Institute of Pathology, Charite University Medicine Berlin, Berlin, Germany;', u'MIB, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK; Department of Biochemistry, Stellenbosch University;', u'Manchester Centre for SYNBIOCHEM, University of Manchester;', u'Genomics Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA;', u'Leiden Institute of Advanced Computer Science, Leiden University, Leiden, Netherlands']]
