[u'Co-adaption of tRNA Gene Copy Number and Amino Acid Usage Influences Translation Rates in Three Life Domains', ['Meng-Ze Du', 'Wen Wei', 'Lei Qin', 'Liu Shuo', 'An-Ying Zhang', 'Yong Zhang', 'Hong Zhou', 'Feng-Biao Guo'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'The cellular translation process should obey the principle of maximizing efficiency and minimizing resource and energy costs. Here, we validated this principle by focusing on the basic translation components of tRNAs and amino acids. To most efficiently utilize these components, we reasoned that the quantities of the 20 tRNAs and their corresponding amino acids would be consistent in an organism. The two values should match at both the organismal and protein scales. For the former, they co-vary to meet the need to translate more proteins in fast-growing or larger cells. For the latter, they are consistent to different extents for various proteins in an organism to comply with different needs of translation speed. In this work, 310 out of 410 genomes in three domains had significant co-adaptions between the tRNA gene copy number and amino acid composition, and thus validating the principle at the organism scale. Furthermore, fast-growing bacteria co-adapt better than slow-growing ones. Highly expressed proteins and those connected to acute responses have better co-adaption, illustrating the principle at the individual protein scale. Experimentally, manipulating the tRNA gene copy number to optimize co-adaption between enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) and tRNA gene set of Escherichia coli indeed lifted the translation rate (speed). Our results also contribute to revealing a translation rate-associated factor with universal and global effects. From a practical perspective, our findings suggest a strategy to increase the expression of target proteins and have implications for designing chassis cells in the field of synthetic biology field.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104570', [u'Genomics'], [u'School of Life Science and Technology, University of Electronic Science and Technology of China']]
[u'Ultrasound elicits behavioral responses through mechanical effects on neurons and ion channels in a simple nervous system', ['Jan Kubanek', 'Poojan Shukla', 'Alkananda Das', 'Stephen Baccus', 'Miriam B. B Goodman'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Focused ultrasound (US) can stimulate specific regions of the brain non-invasively in animals and humans. This new brain stimulation method has the potential to provide a spatially precise treatment of neurological disorders and to advance brain mapping. To realize this potential, it is crucial to discover how US stimulates neurons. Toward this end, we devised a genetic dissection assay leveraging the well-characterized nervous system of C. elegans nematodes. We found that focused US (0.6--1.0 MPa, 10 MHz) elicits robust reversal behavior in wild-type animals. The response is preserved in animals deficient in thermosensation, yet absent in animals lacking neurons responsible for low-threshold touch sensation. We further found that the mechanical response rests on a properly functioning DEG/ENaC ion channel. Deletion of its MEC-4 subunit abolishes the response. The evidence for a mechanical nature of the response allowed us to maximize mechanical stimulation by pulsing the stimulus at specific pulse repetition frequencies (PRFs). The optimal range of PRFs aligned with that used for US neuromodulation in large mammals including humans, and is consistent with the prediction of a recent molecular model of mechanosensation. Thus, the mechanical forces associated with US are capable of activating mechanosensitive ion channels in a freely behaving animal. The mechanical nature of the effect proposes a specific pulsing protocol to activate neurons that possess mechanosensitive properties in the peripheral and central nervous systems of animals and humans.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104463', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'A spiral attractor network drives locomotion in Aplysia', ['Angela M Bruno', 'William N Frost', 'Mark D Humphries'], u'January 31, 2017.', u"The neural control of motor behaviour arises from the joint activity of large neuron populations. Unknown is what underlying dynamical system generates this joint activity. Here we show that the network-wide activity driving locomotion of the sea-slug Aplysia is a low-dimensional spiral attractor. We imaged large populations at single-spike resolution from the Aplysia's pedal ganglion during fictive locomotion. Evoking locomotion rapidly moved the population activity from irregular spontaneous activity into a low-dimensional, periodic, decaying, orbit. This orbit was a true attractor: the activity returned to the same orbit after transient perturbation; and repeatedly evoking locomotion caused the activity to converge on the same low-dimensional orbit. To show this attractor was the locomotion program, we accurately decoded simultaneous recordings of neck motorneuron activity directly from the low-dimensional orbit. Our results provide direct evidence that neural circuits are periodic attractors. Consequently, they support the long-held hypothesis that population activity is an emergent property of a simpler underlying system.", u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104562', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science;', u'University of Manchester']]
[u'NMDAR hypofunction increases top-down influence on sensory processing', ['Adam Ranson', 'Eluned Broom', 'Anna Powell', 'Jeremy Hall'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Converging evidence implicates NMDAR disruption in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, a condition in which perceptual disturbances are prominent. To explore how NMDAR hypofunction causes perceptual symptoms we investigated activity in cortical sensory circuits in awake behaving mice during pharmacologically induced NMDAR hypofunction. We observed a reduction in sensory-driven activity in V1 while input from the anterior cingulate cortex simultaneously increased, suggesting NMDAR hypofunction may lead to altered perception by modifying the balance of top-down and bottom-up processing.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104588', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cardiff University Neurosciences & Mental Health Research Institute;', u'Cardiff University']]
[u'Gastruloids develop the three body axes in the absence of extraembryonic tissues and spatially localised signalling', ['David Turner', 'Luz Alonso-Crisostomo', 'Mehmet Girgin', 'Peter Baillie-Johnson', 'Cherise R Glodowski', 'Penelope C Hayward', 'Jerome Collignon', 'Carsten Gustavsen', 'Palle Serup', 'Benjamin Steventon', 'Matthias Lutolf', 'Alfonso Martinez Arias'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Establishment of the three body axes is a critical step during animal development. In mammals, genetic studies have shown that a combination of precisely deployed signals from extraembryonic tissues position the anteroposterior axis (AP) within the embryo and lead to the emergence of the dorsoventral (DV) and left-right (LR) axes. We have used Gastruloids, embryonic organoids, as a model system to understand this process and find that they are able to develop AP, DV and LR axes as well as to undergo axial elongation in a manner that mirror embryos. The Gastruloids can be grown for 160 hours and form derivatives from ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm. We focus on the AP axis and show that in the Gastruloids this axis is registered in the expression of T/Bra at one pole that corresponds to the tip of the elongation. We find that localisation of T/Bra expression depends on the combined activities of Wnt/\u03b2-Catenin and Nodal/Smad2,3 signalling, and that BMP signalling is dispensable for this process. Furthermore, AP axis specification occurs in the absence of both extraembryonic tissues and of localised sources of signalling. Our experiments show that Nodal, together with Wnt/\u03b2-Catenin signalling, is essential for the expression of T/Bra but that Wnt signalling has a separable activity in the elongation of the axis. The results lead us to suggest that, in the embryo, the role of the extraembryonic tissues might not be to induce the axes but to bias an intrinsic ability of the embryo to break its initial symmetry and organise its axes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104539', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge;', u'Institute of Bioengineering, Ecole Polytechnique F\xe9d\xe9rale;', u'Universit\xe9 Paris-Diderot, CNRS, Institut Jacques Monod, Development & Neurobiology Program;', u'Danish Stem Cell Center, University of Copenhagen, DK-2200 Copenhagen, Denmark']]
[u'Auditory prediction errors as individual biomarkers of schizophrenia', ['Jeremy A Taylor', 'Natasha Matthews', 'Patricia T Michie', 'Maria J Rosa', 'Marta I Garrido'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Schizophrenia is a complex psychiatric disorder, typically diagnosed through symptomatic evidence collected through patient interview. We aim to develop an objective biologically-based computational tool which aids diagnosis and relies on accessible imaging technologies such as electroencephalography (EEG). To achieve this, we used machine learning techniques and a combination of paradigms designed to elicit prediction errors or Mismatch Negativity (MMN) responses. MMN, an EEG component elicited by unpredictable changes in sequences of auditory stimuli, has previously been shown to be reduced in people with schizophrenia and this is arguably one of the most reproducible neurophysiological markers of schizophrenia. \n\nEEG data were acquired from 21 patients with schizophrenia and 22 healthy controls whilst they listened to three auditory oddball paradigms comprising sequences of tones which deviated in 10% of trials from regularly occurring standard tones. Deviant tones shared the same properties as standard tones, except for one physical aspect: 1) duration - the deviant stimulus was twice the duration of the standard; 2) monaural gap - deviants had a silent interval omitted from the standard, or 3) inter-aural timing difference, which caused the deviant location to be perceived as 90\xb0 away from the standards. \n\nWe used multivariate pattern analysis, a machine learning technique implemented in the Pattern Recognition for Neuroimaging Toolbox (PRoNTo) to classify images generated through statistical parametric mapping (SPM) of spatiotemporal EEG data, i.e. event-related potentials measured on the two-dimensional surface of the scalp over time. Using support vector machine (SVM) and Gaussian processes classifiers (GPC), we were able classify individual patients and controls with balanced accuracies of up to 80.48% (p-values = 0.0326, FDR corrected) and an ROC analysis yielding an AUC of 0.87. Crucially, a GPC regression revealed that MMN predicted global assessment of functioning (GAF) scores (correlation = 0.73, R2 = 0.53, p = 0.0006).', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104547', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Queensland;', u'University of Newcastle;', u'University College London']]
[u'Adaptation to warming increases the strength of an algal-grazer interaction in naturally heated streams', ['C.Elisa Schaum', 'Richard Ffrench-Constant', 'Chris Lowe', 'Jon S Olafsson', 'Daniel Padfield', 'Gabriel Yvon-Durocher'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Trophic interactions are important determinants of the structure and functioning of ecosystems. As the metabolism and consumption rates of ectotherms increase sharply with rising temperature, there are currently major concerns that global warming will increase the strength of trophic interactions, destabilizing food webs, and altering ecosystem structure and function. We used geothermally warmed streams that span a ~10 \xb0C temperature gradient to investigate the interplay between the thermal response of respiration, local adaptation, and the interaction strength between the keystone gastropod grazer, the wandering snail Radix balthica, and a common algal resource. Populations from a warm stream (~28\xb0C) had higher maximal metabolic rates and optimal temperatures across all measurement temperatures than those from a colder stream (~17\xb0C), suggesting local adaptation of metabolic rates. A reciprocal transplant experiment demonstrated that the interaction strength between the grazer and its resource were highest for both populations when transplanted into the warm stream. In line with the thermal response curves for respiration, interaction strengths of the warm-adapted grazers were higher than their cold-adapted counterparts in both the warm and the cold stream. These findings suggest that warming can increase the strength of algal-grazer interactions both through the thermodynamic effects of higher temperatures on physiological rates and through correlated increases in per capita metabolism and consumption as organisms adapt to warmer temperatures.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104513', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Exeter;', u'Marine and Freshwater Research Institute Reykjavik']]
[u'Medicago truncatula copper transporter1 (MtCOPT1) delivers copper for symbiotic nitrogen fixation', ['Marta Senovilla', 'Rosario Castro-Rodriguez', 'Isidro Abreu', 'Viviana Escudero', 'Igor S Kryvoruchko', 'Michael Udvardi', 'Juan Imperial', 'Manuel Gonzalez-Guerrero'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'- Copper is an essential nutrient for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. This element is delivered by the host plant to the nodule, where membrane copper transporter would introduce it into the cell to synthesize cuproproteins.\n- COPT family members in model legume Medicago truncatula were identified and their expression determined. Yeast complementation assays, confocal microscopy, and phenotypical characterization of a Tnt1 insertional mutant line were carried out in the nodule-specific M. truncatula COPT family member.\n- Medicago truncatula genome encodes eight COPT transporters. MtCOPT1 (Medtr4g019870) is the only nodule-specific COPT gene. It is located in the plasma membrane of the differentiation, interzone and early fixation zones. Loss of MtCOPT1 function results in a copper-mitigated reduction of biomass production when the plant obtains its nitrogen exclusively from symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Mutation of MtCOPT1 results in diminished nitrogenase activity in nodules, likely an indirect effect from the loss of a copper-dependent function, such as cytochrome oxidase activity in copt1-1 bacteroids.\n- These data are consistent with a model in which MtCOPT1 transports copper from the apoplast into nodule cells to provide copper for essential metabolic processes associated with symbiotic nitrogen fixation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104554', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Centro de Biotecnologia y Genomica de Plantas (UPM-INIA);', u'The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation;', u'Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas']]
[u'Multiple kinesin-14 family members drive microtubule minus-end-directed transport in plant cells', ['Moe Yamada', 'Yohko Tanaka-Takiguchi', 'Masahito Hayashi', 'Momoko Nishina', 'Gohta Goshima'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Minus-end-directed cargo transport along microtubules (MTs) is exclusively driven by the molecular motor dynein in a wide variety of cell types. Interestingly, plants have lost the genes encoding dynein during evolution; the MT motors that compensate for dynein function are unknown. Here, we show that two members of the kinesin-14 family drive minus-end-directed transport in plants. Gene knockout analyses of the moss Physcomitrella patens revealed that the plant-specific class-VI kinesin-14, KCBP, is required for minus-end-directed transport of the nucleus and chloroplasts. Purified KCBP directly bound to acidic phospholipids (PLs) and unidirectionally transported PL liposomes along MTs in vitro. Thus, minus-end-directed transport of membranous cargoes might be driven by their direct interaction with this motor protein. Newly nucleated cytoplasmic MTs represent another known cargo exhibiting minus-end-directed motility, and we identified the conserved class-I kinesin-14 (ATK) as the motor involved. These results suggest that kinesin-14 motors were duplicated and developed as alternative MT-based minus-end-directed transporters in land plants.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104471', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Nagoya University']]
[u'Selection at the pathway level drives the evolution of gene-specific transcriptional noise', ['Gustavo V. Barroso', 'Natasa Puzovic', 'Julien Y. Dutheil'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Because biochemical processes within individual cells involve a small number of molecules, they are subject to random fluctuations. As a result, isogenic cell populations show different concentrations of the same mRNA and protein, even in homogeneous conditions. The extent and consequences of this stochastic gene expression have only recently been assessed on a genome\u2212wide scale, in particular thanks to the advent of single cell transcriptomics. Yet the evolutionary forces shaping this stochasticity remain to be unraveled. We took advantage of recently published data sets of the single cell transcriptome of the domestic mouse Mus musculus to characterize the genomic patterns of transcriptional stochasticity. We show that noise levels in the mRNA distributions (a.k.a. transcriptional noise) significantly correlate with nuclear domain organization, gene function and gene age. Position of the encoded protein in biological pathways, however, is the main factor that explains observed levels of transcriptional noise. We argue that these results are consistent with models of noise propagation within gene networks. Altogether, transcriptional noise appears to be under widespread selection and therefore constitutes an important of the phenotypical component. Differences in variance of expression \u2013 not only in mean expression level \u2013 potentially constitute a mechanism of adaptation and should be considered by functional and evolutionary studies of gene expression.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104216', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Macrophages are required to coordinate mouse digit tip regeneration', ['Ken Muneoka', 'Jennifer Simkin', 'Mimi Sammarco', 'Luis Marrero', 'Lindsay Dawson', 'Mingquan Yan', 'Catherine Tucker', 'Alex Cammack'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'In mammals, macrophages are known to play a major role in tissue regeneration.  These cells contribute to inflammation, histolysis, re-epithelialization, re-vascularization and cell proliferation. While macrophages have been shown to be essential for epimorphic regeneration in salamanders and fish, their role has not been elucidated in mammalian epimorphic regeneration. Here, using the mouse digit tip model as a mammalian model of epimorphic regeneration, we demonstrate that macrophages are essential for the regeneration process. Using cell depletion strategies, we show that regeneration is completely inhibited; bone histolysis does not occur, wound re-epithelization is inhibited and the blastema does not form. Rescue of epidermal wound closure, in the absence of macrophages, promotes blastema accumulation but not differentiation indicating that macrophage play a role in re-differentiation. Additionally, inhibition of osteoclasts and the degradation process is not sufficient to inhibit regeneration. These findings show that macrophages play an essential role in coordinating the epimorphic regenerative response in mammals.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104356', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Texas A&M University;', u'University of Kentucky;', u'Tulane University School of Medicine;', u'LSU Health Sciences Center;', u'Tulane University']]
[u'T-DNA integration is rapid and influenced by the chromatin state of the host genome.', ['Shay Shilo', 'Pooja Tripathi', 'Cathy Melamed-Bessudo', 'Oren Tzfadia', 'Theodore R Muth', 'Avraham Albert Levy'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated T-DNA integration is a common tool for plant genome manipulation. However, there is controversy regarding whether T-DNA integration is biased towards genes or randomly distributed throughout the genome. In order to address this question, we performed high-throughput mapping of T-DNA-genome junctions obtained in the absence of selection at several time points after infection. T-DNA-genome junctions were detected as early as 6 hours post-infection. T-DNA distribution was apparently uniform throughout the chromosomes, yet local biases toward AT-rich motifs and T-DNA border sequence micro-homology were detected. Analysis of the epigenetic landscape of integration showed that selected events reported on previously were associated with extremely low methylation and nucleosome occupancy.  Conversely, non-selected events from this study showed chromatin marks, such as high nucleosome occupancy and high H3K27me3 that correspond to 3D-interacting heterochromatin islands embedded within euchromatin.  Such structures might play a role in capturing and silencing invading T-DNA.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104372', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science']]
[u'Distinct contributions by frontal and parietal cortices support working memory', ['Wayne Mackey', 'Clayton E Curtis'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Although subregions of frontal and parietal cortex both contribute and coordinate to support working memory (WM) functions, their distinct contributions remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that perturbations to topographically organized human frontal and parietal cortex during WM maintenance cause distinct but systematic distortions in WM. The nature of these distortions supports theories positing that parietal cortex mainly codes for retrospective sensory information, while frontal cortex codes for prospective action.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104430', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University']]
[u'Parallel power posterior analyses for fast computation of marginal likelihoods in phylogenetics', ['Sebastian Hoehna', 'Michael L Landis', 'John P Huelsenbeck'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Motivation: In Bayesian phylogenetic inference, marginal likelihoods are estimated using either the path-sampling or stepping-stone-sampling algorithms. Both algorithms are computationally demanding because they require a series of power posterior Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) simulations. Here we introduce a general parallelization strategy that distributes the power posterior MCMC simulations and the likelihood computations over available CPUs. Our parallelization strategy can easily be applied to any statistical model despite our primary focus on molecular substitution models in this study.  Results: Using two phylogenetic example datasets, we demonstrate that the runtime of the marginal likelihood estimation can be reduced significantly even if only two CPUs are available (an average performance increase of 1.96x). The performance increase is nearly linear with the number of available CPUs. We record a performance increase of 11.4x for cluster nodes with 16 CPUs, representing a substantial reduction to the runtime of marginal likelihood estimations. Hence, our parallelization strategy enables the estimation of marginal likelihoods to complete in a feasible amount of time which previously needed days, weeks or even months.  Availability: The methods described here are implemented in our open-source software RevBayes which is available from http://www.RevBayes.com.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104422', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Expressing Biologically Active Membrane Proteins in a Cell-Free Transcription-Translation Platform', ['Shaobin Guo', 'Amit Vaish', 'Qing Chen', 'Richard M Murray'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Cell-free transcription-translation platforms have been widely utilized to express soluble proteins in basic synthetic biological circuit prototyping. From a synthetic biology point of view, it is critical to express membrane proteins in cell-free transcription-translation systems, and use them directly in biocircuits, considering the fact that histidine kinases, G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other important biosensors are all membrane proteins. Previous studies have expressed membrane proteins in cell-free systems with the help of detergents, liposomes or nanodiscs, but have not demonstrated the ability to prototype circuit behavior for the purpose of testing more complex circuit functions involving membrane-bound proteins. Built on previous efforts, in this work we demonstrated that we could co-translationally express solubilized and active membrane proteins in our cell-free TX-TL platform with membrane-like materials. We first tested the expression of several constructs with \u03b21 and \u03b22 adrenergic receptors in TX-TL and observed significant insoluble membrane protein production. The addition of nanodiscs to the cell free expression system enabled solubilization of membrane proteins. Nanodisc is lipoprotein- based membrane-like material. The activity of \u03b22 adrenergic receptor was tested with both fluorescence and Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR) binding assays by monitoring the specific binding response of small-molecule binders, carazolol and norepinephrine. Our results suggest that it is promising to use cell-free expression systems to prototype synthetic biocircuits involving single chain membrane proteins without extra procedures. This data made us one step closer to testing complex membrane protein circuits in cell-free environment.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104455', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Amgen Inc.']]
[u'Universal correction of enzymatic sequence bias', ['Andre L Martins', 'Ninad M Walavalkar', 'Warren D Anderson', 'Chongzhi Zang', 'Michael J Guertin'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Coupling molecular biology to high throughput sequencing has revolutionized the study of biology. Molecular genomics techniques are continually refined to provide higher resolution mapping of nucleic acid interactions and structure. Sequence preferences of enzymes can interfere with the accurate interpretation of these data. We developed seqOutBias to characterize enzymatic sequence bias from experimental data and scale individual sequence reads to correct intrinsic enzymatic sequence biases. SeqOutBias efficiently corrects DNase-seq, TACh-seq, ATAC-seq, MNase-seq, and PRO-seq data. Lastly, we show that seqOutBias correction facilitates identification of true molecular signatures resulting from transcription factors and RNA polymerase interacting with DNA.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104364', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Virginia']]
[u'A toolkit for tissue-specific protein degradation in C. elegans', ['Shaohe Wang', 'Ngang Heok Tang', 'Pablo Lara-Gonzalez', 'Bram Prevo', 'Dhanya K Cheerambathur', 'Andrew D Chisholm', 'Arshad Desai', 'Karen Oegema'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Proteins essential for embryo production, cell division, and early embryonic events are frequently re-utilized later in embryogenesis, during organismal development, or in the adult. Examining protein function across these different biological contexts requires tissue-specific perturbation. Here, we describe a method that utilizes expression of a fusion between a GFP-targeting nanobody and SOCS-box containing ubiquitin ligase adaptor to target GFP tagged proteins for degradation. When combined with endogenous locus GFP tagging by CRISPR-Cas9 or rescue of a null mutant with a GFP fusion, this approach enables routine and efficient tissue-specific protein ablation. We show that this approach works in multiple tissues-the epidermis, intestine, body wall muscle, sensory neurons, and touch neurons-where it recapitulates expected loss-of-function mutant phenotypes. The transgene toolkit and the strain set described here will complement existing approaches to enable routine analysis of the tissue-specific roles of C. elegans proteins.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104398', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'National Institutes of Health;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research/UCSD']]
[u'Probabilistic forecasting in infectious disease epidemiology: The thirteenth Armitage lecture', ['Leonhard Held', 'Sebastian Meyer', 'Johannes Bracher'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Routine surveillance of notifiable infectious diseases gives rise to daily or weekly counts of reported cases stratified by region and age group. From a public health perspective, forecasts of infectious disease spread are of central importance. We argue that such forecasts need to properly incorporate the attached uncertainty, so should be probabilistic in nature. However, forecasts also need to take into account temporal dependencies inherent to communicable diseases, spatial dynamics through human travel, and social contact patterns between age groups. We describe a multivariate time series model for weekly surveillance counts on norovirus gastroenteritis from the 12 city districts of Berlin, in six age groups, from week 2011/27 to week 2015/26. The following year (2015/27 to 2016/26) is used to assess the quality of the predictions. Probabilistic forecasts of the total number of cases can be derived through Monte Carlo simulation, but first and second moments are also available analytically. Final size forecasts as well as multivariate forecasts of the total number of cases by age group, by district, and by week are compared across different models of varying complexity. This leads to a more general discussion of issues regarding modelling, prediction and evaluation of public health surveillance data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104000', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Zurich;', u'Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\xe4t Erlangen-N\xfcrnberg']]
[u'Consistent local dynamics in the brain across sessions are revealed by whole brain modeling of resting state activity', ['Patricio A Donnelly-Kehoe', 'Victor M Saenger', 'Nina Lisofsky', 'Simone Kuhn', 'Morten L Kringelbach', 'Jens Schwarzbach', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Resting state fMRI has been the primary tool for studying the functional organization of the human brain. However, even at so-called "rest", ongoing brain activity and its underlying physiological organization is highly dynamic and yet most of the information generated so far comes from group analysis. Here we developed an imaging-based technique capable of portraying information of local dynamics at a single-subject level reliably by using a whole-brain model that estimates a local bifurcation parameter, which reflects if a brain region presents stable, asynchronous or transitory oscillations. Using 50 longitudinal resting state sessions of one single subject and single resting state sessions from a group of 50 participants we demonstrated that individual global and local brain dynamics can be estimated consistently with respect to a reference group using only a scanning time of 15 to 20 minutes. We also showed that brain hubs are closer to a transition point between synchronous and asynchronous oscillatory dynamics and that dynamics in frontal areas have larger variations compared to other regions. Finally, we analyzed the variability and error of these dynamics and found high symmetry between hemispheres, which interestingly was reduced by adding more sessions. The framework presented here can be used to study functional brain dynamics on an individual level, opening new avenues for possible clinical applications.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104232', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CIFASIS-CONICET;', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'Center for Lifespan Psychology, Max Planck Institute for Human Development;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK;', u'Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Regensburg, Germany;', u'Center for Brain and Cognition, Computational Neuroscience Group']]
[u'Fighting over food unites the birds of North America in a continental dominance hierarchy', ['Eliot T Miller', 'David N Bonter', 'Charles Eldermire', 'Benjamin G Freeman', 'Emma I Greig', 'Luke J Harmon', 'Curtis Lisle', 'Wesley M Hochachka'], u'January 30, 2017.', u"The study of aggressive interactions between species has, to date, usually been restricted to interactions among small numbers of ecologically close competitors. Nothing is known about interspecific dominance hierarchies that include numerous, ecologically varied species. Such hierarchies are of interest because they could be used to address a variety of research questions, e.g. do similarly ranked species tend to avoid each other in time or space, and what will happen when such species come into contact as climates change? Here, we propose a method for creating a continental-scale hierarchy, and we make initial analyses based on this hierarchy. We quantified the extent to which a dominance hierarchy of feeder birds was linear, as intransitivities can promote local species' coexistence. Using the existing network of citizen scientists participating in Project FeederWatch, we collected the data with which to create a continent-spanning interspecific dominance hierarchy that included species that do not currently have overlapping geographic distributions. Overall, the hierarchy was nearly linear, and largely predicted by body mass, although there were clade-specific deviations from the average mass-dominance relationship. Most of the small number of intransitive relationships in the hierarchy were based on small samples of observations. Few observations were made of interactions between close relatives and ecological competitors like Melanerpes woodpeckers and chickadees, as such species often have only marginally overlapping geographic distributions. Yet, these species' ranks--emergent properties of the interaction network--were usually in agreement with published literature on dominance relationships between them.", u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104133', [u'Ecology'], [u'Cornell Lab of Ornithology, University of Idaho;', u'Cornell Lab of Ornithology;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Idaho;', u'KnowledgeVis']]
[u'Allele Frequency Spectrum in a Cancer Cell Population', ['Hisashi Ohtsuki', 'Hideki Innan'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'A cancer grows from a single cell, thereby constituting a large cell population. In this work, we are interested in how mutations accumulate in a cancer cell population. We provide a theoretical framework of the stochastic process in a cancer cell population and obtain near exact expressions of allele frequency spectrum or AFS (only continuous approximation is involved) from both forward and backward treatments under a simple setting; all cells undergo cell division and die at constant rates, b and d, respectively, such that the entire population grows exponentially. This setting means that once a parental cancer cell is established, in the following growth phase, all mutations are assumed to have no effect on b or d (i.e., neutral or passengers). Our theoretical results show that the difference from organismal population genetics is mainly in the coalescent time scale, and the mutation rate is defined per cell division, not per time unit (e.g., generation). Except for these two factors, the basic logic are very similar between organismal and cancer population genetics, indicating that a number of well established theories of organismal population genetics could be translated to cancer population genetics with simple modifications.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104158', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'SOKENDAI, Japan']]
[u'Cannabinoid glycosides: In vitro production of a new class of cannabinoids with improved physicochemical properties', ["Janee' M. Hardman", 'Robert T. Brooke', 'Brandon J. Zipp'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'The cannabinoid signaling system has recently garnered attention as a therapeutic target for numerous indications, and cannabinoids are now being pursued as new treatment options in diverse medical fields such as neurology, gastroenterology, pain management, and oncology. Cannabinoids are extremely hydrophobic and relatively unstable compounds, and as a result, formulation and delivery options are severely limited. Enzymatic glycosylation is a strategy to alter the physicochemical properties of small molecules, often improving their stability and aqueous solubility, as well as enabling site-specific drug targeting strategies. To determine if cannabinoids are a candidate for glycosylation, a library of glucosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes was screened for glycosylation activity towards various cannabinoids. The UGT76G1 enzyme from Stevia rebaudiana has been identified as having glucosyltransferase activity towards a broad range of cannabinoids. Compounds that were successfully glycosylated by UGT76G1 include the phytocannabinoids cannabidiol (CBD), \u03949-tetrahydrocannabinol (\u03949-THC), cannabidivarin (CBDV), and cannabinol (CBN), and the human endocannabinoids anandamide (AEA), 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2AG), 1-arachidonoyl-glycerol (1AG), and synaptamide (DHEA). Interestingly, UGT76G1 is able to transfer primary, secondary, and tertiary glycosylations at each acceptor of most of the cannabinoids tested. Additionally, Os03g0702000p, a glycosyltransferase from Oryza sativa, was able to transfer secondary glucose residues onto cannabinoid monoglycosides previously established by UGT76G1. This new class of cannabinoid-glycosides has been termed cannabosides. The compounds have greatly improved solubility in aqueous solutions. This increased aqueous solubility may enable new oral pharmaceutical delivery options for cannabinoids, as well as targeted delivery and release of cannabinoids within the intestines through glycoside prodrug metabolism.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104349', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Vitality Biopharma Inc.;', u'Vitality Biopharma, Inc.']]
[u'Regulatory DNA in A. thaliana can tolerate high levels of sequence divergence', ['Cristina M Alexandre', 'James R Urton', 'Ken Jean-Baptiste', 'Michael W Dorrity', 'Joshua C Cuperus', 'Alessandra M Sullivan', 'Felix Bemm', 'Dino Jolic', 'Andrej A Arsovski', 'Agnieszka Thompson', 'Jennifer L Nemhauser', 'Stanley Fields', 'Detlef Weigel', 'Kerry L Bubb', 'Christine Queitsch'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Variation in regulatory DNA is thought to drive evolution. Cross-species comparisons of regulatory DNA have provided evidence for both weak purifying selection and substantial turnover in regulatory regions. However, disruption of transcription factor binding sites can affect the expression of neighboring genes. Thus, the base-pair level functional annotation of regulatory DNA has proven challenging. Here, we explore regulatory DNA variation and its functional consequences in genetically diverse strains of the plant Arabidopsis thaliana, which largely maintain the positional homology of regulatory DNA. Using chromatin accessibility to delineate regulatory DNA genome-wide, we find that 15% of approximately 50,000 regulatory sites varied in accessibility among strains. Some of these accessibility differences are associated with extensive underlying sequence variation, encompassing many deletions and dramatically hypervariable sequence. For the majority of such regulatory sites, nearby gene expression was similar, despite this large genetic variation. However, among all regulatory sites, those with both high levels of sequence variation and differential chromatin accessibility are the most likely to reside near genes with differential expression among strains. Unexpectedly, the vast majority of regulatory sites that differed in chromatin accessibility among strains show little variation in the underlying DNA sequence, implicating variation in upstream regulators.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104323', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Altius Institute for Biomedical Sciences;', u'Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology']]
[u'Host autophagosomes are diverted to a plant-pathogen interface', ['Yasin Dagdas', 'Pooja Pandey', 'Nattapong Sanguankiattichai', 'Yasin Tumtas', 'Khaoula Belhaj', 'Cian Duggan', 'Maria Segretin', 'Sophien Kamoun', 'Tolga Osman Bozkurt'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Filamentous plant pathogens and symbionts invade their host cells but remain enveloped by host-derived membranes. The mechanisms underlying the biogenesis and functions of these host-microbe interfaces are poorly understood. Recently, we showed that PexRD54, an effector from the Irish potato famine pathogen Phytophthora infestans, binds host protein ATG8CL to stimulate autophagosome formation and deplete the selective autophagy receptor Joka2 from ATG8CL complexes. Here, we show that during P. infestans infection, ATG8CL autophagosomes are diverted to the pathogen interface. Our findings are consistent with the view that the pathogen coopts host selective autophagy for its own benefit.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/102996', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'The Gregor Mendel Institute;', u'Imperial College London;', u'The Sainsbury Laboratory;', u'INGEBI-CONICET, Ciudad Auto \u0301noma de Buenos Aires']]
[u'Gender-specific brain activation during visual art perception', ['Beatrice de Gelder', 'Rebecca Watson', 'Minye Zhan', 'Matteo Diano', 'Marco Tamietto', 'Maarten Vaessen'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'The human body is the most common object of pictorial representation in western art. The goal of this study was to probe its evolutionary basis of visual art perception by investigating neural markers of gender-specific brain activity   triggered by paintings of male and female images. Our results show significant activity in brain areas other than those recently associated with visual arts perception. Novel findings concern participant- general as well as gender specific brain activity. Although our participants were fully aware that they were viewing artworks, the inferior parietal lobule - known for its role in the perception of emotional body images (and the somatosensory cortex) which is related to touch - were selectively active for female body paintings in all participants. The most interesting finding as regards gender was that the sight of female bodies activates the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex in males, an area known to subserve autonomic arousal. In contrast, in females the sight of the male body activated reward and control related parts of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex. This supports the notion that basic evolutionary processes operate when we view body images, also when they are paintings far removed from daily experience.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104166', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Maastricht University;', u'University of Torino']]
[u'Approaches for calculating solvation free energies and enthalpies demonstrated with an update of the FreeSolv database', ['Guilherme Duarte Ramos Matos', 'Daisy Y. Kyu', 'Hannes H. Loeffler', 'John D. Chodera', 'Michael R. Shirts', 'David Mobley'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Solvation free energies can now be calculated precisely from molecular simulations, providing a valuable test of the energy functions underlying these simulations. Here, we briefly review "alchemical" approaches for calculating the solvation free energies of small, neutral organic molecules from molecular simulations, and illustrate by applying them to calculate aqueous solvation free energies (hydration free energies). These approaches use a non-physical pathway to compute free energy differences from a simulation or set of simulations and appear to be a particularly robust and general-purpose approach for this task. We also present an update (version 0.5) to our FreeSolv database of experimental and calculated hydration free energies of neutral compounds and provide input files in formats for several simulation packages.\nThis revision to FreeSolv provides calculated values generated with a single protocol and software version, rather than the heterogeneous protocols used in the prior version of the database. We also further update the database to provide calculated enthalpies and entropies of hydration and some experimental enthalpies and entropies, as well as electrostatic and nonpolar components of solvation free energies.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104281', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'University of California, Irvine;', u'STFC Daresbury;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'Departments of Pharmaceutical Sciences and Chemistry']]
[u'A tandem simulation framework for predicting mapping quality', ['Ben Langmead'], u'January 30, 2017.', u"Read alignment is the first step in most sequencing data analyses. It is also a source of errors and interpretability problems. Repetitive genomes, algorithmic shortcuts, and genetic variation impede the aligner's ability to find a read's true point of origin. Aligners therefore report a mapping quality: the probability the reported point of origin for a read is incorrect. However, there is no established method for calculating mapping quality in a general way. We describe an accurate, aligner-agnostic framework for predicting mapping qualities that works by simulating a set of tandem reads, similar to the input reads in important ways, but for which the true point of origin is known. Alignments of tandem reads are used to build a model for predicting mapping quality, which is then applied to the input-read alignments. The model is automatically tailored to the alignment scenario at hand, allowing it to make accurate mapping-quality predictions across a range of scenarios. We implement this approach in a software tool called Qtip, which is accurate, low-overhead, and compatible with popular read aligners. Qtip is open source software available from: https://github.com/BenLangmead/qtip.", u'/content/early/2017/01/30/103952', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Shorter unreported sequences in a RACE-Seq study involving seven tissues confirms ~150 novel transcripts identified in MCF-7 cell line PacBio transcriptome, leaving ~100 non-redundant transcripts exclusive to the cancer cell line', ['Sandeep Chakraborty'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'PacBio sequencing generates much longer reads compared to second-generation sequencing technologies, with a trade-off of lower throughput, higher error rate and more cost per base. The PacBio transcriptome of the breast cancer cell line MCF-7 was found to have ~300 transcripts un-annotated in the current GENCODE (v25) or RefSeq, and missing in the liver, heart and brain PacBio transcriptomes [1]. RACE-sequencing (RACE-seq [2]) extends a well-established method of characterizing cDNA molecules generated by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE [3]) using high-throughput sequencing technologies, reducing costs compared to PacBio. Here, shorter fragments of ~150 transcripts were found to be present in seven tissues analyzed in a recent RACE-seq study (Accid:ERP012249) [4]. These transcripts were not among the ~2500 novel transcripts reported in that study, tested separately here using the genomic coordinates provided, although "all curated novel isoforms were incorporated into the human GENCODE set (v22)" in that study. Non-redundancy analysis of the exclusive transcripts identified\none transcript mapping to Chr1 with seven different splice variants, and erroneously mapped to Chr15\n(PAC clone 15q11-q13) from the Prader-Willi/Angelman Syndrome region (Accid:AC004137.1). Finally,\nthere are ~100 non-redundant transcripts missing in the seven tissues, in addition to other three tissues\nanalyzed previously. Their absence in GENCODE and RefSeq databases rule them out as commonly\ntranscribed regions, further increasing their likelihood as biomarkers.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104257', [u'Genomics'], [u'Celia Engineers']]
[u'WIDE-SCALE COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF LONGEVITY GENES AND GENETIC INTERVENTIONS', ['Hagai Yanai', 'Arie Budovsky', 'Thomer Barzilay', 'Robi Tacutu', 'Vadim E Fraifeld'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Hundreds of genes have been identified as being involved in the control of lifespan in the four common model organisms (yeast, worm, fruit fly and mouse). A major challenge is to determine if longevity-associated genes (LAGs) are model-specific or may play a universal role as longevity regulators across diverse taxa. A wide-scale comparative analysis of the 1,805 known LAGs across 205 species revealed that (i) LAG orthologs are substantially over-represented, from bacteria to mammals, especially noted for essential LAGs; (ii) the effects on lifespan, when manipulating orthologous LAGs in different model organisms, were mostly concordant, despite of a high evolutionary distance between them; (iii) the most conserved LAGs were enriched in translational processes, energy metabolism, development, and DNA repair. The least conserved LAGs were enriched in autophagy (Fungi), G-proteins (Nematodes), and neuroactive ligand-receptor interactions (Chordata). The results also suggest that antagonistic pleiotropy is a conserved principle of aging.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104182', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Ben-Gurion University of the Negev;', u'Technological Center, Biotechnology Unit;', u'Computational Biology of Aging Group, Institute of Biochemistry, Romanian Academy']]
[u'A non-catalytic role of RecBCD in Homology Directed Gap Repair and Translesion Synthesis', ['Luisa Laureti', 'Lara Lee', 'GAELLE PHILIPPIN', 'Vincent Pages'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'The RecBCD complex is a key factor in DNA metabolism. This protein complex harbors a processive nuclease and two helicases activities that give it the ability to process duplex DNA ends. These enzymatic activities make RecBCD a major player in double strand break repair, conjugational recombination and degradation of linear DNA. In this work, we unravel a new role of the RecBCD complex in the processing of DNA single-strand gaps that are generated at DNA replication-blocking lesions. We show that independently of its nuclease or helicases activities, the entire RecBCD complex is required for recombinational repair of the gap and efficient translesion synthesis. Since none of the catalytic functions of RecBCD are required for those processes, we surmise that the complex acts as a structural element that stabilizes the blocked replication fork, allowing efficient DNA damage tolerance.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/102509', [u'Microbiology'], [u'CNRS, UMR7258']]
[u'T3SS effector VopL inhibits the host ROS response, promoting the intracellular survival of Vibrio parahaemolyticus', ['Marcela de Souza Santos', 'Dor Salomon', 'Kim Orth'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'The production of antimicrobial reactive oxygen species by the nicotinamide dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase complex is an important mechanism for control of invading pathogens. Herein, we show that the gastrointestinal pathogen Vibrio parahaemolyticus counteracts reactive oxygen species (ROS) production using the Type III Secretion System 2 (T3SS2) effector VopL. In the absence of VopL, intracellular V. parahaemolyticus undergo ROS-dependent filamentation, with concurrent limited growth. During infection, VopL assembles actin into non-functional filaments resulting in a dysfunctional actin cytoskeleton that can no longer mediate the assembly of the NADPH oxidase at the cell membrane, thereby limiting ROS production. This is the first example of how a T3SS2 effector contributes to the intracellular survival of V. parahaemolyticus to support the establishment of a protective intracellular replicative niche.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104315', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,']]
[u'In-Depth Resistome Analysis by Targeted Metagenomics', ['Val F Lanza', 'Fernando Baquero', 'Jose Luis Martinez', 'Ricardo Ramos-Ruiz', 'Bruno Gonzalez-Zorn', 'Antoine Andremont', 'Antonio Sanchez-Valenzuela', 'Dusko Ehrlich', 'Sean Kennedy', 'Etienne Ruppe', 'Willem van Schaik', 'Rob J Willems', 'Fernando de la Cruz', 'Teresa M Coque'], u'January 30, 2017.', u"We developed ResCap, a targeted sequence capture platform based on SeqCapEZ technology, to analyse resistomes and other genes related to antimicrobial resistance (heavy metals, biocides and plasmids). ResCap includes probes for 8,667 canonical resistance genes (7,963 antibiotic resistance genes and 704 genes conferring resistance to metals or biocides), plus 2,517 relaxase genes (plasmid markers). Besides, it includes 78.600 genes homologous to the previous ones (47,806 for antibiotics and 30,794 for biocide or metals). ResCap enriched 279-fold the targeted sequences detected by metagenomic shotgun sequencing and improves their identification. Novel bioinformatic approaches allow quantifying 'gene abundance' and 'gene diversity'. ResCap, the first targeted sequence capture specifically developed to analyse resistomes, enhances the sensitivity and specificity of available metagenomic methods to analyse antibiotic resistance in complex populations, enables the analysis of other genes related to antimicrobial resistance and opens the possibility to accurately study other complex microbial systems.", u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104224', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Servicio de Microbiologia, Hospital Universitario Ramon y Cajal University Hospital, Ramon y Cajal;', u'Centro Nacional de Biotecnologia. CSIC. Darwin 3. 28049-Madrid. Spain;', u'Genomics Unit, Science Park, Madrid;', u'Facultad de Veterinaria Universidad Complutense de Madrid, Spain;', u'IAME, UMR 1137, INSERM, Paris Diderot University, Sorbonne Paris Cite, Bacteriologie Laboratory;', u'MGP MetaGenoPolis, INRA, Universite Paris-Saclay, 78350 Jouy-en-Josas, France;', u'Department of Medical Microbiology, University Medical Center Utrecht, The Netherlands;', u'Departamento de Biologia Molecular, Universidad de Cantabria and IBBTEC']]
[u'Toxoplasma gondii AP2IX-4 regulates gene expression during bradyzoite development', ['Sherri Huang', 'Michael J Holmes', 'Joshua B Radke', 'Dong-Pyo Hong', 'Ting-Kai Liu', 'Michael W White', 'William J Sullivan'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Toxoplasma gondii is a protozoan parasite of great importance to human and animal health. In the host, this obligate intracellular parasite persists as a tissue cyst form that is invisible to the immune response and unaffected by current therapies. The tissue cysts facilitate transmission through predation and give rise to chronic cycles of toxoplasmosis in immune compromised patients. Transcriptional changes accompany conversion of the rapidly replicating tachyzoites into the encysted bradyzoites, yet the mechanisms underlying these alterations in gene expression are not well-defined. Here we show that AP2IX-4 is a nuclear protein exclusively expressed in tachyzoites and bradyzoites undergoing division. Knockout of AP2IX-4 had no discernible effect on tachyzoite replication, but resulted in a reduced frequency of tissue cyst formation following alkaline stress induction, a defect that is reversible by complementation. AP2IX-4 has a complex role in regulating bradyzoite gene expression, as many bradyzoite mRNAs dramatically increased beyond normal stress-induction in AP2IX-4 knockout parasites exposed to alkaline media. The loss of AP2IX-4 also resulted in a modest virulence defect and reduced cyst burden in chronically infected mice, which was also reversed by complementation. These findings illustrate that the transcriptional mechanisms responsible for tissue cyst development operate across the intermediate life cycle from the dividing tachyzoite to the dormant bradyzoite.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104208', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Indiana University School of Medicine;', u'University of South Florida']]
[u'The differential spatiotemporal expression pattern of shelterin genes throughout lifespan', ['Kay-Dietrich Wanger', 'Yilin Ying', 'Waiian Leong', 'Jie Jiang', 'Xuefei Hu', 'Yi Chen', 'Jean-Francois Michiels', 'Yiming Lu', 'Eric Gilson', 'Nicole Wagner', 'Jing Ye'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'Shelterin forms the core complex of telomere proteins and plays critical roles in protecting telomeres against unwanted activation of the DNA damage response and in maintaining telomere length homeostasis. Although shelterin expression is believed to be ubiquitous for stabilization of chromosomal ends, some evidence suggests that some shelterin subunits have tissue-specific functions. However, very little is known regarding how shelterin subunit gene expression is regulated during development and aging. Using two different animal models, the mouse and zebrafish, we reveal herein that shelterin subunits exhibit distinct spatial and temporal expression patterns that do not correlate with the proliferative status of the organ systems examined. Together, this work shows that the shelterin subunits exhibit distinct spatiotemporal expression patterns, suggesting important tissue-specific functions during development throughout the lifespan.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104299', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Institut for Research on Cancer and Aging, Nice;', u'Shanghai Ruijin Hospital']]
[u'Fiber tractography using machine learning', ['Peter Florian Neher', 'Marc-Alexandre Cote', 'Jean-Christophe Houde', 'Maxime Descoteaux', 'Klaus H. Maier-Hein'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'We present a fiber tractography approach based on a random forest classification and voting process, guiding each step of the streamline progression by directly processing raw diffusion-weighted signal intensities. For comparison to the state-of-the-art, i.e. tractography pipelines that rely on mathematical modeling, we performed a quantitative and qualitative evaluation with multiple phantom and in vivo experiments, including a comparison to the 96 submissions of the ISMRM tractography challenge 2015. The results demonstrate the vast potential of machine learning for fiber tractography.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104190', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Medical Image Computing (MIC), German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany;', u'Sherbrooke Connectivity Imaging Laboratory (SCIL), Universite de Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Canada']]
[u'The immunomodulatory CEA cell adhesion molecule 6 (CEACAM6/CD66c) is a candidate receptor for the influenza A virus', ['Shah Kamranur Rahman', 'Mairaj Ahmed Ansari', 'Pratibha Gaur', 'Imtiyaz Ahmad', 'Chandrani Chakravarty', 'Dileep Kumar Verma', 'Sanjay Chhibber', 'Naila Nehal', 'Shanmugaapriya Sellathanby', 'Dagmar Wirth', 'Gulam Waris', 'Sunil K. Lal'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'To establish a productive infection in host cells, viruses often use one or multiple host membrane glycoprotein as their receptors. For Influenza A virus (IAV) such a glycoprotein receptor has not been described, to date. Here we show that IAV is using the host membrane glycoprotein CD66c as a receptor for entry into human epithelial lung cells. Neuraminidase (NA), a viral spike protein binds to CD66c on the cell surface during IAV entry into the host cells. Lung cells overexpressing CD66c showed an increase in virus binding and subsequent entry into the cell. Upon comparison, CD66c demonstrated higher binding capacity than other membrane glycoproteins (EGFR and DC-SIGN) reported earlier to facilitate IAV entry into host cells. siRNA mediated knockdown of CD66c from lung cells inhibited virus binding on cell surface and entry into cells. Blocking CD66c by antibody on the cell surface resulted in decreased virus entry. We found CD66c is a specific glycoprotein receptor for influenza A virus that did not affect entry of non-IAV RNA virus (Hepatitis C virus). Finally, IAV pre-incubated with recombinant CD66c protein when administered intranasally in mice showed decreased cytopathic effects in mice lungs. This publication is the first to report CD66c (CEACAM6) as a glycoprotein receptor for Influenza A virus.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104026', [u'Microbiology'], [u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine;', u'Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, Chicago Medical School, North Chicago;', u'Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig, Germany;', u'Virology Group, International Centre for Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology, New Delhi, India;', u'Department of Biomedical Science, Bharathidasan University, Trichy, India;', u'Microbiology Department, Panjab University, Chandigarh, India;', u'Career Institute of Medical & Dental Sciences and Hospital, Lucknow, India;', u'School of Science, Monash University, Selangor DE, Malaysia']]
[u'Olig2 and Hes regulatory dynamics during motor neuron differentiation revealed by single cell transcriptomics', ['Andreas Sagner', 'Zachary Gaber', 'Julien Delile', 'Jennifer H Kong', 'David L Rousso', 'Caroline A Pearson', 'Steven E Weicksel', 'Neda Mousavy Gharavy', 'James Briscoe', 'Bennett Novitch'], u'January 30, 2017.', u'During tissue development, multipotent progenitors differentiate into specific cell types in characteristic spatial and temporal patterns. We address the mechanism linking progenitor identity and differentiation rate in the neural tube, where motor neuron (MN) progenitors differentiate more rapidly than other progenitors. Using single cell transcriptomics, we define the transcriptional changes associated with the transition of neural progenitors into MNs. Reconstruction of gene expression dynamics from these data indicate a pivotal role for the MN determinant Olig2 just prior to MN differentiation. Olig2 represses expression of the Notch signaling pathway effectors Hes1 and Hes5. Olig2 repression of Hes5 appears to be direct, via a conserved regulatory element within the Hes5 locus that restricts expression from MN progenitors. These findings reveal a tight coupling between the regulatory networks that control patterning and neuronal differentiation, and demonstrate how Olig2 acts as the developmental pacemaker coordinating the spatial and temporal pattern of MN generation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/30/104307', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'The Francis Crick Institute;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
