[u'The shape of the contact-density function matters when modelling disease transmission in fluctuating populations', ['Benny Borremans', 'Jonas Reijniers', 'Niel Hens', 'Herwig Leirs'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Models of disease transmission in a population with varying densities must assume a relation between infectious contacts and density. Typically, a choice is made between a constant (frequency-dependence) and a linear (density-dependence) contact-density function, but it is becoming increasingly clear that nonlinear functions intermediate between these two extremes are more realistic. It is currently not clear however what the consequences would be of implementing different contact-density functions when population density varies. By combining existing data on Mastomys natalensis demography, density-dependent changes in contacts, and Morogoro virus infection dynamics, we explored the effects of different contact-density function shapes on transmission dynamics and invasion/persistence. While invasion and persistence were clearly affected by the shape of the function, the effects on outbreak characteristics such as prevalence and outbreak size were minor. As a consequence, it would be difficult to distinguish between the different shapes based on how well models fit to real data. This data-driven study confirms that the shape of the transmission-density function must be chosen with care, ideally based on existing information such as a previously quantified contact- or transmission-density relationship or the underlying biology of the host species in relation to the infectious agent.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101535', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'University of Antwerp;', u'University of Hasselt']]
[u'DNA methylation differences at regulatory elements are associated with the cancer risk factor age in normal breast tissue', ['Kevin C Johnson', 'E. Andres Houseman', 'Jessica E King', 'Brock C Christensen'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Background: The underlying biological mechanisms through which epidemiologically defined breast cancer risk factors contribute to disease risk remain poorly understood. Identification of the molecular changes associated with cancer risk factors in normal tissues may aid in determining the earliest events of carcinogenesis and informing cancer prevention strategies.  Results: Here we investigated the impact cancer risk factors have on the normal breast epigenome by analyzing DNA methylation genome-wide (Infinium 450K array) in cancer-free women from the Susan G. Komen Tissue Bank (n = 100). We tested the relation of established breast cancer risk factors: age, body mass index, parity, and family history of disease with DNA methylation adjusting for potential variation in cell-type proportions. We identified 787 CpG sites that demonstrated significant associations (Q-value < 0.01) with subject age. Notably, DNA methylation was not strongly associated with the other evaluated breast cancer risk factors. Age-related DNA methylation changes are primarily increases in methylation enriched at breast epithelial cell enhancer regions (P = 7.1E-20), and binding sites of chromatin remodelers (MYC and CTCF). We validated the age-related associations in two independent populations of normal breast tissue (n = 18) and normal-adjacent to tumor tissue (n = 97). The genomic regions classified as age-related were more likely to be regions altered in cancer in both pre-invasive (n = 40, P=3.0E-03) and invasive breast tumors (n = 731, P=1.1E-13).  Conclusions: DNA methylation changes with age occur at regulatory regions, and are further exacerbated in cancer suggesting that age influences breast cancer risk in part through its contribution to epigenetic dysregulation in normal breast tissue.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101287', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine;', u'Oregon State University;', u'Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth']]
[u'An efficient Bayesian meta-analysis approach for studying cross-phenotype genetic associations', ['Arunabha Majumdar', 'Tanushree Haldar', 'Sourabh Bhattacharya', 'John Witte'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Simultaneous analysis of genetic associations with multiple phenotypes may reveal shared genetic susceptibility across traits (pleiotropy). For a locus exhibiting overall pleiotropy, it is important to identify which specific traits underlie this association. We propose a Bayesian meta-analysis approach (termed CPBayes) that uses summary-level data across multiple phenotypes to simultaneously measure the evidence of aggregate-level pleiotropic association and estimate an optimal subset of traits associated with the risk locus. This method uses a unified Bayesian statistical framework based on a spike and slab prior. CPBayes performs a fully Bayesian analysis by employing the Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) technique Gibbs sampling. It takes into account heterogeneity in the size and direction of the genetic effects across traits. It can be applied to both cohort data and separate studies of multiple traits having overlapping or non-overlapping subjects. Simulations show that CPBayes produces a substantially better accuracy in the selection of associated traits underlying a pleiotropic signal than the subset-based meta-analysis ASSET. We used CPBayes to undertake a genome-wide pleiotropic association study of 22 traits in the large Kaiser GERA cohort and detected nine independent pleiotropic loci associated with at least two phenotypes. This includes a locus at chromosomal region 1q24.2 which exhibits an association simultaneously with the risk of five different diseases: Dermatophytosis, Hemorrhoids, Iron Deficiency, Osteoporosis, and Peripheral Vascular Disease. The GERA cohort analysis suggests that CPBayes is more powerful than ASSET with respect to detecting independent pleiotropic variants. We provide an R-package \u2018CPBayes\u2019 implementing the proposed method.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101543', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California San Francisco;', u'Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata']]
