[u'Single-cell epigenomics maps the continuous regulatory landscape of human hematopoietic differentiation', ['Jason Daniel Buenrostro', 'William Greenleaf', 'Ryan Corces', 'Beijing Wu', 'Alicia N Schep', 'Caleb Lareau', 'Ravindra Majeti', 'Howard Chang'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Normal human hematopoiesis involves cellular differentiation of multipotent cells into progressively more lineage-restricted states. While epigenomic landscapes of this process have been explored in immunophenotypically-defined populations, the single-cell regulatory variation that defines hematopoietic differentiation has been hidden by ensemble averaging. We generated single-cell chromatin accessibility landscapes across 8 populations of immunophenotypically-defined human hematopoietic cell types. Using bulk chromatin accessibility profiles to scaffold our single-cell data analysis, we constructed an epigenomic landscape of human hematopoiesis and characterized epigenomic heterogeneity within phenotypically sorted populations to find epigenomic lineage-bias toward different developmental branches in multipotent stem cell states. We identify and isolate sub-populations within classically-defined granulocyte-macrophage progenitors (GMPs) and use ATAC-seq and RNA-seq to confirm that GMPs are epigenomically and transcriptomically heterogeneous. Furthermore, we identified transcription factors and cis-regulatory elements linked to changes in chromatin accessibility within cellular populations and across a continuous myeloid developmental trajectory, and observe relatively simple TF motif dynamics give rise to a broad diversity of accessibility dynamics at cis-regulatory elements. Overall, this work provides a template for exploration of complex regulatory dynamics in primary human tissues at the ultimate level of granular specificity - the single cell.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/109843', [], [u'Broad Institute;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'MiR-126 impairs the intestinal barrier function via inhibiting S1PR2 mediated activation of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway', ['Tanzhou Chen', 'Haibo Xue', 'Ruoyang Lin', 'Zhiming Huang'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Background Aberrant expression of miRNAs was a critical element in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). This study aimed to explore the involvement and mechanism of miR-126 in IBD. \nMethods In this study, the endogenous expressions of miR-126, S1PR2 and S1P in the pathological tissues of patients with IBD were detected using qRT-PCR and western blot assay, respectively. The luciferase reporter gene assay was performed to confirm the targeting regulatory relation between miR-126 and S1PR2. The transendothelial electrical resistance assay was used to measured the value of TEER.\nResults The expressions of miR-126, S1PR2 and S1P in the pathological tissues of IBD patients were significantly higher than that of the control group. Moreover, miR-126 overexpression contributed to intestinal mucosal barrier dysfunction in vitro. S1PR2 was a direct target of miR-126, and S1PR2 expression was negatively regulated by miR-126 in Caco-2 cells. However, S1PR2 activated by S1P had the protection effect for the integrity and permeability of intestinal mucosal barrier via a PI3K/Akt dependent mechanism. MiR-126 silencing possessed obvious protective effects on the intestinal barrier function, but these effects could be reversed by JTE-013 or LY294002.\nConclusion MiR-126 down-regulated S1PR2 and then prevented the activation of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, which ultimately could damage intestinal mucosal barrier function.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110338', [], [u'The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, China']]
[u'Holocene selection for variants associated with cognitive ability: Comparing ancient and modern genomes.', ['Michael A Woodley of Menie', 'Shameem Younuskunja', 'Bipin Balan', 'Davide Piffer'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Human populations living in Eurasia during the Holocene experienced significant evolutionary change. It has been predicted that the transition of Holocene populations into agrarianism and urbanization brought about culture-gene co-evolution that favoured via directional selection genetic variants associated with higher general cognitive ability (GCA). Population expansion and replacement has also been proposed as an important source of GCA gene-frequency change during this time period. To examine whether GCA might have risen during the Holocene, we compare a sample of 99 ancient Eurasian genomes (ranging from 4,557 to 1,208 years of age) with a sample of 503 modern European genomes, using three different cognitive polygenic scores. Significant differences favouring the modern genomes were found for all three polygenic scores (Odds Ratio=0.92, p=0.037; 0.81, p=0.001 and 0.81, p=0.02). Furthermore, a significant increase in positive allele count over 3,249 years was found using a sample of 66 ancient genomes (r=0.217, p one-tailed=0.04). These observations are consistent with the expectation that GCA rose during the Holocene.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109678', [u'Genomics'], [u'Vrije Universiteit Brussel;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of Palermo;', u'University of the Negev']]
[u'Multiple Demand system\u2032s activity predicts individual differences in working memory and fluid intelligence', ['Moataz Assem', 'Idan A Blank', 'Zach Mineroff', 'Ahmet Ademoglu', 'Evelina Fedorenko'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Executive abilities are supported by the fronto-parietal Multiple Demand (MD) network, yet attempts to link individual behavioral variability to MD activity have yielded contradictory findings. In a large-scale fMRI study (n=140), higher MD responses were strongly associated with better performance on a working memory task and higher IQ. These results pave the way for using individual fMRI measures to link genetic and behavioral variation in health and disease.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110270', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of Cambridge;', u'Brain & Cognitive Sciences Department, McGovern Institute for Brain Research, MIT;', u'Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Bogazici University;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Global Proteomic Analyses of Macrophage Response to Mycobacterium tuberculosis Infection', ['Valerie Poirier', 'Gal Av-Gay', 'Yossef Av-Gay'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Alveolar macrophages serve as the first line of defence against microbial infection, yet provide a unique niche for the growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. To better understand the evasive nature of the tubercle bacilli and its molecular manifest on the macrophage response to infection, we conducted a global quantitative proteomic profile of infected macrophages. By examining four independent controlled infection experiments, we detected 42,007 peptides resulting in the characterization of 4,868 distinct proteins. Of these, we identified 845 macrophage proteins whose expression is modulated upon infection in all replicates. We showed that the macrophage response to M.tuberculosis infection includes simultaneous and concerted upregulation of selected proteins. Using several statistical methods, we identified 27 proteins whose expression levels are significantly regulated outside of a 90% confidence interval about the mean. These host proteins represent the macrophage transcriptional, translational, and innate immune response to infection as well as its signaling capacity. The contribution of PtpA, an M. tuberculosis secreted virulence factor, modulated the expression levels of 11 host macrophage proteins, as categorized by RNA metabolism, translation, and cellular respiration.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110304', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'A novel method for single whitefly (Bemisia tabaci) transcriptomes reveals an eleven amino acid deletion in the NusG protein in the bacterial endosymbiont Portiera aleyrodidarum', ['Peter Sseruwagi', 'James Wainaina', 'Joseph Ndunguru', 'Robooni Tumuhimbise', 'Fred Tairo', 'Jianyang Guo', 'Alice Vrielink', 'Amanda Blythe', 'Tonny Kinene', 'Bruno De Marchi', 'Monica A Kehoe', 'Sandra K Tanz', 'Laura M Boykin'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Background: Bemisia tabaci species (whiteflies) are the worlds most devastating insect pests within crops in the tropics. They cause billions of dollars (US) of damage each year and are leaving farmers in the developing world food insecure. Understanding the genetic and transcriptomic composition of these insect pests, the viruses they transmit and the microbiota is crucial to sustainable insect and virus management solutions for farmers. Currently, publically available transcriptome data for B. tabaci has been generated from pooled samples (mainly inbred lab colonies) consisting of several individuals because whiteflies are small (approximately 0.2 mm wide and 0.1 mm in height). Pooling individuals can lead to high heterozygosity and skewed representation of the genetic diversity. The ability to extract enough RNA from a single whitefly has remained elusive due to their small size and technology limitations. Therefore, the understanding of whitefly-microbiota-viral species composition of an individual field-collected whitefly has also remained unknown. In this study, we developed a single whitefly RNA extraction procedure and subsequently successfully sequenced the transcriptome of four individual adult Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA1) B. tabaci. \nResults: Transcriptome sequencing on individual whiteflies resulted in between 39-42 million raw reads. De novo assembly of trimmed reads yielded between 65,000-162,000 transcripts across all four B. tabaci transcriptomes. In addition, Bayesian phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrion cytochrome I oxidase (mtCOI) grouped the four whiteflies within the SSA1 clade. BLAST searches on assembled transcripts within the four individual transcriptomes identified five endosymbionts; the primary endosymbiont Portiera aleyrodidarum and four secondary endosymbionts: Arsenophonus, Wolbachia, Rickettsia, and Cardinium spp. These five endosymbionts were predominant across all four SSA1 B. tabaci study samples with prevalence levels of between 54.1-75%. Nucleotide and amino acid sequence alignments of the NusG gene of P. aleyrodidarum for the SSA1 B. tabaci transcriptomes of samples WF2 and WF2b revealed an eleven amino acid residue deletion that was absent in samples WF1 and WF2a.  Comparison of the protein structure of the NusG protein from P. aleyrodidarum in SSA1 with known NusG structures showed the deletion resulted in a shorter D loop. Although NusG is key in regulating of transcription elongation, it is believed that the shortening of the loop region in the N-terminal domain is unlikely to affect transcription termination. Therefore, the effect of variability in this region across species is unknown.\nConclusion: In this study, we optimised a single whitefly high quality RNA extraction procedure and successfully carried out individual whitefly transcriptome sequencing on adult B. tabaci whiteflies. This enabled the detection of unique genetic differences in the NusG genes of the primary endosymbiont P. aleyrodidarum in four field-collected SSA1 whiteflies that may not have been detected using lab-pooled B. tabaci isolines. The use of field-collected specimens means that both time and money will be saved in future studies using single whitefly transcriptomes in monitoring vector and viral interactions. In addition, the methods we have developed here are applicable to any small organism where RNA quantity has limited transcriptome studies.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110353', [u'Genetics'], [u'Mikocheni Agriculture Research Institute (MARI), P.O. Box 6226, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania;', u'School of Molecular Sciences, University of Western Australia, Crawley, Perth, WA 6009, Australia;', u'National Agricultural Research Laboratories, Kawanda, P.O. Box 7065, Kampala, Uganda;', u'Ministry of Agriculture Key Laboratory of Agricultural Entomology, Institute of Insect Sciences, Zhe;', u'Crop Protection Branch, Departments of Agriculture and Food Western Australia, South Perth, WA 6151,;', u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology, The University of Western Australia, Perth, 6009,']]
[u'Genome-wide regulatory model from MPRA data predicts functional regions, eQTLs, and GWAS hits', ['Yue Li', 'Alvin Shi', 'Ryan Tewhey', 'Pardis Sabeti', 'Jason Ernst', 'Manolis Kellis'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Massively-parallel reporter assays (MPRA) enable unprecedented opportunities to test for regulatory activity of thousands of regulatory sequences. However, MPRA only assay a subset of the genome thus limiting their applicability for genome-wide functional annotations. To overcome this limitation, we have used existing MPRA datasets to train a machine learning model that uses DNA sequence information, regulatory motif annotations, evolutionary conservation, and epigenomic information to predict genomic regions that show enhancer activity when tested in MPRA assays. We used the resulting model to generate global predictions of regulatory activity at single-nucleotide resolution across 14 million common variants. We find that genetic variants with stronger predicted regulatory activity show significantly lower minor allele frequency, indicative of evolutionary selection within the human population. They also show higher overlap with eQTL annotations across multiple tissues relative to the background SNPs, indicating that their perturbations in vivo more frequently result in changes in gene expression. In addition, they are more frequently associated with trait-associated SNPs from genome-wide association studies (GWAS), enabling us to prioritize genetic variants that are more likely to be causal based on their predicted regulatory activity. Lastly, we use our model to compare MPRA inferences across cell types and platforms and to prioritize the assays most predictive of MPRA assay results, including cell-dependent DNase hypersensitivity sites and transcription factors known to be active in   the tested cell types. Our results indicate that high-throughput testing of thousands of putative regions, coupled with regulatory predictions across millions of sites, presents a powerful strategy for systematic annotation of genomic regions and genetic variants.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110171', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'MIT;', u'Harvard University;', u'UCLA']]
[u'Similarity identification in gene expression patterns as a new approach in phenotype classification', ['Seyed Ali Madani Tonekaboni', 'Venkata Satya Kumar Manem', 'Nehme El-Hachem', 'Benjamin Haibe-Kains'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Stratifying healthy and malignant phenotypes and identifying their biological states using high-throughput molecular data has been the focus of many computational approaches during the last decade. Using multivariate changes in expression of genes within biological pathways, as fingerprints of complex phenotypes, we developed a new methodology for Similarity Identification in Gene expressioN (SIGN). In this approach, we use centroid classifier to identify phenotype of each biological sample. To obtain similarity of a given biological sample with classes of phenotypes, we defined a new distance measure, transcriptional similarity coefficient (TSC) which captures similarity of gene expression patterns between a biological pathway in two samples or populations. We showed that TSC, as an interpretable and stable distance measure in SIGN, captures all oncogenic hallmarks for breast cancer even with low sample size, by comparing healthy and patient tumor samples in the largest breast cancer dataset. In this study, we demonstrate that SIGN is a flexible, yet robust approach for classification based on transcriptomics data. Comparing early and late relapses within each molecular subtypes of breast cancer, our method enabled subtype-specific stratification of breast cancer patients into groups with significantly different survival. Moreover, we used SIGN to classify with more than 99% specificity the site of extraction of healthy and tumor samples from the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets. We showed that SIGN also enables robust identification of hematopoietic stem cell and progenitors within the hematopoietic hierarchy. We further explored chemical perturbation data in the Connectivity Map (CMAP) database and showed that SIGN was able to classify seven classes of drugs based on their mechanism of action. In conclusion, we showed that SIGN can be used to achieve interpretable and robust transcriptomic-based classification of healthy and malignant samples, as well as drugs based on their known mechanism of action, supporting the generalizability and relevance of the method for the analysis of gene expression profiles.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110130', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Montreal;', u'University Health Network']]
[u'Evolinc: a comparative transcriptomics and genomics pipeline for quickly identifying sequence conserved lincRNAs for functional analysis.', ['Andrew D. L. Nelson', 'Upendra K Devisetty', 'Kyle Palos', 'Asher K Haug-Baltzell', 'Eric Lyons', 'Mark A Beilstein'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Long intergenic non-coding RNAs (lincRNAs) are an abundant and functionally diverse class of eukaryotic transcripts. Reported lincRNA repertoires in mammals vary, but are commonly in the thousands to tens of thousands of transcripts, covering ~90% of the genome. In addition to elucidating function, there is particular interest in understanding the origin and evolution of lincRNAs. Aside from mammals, lincRNA populations have been sparsely sampled, precluding evolutionary analyses focused on lincRNA emergence and persistence. Here we present Evolinc, a two-module pipeline designed to facilitate lincRNA discovery and characterize aspects of lincRNA evolution. The first module (Evolinc-I) is a lincRNA identification workflow that also facilitates downstream differential expression analysis and genome browser visualization of identified lincRNAs. The second module (Evolinc-II) is a genomic and transcriptomic comparative analyses workflow that determines the phylogenetic depth to which a lincRNA locus is conserved within a user-defined group of related species. Evolinc-II builds families of homologous lincRNA loci, aligns constituent sequences, infers gene trees, and then uses gene tree / species tree reconciliation to reconstruct evolutionary processes such as gain, loss, or duplication of the locus. Here we demonstrate that Evolinc-I is agnostic to target organism by validating against previously annotated Arabidopsis and human lincRNA data. Using Evolinc-II, we examine ways in which conservation can rapidly be used to winnow down large lincRNA datasets to a small set of candidates for functional analysis. Finally, we show how Evolinc-II can be used to recover the evolutionary history of a known lincRNA, the human telomerase RNA (TERC). The analyses revealed unexpected duplication events as well as the loss and subsequent acquisition of a novel TERC locus in the lineage leading to mice and rats. The Evolinc pipeline is currently integrated in CyVerse\u2032s Discovery Environment and is free to use by researchers.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110148', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Arizona']]
[u'Cas9-Assisted Targeting of CHromosome segments (CATCH) for targeted nanopore sequencing and optical genome mapping', ['Tslil Gabrieli', 'Hila Sharim', 'Yael Michaeli', 'Yuval Ebenstein'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Variations in the genetic code, from single point mutations to large structural or copy number alterations, influence susceptibility, onset, and progression of genetic diseases and tumor transformation. Next-generation sequencing analyses are unable to reliably capture aberrations larger than the typical sequencing read length of several hundred bases. Long-read, single-molecule sequencing methods such as SMRT and nanopore sequencing can address larger variations, but require costly whole genome analysis. Here we describe a method for isolation and enrichment of a large genomic region of interest for targeted analysis based on Cas9 excision of two sites flanking the target region and isolation of the excised DNA segment by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. The isolated target remains intact and is ideally suited for optical genome mapping and long-read sequencing at high coverage. In addition, analysis is performed directly on native genomic DNA that retains genetic and epigenetic composition without amplification bias. This method enables detection of mutations and structural variants as well as detailed analysis by generation of hybrid scaffolds composed of optical maps and sequencing data at a fraction of the cost of whole genome sequencing.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110163', [u'Genomics'], [u'Tel Aviv University']]
[u'The impact factor fallacy', ['Frieder Michel Paulus', 'Nicole Cruz', 'Soeren Krach'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'The use of the journal impact factor (JIF) as a measure for the quality of individual manuscripts and the merits of scientists has faced significant criticism in recent years. We add to the current criticism in arguing that such an application of the JIF in policy and decision making in academia is based on false beliefs and unwarranted inferences. To approach the problem, we use principles of deductive and inductive reasoning to illustrate the fallacies that are inherent to using journal based metrics for evaluating the work of scientists. In doing so, we elaborate that if we judge scientific quality based on the JIF or other journal based metrics we are either guided by invalid or weak arguments or in fact consider our uncertainty about the quality of the work and not the quality itself.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/108027.1', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Luebeck University;', u'Birkbeck, University of London']]
[u'FUMA: Functional mapping and annotation of genetic associations', ['Kyoko Watanabe', 'Erdogan Taskesen', 'Arjen van Bochoven', 'Danielle Posthuma'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'A main challenge in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) is to prioritize genetic variants and identify potential causal mechanisms of human diseases. Although multiple bioinformatics resources are available for functional annotation and prioritization, a standard, integrative approach is lacking. We developed FUMA: a web-based platform to facilitate functional annotation of GWAS results, prioritization of genes and interactive visualization of annotated results by incorporating information from multiple state-of-the-art biological databases.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110023', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'VU University Amsterdam;', u'VU University Medical Center']]
[u'Real-time decoding of bladder pressure from pelvic nerve activity', ['Carl Lubba', 'Elie Mitrani', 'Jim Hokanson', 'Warren Grill', 'Simon R Schultz'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Real time algorithms for decoding physiological signals from peripheral nerve recordings form an important component of closed loop bioelectronic medicine (electroceutical) systems. As a feasibility demonstration, we considered the problem of decoding bladder pressure from pelvic nerve electroneurograms. We extracted power spectral density of the nerve signal across a band optimised for Shannon Mutual Information, followed by linearization via piece-wise linear regression, and finally decoded signal reconstruction through optimal linear filtering. We demonstrate robust and effective reconstruction of bladder pressure, both prior to and following pharmacological manipulation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109942', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'McLaren Applied Technology;', u'Duke University']]
[u'NIMA-related kinase 1 (NEK1) regulates the localization and phosphorylation of \u03b1-Adducin (ADD1) and Myosin X (MYO10) during meiosis', ['Miguel Angel Brieno-Enriquez', 'Stefannie L Moak', 'J Kim Holloway', 'Paula Elaine Cohen'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'NIMA-related kinase 1 (NEK1) is a serine/threonine and tyrosine kinase that is highly expressed in mammalian germ cells. Mutations in Nek1 induce anemia, polycystic kidney and infertility. In this study we evaluated the role of NEK1 in meiotic spindle formation in both male and female gametes. Our results show that the lack of NEK1 provokes an abnormal organization of the meiosis I spindle characterized by elongated and/or multipolar spindles, and abnormal chromosome congression. The aberrant spindle structure is concomitant with the disruption in localization and protein levels of myosin X (MYO10) and \u03b1-adducin (ADD1), both of which are implicated in the regulation of spindle formation during mitosis. Interaction of ADD1 with MYO10 is dependent on phosphorylation, whereby phosphorylation of ADD1 enables its  binding to MYO10 on mitotic spindles. Reduction in ADD1 protein in NEK1 mutant mice is associated with hyperphosphorylation of ADD1, thereby preventing the interaction with MYO10 during meiotic spindle formation. Our results reveal a novel regulatory role for NEK1 in the regulation of spindle architecture and function during meiosis.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110098', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Estimation of the dispersal distances of an aphid-borne virus in a patchy landscape', ['David R. J. Pleydell', 'Samuel Soubeyrand', 'Sylvie Dallot', 'Gerard Labonne', 'Joel Chadoeuf', 'Emmanuel Jacquot', 'Gael Thebaud'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Characterising the spatio-temporal dynamics of pathogens in natura is key to ensuring their efficient prevention and control. However, it is notoriously difficult to estimate dispersal parameters at scales that are relevant to real epidemics. Epidemiological surveys can provide informative data, but parameter estimation can be hampered when the timing of the epidemiological events is uncertain, and in the presence of interactions between disease spread, surveillance, and control. Further complications arise from imperfect detection of disease, and from the computationally intractable number of data on individual hosts arising from landscape-level surveys. Here, we present a Bayesian framework that overcomes these barriers by integrating over associated uncertainties in a model explicitly combining the processes of disease dispersal, surveillance and control. Using a novel computationally efficient approach to account for patch geometry, we demonstrate that disease dispersal distances can be estimated accurately in a fragmented landscape when disease control is ongoing. Applying this model to data for an aphid-borne virus (Plum pox virus) surveyed for 15 years over 600 orchards, we obtain the first estimate of the distribution of the flight distances of infectious aphids at the landscape scale. Most infectious aphids leaving a tree land beyond the bounds of a 1-ha orchard (50% of flights terminate within about 90 m). Moreover, long-distance flights are not rare (10% of flights exceed 1 km). By their impact on our quantitative understanding of winged aphids dispersal, these results can inform the design of management strategies for plant viruses, which are mainly aphid-borne.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109561', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'INRA']]
[u'Meiotic recombination modulates the structure and dynamics of the synaptonemal complex during C. elegans meiosis', ['Divya Pattabiraman', 'Baptiste Roelens', 'Alexander Woglar', 'Anne M. Villeneuve'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'During meiotic prophase, a structure called the synaptonemal complex (SC) assembles at the interface between aligned pairs of homologous chromosomes, and crossover recombination events occur between their DNA molecules. Here we investigate the inter-relationships between these two hallmark features of the meiotic program in the nematode C. elegans, revealing dynamic properties of the SC that are modulated by recombination.  We demonstrate that the SC incorporates new subunits and switches from a more highly dynamic/labile state to a more stable state as germ cells progress through the pachytene stage of meiotic prophase.  We further show that the more dynamic state of the SC is prolonged in mutants where meiotic recombination is impaired. Moreover, in meiotic mutants where recombination intermediates are present in limiting numbers, SC central region subunits become preferentially stabilized on the subset of chromosome pairs that harbor a site where pro-crossover factors COSA-1 and MutS\u03b3 are concentrated. Polo-like kinase PLK-2 becomes preferentially localized to the SCs of chromosome pairs harboring recombination sites prior to the enrichment of SC central region proteins on such chromosomes, and PLK-2 is required for this enrichment to occur.  Further, late pachytene nuclei in a plk-2 mutant exhibit the more highly dynamic SC state.  Together our data demonstrate that crossover recombination events elicit chromosome-autonomous stabilizing effects on the SC and implicate PLK-2 in this process.  We discuss how this recombination-triggered modulation of SC state might contribute to regulatory mechanisms that operate during meiosis to ensure the formation of crossovers while at the same time limiting their numbers.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110064', [u'Genetics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Complete mitochondrial genome of golden silk producer Antheraea assamensis and its comparative analysis with other lepidopteran insects', ['Deepika Singh', 'Debajyoti Kabiraj', 'Hasnahana Chetia', 'Pragya Sharma', 'Kartik Neog', 'Utpal Bora'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Muga (Antheraea assamensis) is an economically important silkmoth endemic to North-eastern part of India and is the producer of the strongest known commercial silk. However, there is a scarcity of -omics data for understanding the organism at a molecular level. Our present study decodes the complete mitochondrial genome (mitogenome) of A. assamensis and presents comparative analysis with other lepidopterans. Mitogenome is a 15,272 bp long AT rich (~80.2%) molecule containing 37 genes (13 PCGs, 22 tRNAs, 2 rRNAs) and a 328 bp long control region. The overall mitogenome arrangement was similar to the other lepidopterans. Two PCGs cox1 and cox2 were found to have CGA and GTG as start codons respectively like some lepidopterans. Typical clover-leaf shaped secondary structures of tRNAs were found with a few exceptions such as unstable DHU and T\u03a8C loop in tRNASer1 and tRNATyr; significant number of mismatches (35) spread over 19 tRNAs. The control region contained a six bp deletion atypical of other Antheraea species. Phylogenetic position was consistent with the traditional taxonomic classification of Saturniidae. The complete annotated mitogenome is available in GenBank (Accession No. KU379695). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on complete mitogenome of A. assamensis.\nKeywords: Insect, Lepidoptera, Mitogenome, Muga, Saturniidae', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110031', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati;', u'Gauhati University Institute of Science and Technology (GUIST), Gauhati University;', u'Central Muga Eri Research & Training Institute (CMER&TI), Lahdoigarh']]
[u'Local interactions lead to spatially correlated gene expression levels in bacterial groups.', ['Simon van Vliet', 'Alma Dal Co', 'Annina R Winkler', 'Stefanie Spriewald', 'Barbel Stecher', 'Martin Ackermann'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Many bacteria live in spatially structured assemblies where the microenvironment of a cell is shaped by the activities of its neighbors. Bacteria regulate their gene expression based on the inferred state of the environment. This raises the question whether the phenotypes of neighboring cells can become correlated through interactions via the shared microenvironment. Here, we addressed this question by following gene expression dynamics in Escherichia coli microcolonies. We observed strong spatial correlations in the expression dynamics for pathways involved in toxin production, SOS-stress response, and metabolism. These correlations can partly be explained by a combination of shared lineage history and spatial gradients in the colony. Interestingly, we also found evidence for cell-cell interactions in SOS-stress response, methionine biosynthesis and overall metabolic activity. Together our data suggests that intercellular feedbacks can couple the phenotypes of neighboring cells, raising the question whether gene-regulatory networks have evolved to spatially organize biological functions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109991', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Eawag & ETH Zurich;', u'Max-von-Pettenkofer Institute, LMU Munich']]
[u'A cell based, high throughput assay for quantitative analysis of Hedgehog pathway activation using a Smoothened phosphorylation sensor', ['Evgenii A Albert', 'Christian Boekel'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'The Hedgehog (Hh) signalling cascade is conserved across evolution and plays an important role in development and disease. In the absence of Hh, activity of the key signal transducer Smoothened (Smo) is downregulated by the Hh receptor Patched (Ptc). However, the mechanisms underlying this inhibition, and especially its release upon ligand stimulation, are still poorly understood, in part because tools for directly following Smo activation at the subcellular level were long lacking. Here we present a high throughput, cell culture assay based on a fluorescent sensor for Drosophila Smo phosphorlyation. Using this approach we could first demonstrate that the graded response to increasing Hh levels observed at the population level can be traced back to threshold responses of individual cells exhibiting differential Hh sensitivity. Second, we screened a small molecule inhibitor library for regulators of Smo phosphorylation. We observed increased Smo sensor fluorescence with compounds aimed at two major target groups, the MAPK signalling cascade and polo and aurora kinases. Biochemical validation confirmed the screen results for selected inhibitors (dobrafenib, tak-733, volasertib) and revealed differences in the mode of Smo activation, demonstrating that the assay is in principle suitable for dissecting the cell biological basis of Hh pathway activation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110056', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'CRTD, TU Dresden']]
[u'A fast and accurate algorithm to test for binary phenotypes and its application to PheWAS', ['Rounak Dey', 'Ellen M. Schmidt', 'Goncalo R. Abecasis', 'Seunggeun Lee'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'The availability of electronic health record (EHR)-based phenotypes allows for genome-wide association analyses in thousands of traits, and has great potential to identify novel genetic variants associated with clinical phenotypes. We can interpret the phenome-wide association study (PheWAS) result for a single genetic variant by observing its association across a landscape of phenotypes. Since PheWAS can test 1000s of binary phenotypes, and most of them have unbalanced (case:control = 1:10) or often extremely unbalanced (case:control = 1:600) case-control ratios, existing methods cannot provide an accurate and scalable way to test for associations. Here we propose a computationally fast score test-based method that estimates the distribution of the test statistic using the saddlepoint approximation. Our method is much faster than the state of the art Firth test (~100 times). It can also adjust for covariates and control type I error rates even when the case-control ratio is extremely unbalanced. Through application to PheWAS data from the Michigan Genomics Initiative, we show that the proposed method can control type I error rates while replicating previously known association signals even for traits with a very small number of cases and a large number of controls.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109876', [u'Genomics'], [u'Univesity of Michigan;', u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Precise insertion and guided editing of higher plant genomes using Cpf1 CRISPR nucleases', ['Matthew B Begemann', 'Benjamin N Gray', 'Emma January', 'Gina C Gordon', 'Yonghua He', 'Haijun Liu', 'Xingrong Wu', 'Thomas P Brutnell', 'Todd C Mockler', 'Mohammed Oufattole'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Precise genome editing of plants has the potential to reshape global agriculture through the targeted engineering of endogenous pathways or the introduction of new traits. To develop a CRISPR nuclease-based platform that would enable higher efficiencies of precise gene insertion or replacement, we screened the Cpf1 nucleases from Francisella novicida and Lachnospiraceae bacterium ND2006 for their capacity to induce targeted gene insertions via homology directed repair. Both nucleases, in the presence of guide RNA and repairing DNA template, were demonstrated to generate precise gene insertions as well as indel mutations at the target site in the rice genome. The frequency of targeted insertions for these Cpf1 nucleases, up to 8%, is higher than most other genome editing methods reported to date. Further refinements and broad adoption of the Cpf1 genome editing technology has the potential to make a dramatic impact on plant biotechnology.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109983', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Benson Hill Biosystems;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center']]
[u'Effective connectivity inferred from fMRI transition dynamics during movie viewing points to a balanced reconfiguration of cortical interactions', ['Matthieu Gilson', 'Gustavo Deco', 'Karl Friston', 'Patric Hagmann', 'Dante Mantini', 'Viviana Betti', 'Gian Luca Romani', 'Maurizio Corbetta'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Our behavior entails a flexible and context-sensitive interplay between brain areas to integrate information according to goal-directed requirements. However, the neural mechanisms governing the entrainment of functionally specialized brain areas remain poorly understood. In particular, the question arises whether observed changes in the activity for different cognitive conditions are explained by modifications of the (intrinsic) inputs or (extrinsic) recurrent connectivity? Here, we show that fMRI transitions over successive time points - a new version of dynamic functional connectivity compared to usual definitions - convey information about the task performed by 19 subjects, namely watching a movie versus a black screen (rest). We use a theoretical framework that extracts this information to characterize the mechanisms underlying cortical coordination at the whole brain level. Our approach relies on our recent network model that was introduced for resting-state fMRI and estimates both the amplitude of input fluctuating activity to each of the 66 cortical regions and the strengths of cortico-cortical interactions between them. In our model, the change of condition does modify the (extrinsic) recurrent connectivity as much as the (intrinsic) inputs, which are putatively related to the movie stimulus. However, detailed changes in connectivity preserve a balance in the propagation of fluctuating activity and select specific pathways that integrate sensory information from the visual and auditory systems to high-level regions of the brain. These findings speak to a dynamic functional integration that underlies the hierarchical processing in the brain.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110015', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'University College London;', u'Lausanne University Hospital and University of Lausanne;', u'KU Leuven;', u"G. d'Annunzio University;", u'Washington University']]
[u'CRISPRAnalyzeR: Interactive analysis, annotation and documentation of pooled CRISPR screens', ['Jan Winter', 'Marc Schwering', 'Oliver Pelz', 'Benedikt Rauscher', 'Tianzuo Zhan', 'Florian Heigwer', 'Michael Boutros'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Pooled CRISPR/Cas9 screens are a powerful and versatile tool for the systematic investigation of cellular processes in a variety of organisms. Such screens generate large amounts of data that present a new challenge to analyze and interpret. Here, we developed a web application to analyze, document and explore pooled CRISR/Cas9 screens using a unified single workflow. The end-to-end analysis pipeline features eight different hit calling strategies based on state-of-the-art methods, including DESeq2, MAGeCK, edgeR, sgRSEA, Z-Ratio, Mann-Whitney test, ScreenBEAM and BAGEL. Results can be compared with interactive visualizations and data tables. CRISPRAnalyzeR integrates meta- information from 26 external data resources, providing a wide array of options for the annotation and documentation of screens. The application was developed with user experience in mind, requiring no previous knowledge in bioinformatics. All modern operating systems are supported.\nAvailability and online documentation: The source code, a pre-configured docker application, sample data and a documentation can be found on our GitHub page (http://www.github.com/boutroslab/CRISPRAnalyzeR). A tutorial video can be found at http://www.crispr-analyzer.org.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109967', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'DKFZ;', u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ)']]
[u'Stochastic model of contact inhibition and the proliferation of melanoma in situ', ['Mauro Cesar C Morais', 'Izabella Stuhl', 'Alan U Sabino', 'Willian W Lautenschlager', 'Alexandre S Queiroga', 'Tharcisio C Tortelli', 'Roger Chammas', 'Yuri Suhov', 'Alexandre F Ramos'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Contact inhibition is a central feature orchestrating cell proliferation in culture experiments with its loss being associated with malignant transformation and tumorigenesis. We performed a co-culture experiment with human metastatic melanoma cell line (SK-MEL-147) and immortalized keratinocyte cells (HaCaT). After 8 days a spatial pattern was detected, characterized by the formation of clusters of melanoma cells surrounded by keratinocytes constraining their proliferation. In addition, we observed that the proportion of melanoma cells within the total population has increased. To explain our results we propose a spatial stochastic model (following a philosophy of the Widow-Rowlinson model from Statistical Physics and Molecular Chemistry) where we consider cell proliferation, death, migration, and cell-to-cell interaction through contact inhibition. Our numerical simulations demonstrate that loss of contact inhibition is a sufficient mechanism, appropriate for an explanation of the increase in the proportion of tumor cells and generation of spatial patterns established in conducted experiments.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/110007', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Sao Paulo;', u'Math Department, University of Denver;', u'School of Arts Sciences and Humanities, University of Sao Paulo;', u'DPPMS, University of Cambridge, UK']]
[u'A cautionary tale on using tumour growth rate to predict survival', ['Hitesh Mistry', 'Fernando Ortega'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'A recurrent question within oncology drug development is predicting phase III outcome for a new treatment using early clinical data. One approach to tackle this problem has been to derive metrics from mathematical models that describe tumour size dynamics termed re-growth rate and time to tumour re-growth. They have shown to be strong predictors of overall survival in numerous studies but there is debate about how these metrics are derived and if they are more predictive than empirical end-points. This work explores the issues raised in using model-derived metric as predictors for survival analyses. Re-growth rate and time to tumour re-growth were calculated for three large clinical studies by forward and reverse alignment. The latter involves re-aligning patients to their time of progression. Hence it accounts for the time taken to estimate re-growth rate and time to tumour re-growth but also assesses if these predictors correlate to survival from the time of progression.  We found that neither re-growth rate nor time to tumour re-growth correlated to survival using reverse alignment. This suggests that the dynamics of tumours up until disease progression has no relationship to survival post progression. For prediction of a phase III trial we found the metrics performed no better than empirical end-points. These results highlight that care must be taken when relating dynamics of tumour imaging to survival and that bench-marking new approaches to existing ones is essential.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109934', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'The University Of Manchester']]
[u'Bird interactions with drones, from individuals to large colonies', ['Mitchell Lyons', 'Kate Brandis', 'Corey Callaghan', 'Justin McCann', 'Charlotte Mills', 'Sharon Ryall', 'Richard Kingsford'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Drones are rapidly becoming a key part of the toolkit for a range of scientific disciplines, as well as a range of management and commercial applications. This presents a number of challenges in context of how drone use might impact nearby wildlife. Interactions between birds and drones naturally come to mind, since they share the airspace. In this paper we detail initial findings on these interactions for a range of waterbird, passerine and raptor species, across of a range of environments in Australia (arid, semi-arid, dunefield, floodplain, wetland, woodland, forest, heath and urban). We particularly focus on behavioral changes towards drones during breeding season, interactions with raptors, and effects on nesting birds in large colonies -- three areas yet to be explored in published literature. Included in our observations is monitoring and counting of nests in a colony of over 200,000 Straw-necked Ibis, the largest drone-based bird monitoring exercise to date. In addition to providing observations of interactions with specific bird species, we also recommend procedures for flight planning, safe flying and avoidance. This paper provides a basis for a number of critical and emerging areas of research into bird-drone interactions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109926', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'Can the location of a trophectoderm biopsy contribute to human blastocyst development ?', ['Tomoe Takano', 'Miyako Funabiki', 'Sagiri Taguchi', 'Fumie Saji', 'Namiko Amano', 'Kate Louise Young', 'Yoshitaka Nakamura'], u'February 20, 2017.', u"The influence of the location of a trophectoderm biopsy in human blastocysts on the development of those blastocysts has not yet been investigated. In our prospective study (n=92), our multivariate logistic regression analysis indicated that blastocoel development was influenced by the location of the trophectoderm biopsy (p=0.049) and by the type of human blastocyst used (fresh or thawed) (p=0.037), regardless of the patient's age (p=0.507) and the number of days for the human blastocyst in the pre-trophectoderm biopsy (p=0.239). Therefore, when a trophectoderm biopsy is close to the inner cell mass (ICM) in human blastocysts, it improves the progress of blastocoel development. \nClinical evidence suggests that the progress of blastocoel development is a predictor of clinical outcomes after single blastocyst transfer. Therefore, when the trophectoderm biopsy is done from near the ICM, improvement of clinical outcomes after single blastocyst transfer may be expected.", u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109298', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Oak Clinic']]
[u'New insights on the pharmacogenomics of antidepressant response from the GENDEP and STAR*D studies: rare variant analysis and high-density imputation', ['Chiara Fabbri', 'Katherine Tansey', 'Roy Perlis', 'Joanna Hauser', 'Neven Henigsberg', 'Wolfgang Maier', 'Ole Mors', 'Anna Placentino', 'Marcella Rietschel', 'Daniel Souery', 'Gerome Breen', 'Charles Curtis', 'Lee Sang-Hyuk', 'Stephen Newhouse', 'Hamel Patel', 'Michel Guipponi', 'Nader Perroud', 'Guido Bondolfi', "Micheal O'Donovan", 'Glyn Lewis', 'Joanna Biernacka', 'Richard Weinshilboum', 'Anne Farmer', 'Katherine Aitchison', 'Ian Craig', 'Peter McGuffin', 'Rudolf Uher', 'Cathryn Lewis'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Genome-wide association studies have generally failed to identify polymorphisms associated with antidepressant response. Possible reasons include limited coverage of genetic variants that this study tried to address by exome genotyping and dense imputation. \nA meta-analysis of Genome-Based Therapeutic Drugs for Depression (GENDEP) and Sequenced Treatment Alternatives to Relieve Depression (STAR*D) studies was performed at SNP, gene and pathway level. Coverage of genetic variants was increased compared to previous studies by adding exome genotypes to previously available genome-wide data and using the Haplotype Reference Consortium panel for imputation. Standard quality control was applied. Phenotypes were symptom improvement and remission after 12 weeks of antidepressant treatment. NEWMEDS consortium samples and Pharmacogenomic Research Network Antidepressant Medication Pharmacogenomic Study (PGRN-AMPS) served for replication. \n7,062,950 SNPs were analysed in GENDEP (n=738) and STAR*D (n=1409). rs116692768 (p=1.80e-08, ITGA9 (integrin alpha 9)) and rs76191705 (p=2.59e-08, NRXN3 (neurexin 3)) were significantly associated with symptom improvement during citalopram/escitalopram treatment. At gene level, no consistent effect was found. At pathway level, the Gene Ontology terms GO:0005694 (chromosome) and GO:0044427 (chromosomal part) were associated with improvement (corrected p=0.007 and 0.045, respectively). The association between rs116692768 and symptom improvement was replicated in PGRN-AMPS (p=0.047), while rs76191705 was not. The two SNPs did not replicate in NEWMEDS.\nITGA9 codes for a membrane receptor for neurotrophins and NRXN3 is a transmembrane neuronal adhesion receptor involved in synaptic differentiation. Despite their meaningful biological rationale for being involved in antidepressant effect, no convincing replication was achieved. Further studies  may help in clarifying their role.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109827', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna;', u'College of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Cardiff University;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Center for Experimental Drugs and Diagnostics, Boston;', u'Laboratory of Psychiatric Genetics, Department of Psychiatry, Poznan University of Medical Sciences;', u'Croatian Institute for Brain Research, Medical School, University of Zagreb;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Bonn;', u'Centre for Psychiatric Research, Aarhus University Hospital, Risskov;', u'Biological Psychiatry Unit and Dual Diagnosis Ward, Fatebenefratelli, Brescia;', u'Division of Genetic Epidemiology in Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental Health, Mannheim,;', u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Medicale, Universite Libre de Bruxelles and Psy Pluriel,Brussels;', u"Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London;", u'Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, University of Geneva Medical School;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Geneva;', u'MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Cardiff University;', u'School of Clinical Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol;', u'Department of Psychiatry & Psychology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester;', u'Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester;', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Alberta, Edmonton;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Dalhousie University, Halifax']]
[u'Automated 3D Neuron Tracing with Precise Branch Erasing and Confidence Controlled Back-Tracking', ['Siqi Liu', 'Donghao Zhang', 'Yang Song', 'Hanchuan Peng', 'Weidong Cai'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Motivation: The automatic reconstruction of single neuron cells is essential to enable large-scale data-driven investigations in computational neuroscience. However, few previous methods were able to generate satisfactory results automatically from 3D microscopic images without human intervention.\n\nResults: We developed a new algorithm for automatic 3D neuron reconstruction. The main idea of the proposed algorithm is to iteratively track backwards from the potential neuronal termini to the soma centre. The traced areas are labelled to avoid duplicated tracing. An online confidence score is computed to decide if a tracing iteration should be stopped and discarded from the final reconstruction. The performance improvements comparing to the previous methods are mainly introduced by a more accurate estimation of the traced area and a novel confidence controlled back-tracking algorithm. The proposed algorithm supports large-scale batch-processing by requiring only a background threshold. We bench-tested the proposed algorithm on the datasets of the BigNeuron project. We show it outperformed several state-of-the-art methods regarding the reconstruction accuracy. It was also able to generate topologically acceptable neuronal models in a majority of cases without human intervention.\n\nAvailability: The python implementation of this algorithm has been released as a PyPI package (https://github.com/lsqshr/rivuletpy). It is also implemented in Vaa3D as a neuron tracing plugin (https://github.com/Vaa3D).', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109892', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Sydney;', u'Allen Institute for Brain Science']]
[u'Are oceanic fronts ecotones? Seasonal changes along the Subtropical Front show fronts as bacterioplankton transition zones but not diversity hotspots', ['Sergio E Morales', 'Moana Meyer', 'Kim Currie', 'Federico Baltar'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Ecotones are regarded as diversity hotspots in terrestrial systems, but it is unknown if this \u2033ecotone effect\u2033 occurs in the marine environment. Oceanic fronts are widespread mesoscale features, present in the boundary between different water masses, and are arguably the best potential examples of ecotones in the ocean. Here we performed the first seasonal study along an oceanic front, combining 16S rRNA gene sequencing coupled with a high spatial resolution analysis of the physical properties of the water masses. Using the Subtropical Frontal Zone off New Zealand we demonstrate that fronts delimit shifts in bacterioplankton community composition between water masses, but that the strength of this effect is seasonally dependent. While creating a transition zone where physicochemical parameters and bacterioplankton communities get mixed, this ecotone does not result in increased diversity. Thus unlike terrestrial ecotones, oceanic ecotones like fronts are boundaries but not hotspot of bacterioplankton diversity in the ocean.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109868', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Otago']]
[u"Do Candidate Genes Affect the Brain's White Matter Microstructure? Large-Scale Evaluation of 6,165 Diffusion MRI Scans", ['Neda Jahanshad', 'Habib Ganjgahi', 'Janita Bralten', 'Anouk den Braber', 'Joshua Faskowitz', 'Annchen Knodt', 'Herve Lemaitre', 'Talia Nir', 'Binish Patel', 'Stuart Richie', 'Emma Sprooten', 'Kimm van Hulzen', 'Artemis Zavaliangos-Petropulu', 'Marcel Zwiers', 'Laura Almasy', 'Mark Bastin', 'Matt Bernstein', 'John Blangero', 'Joanne Curran', 'Ian J Deary', 'Greig de Zubicary', 'Ravi Duggirala', 'Simon Fisher', 'Barbara Franke', 'Peter Fox', 'David Goldman', 'Asta Haberg', 'Ahmad Hariri', 'L Elliot Hong', 'Martine Hoogman', 'Matt Huentelman', 'Nicholas Martin', 'Jean-Luc Martinot', 'Andrew McIntosh', 'Katie McMahon', 'Sarah Medland', 'Braxton Mitchell', 'Susana Munoz-Maniega', 'Rene Olvera', 'Jaap Oosterlaan', 'Charles Peterson', 'Natalie Royle', 'Andrew Saykin', 'Gunter Schumann', 'John Starr', 'Elliot A Stein', 'Jessika Sussmann', 'Maria Valdez-Hernan', "Dennis van't Ent", 'Joanna Wardlaw', 'Michael Weiner', 'Douglas E Williamson', 'Anderson Winkler', 'Margaret J Wright', 'Yihong Yang', 'Paul M Thompson', 'David C Glahn', 'Thomas E Nichols', 'Peter Kochunov'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Susceptibility genes for psychiatric and neurological disorders - including APOE, BDNF, CLU, CNTNAP2, COMT, DISC1, DTNBP1, ErbB4, HFE, NRG1, NTKR3, and ZNF804A - have been reported to affect white matter (WM) microstructure in the healthy human brain, as assessed through diffusion tensor imaging (DTI). However, effects of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in these genes explain only a small fraction of the overall variance and are challenging to detect reliably in single cohort studies. To date, few studies have evaluated the reproducibility of these results. As part of the ENIGMA-DTI consortium, we pooled regional fractional anisotropy (FA) measures for 6,165 subjects (CEU ancestry N=4,458) from 11 cohorts worldwide to evaluate effects of 15 candidate SNPs by examining their associations with WM microstructure. Additive association tests were conducted for each SNP. We used several meta-analytic and mega-analytic designs, and we evaluated regions of interest at multiple granularity levels. The ENIGMA-DTI protocol was able to detect single-cohort findings as originally reported. Even so, in this very large sample, no significant associations remained after multiple-testing correction for the 15 SNPs investigated. Suggestive associations (1.3x10-4 < p < 0.05, uncorrected) were found for BDNF, COMT, and ZNF804A in specific tracts. Meta- and mega-analyses revealed similar findings. Regardless of the approach, the previously reported candidate SNPs did not show significant associations with WM microstructure in this largest genetic study of DTI to date; the negative findings are likely not due to insufficient power. Genome-wide studies, involving large-scale meta-analyses, may help to discover SNPs robustly influencing WM microstructure.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/107987', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Imaging Genetics Center, Stevens Neuroimaging and Informatics Institute, Keck School of Medicine USC;', u'Department of Statistics, The University of Warwick;', u'Radboud University Medical Center, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour;', u'VU University;', u'Duke University;', u'INSERM-Faculte de Medecine Paris-Sud;', u'Maryland Psychiatric Research Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Mount Sinai School of Medicine;', u'Radboud University, Donders Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging;', u'University of Texas Rio Grande;', u'Mayo Clinic;', u'Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of Technology (QUT);', u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio;', u'National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism;', u"Norwegian University of Science and Technology and St. Olav's Universty Hospital;", u'Radboud University Medical Center;', u'TGen;', u'QIMR Berghofer;', u'University of Queensland;', u'University of Maryland;', u'Clinical Neuropsychology Section, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'Texas Biomedical Research Institute;', u'Indiana University School of Medicine;', u"King's College London;", u'National Institute on Drug Abuse-Intramural Research Program;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Duke University & Durham VA Medical Center;', u'FMRIB Centre, University of Oxford;', u'National Institute of Drug Abuse;', u'Yale University;', u'Department of Statistics & WMG, University of Warwick']]
[u'Model-based spike sorting with a mixture of drifting t-distributions', ['Kevin Q Shan', 'Evgueniy V Lubenov', 'Athanassios G Siapas'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Chronic extracellular recordings are a powerful tool for systems neuroscience, but spike sorting remains a challenge. A common approach is to fit a generative model, such as a mixture of Gaussians, to the observed spike data. Even if non-parametric methods are used for spike sorting, such generative models provide a quantitative measure of unit isolation quality, which is crucial for subsequent interpretation of the sorted spike trains. We present a spike sorting strategy that models the data as a mixture of drifting t-distributions. This model captures two important features of chronic extracellular recordings--cluster drift over time and heavy tails in the distribution of spikes--and offers improved robustness to outliers. We evaluate this model on several thousand hours of chronic tetrode recordings and show that it fits the empirical data substantially better than a mixture of Gaussians. We also provide a software implementation that can re-fit long datasets (several hours, millions of spikes) in a few seconds, enabling interactive clustering of chronic recordings. Using experimental data, we identify three common failure modes of spike sorting methods that assume stationarity. We also characterize the limitations of several popular unit isolation metrics in the presence of empirically-observed variations in cluster size and scale. We find that the mixture of drifting t-distributions model enables efficient spike sorting of long datasets and provides an accurate measure of unit isolation quality over a wide range of conditions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109850', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'Bacterial outer membrane homeostasis via retrograde phospholipid transport', ['Rahul Shrivastava', "Xiang'Er Jiang", 'Shu-Sin Chng'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'The outer membrane (OM) is essential for viability in Gram-negative bacteria, yet mechanisms to ensure its stability and homeostasis are not known. The trans-envelope Tol-Pal complex, whose physiological role has remained elusive, is important for OM stability, and coordinated OM invagination during cell division. Here, we establish the function of the Tol-Pal complex in OM lipid homeostasis in Escherichia coli. Cells lacking the complex exhibit defects in lipid asymmetry and accumulate excess phospholipids (PLs) in the OM. This imbalance in OM lipids is due to defective retrograde PL transport in the absence of a functional Tol-Pal complex. Thus, cells ensure the assembly of a stable OM by maintaining an excess flux of PLs to the OM only to return the surplus to the inner membrane via transport mediated by the Tol-Pal complex. Our findings also provide insights into the mechanism by which the Tol-Pal complex promotes OM invagination during division.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109884', [u'Microbiology'], [u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Using eDNA to Detect the Distribution and Density of Invasive Crayfish in the Honghe-Hani Rice Terrace World Heritage Site', ['Wang Cai', 'Zhuxin Ma', 'Chunyan Yang', 'Lin Wang', 'Wenzhi Wang', 'Guigang Zhao', 'Yupeng Geng', 'Douglas W. Yu'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'The Honghe-Hani landscape in China is a UNESCO World Natural Heritage site due to the beauty of its thousands of rice terraces, but these structures are in danger from the invasive crayfish Procambarus clarkii. Crayfish dig nest holes, which collapse terrace walls and destroy rice production. Under the current control strategy, farmers self-report crayfish and are issued pesticide, but this strategy is not expected to eradicate the crayfish nor to prevent their spread since farmers are not able to detect small numbers of crayfish. Thus, we tested whether environmental DNA (eDNA) from paddy-water samples could provide a sensitive detection method. In a mesocosm experiment, Real-time Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) successfully detected crayfish, even at a simulated density of one crayfish per average-sized paddy (with one false negative). In a field test, we tested eDNA and bottle traps against direct counts of crayfish. eDNA successfully detected crayfish in all 25 paddies where crayfish were observed and in none of the 7 paddies where crayfish were absent. Bottle-trapping was successful in only 68% of the crayfish-present paddies. eDNA concentrations also correlated positively with crayfish counts. In sum, these results suggest that single samples of eDNA are able to detect small crayfish populations, but not perfectly. Thus, we conclude that a program of repeated eDNA sampling is now feasible and likely reliable for measuring crayfish geographic range and for detecting new invasion fronts in the Honghe Hani landscape, which would inform regional control efforts and help to prevent the further spread of this invasive crayfish.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109074', [u'Ecology'], [u'Kunming Institute of Zoology, University of the Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'Yunnan University;', u'Public Technical Service Center, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Science;', u'University of East Anglia']]
[u'Creating a Community of Data Champions', ['Rosie Higman', 'Marta Teperek', 'Danny Kingsley'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Research Data Management (RDM) presents an unusual challenge for service providers in Higher Education. There is increased awareness of the need for training in this area but the nature of discipline-specific practices involved make it difficult to provide training across a multi-disciplinary organisation. Whilst most UK universities now have a research data team of some description, they are often small and rarely have the resources necessary to provide targeted training to the different disciplines and research career stages that they are increasingly expected to support.\n\nThis practice paper describes the approach taken at the University of Cambridge to address this problem by creating a community of Data Champions. This collaborative initiative, working with researchers to provide training and advocacy for good RDM practice, allows for more discipline-specific training to be given, researchers to be credited for their expertise and an opportunity for those interested in RDM to exchange knowledge with others. The community of practice model has been used in many sectors, including Higher Education, to facilitate collaboration across organisational units and this initiative will adopt some of the same principles to improve communication across a decentralised institution. The Data Champions initiative at Cambridge was launched in September 2016 and this paper reports on the early months, plans for building the community in the future and the possible risks associated with this approach to providing RDM services.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/104661', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u"Reason's Enemy Is Not Emotion: Engagement of Cognitive Control Networks Explains Biases in Gain/Loss Framing", ['Rosa Li', 'David V. Smith', 'John A. Clithero', 'Vinod Venkatraman', 'R. McKell Carter', 'Scott A. Huettel'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'In the classic gain/loss framing effect, describing a gamble as a potential gain or loss biases people to make risk-averse or risk-seeking decisions, respectively. The canonical explanation for this effect is that frames differentially modulate emotional processes -- which in turn leads to irrational choice behavior. Here, we evaluate the source of framing biases by integrating functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from 143 human participants performing a gain/loss framing task with meta-analytic data from over 8000 neuroimaging studies. We found that activation during choices consistent with the framing effect were most correlated with activation associated with the resting or default brain, while activation during choices inconsistent with the framing effect most correlated with the task-engaged brain. Our findings argue against the common interpretation of gain/loss framing as a competition between emotion and control. Instead, our study indicates that this effect results from differential cognitive engagement across decision frames.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109819', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Duke University;', u'Temple University;', u'Pomona College;', u'University of Colorado']]
[u'Open Design 3D-Printable Adjustable Micropipette that meets ISO Standard for Accuracy', ['Martin Brennan', 'Fahad Bokhari', 'David Eddington'], u'February 20, 2017.', u'Scientific communities are drawn to the open source model as an increasingly utilitarian\nmethod to produce and share work. Initially used as a means to develop freely available soft-\nware, open source projects have been applied to hardware including scientific tools. Increasing convenience of 3D printing has fueled the proliferation of open labware projects aiming\nto develop and share designs for scientific tools that can be produced in-house as cheap alter-\nnatives to commercial products. We present our design of a micropipette that is assembled\nfrom 3D-printable parts and some hardware that works by actuating a disposable syringe\nto a user adjustable limit. Graduations on the syringe are used to accurately adjust the set\npoint to the desired volume. Our open design printed micropipette is assessed in comparison\nto a commercial pipette and meets ISO 8655 standards.', u'/content/early/2017/02/20/109231', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University of Illinois at Chicago']]
