[u'Fitness determinants of vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium during growth in human serum', ['Xinglin Zhang', 'Ana M. Guzman Prieto', 'Vincent de Maat', 'Tomasz K. Prajsnar', 'Jumamurat R. Bayjanov', 'Mark de Been', 'Malbert R.C. Rogers', 'Marc J.M. Bonten', 'Stephane Mesnage', 'Rob J.L. Willems', 'Willem van Schaik'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'Enterococcus faecium is a commensal of the human gastrointestinal tract and a frequent cause of bloodstream infections in hospitalized patients. Here, we identify genes that contribute to growth of E. faecium in human serum. We first sequenced the genome of E. faecium E745, a vancomycin-resistant clinical isolate, to completion and then compared its transcriptome during exponential growth in rich medium and in human serum by RNA-seq. This analysis revealed that 27.8% of genes on the E. faecium E745 genome were differentially expressed in these two conditions. A gene cluster with a role in purine biosynthesis was among the most upregulated genes in E. faecium E745 upon growth in serum. A high-throughput transposon sequencing (Tn-seq) approach was used to identify conditionally essential genes in E. faecium E745 during growth in serum. Genes involved in de novo nucleotide biosysnthesis (including pyrK_2, pyrF, purD, purH) and a gene encoding a phosphotransferase system subunit (manY_2) were thus identified to be contributing to E. faecium growth in human serum. Transposon mutants in pyrK_2, pyrF, purD, purH and manY_2 were isolated from the library and their impaired growth in human serum was confirmed. In addition, the pyrK_2 and manY_2 mutants also exhibited significantly attenuated virulence in an intravenous zebrafish infection model. We conclude that genes involved in carbohydrate and nucleotide metabolism of E. faecium are essential for growth in human serum and contribute to the pathogenesis of this organism.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/101329', [], [u'Zhejiang University;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u"Density-dependent selection in evolutionary genetics: a lottery model of Grime's triangle", ['Jason Bertram', 'Joanna Masel'], u'January 21, 2017.', u"Fitness is typically represented in heavily simplified terms in evolutionary genetics, often using constant selection coefficients. This excludes fundamental ecological factors such as dynamic population size or density-dependence from our most genetically-realistic treatments of evolution, a problem that inspired MacArthur's influential but problematic r/K theory. Following in the spirit of r/K-selection as a general-purpose theory of density-dependent selection, but grounding ourselves empirically in \u201cprimary strategy\u201d trait classification schemes like Grime's triangle, we develop a new model of density-dependent selection which revolves around territorial contests. To do so, we generalize the classic lottery model of territorial acquisition, which has primarily been used for studying species co-existence questions, to accommodate arbitrary densities. We use this density-dependent lottery model to predict the direction of trait evolution under different environmental conditions and thereby provide a mathematical underpinning for Grime's verbal scheme. We revisit previous concepts of density-dependent selection, including r and K selection, and argue that our model distinguishes between different aspects of fitness in a more natural and intuitive manner.", u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102087', [], [u'University of Arizona']]
[u'Synthetic OCP Heterodimers are Photoactive and Recapitulate the Fusion of Two Primitive Carotenoproteins in the Evolution of Cyanobacterial Photoprotection', ['Sigal Lechno-Yossef', 'Matthew R. Melnicki', 'Han Bao', 'Beronda L Montgomery', 'Cheryl A Kerfeld'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'The Orange Carotenoid Protein (OCP) governs photoprotection in the majority of cyanobacteria. It is structurally and functionally modular, comprised of a C-terminal regulatory domain (CTD), an N-terminal effector domain (NTD) and a ketocarotenoid; the chromophore spans the two domains in the ground state and translocates fully into the NTD upon illumination.  Using both the canonical OCP1 and the presumably more primitive OCP2 from Fremyella diplosiphon, we show that an NTD-CTD heterodimer forms when the domains are expressed as separate polypeptides. The carotenoid is required for the heterodimeric association, assembling an orange complex which is stable in the dark. Both OCP1 and OCP2 heterodimers are photoactive, undergoing light-driven heterodimer dissociation, but differ in their ability to reassociate in darkness, setting the stage for bioengineering photoprotection in cyanobacteria as well as for developing new photoswitches for biotechnology.  Additionally, we reveal that homodimeric CTD can bind carotenoid in the absence of NTD, and name this truncated variant the C-terminal domain-like Carotenoid Protein (CCP). This finding supports the hypothesis that the OCP evolved from an ancient fusion event between genes for two different carotenoid-binding proteins ancestral to the NTD and CTD. We suggest that the CCP and its homologs constitute a new family of carotenoproteins within the NTF2-like superfamily found across all kingdoms of life.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102160', [], [u'Michigan State University;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory']]
[u'Bayesian divergence-time estimation with genome-wide SNP data of sea catfishes (Ariidae) supports Miocene closure of the Panamanian Isthmus', ['Madlen Stange', 'Marcelo R Sanchez-Villagra', 'Walter Salzburger', 'Michael Matschiner'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'The closure of the Isthmus of Panama has long been considered to be one of the best defined biogeographic calibration points for molecular divergence-time estimation. However, geological and biological evidence has recently cast doubt on the presumed timing of the initial isthmus closure around 3 Ma but has instead supported the existence of temporary land bridges as early as the Middle or Late Miocene. The biological evidence supporting these earlier land bridges was based either on only few molecular markers or on concatenation of genome-wide sequence data, an approach that is known to result in potentially misleading branch lengths and divergence times, which could compromise the reliability of this evidence. To allow divergence-time estimation with genomic data using the more appropriate multi-species coalescent model, we here develop a new method combining the SNP-based Bayesian species-tree inference of the software SNAPP with a molecular clock model that can be calibrated with fossil or biogeographic constraints. We validate our approach with simulations and use our method to reanalyze genomic data of Neotropical army ants (Dorylinae) that previously supported divergence times of Central and South American populations before the isthmus closure around 3 Ma. Our reanalysis with the multi-species coalescent model shifts all of these divergence times to ages younger than 3 Ma, suggesting that the older estimates supporting the earlier existence of temporary land bridges were artifacts resulting at least partially from the use of concatenation. We further apply our method to a new RAD-sequencing data set of Neotropical sea catfishes (Ariidae) and calibrate their species tree with extensive information from the fossil record. We identify a series of divergences between groups of Caribbean and Pacific sea catfishes around 10 Ma, indicating that processes related to the emergence of the isthmus led to vicariant speciation already in the Late Miocene, millions of years before the final isthmus closure.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102129', [], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Basel']]
[u'Experimental Zika Virus Infection in a New World Monkey Model Reproduces Key Features of the Human Disease', ['Charles Y Chiu', 'Jerome Bouquet', 'Tony Li', 'Shigeo Yagi', 'Claudia Sanchez San Martin', 'Manasi Tamhankar', 'Vida L Hodara', 'Laura L Parodi', 'Sneha Somasekar', 'Guixia Yu', 'Luis D Giavedoni', 'Suzette Tardif', 'Jean Patterson'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'Human infections by Zika virus (ZIKV), a mosquito-borne flavivirus, are associated with a current widespread outbreak in the Americas, and have been associated with neurological complications and adverse fetal outcomes such as microcephaly in pregnant women.  A suitable non-human primate model is urgently needed. To evaluate ZIKV infectivity, pathogenesis, and persistence, we inoculated 4 marmosets with ZIKV and followed them by clinical monitoring and serial sampling of body fluids for up to 11 weeks. We found that marmosets experimentally infected with ZIKV reproduced key features of the human disease, including (1) asymptomatic infection, (2) brief period of detectable virus in serum (<1 week), (3) detection in other body fluids (urine, saliva, semen, and stool) for at least 2 weeks following acute infection, and (4) persistence in lymph nodes, but not other tissues, at 1 month post-infection. ZIKV-positive saliva and serum samples, but not urine, were found to be infectious in cell culture. By day 6 post-inoculation, most marmosets exhibited detectable neutralizing antibody responses concurrent with activation of NK cell and B cell subsets and an increase in circulating cytokines associated with type II interferon signaling, Transcriptome profiling revealed enrichment of immune responses to active viral infection, with up-regulation of both type I and II interferon signaling pathways, and uncovered potential host biomarkers.   These results suggest that a New World monkey model of acute ZIKV infection mimics the human disease, and is likely to be useful for testing of drug and vaccine candidates.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102145', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'California Department of Public Health;', u'Texas Biomedical Research Institute;', u'Texas Biomedical Resaerch Institute;', u'guixia.yu@ucsf.edu']]
[u'Creation of gene expression database on preeclampsia-affected human placenta', ['Oleksandr Lykhenko', 'Alina Frolova', 'Maria Obolenska'], u'January 21, 2017.', u"Publication of gene expression raw data in open access at online resources like NCBI or ArrayExpress made it possible to use these data for cross-experiment integrative analysis and make new insights into biological phenomena. However, most popular of the present online resources are meant to be archives rather than ready for immediate access and interpretation databases. Data uploaded by independent contributors is not standardized and sometimes incomplete and needs further processing before it is ready for the analysis. Hence, the need for a specialized database appears. \n\nGiven in this article is the description of the database that was created after processing a collection of 33 relevant datasets on pre-eclampsia-affected human placenta.  Data processing includes the choice of relevant experiments from ArrayExpress database, the experiment sample attributes standardization according to MeSH term dictionary and Experimental Factor Ontology and the completion of missing data using information from the corresponding articles and authors. \n\nA database of more than 1000 samples contains sufficient sample-wise metadata for them to be arranged into relevant case-control groups. Metadata includes information on biological specimen, donor's diagnosis, gestational age, mode of delivery etc.  The average size of these groups will be higher than it is in separate experiments. This will reduce experiment bias and enhance statistical accuracy of the subsequent analysis such as search for differentially expressed genes or inferring gene networks. The article concludes with the guidelines for the microarray experiment metadata uploading for future contributors.", u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102012', [], [u'Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of NASU']]
[u'Untangling cortical maps in mouse primary visual cortex', ['Luis O Jimenez', 'Elaine Tring', 'Joshua T Trachtenberg', 'Dario L Ringach'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'Local populations of neurons in mouse visual cortex exhibit diverse tuning preferences. We show this seeming disorder can be untangled -- the similarity of tuning between pairs of neurons is correlated better with the overlap between their receptive fields in visual space rather than with their distance in the cortex. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that salt-and-pepper maps arise from the lateral dispersion of clonally related neurons.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102079', [], [u'UCLA Psychology;', u'UCLA Neurobiology;', u'UCLA Neurobiology and Psychology']]
[u'A hierarchical Bayesian approach to estimate endosymbiont infection rates', ['Zachary H. Marion', 'Christopher A. Hamm'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'Endosymbionts may play an important role in the evolution of the Insecta. Bacteria such as Wolbachia, Cardinium, and Rickettsia are known to manipulate their host` reproduction to facilitate their own. Indeed, there are many well know cases where Wolbachia (Alphaproteobacteria: Rickettsiaceae) induces one of four manipulative phenotypes (cytoplasmic incompatibility, male killing, feminization, and parthenogenesis). The scale of infection among species has been a major subject of investigation, but this is not an easy endeavor and different approaches have yielded different estimates. One aspect of this problem that may be underappreciated arises when multiple yet independent samples are taken within a taxon. When independent samples within a taxon are treated as levels of a hierarchy the problem is greatly simplified because error propagates through the model in a realistic and intuitive manner. Here, we present a hierarchical Bayesian approach to estimate infection frequency where multiple independent samples were collected across multiple taxonomic levels. We apply this model to estimate the rates of infection for Wolbachia in the Lepidoptera, and apply the model with a correction to account for phylogenetic non-independence. In addition, we highlight the present body of knowledge regarding Wolbachia and its effects with regards to the Lepidoptera. Our model estimates suggests that the rate of endosymbiont infection in the order Lepidoptera is approximately 12%, which is much lower than previously estimated. Given our limited knowledge regarding the phenotypes induced by these endosymbionts, we urge caution when extrapolating the results of a positive assays.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102020', [], [u'University of Tennessee, Knoxville;', u'University of California, Davis']]
[u'WikiGenomes: an open Web application for community consumption and curation of gene annotation data in Wikidata.', ['Tim E Putman', 'Sebastien Lelong', 'Sebastian Burgstaller-Muelhbacher', 'Andra Waagmeester', 'Colin Diesh', 'Nathan Dunn', 'Monica Munoz-Torres', 'Gregory Stupp', 'Andrew Su', 'Benjamin M Good'], u'January 21, 2017.', u"With the advancement of genome sequencing technologies new genomes are being sequenced daily. While these sequences are deposited in publicly available data warehouses, their functional and genomic annotations mostly reside in the text of primary publications. Biocurators are hard at work extracting those annotations from the literature for the most studied organisms and depositing them in structured databases. However, the resources don't exist to fund the comprehensive curation of the thousands of newly sequenced organisms in this manner. Here we describe WikiGenomes (wikigenomes.org), a web application that facilitates the consumption and curation of genomic data by the entire scientific community. WikiGenomes is based on Wikidata, an openly editable knowledge graph with the goal of aggregating published knowledge into a free and open database. WikiGenomes empowers community curation of genomic and biomedical knowledge through a domain-specific application built on top of Wikidata, bringing that curated knowledge to the public domain.", u'/content/early/2017/01/21/102046', [], [u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u'Micelio;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'Glycolytic reliance promotes anabolism in photoreceptors', ['Yashodhan Chinchore', 'Tedi Begaj', 'David Wu', 'Eugene Drokhlyansky', 'Constance L Cepko'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'Sensory neurons capture information from the environment and convert it into signals that can greatly impact the survival of an organism. These systems are thus under heavy selective pressure, including for the most efficient use of energy to support their sensitivity and efficiency1. In this regard, the vertebrate photoreceptor cells face a dual challenge. They not only need to preserve their membrane excitability via ion pumps by ATP hydrolysis2 but also maintain a highly membrane rich organelle, the outer segment, which is the primary site of phototransduction, creating a considerable biosynthetic demand. How photoreceptors manage carbon allocation to balance their catabolic and anabolic demands is poorly understood. One metabolic feature of the retina is its ability to convert the majority of its glucose into lactate3,4 even in the presence of oxygen. This phenomenon, aerobic glycolysis, is found in cancer and proliferating cells, and is thought to promote biomass buildup to sustain proliferation5,6. The purpose of aerobic glycolysis in the retina, its relevance to photoreceptor physiology, and its regulation, are not understood.  Here, we show that rod photoreceptors rely on glycolysis for their outer segment (OS) biogenesis. Genetic perturbations targeting allostery or key regulatory nodes in the glycolytic pathway impacted the OS size. Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling was found to regulate glycolysis, with antagonism of this pathway resulting in anabolic deficits. These data demonstrate the cell autonomous role of the glycolytic pathway in OS maintenance and provide evidence that aerobic glycolysis is part of a metabolic program that supports the biosynthetic needs of a normal neuronal cell type.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/101964', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Harvard Medical School and Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Convection - Diffusion model of talking bacteria', ['Sarangam Majumdar', 'Subhoshmita Mondal'], u'January 21, 2017.', u'Quorum sensing is cell to cell communication process through chemical signals formally known as autoinducers. When the concentration of quorum sensing molecules reached threshold concentration bacteria are in active state or quorum state. In this article, we propose a mathematical model of quorum sensing systems and study this biological system numerically. Moreover, we compare the different numerical scheme with the batch culture of P.aeruginosa. We observed a negative diffusion coefficient which plays an important role in the quorum sensing mechanism.', u'/content/early/2017/01/21/101931', [u'Biophysics'], [u"DISIM, University of L'Aquila;", u'Department of Chemical Engineering, Jadavpur University, Kolkata 700032, India']]
