[u'Explicit Modeling of RNA Stability Improves Large-Scale Inference of Transcription Regulation', ['Konstantine Tchourine', 'Christine Vogel', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Inference of eukaryotic transcription regulatory networks remains challenging due to the large number of regu- lators, combinatorial interactions, and redundant pathways. Even in the model system Saccharomyces cerevisiae, inference has performed poorly. Most existing inference algorithms ignore crucial regulatory components, like RNA stability and post-transcriptional modulation of regulators. Here we demonstrate that explicitly modeling tran- scription factor activity and RNA half-lives during inference of a genome-wide transcription regulatory network in yeast not only advances prediction performance, but also produces new insights into gene- and condition-specific variation of RNA stability. We curated a high quality gold standard reference network that we use for priors on network structure and model validation. We incorporate variation of RNA half-lives into the Inferelator inference framework, and show improved performance over previously described algorithms and over implementations of the algorithm that do not model RNA degradation. We recapitulate known condition- and gene-specific trends in RNA half-lives, and make new predictions about RNA half-lives that are confirmed by experimental data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104885', [], [u'New York University;', u'NYU & Simons']]
[u'A Multi-Parameter Analysis of Cellular Coordination of Multiple Transcriptome Regulation Mechanisms', ['Wendy Jiang', 'Zhanyong Guo', 'Nuno Lages', 'Wenjin J. Zheng', 'Denis Feliers', 'Fangyuan Zhang', 'Degeng Wang'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'To understand cellular coordination of multiple transcriptome regulation mechanisms, we simultaneously measured three parameters \u2014 transcription rate (TR), mRNA abundance (RA) and translation activity (TA) \u2014 and assessed mRNA stability with the RA to TR ratio. This revealed multiple quantitative insights. First, the dataset enabled an assessment of the contribution of the stabilization-by-translation regulatory mechanism. We observed an overall positive correlation between mRNA stability and translation activity. However, the correlation is moderate. Many genes deviate from the overall trend in a pathway/function specific manner. Second, the moderateness of this correlation can be explained by variation in individual mRNAs\u2019 proportions occupied by un-translated regions (UTR), as the UTR proportion exhibits a negative relationship with the level of correlation between the two factors. High-UTR-proportion mRNAs largely defy the stabilization-by-translation regulatory mechanism, in that they stay out of the polysome complex but remain relatively stable; mRNAs with little UTRs, on the contrary, follow this regulation much better. Third, the genomic profiles of the three parameters are systematically different in terms of key statistical features. Sequentially more genes exhibit extreme low or high expression values from TR to RA, and then to TA.  In other words, as a consequence of the cellular activities in coordinating these regulatory mechanisms, sequentially higher levels of selectivity are imposed on the gene expression process as genetic information flow from the genome to the proteome. In summary, we presented a quantitative delineation of the relationship among multiple transcriptome regulation parameters, i.e., how the cells coordinate corresponding regulatory mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104901', [], [u'Texas Tech University;', u'Henan Agricultural University;', u'Universidade de Lisboa;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio']]
[u'Using computational theory to constrain statistical models of neural data', ['Scott W Linderman', 'Samuel J Gershman'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Computational neuroscience is, to first order, dominated by two approaches: the "bottom-up" approach, which searches for statistical patterns in large-scale neural recordings, and the "top-down" approach, which begins with a theory of computation and considers plausible neural implementations.  While this division is not clear-cut, we argue that these approaches should be much more intimately linked.  From a Bayesian perspective, computational theories provide constrained prior distributions on neural data---albeit highly sophisticated ones. By connecting theory to observation via a probabilistic model, we provide the link necessary to test, evaluate, and revise our theories in a data-driven and statistically rigorous fashion. This review highlights examples of this theory-driven pipeline for neural data analysis in recent literature and illustrates it with a worked example based on the temporal difference learning model of dopamine.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104737', [], [u'Columbia University;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Integrative Deep Models for Alternative Splicing', ['Anupama Jha', 'Matthew R Gazzara', 'Yoseph Barash'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Advancements in sequencing technologies have highlighted the role of alternative splicing (AS) in increasing transcriptome complexity. This role of AS, combined with the relation of aberrant splicing to malignant states, motivated two streams of research, experimental and computational. The first involves a myriad of techniques such as RNA-Seq and CLIP-Seq to identify splicing regulators and their putative targets. The second involves probabilistic models, also known as splicing codes, which infer regulatory mechanisms and predict splicing outcome directly from genomic sequence. To date, these models have utilized only expression data. In this work we address two related challenges: Can we improve on previous models for AS outcome prediction and can we integrate additional sources of data to improve predictions for AS regulatory factors. We perform a detailed comparison of two previous modeling approaches, Bayesian and Deep Neural networks, dissecting the confounding effects of datasets and target functions. We then develop a new target function for AS prediction and show that it significantly improves model accuracy. Next, we develop a modeling framework to incorporate CLIP-Seq, knockdown and over-expression experiments, which are inherently noisy and suffer from missing values. Using several datasets involving key splice factors in mouse brain, muscle and heart we demonstrate both the prediction improvements and biological insights offered by our new models. Overall, the framework we propose offers a scalable integrative solution to improve splicing code modeling as vast amounts of relevant genomic data become available.\n\nAvailability: code and data will be available on Github following publication.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104869', [], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Exploration and recency as the main proximate causes of probability matching: a reinforcement learning analysis', ['Carolina Feher da Silva', 'Camila Gomes Victorino', 'Nestor Caticha', 'Marcus Vinicius Chrysostomo Baldo'], u'January 31, 2017.', u"Researchers have not yet reached a consensus on why human participants perform suboptimally and match probabilities instead of maximize in a probability learning task. The most influential explanation is that participants search for patterns in the random sequence of outcomes, but it is unclear how pattern search produces probability matching. Other explanations do not take into account how reinforcement learning shapes people's choices.\nThis study aimed to investigate probability matching from a reinforcement learning perspective. We collected behavioral data from 84 young adult participants who performed a probability learning task wherein the most frequent outcome was rewarded with 0.7 probability. We then analyzed the data using a reinforcement learning model that searches for patterns. The model predicts that pattern search may slow down learning, and that exploration (making random choices to learn more about the environment) and recency (discounting early experiences to account for a changing environment) may also impair performance.\nOur analysis estimates that 85% (95% HDI [76, 94]) of participants searched for patterns and believed that each trial outcome depended on one or two previous ones. The estimated impact of pattern search on performance was, however, only 6%, while those of exploration and recency were 19% and 13% respectively. This suggests that probability matching is caused by uncertainty about how outcomes are generated, which leads to pattern search, exploration, and recency.", u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104752', [], [u'University of S\xe3o Paulo;', u'University of Surrey;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'scRNASeqDB: a database for gene expression profiling in human single cell by RNA-seq', ['Yuan Cao', 'Junjie Zhu', 'Guangchun Han', 'Peilin Jia', 'Zhongming Zhao'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Summary: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-Seq) is quickly becoming a powerful tool for high-throughput transcriptomic analysis of cell states and dynamics. Both the number and quality of scRNA-Seq datasets have dramatically increased recently. So far, there is no database that comprehensively collects and curates scRNA-Seq data in humans. Here, we present scRNASeqDB, a database that includes almost all the currently available human single cell transcriptome datasets (n= 36) covering 71 human cell lines or types and 8910 samples. Our online web interface allows user to query and visualize expression profiles of the gene(s) of interest, search for genes that are ex-pressed in different cell types or groups, or retrieve differentially expressed genes between cell types or groups. The scRNASeqDB is a valuable resource for single cell transcriptional studies.\nAvailability: The database is available at https://bioinfo.uth.edu/scrnaseqdb/', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104810', [], [u'School of Biomedical Informatics, he University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston;', u'Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University']]
[u"Statistical Correction of the Winner's Curse Explains Replication Variability in Quantitative Trait Genome-Wide Association Studies", ['Cameron Palmer', "Itsik Pe'er"], u'January 31, 2017.', u"Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of SNPs responsible for variation in human quantitative traits. However, genome-wide-significant\nassociations often fail to replicate across independent cohorts, in apparent inconsistency with their apparent strong effects in discovery cohorts. This limited success of replication raises pervasive questions about the utility of the GWAS field. We identify all 332 studies of quantitative traits from the NHGRI-EBI GWAS Database with attempted replication. We find that 70% of studies provide insufficient data to evaluate replication rates. The remaining papers replicate significantly worse than expected (p < 1e\u221214), even when adjusting for regression-to-the-mean of effect size between discovery- and replication-cohorts termed the Winner's Curse (p < 1e\u221216). We show this is due in part to misreporting replication cohort-size as a maximum number, rather than per-locus one. In 39 studies accurately reporting per-locus cohort-size for\nattempted replication of 707 loci in samples with similar ancestry, replication rate matched expectation (predicted 458, observed 457, p = 0.94). In contrast, ancestry differences between replication and discovery (13 studies, 385 loci) cause the most highly-powered decile of loci to replicate worse than expected, due to difference in linkage disequilibrium.", u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104786', [], [u'Columbia University Medical Center;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Engaging narratives evoke similar neural activity and lead to similar time perception', ['Samantha S Cohen', 'Simon Henin', 'Lucas C Parra'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'It is said that we lose track of time - that "time flies" - when we are engrossed in a story. How does engagement with the story cause this distorted perception of time, and what are its neural correlates? People commit both time and attentional resources to an engaging stimulus. For narrative videos, attentional engagement can be represented as the level of similarity between the electroencephalographic responses of different viewers. Here we show that this measure of neural engagement predicted the duration of time that viewers were willing to commit to narrative videos. Contrary to popular wisdom, engagement did not distort the average perception of time duration. Rather, more similar brain responses resulted in a more uniform perception of time across viewers. These findings suggest that by capturing the attention of an audience, narrative videos bring both neural processing and the subjective perception of time into synchrony.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104778', [], [u'The Graduate Center of the City University of New York;', u'The City College of the City University of New York']]
[u'Meta-analysis of the variance ratio', ['Nicolas Traut'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'The most commonly used effect size when using meta-analysis to compare a measurement of interest in two different populations is the standardised mean difference. This is the mean difference of the measurement divided by the pooled standard deviation in the two groups. The standard deviation is usually supposed to be the same for both groups, although this assumption is often made without any particular evidence. It is possible, however, that the difference of the measurement in the two populations resides precisely in their standard deviations. This could be the case, for example, if a population of patients exhibited more "abnormal" values than a control population \u2212 both large and small \u2212 even if the mean values were the same. Fisher\'s test of equality of variance is designed to compare standard deviations. A variance ratio is a Fisher\'s ratio and Fisher distribution can be used to give confidence intervals to the estimate for one study. However, confidence interval for one study can be very wide if the study does not contain enough subjects. Here we present an approach to combine variance ratios of different studies in a meta-analytic way which produces more robust estimates under these circumstances.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104695.1', [], [u'Institut Pasteur']]
[u'Progress Towards a Public Chemogenomic Set for Protein Kinases and a Call for Contributions', ['David H Drewry', 'Carrow I Wells', 'David M Andrews', 'Richard Angell', 'Hassan Al-Ali', 'Alison D Axtman', 'Stephen J Capuzzi', 'Jonathan M Elkins', 'Peter Ettmayer', 'Mathias Frederiksen', 'Opher Gileadi', 'Nathanael Gray', 'Alice Hooper', 'Stefan Knapp', 'Stefan Laufer', 'Ulrich Luecking', 'Susanne Muller', 'Eugene Muratov', 'R. Aldrin Denny', 'Kumar S Saikatendu', 'Daniel K Treiber', 'William J Zuercher', 'Timothy M Willson'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Protein kinases are highly tractable targets for drug discovery. However, the biological function and therapeutic potential of the majority of the 500+ human protein kinases remains unknown. We have developed physical and virtual collections of small molecule inhibitors, which we call chemogenomic sets, that are designed to inhibit the catalytic function of almost half the human protein kinases. In this manuscript we share our progress towards generation of a comprehensive kinase chemogenomic set (KCGS), release kinome profiling data of a large inhibitor set (Published Kinase Inhibitor Set 2 (PKIS2)), and outline a process through which the community can openly collaborate to create a KCGS that probes the full complement of human protein kinases.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104711', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'Structural Genomics Consortium, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, UNC Chapel Hill;', u'Astra Zeneca;', u'Drug Discovery Group, Translational Research Office, University College London School of Pharmacy;', u'University of Miami Miller School of Medicine;', u'Laboratory for Molecular Modeling, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, UNC at Chapel Hill;', u'Structural Genomics Consortium, Universidade Estadual de Campinas - UNICAMP;', u'Boehringer Ingelheim RCV GmbH & Co KG;', u'Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research;', u'Structural Genomics Consortium and Target Discovery Institute, U. of Oxford;', u'Harvard Department of Biological Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology;', u'Buchmann Inst for Molecular Life Sciences, Institute of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Goethe University;', u'Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry,Eberhard Karls Universitat Tubingen;', u'Bayer Pharma AG, Drug Discovery;', u'Worldwide Medicinal Chemistry, Pfizer Inc;', u'Global Research Externalization, Takeda California, Inc.;', u'DiscoverX Corporation']]
[u'Functional Genes That Distinguish Maize Phyllosphere Metagenomes in Drought and Well-Watered Conditions', ['Barbara A Methe', 'Kelvin Li', 'Stephen P Talley', 'Neha Gupta', 'Bryan Frank', 'Wenwei Xu', 'Stuart G Gordon', 'Brad W Goodner', 'Ann E Stapleton'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'The phyllosphere microbiome consists of the genetic content of the microorganisms that colonize the external aerial portions of plants. Relationships of plant responses to specific microorganisms--both pathogenic and beneficial--have been examined, but responses of the phyllosphere microbiome overall are not well described. Changing crop growth conditions such as increased drought can have profound impacts on crop productivity and epiphytic microbial communities provide a new target for crop yield optimization.  We provide the first comparison of Zea mays leaf microbiomes between drought and well-watered conditions.  We examined the maize leaf phyllosphere microbiome from three physically disparate locations with and without drought treatment, through the application of deep sequencing with short sequence read technology. Functional profiles revealed a wide variety of metabolic and regulatory processes including the ability to adapt to changing environmental conditions associated with, and external to the plant and the presence of potential plant growth promoting traits suggesting possible beneficial plant-microbiome interactions. Both specific field site and drought affected taxonomic and functional composition of these leaf epiphyte communities.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104331', [u'Microbiology'], [u'JCVI;', u'UNCW;', u'Texas A&M Agrilife Reserach;', u'Presbyterian College;', u'Hiram University;', u'University of North Carolina Wilmington']]
[u'Asymmetric adhesion of rod-shaped bacteria controls microcolony morphogenesis', ['Marie-Cecilia Duvernoy', 'Thierry Mora', 'Maxime Ardre', 'Vincent Croquette', 'David Bensimon', 'Catherine Quilliet', 'Jean-Marc Ghigo', 'Martial Balland', 'Christophe Beloin', 'Sigolene Lecuyer', 'Nicolas Desprat'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Bacterial biofilms are spatially structured communities, within which bacteria can differentiate depending on environmental conditions. During biofilm formation, bacteria attach to a surface and use cell-cell contacts to convey the signals required for the coordination of biofilm morphogenesis. How bacteria can maintain both substrate adhesions and cell-cell contacts during the expansion of a microcolony is still a critical yet poorly understood phenomenon. Here, we describe the development of time-resolved methods to measure substrate adhesion at the single cell level during the formation of E. coli and P. aeruginosa microcolonies. We show that bacterial adhesion is asymmetrically distributed along the cell body. Higher adhesion forces at old poles put the daughter cells under tension and force them to slide along each other. These rearrangements increase cell-cell contacts and the circularity of the colony. We propose a mechanical model based on the microscopic details of adhesive links, which recapitulates microcolony morphogenesis and quantitatively predicts bacterial adhesion from simple time lapse movies. These results explain how the distribution of adhesion forces at the subcellular level directs the shape of bacterial colonies, which ultimately dictates the circulation of secreted signals.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104679', [u'Biophysics'], [u'LPS, ENS/LIPHY, UGA;', u'LPS, ENS;', u'LIPHY, UGA;', u'Institut Pasteur']]
[u'Phylogenetic analyses reveal an increase in the speciation rate of raphid pennate diatoms in the Cretaceous', ['Alexandra Castro-Bugallo', 'Danny Rojas', 'Sara Rocha', 'Pedro Cermeno'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'The raphid pennates (order Bacillariales) are a diverse group of diatoms easily recognized by having a slit in the siliceous cell wall, called the raphe, with functions in cell motility. It has been hypothesized that this morphological innovation contributed to the evolutionary success of this relatively young but species-rich group of diatoms. However, owing to the incompleteness of the fossil record this hypothesis remains untested. Using the 18S ribosomal RNA gene, fossil calibrations, and Bayesian phylogenetic and diversification frameworks, we detect a shift in the speciation rate of marine raphid pennate diatoms in the Cretaceous, not detected in other diatom lineages nor previously recognized in the microfossil record. Our results suggest a positive link between the speciation of raphid pennate diatoms and the benefits derived from evolving motility skills, which could account for their outstanding present-day global diversity. The coincidence between the advent of the raphe and the increase in the speciation rate of raphid pennates supports the idea that simple morphological novelties can have important consequences on the evolutionary history of eukaryotic microorganisms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104612', [u'Ecology'], [u'Institute of Marine Sciences;', u'Department of Biology and Centre for Environmental and Marine Studies;', u'Department of Biochemistry, Genetics and Immunology']]
[u'Boredom begets creativity: a solution to the exploitation-exploration trade-o\ufb00 in predictive coding', ['Jaime Gomez-Ramirez', 'Tommaso Costa'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Here, we investigate whether systems that minimize prediction error e.g. predictive coding, can also show creativity, or on the contrary, prediction error minimization unqualifies for the design of systems that respond in creative ways to non recurrent problems. \nWe argue that there is a key ingredient that has been overlooked by researchers that needs to be incorporated to understand intelligent behavior in biological and technical systems. This ingredient is boredom. We propose a mathematical model based on the Black-Scholes-Merton equation which provides mechanistic insights into the interplay between boredom and prediction pleasure as the key drivers of behavior.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104521', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Hospital fo Sick Children;', u'University of Turin']]
[u'Identifying the abundant and active microorganisms common to full scale anaerobic digesters', ['Rasmus Hansen Kirkegaard', 'Simon Jon McIlroy', 'Jannie Munk Kristensen', 'Marta Nierychlo', 'Soeren Michael Karst', 'Morten Simonsen Dueholm', 'Mads Albertsen', 'Per Halkjaer Nielsen'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Anaerobic digestion is widely applied to treat organic waste at wastewater treatment plants. Characterisation of the underlying microbiology represents a source of information to develop strategies for improved operation. To this end, we investigated the microbial community composition of thirty two full scale digesters over a six year period using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Sampling of the sludge fed into these systems revealed that several of the most abundant populations were likely inactive and immigrating with the influent. This observation indicates that a failure to consider immigration will interfere with correlation analysis and give an inaccurate picture of the active microbial community. Furthermore, several abundant OTUs could not be classified to genus level with commonly applied taxonomies, making inference of their function unreliable. As such, the existing MiDAS taxonomy was updated to include these abundant phylotypes. The communities of individual plants surveyed were remarkably similar, with only 300 OTUs representing 80% of the total reads across all plants, and 15% of these identified as likely inactive immigrating microbes. By identifying the abundant and active taxa in anaerobic digestion, this study paves the way for targeted characterisation of the process important organisms towards an in depth understanding of the microbial ecology of these biotechnologically important systems.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104620', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Aalborg University']]
[u'Process reveals structure: How a network is traversed mediates expectations about its architecture', ['Elisabeth A. Karuza', 'Ari E. Kahn', 'Sharon L. Thompson-Schill', 'Danielle S. Bassett'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Network science has emerged as a powerful tool through which we can study the higher- order architectural properties of the world around us. How human learners exploit this information remains an essential question. Here, we focus on the temporal constraints that govern such a process. Participants viewed a continuous sequence of images generated by three distinct walks on a modular network. Walks varied along two critical dimensions: their predictability and the density with which they sampled from communities of images. Learners exposed to walks that richly sampled from each community exhibited a sharp increase in processing time upon entry into a new community. This effect was eliminated in a highly regular walk that sampled exhaustively from images in short, successive cycles (i.e., that increasingly minimized uncertainty about the nature of upcoming stimuli). These results demonstrate that temporal organization plays an essential role in how robustly knowledge of network architecture is acquired.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104687', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Genome-wide signatures of genetic variation within and between populations - a comparative perspective', ['Nagarjun Vijay', 'Matthias Weissensteiner', 'Reto Burri', 'Takeshi Kawakami', 'Hans Ellegren', 'Jochen B. W Wolf'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Genome-wide screens of genetic variation can reveal signatures of population-specific selection implicated in adaptation and speciation. Yet, unrelated processes such as linked selection arising as a consequence of genome architecture can generate comparable signatures across taxa. To investigate prevalence and phylogenetic stability of linked selection, we took a comparative approach utilizing population-level data from 444 re-sequenced genomes of three avian clades spanning 50 million years of evolution. Levels of nucleotide diversity (\u03c0),population-scaled recombination rate (\u03c1), genetic differentiation (FST, PBS) and sequence divergence (Dxy) were remarkably similar in syntenic genomic regions across clades. Elevated local genetic differentiation was associated with inferred centromere and sub-telomeric regions. Our results support a role of linked selection shaping genome-wide heterogeneity in genetic diversity within and between clades. The long-term conservation of diversity landscapes and stable association with genomic features make the outcome of this evolutionary process in part predictable.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104604', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Evolutionary Biology and SciLifeLab, Uppsala University, Norbyvagen 18D, 75236 Uppsala']]
[u'Bootstrap Distillation: Non-parametric Internal Validation of GWAS Results by Subgroup Resampling', ['David A Eccles', 'Rodney A Lea', 'Geoffrey K Chambers'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'Genome-wide Association Studies are carried out on a large number of genetic variants in a large number of people, allowing the detection of small genetic effects that are associated with a trait. Natural variation of genotypes within populations means that any particular sample from the population may not represent the true genotype frequencies within that population. This may lead to the observation of marker-disease associations when no such association exists.\n\nA bootstrap population sub-sampling technique can reduce the influence of allele frequency variation in producing false-positive results for particular samplings of the population. In order to utilise bioinformatics in the service of a serious disease, this sub-sampling method has been applied to the Type 1 Diabetes dataset from the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium in order to evaluate its effectiveness.\n\nWhile previous literature on Type 1 Diabetes has identified some DNA variants that are associated with the disease, these variants are not informative for distinguishing between disease cases and controls using genetic information alone (AUC=0.7284). Population sub-sampling filtered out noise from genome-wide association data, and increased the chance of finding useful associative signals. Subsequent filtering based on marker linkage and testing of marker sets of different sizes produced a 5-SNP signature set of markers for Type 1 Diabetes. The group-specific markers used in this set, primarily from the HLA region on chromosome 6, are considerably more informative than previously known associated variants for predicting T1D phenotype from genetic data (AUC=0.8395). Given this predictive quality, the signature set may be useful alone as a screening test, and would be particularly useful in combination with other clinical cofactors for Type 1 Diabetes risk.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104497', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Malaghan Institute of Medical Research;', u'Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of Technology;', u'Victoria University of Wellington']]
[u'A checkpoint roadmap for the complex cell division of Apicomplexa parasites', ['Carmelo A Alvarez', 'Elena S Suvorova'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'The unusual cell cycles of Apicomplexa parasites are remarkably flexible with the ability to complete cytokinesis and karyokinesis coordinately or postpone cytokinesis for several rounds of chromosome replication are well recognized.  Despite this surprising biology, the molecular machinery required to achieve this flexibility is largely unknown.  In this study, we provide comprehensive experimental evidence that apicomplexan parasites utilize multiple Cdk-related kinases (Crks) to coordinate cell division.  We determined that Toxoplasma gondii encodes seven atypical P-, H-, Y- and L- type cyclins and ten Crks to regulate cellular processes.  We generated and analyzed conditional tet-OFF mutants for seven TgCrks and four TgCyclins that are expressed in the tachyzoite stage.  These experiments demonstrated that TgCrk1, TgCrk2, TgCrk4 and TgCrk6, were required or essential for tachyzoite growth revealing a remarkable number of Crk factors that are necessary for parasite replication.  G1 phase arrest resulted from the loss of cytoplasmic TgCrk2 that interacted with a P-type cyclin demonstrating that an atypical mechanism controls half the T. gondii cell cycle. We showed that T. gondii employs at least three TgCrks to complete mitosis.  Novel kinases, TgCrk6 and TgCrk4 were required for spindle function and centrosome duplication, respectively, while TgCrk1 and its partner TgCycL were essential for daughter bud assembly.  Intriguingly, mitotic kinases TgCrk4 and TgCrk6 did not interact with any cyclin tested and were instead dynamically expressed during mitosis indicating they may not require a cyclin timing mechanism.  Altogether, our findings demonstrate that apicomplexan parasites utilize distinctive and complex mechanisms to coordinate their novel replicative cycles.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104646', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of South Florida']]
[u'Generalized Leaky Integrate-And-Fire Models Classify Multiple Neuron Types', ['Corinne Teeter', 'Ramakrishnan Iyer', 'Vilas Menon', 'Nathan Gouwens', 'David Feng', 'Jim Berg', 'Nicholas Cain', 'Christof Koch', 'Stefan Mihalas'], u'January 31, 2017.', u'In the mammalian neocortex, there is a high diversity of neuronal types. To facilitate construction of system models with multiple cell types, we generate a database of point models associated with the Allen Cell Types Database. We construct a series of generalized integrate-and-fire (GLIF) models of increasing complexity aiming to reproduce the spiking behaviors of the recorded neurons. We test the performance of these GLIF models on data from 771 neurons from 14 transgenic lines, with increasing model performance for more complex models.  To answer how complex a model needs to be to reproduce the number of electrophysiological cell types, we perform unsupervised clustering on the parameters extracted from these models. The number of clusters is smaller for individual model types, but when combining all GLIF parameters 18 clusters are obtained, while 11 clusters are obtained using 16 electrophysiological features. Therefore, these low dimensional models have the capacity to characterize the diversity of cell types without the need for a priori defined features.', u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104703', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Allen Institute for Brain Science;', u'Jenelia Research Campus']]
[u'A general goodness-of-fit test for survival analysis', ['Michael Holton Price', 'James Holland Jones'], u'January 31, 2017.', u"Existing goodness-of-fit tests for survival data are either exclusively graphical in nature or only test specific model assumptions, such as the proportional hazards assumption. We describe a flexible, parameter-free goodness-of-fit test that provides a simple numerical assessment of a model's suitability regardless of the structure of the underlying model. Intuitively, the goodness-of-fit test utilizes the fact that for a good model early event occurrence is predicted to be just as likely as late event occurrence, whereas a bad model has a bias towards early or late events. Formally, the goodness-of-fit test is based on a novel generalized Martingale residual which we call the martingale survival residual. The martingale survival residual has a uniform probability density function defined on the interval -0.5 to +0.5 if censoring is either absent or accounted for as one outcome in a competing hazards framework. For a good model, the set of calculated residuals is statistically indistinguishable from the uniform distribution, which is tested using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov statistic.", u'/content/early/2017/01/31/104406', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'Stanford Univeristy']]
