[u'In vitro reconstitution of T cell receptor-mediated segregation of the CD45 phosphatase', ['Catherine B Carbone', 'Nadja Kern', 'Ricardo A Fernandes', 'Enfu Hui', 'Xiaolei Su', 'K. Christopher Garcia', 'Ron Vale'], u'December 31, 2016.', u'Binding of the T cell receptor (TCR) to peptide-major histocompatibility complex (pMHC) initiates signaling leading to T cell activation. Signaling is proposed to be triggered by the segregation of the transmembrane phosphatase CD45 from TCR-pMHC, caused by a difference in sizes of their extracellular domains. Here, we have reconstituted the segregation of CD45 from TCR-pMHC using purified proteins on model membranes. Similar to the sensitivity of T cell signaling, TCR-pMHC interactions with Kds of <15 \u03bcM were needed to exclude CD45; the larger of two developmentally-regulated isoforms of CD45 was excluded more rapidly and efficiently. We further show that two receptor-ligand pairs, TCR-pMHC and the inhibitory co-receptor PD-1 with its ligand PD-L1, segregate from one another and together create zones of CD45 exclusion.  These results demonstrate that the binding energy of TCR-pMHC at membrane-membrane interfaces is sufficient to create spatial partitioning of the TCR relative to CD45.', u'/content/early/2016/12/31/097600', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of California San Francisco, HHMI;', u'Stanford University, HHMI']]
[u'Arabidopsis HAP2/GCS1 is a gamete fusion protein homologous to somatic and viral fusogens', ['Clari Valansi', 'David Moi', 'Evgenia Leikina', 'Elena Matveev', 'Martin Grana', 'Leonid V Chernomordik', 'Hector Romero', 'Pablo S Aguilar', 'Benjamin Podbilewicz'], u'December 31, 2016.', u'Cell-cell fusion is inherent to any form of sexual reproduction. Loss of HAPLESS 2/GENERATIVE CELL SPECIFIC 1 (HAP2/GCS1) proteins results in gamete fusion failure in different organisms but their exact role is unclear. Here we show that Arabidopsis HAP2/GCS1 expression in mammalian cells is sufficient to promote cell-cell fusion. Hemifusion and complete fusion depend on HAP2/GCS1 presence in both fusing cells. Furthermore, expression of HAP2 on the surface of pseudotyped vesicular stomatitis virus and on the target cells results in HAP2-dependent virus-cell fusion. This bilateral requirement can be bypassed by replacing the plant gene with C. elegans EFF-1 somatic cell fusogen in one of the fusing cells or the virus, indicating that HAP2/GCS1 and EFF-1 share a similar fusion mechanism. Structural modeling of the HAP2/GCS1 protein family predicts that they are homologous to EFF-1 and class II fusion proteins from enveloped viruses (e.g. dengue and Zika viruses). We name this superfamily FUSEXINS: FUSion proteins essential for sexual reproduction and EXoplasmic merger of plasma membranes. Thus, Fusexins unify the origin and evolution of sexual reproduction, enveloped virus entry into cells and somatic cell fusion.', u'/content/early/2016/12/31/097568', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Technion- Israel Institute of Technology;', u'Universidad Nacional de San Martin;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Institut Pasteur Montevideo;', u'Universidad de la Republica, Montevideo;', u'Technion-Israel Institute of Technology']]
[u'Joint genetic analysis using variant sets reveals polygenic gene-context interactions', ['Francesco Paolo Casale', 'Danilo Horta', 'Barbara Rakitsch', 'Oliver Stegle'], u'December 31, 2016.', u'Joint genetic models for multiple traits have helped to enhance association analyses. Most existing multi-trait models have been designed to increase power for detecting associations, whereas the analysis of interactions has received considerably less attention. Here, we propose iSet, a method based on linear mixed models to test for interactions between sets of variants and environmental states or other contexts. Our model generalizes previous interaction tests and in particular provides a test for local differences in the genetic architecture between contexts. We first use simulations to validate iSet before applying the model to the analysis of genotype-environment interactions in an eQTL study. Our model retrieves a larger number of interactions than alternative methods and reveals that up to 20% of cases show context-specific configurations of causal variants. Finally, we apply iSet to test for sub-group specific genetic effects in human lipid levels in a large human cohort, where we identify a gene-sex interaction for C-reactive protein that is missed by alternative methods.', u'/content/early/2016/12/31/097477', [u'Genetics'], [u'EMBL-European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u"Density-based clustering: A 'landscape view' of multi-channel neural data for inference and dynamic complexity analysis", ['Gabriel Baglietto', 'Guido Gigante', 'Paolo Del Giudice'], u'December 31, 2016.', u"Simultaneous recordings from N electrodes generate N-dimensional time series that call for efficient representations to expose relevant aspects of the underlying dynamics.  Binning the time series defines a sequence of neural activity vectors that populate the N-dimensional space as a density distribution, especially informative when the neural dynamics proceeds as a noisy path through metastable states (often a case of interest in neuroscience); this makes clustering in the N-dimensional space a natural choice.  We apply a variant of the 'mean-shift' algorithm to perform such clustering, and validate it on an Hopfield network in the glassy phase, in which metastable states are largely uncorrelated from memory attractors.  The neural states identified as clusters' centroids are then used to define a parsimonious parametrization of the synaptic matrix, which allows a significant improvement in inferring the synaptic couplings from the neural activities.  We next consider the more realistic case of a multi-modular spiking network, with spike-frequency adaptation inducing history-dependent effects; we develop a procedure, inspired by Boltzmann learning but extending its domain of application, to learn inter-module synaptic couplings so that the spiking network reproduces a prescribed pattern of spatial correlations.  After clustering the activity generated by such multi-modular spiking networks, we cast their multi-dimensional dynamics in the form of the symbolic sequence of the clusters' centroids; this representation naturally lends itself to complexity estimates that provide compact information on memory effects like those induced by spike-frequency adaptation. Specifically, to obtain a relative complexity measure we compare the Lempel-Ziv complexity of the actual centroid sequence to the one of Markov processes sharing the same transition probabilities between centroids; as an illustration, we show that the dependence of such relative complexity on the characteristic time scale of spike-frequency adaptation.", u'/content/early/2016/12/31/097592', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'IFLYSIB, Instituto de Fisica de Liquidos y Sistemas Biologicos (UNLP-CONICET), La Plata, Argentina;', u'Italian Institute of Health, Rome, Italy and Mperience srl, Rome, Italy;', u'Italian Institute of Health and INFN-Roma1, Rome, Italy']]
[u'Modeling HIV disease progression and transmission at population-level: The potential impact of modifying disease progression in HIV treatment programs', ['Jennifer M Ross', 'Roger Ying', 'Connie L. Celum', 'Jared M. Baeten', 'Jairam R. Lingappa', 'Katherine K. Thomas', 'Pamela M. Murnane', 'Meighan Krows', 'Heidi van Rooyen', 'James P Hughes', 'Ruanne V. Barnabas'], u'December 31, 2016.', u'Introduction: Mathematical models of HIV transmission that incorporate the dynamics of disease progression can estimate the potential impact of adjunctive strategies to antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV treatment and prevention. Suppressive treatment of HIV-positive persons co-infected with herpes simplex virus-2 (HSV-2) with valacyclovir, a medication directed against HSV-2, can lower HIV viral load, but the impact of valacyclovir on population HIV transmission has not been estimated.  Methods: We applied data on CD4 and viral load progression in ART-nave persons studied in two HIV clinical trials to a novel, discrete-time Markov model. We validated our disease progression estimates using data from a trial of home-based HIV counseling and testing in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. Finally, we applied our disease progression estimates to a dynamic transmission model estimating the impact of providing valacyclovir to ART-na\xefve individuals to reduce onward transmission of HIV in three scenarios of different ART and valacyclovir population coverage. We assumed that valacyclovir reduced HIV viral load by 1.23 log copies/\u03bcL, and that persons treated with valacyclovir initiated ART more rapidly when their CD4 fell below 500 due to improved retention in pre-ART care.  Results: The average duration of HIV infection following acute infection was 9.5 years. The duration of disease after acute infection and before reaching CD4 200 cells/\u03bcL was 2.53 years longer for females than males. Relative to a baseline of community HIV testing and counseling and ART initiation at CD4 <=500 cells/\u03bcL, valacyclovir with increased linkage to care resulted in 166,000 fewer HIV infections over ten years, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $4,696 per HIV infection averted. The Test and Treat scenario with 70% ART coverage and no valacyclovir resulted in 202,000 fewer HIV infections at an ICER of $6,579.  Conclusion: Even when compared with initiation of valacyclovir, a safe drug that reduces HIV viral load, universal treatment for HIV is the optimal strategy for averting new infections and increasing public health benefit. Universal HIV treatment should be pursued by all countries to most effectively and efficiently reduce the HIV burden.', u'/content/early/2016/12/31/097337', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Cornell University;', u'Human Sciences Research Council']]
[u'Surveillance to Establish Elimination of Transmission and Freedom from Dog-mediated Rabies', ['Katie Hampson', 'Bernadette Abela-Ridder', 'Kirstyn Brunker', 'S. Tamara M. Bucheli', 'Mary Carvalho', 'Eduardo Caldas', 'Joel Changalucha', 'Sarah Cleaveland', 'Jonathan Dushoff', 'Veronica Gutierrez', 'Anthony R Fooks', 'Karen Hotopp', 'Daniel T Haydon', 'Ahmed Lugelo', 'Kennedy Lushasi', 'Rebecca Mancy', 'Denise Marston', 'Zac Mtema', 'Malavika Rajeev', 'Lucia R. Montebello P Dourado', 'J F Gonzalez Roldan', 'Kristyna Rysava', 'Silene M Rocha', 'Maganga Sambo', 'Lwitiko Sikana', 'Marco Vigilato', 'Victor Del Rio Vilas'], u'December 31, 2016.', u'Background: With a global target set for zero human deaths from dog-mediated rabies by 2030 and some regional programmes close to eliminating canine rabies, there is an urgent need for enhanced surveillance strategies suitable for declaring freedom from disease and elimination of transmission with known confidence.  Methods: Using exhaustive contact tracing across settings in Tanzania we generated detailed data on rabies incidence, rabid dog biting behaviour and health-seeking behaviour of bite victims. Using these data we compared case detection of sampling-based and enhanced surveillance methodologies and investigated elimination verification procedures.  Findings: We demonstrate that patients presenting to clinics with bite injuries are sensitive sentinels for identifying dog rabies cases. Triage of patients based on bite history criteria and investigation of suspicious incidents can confirm >10% of dog rabies cases and is an affordable approach that will enable validation of disease freedom following two years without case detection. Approaches based on sampling the dog population without using bite-injury follow-up were found to be neither sensitive nor cost-effective.  Interpretation: The low prevalence of rabies, and short window in which disease can be detected, preclude sampling-based surveillance. Instead, active case finding guided by bite-patient triage is needed as elimination is approached. Our proposed methodology is affordable, practical and supports the goal of eliminating human rabies deaths by improving administration of lifesaving post-exposure prophylaxis for genuinely exposed but untreated contacts. Moreover, joint investigations by public health and veterinary workers will strengthen intersectoral partnerships and capacity for control of emerging zoonoses.', u'/content/early/2016/12/31/096883', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Glasgow;', u'WHO;', u'PAHO;', u'Unidade Tecnica de Vigilancia de Zoonoses -UVZ;', u'Ifakara Health Institute;', u'McMaster University;', u'Ministry of Health, Mexico;', u'Animal and Plant Health Agency;', u'Sokoine University of Agriculture, Tanzania;', u'Princeton University;', u'University of Warwick;', u'Ministry of Health, Brazil']]
[u'Contributions of local speech encoding and functional connectivity to audio-visual speech integration', ['Bruno L. Giordano', 'Robin A. A. Ince', 'Joachim Gross', 'Stefano Panzeri', 'Philippe G. Schyns', 'Christoph Kayser'], u'December 30, 2016.', u"Seeing a speaker's face enhances speech intelligibility in adverse environments. We investigated the underlying network mechanisms by quantifying local speech representations and directed connectivity in MEG data obtained while human participants listened to speech of varying acoustic SNR and visual context. During high acoustic SNR speech encoding by entrained brain activity was strong in temporal and inferior frontal cortex, while during low SNR strong entrainment emerged in premotor and superior frontal cortex. These changes in local encoding were accompanied by changes in directed connectivity along the ventral stream and the auditory-premotor axis. Importantly, the behavioural benefit arising from seeing the speaker's face was not predicted by changes in local encoding but rather by enhanced functional connectivity between temporal and inferior frontal cortex. Our results demonstrate a role of auditory-motor interactions in visual speech representations and suggest that functional connectivity along the ventral pathway facilitates speech comprehension in multisensory environments.", u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097493', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Glasgow;', u'Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia']]
[u'Generating in vivo somatic mouse mosaics with locus-specific, stably-integrated transgenic elements', ['Gi Bum Kim', 'Marina Dutra-Clarke', 'Rachelle Levy', 'Hannah Park', 'Sara Sabet', 'Jessica Molina', 'Aslam Abbasi Akhtar', 'Serguei Bannykh', 'Moise Danielpour', 'Joshua J Breunig'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Viral vectors and electroporation (EP)-mediated gene transfers are efficient means of inducing somatic mosaicism in mice, but they lack the exquisite control over transgene copy number, gene zygosity, and genomic-locus specificity that genetically engineered mouse models (GEMMs) provide. Here, we develop and demonstrate a simple and generalizable in vivo method, mosaic analysis by dual recombinase-mediated cassette ex-change (MADR).  MADR allows for stable labeling of mutant cells express transgenic elements from a precisely-defined chromosomal locus. To test our method, we generated reporter-labeled lineages from stem and progenitor cells in a well-defined Rosa26mTmG mouse.  We demonstrate the power and versatility MADR by creating novel glioma models with mixed, reporter-defined zygosity or with personalized driver mutations from pediatric glioma-with each manipulation altering the profile of  resulting tumors. Thus, MADR provides a high-throughput genetic platform for the dissection of development and disease, and this rapid method can be ap-plied to the thousands of existing gene-trap mice.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097386', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cedars-Sinai MC;', u'Cedars-Sinai/UCLA']]
[u'Fusing tree-ring and forest inventory data to infer influences on tree growth', ['Margaret E. K. Evans', 'Donald A. Falk', 'Alexis Arizpe', 'Tyson L. Swetnam', 'Flurin Babst', 'Kent E. Holsinger'], u'December 30, 2016.', u'Better understanding and prediction of tree growth is important because of the many ecosystem services provided by forests and the uncertainty surrounding how forests will respond to anthropogenic climate change. With the ultimate goal of improving models of forest dynamics, here we construct a statistical model that combines complementary data sources: tree-ring and forest inventory data. A Bayesian hierarchical model is used to gain inference on the effects of many factors on tree growth (individual tree size, climate, biophysical conditions, stand-level competitive environment, tree-level canopy status, and forest management treatments) using both diameter at breast height (DBH) and tree-ring data.  The model consists of two multiple regression models, one each for the two data sources, linked via a constant of proportionality between coefficients that are found in parallel in the two regressions. The model was applied to a dataset developed at a single, well-studied site in the Jemez Mountains of north-central New Mexico, U. S. A. Inferences from the model included positive effects of seasonal precipitation, wetness index, and height ratio, and negative effects of seasonal temperature, southerly aspect and radiation, and plot basal area. Climatic effects inferred by the model compared well to results from a dendroclimatic analysis. Combining the two data sources did not lead to higher predictive accuracy (using the leave-one-out information criterion, LOOIC), either when there was a large number of increment cores (129) or under a reduced data scenario of 15 increment cores. However, there was a clear advantage, in terms of parameter estimates, to the use of both data sources under the reduced data scenario: DBH remeasurement data for ~500 trees substantially reduced uncertainty about non-climate fixed effects on radial increments. We discuss the kinds of research questions that might be addressed when the high-resolution information on climate effects contained in tree rings are combined with the rich metadata on tree- and stand-level conditions found in forest inventories, including carbon accounting and projection of tree growth and forest dynamics under future climate scenarios.', u'/content/early/2016/12/30/097535', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Arizona;', u'Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL;', u'University of Connecticut']]
