[u'aBayesQR: A Bayesian method for reconstruction of viral populations characterized by low diversity', ['Soyeon Ahn', 'Haris Vikalo'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'RNA viruses replicate with high mutation rates, creating closely related viral populations. \nThe heterogeneous virus populations, referred to as viral quasispecies, rapidly adapt to \nenvironmental changes thus adversely affecting efficiency of antiviral drugs and vaccines. \nTherefore, studying the underlying genetic heterogeneity of viral populations plays a \nsignificant role in the development of effective therapeutic treatments. Recent high-throughput \nsequencing technologies have provided invaluable opportunity for uncovering the structure \nof quasispecies populations (i.e., reconstruction of viral sequences and discovery of their \nrelative frequencies). However, accurate reconstruction of viral quasispecies remains difficult \ndue to limited read-lengths and presence of sequencing errors. The problem is particularly \nchallenging when the strains in a population are highly similar, i.e., the sequences are \ncharacterized by low mutual genetic distances, and further exacerbated if some of those \nstrains are relatively rare; this is the setting where state-of-the-art methods struggle.\nIn this paper, we present a novel viral quasispecies reconstruction algorithm, aBayesQR, \nthat employs a maximum-likelihood framework to infer individual sequences in a mixture\nfrom high-throughput sequencing data. The search for the most likely quasispecies is \nconducted on long contigs that our method constructs from the set of short reads via \nagglomerative hierarchical clustering; operating on contigs rather than short reads enables \nidentification of close strains in a population and provides computational tractability of the \nBayesian method. Results on both simulated and real HIV-1 data demonstrate that the \nproposed algorithm generally outperforms state-of-the-art methods; aBayesQR particularly\nstands out when reconstructing a set of closely related viral strains (e.g., quasispecies \ncharacterized by low diversity).', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103630', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Escape Excel: a tool for preventing gene symbol and accession conversion errors', ['Eric A Welsh', 'Paul A Stewart', 'Brent M Kuenzi'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Background:  Microsoft Excel automatically converts certain gene symbols, database accessions, and other alphanumeric text and numbers into dates, scientific notation, and other numerical representations, which may lead to subsequent, irreversible corruption of the imported text. A recent survey of popular genomic literature estimates that one-fifth of all papers with supplementary data containing gene lists in Excel format suffer from this issue.  Results: Here, we present an open-source tool, Escape Excel, which prevents these erroneous conversions by generating an escaped text file that can be safely imported into Excel. Escape Excel is available in the Galaxy web environment and can be installed through the Galaxy ToolShed. Escape Excel is also available as a stand-alone, command line Perl script on GitHub (http://www.github.com/pstew/escape_excel).  A Galaxy test server implementation is accessible at http://apostl.moffitt.org.  Conclusions: Escape Excel detects and escapes a wide variety of problematic text strings so that they are not erroneously converted into other representations upon importation into Excel.  Examples of problematic strings include date-like strings, time-like strings, leading zeroes in front of numbers, and long numeric and alpha-numeric identifiers that should not be automatically converted into scientific notation.  It is hoped that greater awareness of these potential data-corruption issues, together with diligent escaping of text files prior to importation into Excel, will help to reduce the amount of Excel-corrupted data in scientific analyses and publications.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103820', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Moffitt Cancer Center']]
[u'Health Information Needs and Health Seeking Behavior during the 2014-2016 Ebola Outbreak: A Twitter Content Analysis', ['Michelle Odlum', 'Sunmoo Yoon'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Introduction. For effective public communication during major disease outbreaks like the 2014-2016 Ebola epidemic, health information needs of the population must be adequately assessed. Through content analysis of social media data, like tweets, public health information needs can be effectively assessed and in turn provide appropriate health information to effectively address such needs. The aim of the current study was to assess health information needs about Ebola, at distinct epidemic time points, through longitudinal tracking. \n\nMethods. Natural language processing was applied to explore public response to Ebola over time from the beginning of the outbreak (July 2014) to six month post outbreak (March 2015). A total 155,647 tweets (unique 68,736, retweet 86,911) mentioning Ebola were analyzed and visualized with infographics. \n\nResults. Public fear, frustration, and health information seeking regarding Ebola-related global priorities were observed across time. Our longitudinal content analysis revealed that due to ongoing health information deficiencies, resulting in fear and frustration, social media was at times an impediment and not a vehicle to support health information needs. \n \nDiscussion. Content analysis of tweets effectively assessed Ebola information needs. Our study also demonstrates the use of Twitter as a method for capturing real-time data to assess ongoing information needs, fear, and frustration over time.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103515', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Columbia University School of Nursing']]
[u'Applying polygenic risk scoring for psychiatric disorders within a family context', ['Simone de Jong', 'Mateus Jose Abdalla Diniz', 'Andiara C Saloma Rodrigues', 'Ary Gadelha', 'Marcos L Santoro', 'Vanessa K Ota', 'Cristiano Noto', 'Charles Curtis', 'Hamel Patel', 'Lynsey S Hall', "Paul F O'Reilly", 'Sintia I Belangero', 'Rodrigo Bressan', 'Gerome Breen'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'We aim to investigate the application of polygenic risks scoring within a family context and thereby unravel role that common variation confers on disease risk within a pedigree that would have traditionally been viewed through the prism of monogenic inheritance only. We illustrate our discussion by analyzing polygenic risk scores for schizophrenia, major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder in a large pedigree (n~300) in which 30% of family members have major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder. The polygenic risk scores illuminate patterns of assortative mating and anticipation, whereby increased polygenic risk for psychiatric disorders is contributed by affected individuals who married into the family, thereby increasing genetic risk over generations in the family. This may explain the observation of anticipation in mood disorder, whereby onset is earlier and the severity of a disease increases over the generations of a family. Joint analyses of both rare and common variation may be the most powerful way to understand the familial genetics of mood and psychiatric disorders.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103713', [u'Genetics'], [u"King's College London, UK;", u'Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'Newcastle University, UK;', u"King's College London"]]
[u'Colour vision models: a practical guide, some simulations, and colourvision R package.', ['Felipe M. Gawryszewski'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'1. Human colour vision differs from the vision of other animals.  The most obvious differences are the number and type of photoreceptors in the retina. E.g., while humans are insensitive to ultraviolet (UV) light, most non-mammal vertebrates and insects have a colour vision that spans into the UV. The development of colour vision models allowed appraisals of colour vision independent of the human experience. These models are now widespread in ecology and evolution fields. Here I present a guide to colour vision modelling, run a series of simulations, and provide a R package, colourvision,   to facilitate the use of colour vision models.  2. I present the mathematical steps for calculation of the most commonly used colour vision models: Chittka (1992) colour hexagon, Endler & Mielke (2005) model, and Vorobyev & Osorio (1998) linear and log-linear receptor noise limited models (RNL). These models are then tested using identical simulated and real data. These comprise of reflectance spectra generated by a logistic function against an achromatic background, achromatic reflectance against an achromatic background, achromatic reflectance against a chromatic background, and real flower reflectance data against a natural background reflectance.  3. When the specific requirements of each model are met, between model results are, overall, qualitatively and quantitatively similar. However, under many common scenarios of colour measurements, models may generate spurious values and/or considerably different predictions. Models that log-transform data and use relative photoreceptor outputs are prone to generate unrealistic results when the stimulus photon catch is smaller than the background photon catch. Moreover, models may generate unrealistic results when the background is chromatic (e.g. leaf reflectance) and the stimulus is an achromatic low reflectance spectrum.  4. Colour vision models are a valuable tool in several ecology and evolution subfields. Nonetheless, knowledge of model assumptions, careful analysis of model outputs, and basic knowledge of calculation behind each model are crucial for appropriate model application, and generation of meaningful and reproducible results. Other aspects of vision not incorporated into these models should be considered when drawing conclusion from model results.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103754', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Universidade Federal de Goias']]
[u'A fast approximate algorithm for mapping long reads to large reference databases', ['Chirag Jain', 'Alexander Dilthey', 'Sergey Koren', 'Srinivas Aluru', 'Adam M. Phillippy'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Emerging single-molecule sequencing technologies from Pacific Biosciences and Oxford Nanopore have revived interest in long read mapping algorithms. Alignment-based seed-and-extend methods demonstrate good accuracy, but face limited scalability, while faster alignment-free methods typically trade decreased precision for efficiency. In this paper, we combine a fast approximate read mapping algorithm based on minimizers with a novel MinHash identity estimation technique to achieve both scalability and precision. In contrast to prior methods, we develop a mathematical framework that defines the types of mapping targets we uncover, establish probabilistic estimates of p-value and sensitivity, and demonstrate tolerance for alignment error rates up to 20%. With this framework, our algorithm automatically adapts to different minimum length and identity requirements and provides both positional and identity estimates for each mapping reported. For mapping human PacBio reads to the hg38 reference, our method is 290x faster than BWA-MEM with a lower memory footprint and recall rate of 96%. We further demonstrate the scalability of our method by mapping noisy PacBio reads (each \u22655 kbp in length) to the complete NCBI RefSeq database containing 838 Gbp of sequence and >60,000 genomes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103812', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute']]
[u'Rapid antidepressant effects of the psychedelic ayahuasca in treatment-resistant depression: a randomised placebo-controlled trial', ['Fernanda Palhano-Fontes', 'Dayanna Barreto', 'Heloisa Onias', 'Katia C Andrade', 'Morgana Novaes', 'Jessica Pessoa', 'Sergio Mota-Rolim', 'Flavia L Osorio', 'Rafael Sanches', 'Rafael dos Santos', 'Luis Tofoli', 'Gabriela Silveira', 'Mauricio Yonamine', 'Jordi Riba', 'Francisco RR Santos', 'Antonio A Silva-Junior', 'Joao Alchieri', 'Nicole Galvao-Coelho', 'Brunoj Lobao-Soares', 'Jaime Hallak', 'Emerson Arcoverde', 'Joao Maia-de-Oliveira', 'Draulio B de Araujo'], u'January 27, 2017.', u"Major Depressive Disorder affects about 350 million people worldwide, and about one-third of the patients are considered treatment-resistant. Furthermore, available antidepressants take usually two weeks for the onset of their antidepressant effect. Recent open label trials show that psychedelics, such as ayahuasca and psilocybin, hold promise as fast-onset antidepressants. Although promising, these studies were not controlled for the placebo effect. To address this issue, and to further test the antidepressant effects of ayahuasca, we conducted a parallel arm, double blind randomised placebo-controlled trial, in patients with treatment-resistant major depression. Thirty-five patients with treatment-resistant major depression received a single dose of ayahuasca or placebo. We measured as primary outcome the change in the Hamilton Depression Rating scale (HAM-D) seven days after the dosing session, and as secondary outcomes the changes in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and response rates at one day (D1), two days (D2) and seven days (D7) after dosing, and remission rates at D7. This study is registered with http://clinicaltrials.gov (NCT02914769). We observed robust evidence of rapid antidepressant effects of a single dosing session with ayahuasca when compared to placebo. HAM-D scores at D7 were significantly lower in patients treated with ayahuasca than in those treated with placebo (p=0.019; Cohen's d=0.98). MADRS scores were significantly reduced in the ayahuasca group compared to the placebo group at all endpoints (at D1 and D2, p=0.04; at D7, p<0.0001). Between-group effect sizes increased from D1 to D7 (D1: Cohen's  d=0.84; D2: Cohen's d=0.84; D7: Cohen's d=1.49). Response rates were high for both groups at D1 and D2, and were significantly higher in the ayahuasca group only at D7 (64% vs. 27%; OR = 4.95; p = 0.04; NNT = 2.66). Remission rate was not significantly different between groups. Our study provides new evidence of rapid antidepressant effects of ayahuasca for treatment-resistant major depression.", u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103531', [u'Clinical Trials'], [u'Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte (UFRN);', u'University of Sao Paulo;', u'University of Campinas;', u'8Sant Pau Institute of Biomedical Research']]
[u'Comprehensive annotation of BRCA1 and BRCA2 missense variants by functionally validated sequence-based computational prediction models', ['Steven N Hart', 'Tanya Hoskin', 'Hermela Shimelis', 'Raymond Moore', 'Bingjian Feng', 'Abigail Thomas', 'Noralane Lindor', 'Alvaro Montiero', 'David Goldgar', 'Edwin Iversen', 'Vera Suman', 'Fergus N Couch'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Missense variants of uncertain significance (VUS) in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 cancer predisposition genes confound clinical interpretation. To improve methods for classification of VUS, functional data for 248 BRCA1 and 207 BRCA2 variants were comprehensively compared to 40 in-silico prediction algorithms, using default and optimized thresholds.  Integrated frameworks predicting the pathogenicity of BRCA1 and BRCA2 missense variants were also developed using a random forest model (RF) and a naive voting method (NVM). Both models yielded high area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (>0.90) for pathogenic variants in these genes. When applied to other genes, the predictive ability of the models were superior to other algorithms. The quantitative prediction of functional impact of all possible variants in clinically relevant functional domains of BRCA1 and BRCA2 using these models provides the first high-throughput validated method for classification of VUS identified by clinical genetic testing.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103762', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Mayo Clinic;', u'Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine;', u'Moffit Cancer Center;', u'Duke University']]
[u'European Flint reference sequences complement the maize pan-genome', ['Sandra Unterseer', 'Michael A. Seidel', 'Eva Bauer', 'Georg Haberer', 'Frank Hochholdinger', 'Nina Opitz', 'Caroline Marcon', 'Kobi Baruch', 'Manuel Spannagl', 'Klaus F.X. Mayer', 'Chris-Carolin Schon'], u'January 27, 2017.', u"The genomic diversity of maize is reflected by a large number of SNPs and substantial structural variation. Here, we report the de novo assembly of two European Flint maize lines to remedy the scarcity of sequence resources for the Flint pool. EP1 and F7 are important founder lines of European hybrid breeding programs. The lines were sequenced on an Illumina platform at 320X and 225X coverage. Using NRGene's DeNovoMAGIC 2.0 technology, pseudochromosomes were assembled encompassing a total of 2,463 Mb for EP1 and 2,405 Mb for F7. Structural and functional annotation of the two genomes is currently in progress. The two high-quality de novo assemblies complement the existing maize pan-genome and will pave the way for future functional and comparative studies.\n(Note: Sandra Unterseer and Michael A. Seidel contributed equally to this work.)", u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103747', [u'Genomics'], [u'Plant Breeding, Technical University of Munich, Freising, Germany, 85354;', u'Plant Genome and System Biology, Helmholtz Center Munich GmbH; Neuherberg, Germany, 85764;', u'Crop Functional Genomics, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universit\xe4t Bonn, Bonn, Germany, 53113;', u'Energin .R Technologies 2009 Ltd (NRGENE), Ness Ziona, Israel, 7403648']]
[u'Computing Osmotic Permeabilities of Aquaporins AQP4, AQP5, and GlpF from Near-Equilibrium Simulations', ['Thierry Oscar Wambo', 'Roberto Alexis Rodriguez', 'Liao Y Chen'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Measuring or computing the single-channel permeability of aquaporins/aquaglyceroporins (AQPs) has long been a challenge. The measured values scatter over an order of magnitude but the corresponding Arrhenius activation energies converge in the current literature. Osmotic flux through an AQP was simulated as water current forced through the channel by kilobar hydraulic pressure or theoretically approximated as single-file diffusion. In this paper, we report large scale simulations of osmotic current under sub M gradient through three water channels (the water-specific AQP4 and AQP5 along with aquaglyceroporin GlpF) using the mature particle mesh Ewald technique (PME) for which the established force fields have been optimized with known accuracy. These simulations were implemented with hybrid periodic boundary conditions devised to avoid the artifactitious mixing across the membrane in a regular PME simulation. The computed single-channel permeabilities are in agreement with recently refined experiments on GlpF. The Arrhenius activation energies extracted from our simulations for all the three AQPs agree with the in vitro measurements. The single-file diffusion approximations from our large-scale simulations are consistent with the current literature on smaller systems. From these unambiguous agreements among the in vitro and in silico studies, we observe the quantitative accuracy of the all-atom force fields of the current literature for water-channel biology. We also observe that AQP4, that is particularly rich in the central nervous system, is more efficient in water conduction and more temperature-sensitive than other water-specific channel proteins.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/102343', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Texas San Antonio']]
[u'The Negev hospital-university-based (HUB) autism database', ['Gal Meiri', 'Ilan Dinstein', 'Analya Michaelowski', 'Hagit Flusser', 'Michal Ilan', 'Michal Faroy', 'Asif Bar-Sinai', 'Liora Manelis', 'Dana Stolowicz', 'Lili Yosef', 'Nadav Davidovitch', 'Hava Golan', 'Shosh Arbelle', 'Idan Menashe'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Elucidating the heterogeneous etiologies of autism will require investment in comprehensive\nlongitudinal data acquisition from large community based cohorts. With this in mind, we have\nestablished a hospital-university-based (HUB) database of autism which incorporates prospective\nand retrospective data from a large and ethnically diverse population. Here we present initial\nfindings from 188 children who were diagnosed with autism during the first eighteen months of\nthe study. The unique characteristics of this cohort included: significant differences between\nBedouin and Jewish children in different risk factors and clinical characteristics; complete birth\nrecords for >90% of the children; and a high frequency of consanguineous marriages. Thus, the\nNegev HUB autism database comprises a remarkably unique resource to study different aspects\nof autism.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103770', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Soroka University Medical Center;', u'Ben Gurion University']]
[u'Higher genetic risk of schizophrenia is associated with lower cognitive performance in healthy individuals', ['Rebecca Shafee', 'Pranav Nanda', 'Jaya L Padmanabhan', 'Neeraj Tandon', 'Ney Alliey-Rodriguez', 'Richard S.E. Keefe', 'Scot K Hill', 'Jeffrey R Bishop', 'Brett A Clementz', 'Carol A Tamminga', 'Elliot S Gershon', 'Godfrey D Pearlson', 'Matcheri S Keshavan', 'John A Sweeney', 'Elise B Robinson', 'Steven A McCarroll'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Psychotic disorders including schizophrenia are commonly accompanied by cognitive deficits. Recent studies have reported negative genetic correlations between schizophrenia and indicators of cognitive ability such as general intelligence and processing speed. Here we compare the effect of the genetic risk of schizophrenia (PRSSCZ) on measures that differ in their relationships with psychosis onset: a measure of current cognitive abilities (the Brief Assessment of Cognition in Schizophrenia, BACS) that is greatly reduced in psychosis patients; a measure of premorbid intelligence that is minimally affected by psychosis (the Wide-Range Achievement Test, WRAT); and educational attainment (EY), which covaries with both BACS and WRAT. Using genome-wide SNP data from 314 psychotic and 423 healthy research participants in the Bipolar-Schizophrenia Network for Intermediate Phenotypes (B-SNIP) Consortium, we investigated the association of PRSSCZ with BACS, WRAT and EY. Among apparently healthy individuals, greater genetic risk for schizophrenia (PRSSCZ) was associated with lower BACS scores (r = -0.19, p = 1 \xd7 10-4 at PT = 1  \xd7 10-4) but did not associate with WRAT or EY, suggesting that these areas of cognition vary in their etiologic relationships with schizophrenia. Among individuals with psychosis, PRSSCZ did not associate with variation in cognitive performance. These findings suggest that the same cognitive abilities that are disrupted in psychotic disorders are also associated with schizophrenia genetic risk in the general population. Specific cognitive phenotypes, independent of education or general intelligence, could be more deeply studied for insight into the specific processes affected by the genetic influences on psychosis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103622', [u'Genetics'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Columbia University Medical Center;', u'Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center;', u'Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center;', u'University of Chicago;', u'Duke University Medical Center;', u'Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Georgia;', u'University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;', u'Yale University;', u'Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center;', u'University of Cincinnati;', u'Massachusetts Genereal Hospital, Harvard Medical School and Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard;', u'Harvard Medical School, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
[u'Colour Preferences of UK Garden Birds at Supplementary Seed Feeders', ['Luke Rothery', 'Graham W Scott', 'Lesley Morrell'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Supplementary feeding of garden birds has benefits for both bird populations and human wellbeing. Birds have excellent colour vision, and show preferences for food items of particular colours, but research into colour preferences associated with artificial feeders is limited to hummingbirds. Here, we investigated the colour preferences of common UK garden birds foraging at seed-dispensing artificial feeders containing identical food. We presented birds simultaneously with an array of eight differently coloured feeders, and recorded the number of visits made to each colour over 370 30-minute observation periods in the winter of 2014/15. In addition, we surveyed visitors to a garden centre and science festival to determine the colour preferences of likely purchasers of seed feeders. Our results suggest that silver and green feeders were visited by higher numbers of individuals of several common garden bird species, while red and yellow feeders received fewer visits. In contrast, people preferred red, yellow, blue and green feeders.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103671', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Hull;', u'University of Hill']]
[u'Grid cells show field-to-field variability and this explains the aperiodic response of inhibitory interneurons', ['Benjamin Dunn', 'Daniel Wennberg', 'Ziwei Huang', 'Yasser Roudi'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Research on network mechanisms and coding properties of grid cells assume that the firing rate of a grid cell in each of its fields is the same. Furthermore, proposed network models predict spatial regularities in the firing of inhibitory interneurons that are inconsistent with experimental data. In this paper, by analyzing the response of grid cells recorded from rats during free navigation, we first show that there are strong variations in the mean firing rate of the fields of individual grid cells and thus show that the data is inconsistent with the theoretical models that predict similar peak magnitudes. We then build a two population excitatory-inhibitory network model in which sparse spatially selective input to the excitatory cells, presumed to arise from e.g. salient external stimuli, hippocampus or a combination of both, leads to the variability in the firing field amplitudes of grid cells. We show that, when combined with appropriate connectivity between the excitatory and inhibitory neurons, the variability in the firing field amplitudes of grid cells results in inhibitory neurons that do not exhibit regular spatial firing, consistent with experimental data. Finally, we show that even if the spatial positions of the fields are maintained, variations in the firing rates of the fields of grid cells are enough to cause remapping of hippocampal cells.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/101899', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience / Centre for Neural Computation, NTNU;', u'Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University;', u'Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tubingen']]
[u'No evidence of early head circumference enlargements in children later diagnosed with autism in Israel', ['Ilan Dinstein', 'Shlomi Haar', 'Shir Atsmon', 'Hen Schtaerman'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Background: Large controversy exists regarding the potential existence and clinical significance of larger brain volumes in toddlers who later develop autism. Assessing this relationship is important for determining the clinical utility of early head circumference (HC) measures and for assessing the validity of the early overgrowth hypothesis of autism, which suggests that early accelerated brain development may be a hallmark of the disorder.  Method: We performed a retrospective comparison of HC, height, and weight measurements between 66 toddlers who were later diagnosed with autism and 66 matched controls. These toddlers represent an unbiased regional sample from a single health service provider in the southern district of Israel. Using 4-12 measurements between birth and the age of two, we were able to characterize individual HC, height, and weight development with high precision and fit a negative exponential growth model to the data of each toddler with exceptional accuracy.  Results: The analyses revealed that HC sizes and growth rates were not significantly larger in toddlers with autism even when stratifying the autism group based on verbal capabilities at the time of diagnosis. In addition, there were no significant correlations between ADOS scores at the time of diagnosis and HC at any time-point during the first two years of life.  Conclusions: These negative results add to accumulating evidence, which suggest that brain volume is not necessarily larger in toddlers who develop autism. While early brain overgrowth may characterize specific individuals with autism, it is not likely to represent a common etiology of the entire autism population.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103788', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ben Gurion University;', u'Maccabi Health Services']]
[u'Spontaneous development of cerebrovascular pathology and microinfarcts in a mouse model of sickle cell disease.', ['Hyacinth Idu Hyacinth', 'Cortney L Sugihara', 'Thomas L Spencer', 'David R Archer', 'Andy Y Shih'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Stroke is a dramatic complication of sickle cell disease (SCD) and is associated with aneurysms, moya moya, intravascular thrombi, cerebral hyperemia and increased vessel tortuosity. We show that aged SCD mice spontaneously develop the characteristics features of cerebral vasculopathy seen in human SCD. Thirteen month old Townes SCD mice and age-matched controls had a cranial windows implanted over the somatosensory cortex. Cortical capillaries were imaged using in vivo two-photon microscopy after the blood plasma was labeled with a fluorescent dye. Results showed that SCD mice compared to controls, had significantly higher red blood cell (RBC) velocity and capillary vessel diameter. SCD mice also had a significantly higher number of occlusive events in the capillary bed, resulting in more stalling of RBC flow. Microvascular topology was also altered, as SCD mice had significantly higher vessel tortuosity and shorter capillary branch lengths. Finally, post-mortem analyses revealed a greater number of cortical microinfarcts, likely caused by vascular occlusion since local tissue hypoxia and blood-brain barrier leakage was prominent. We concluded that aged Townes sickle cell mice spontaneously develop SCD-associated cerebral vasculopathy, and that in vivo two-photon imaging is a powerful approach to investigate the mechanisms of vascular complications in SCD .', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103309', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Emory University;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology;', u'Medical University of South Carolina']]
[u'High GC Content Causes De Novo Created Proteins to be Intrinsically Disordered', ['Walter Basile', 'Oxana Sachenkova', 'Sara Light', 'Arne Elofsson'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'De novo creation of protein coding genes involves formation of short ORFs from noncoding regions; some of these ORFs might then become fixed in the population. De novo created proteins need to, at the bare minimum, not cause serious harm to the organism, meaning that they should for instance not cause aggregation. Therefore, although the creation of the short ORFs could be truly random, but the fixation should be of subject to some selective pressure. The selective forces acting on de novo created proteins have been elusive and contradictory results have been reported. In Drosophila they are more disordered, i.e. are enriched in polar residues, than ancient proteins, while the opposite trend is present in yeast. To the best of our knowledge no valid explanation for this difference has been proposed.  Our problem: To solve this riddle we studied structural properties and age of all proteins in 187 eukaryotic species. We find that, on average, there are small differences between proteins of different ages, with the exception that younger proteins are shorter. However, when we take the GC content into account we find that this can explain the opposite trends observed in yeast (low GC) and drosophila (high GC). GC content is correlated with codons coding for disorder-promoting amino acids, and inversely correlated with transmembrane, helix and sheet promoting residues. We find that for the youngest proteins, i.e. the ones that are most likely to be de novo created, there exists a strong correlation with GC and structural properties. In contrast, this strong relationship is not seen for ancient proteins. This leads us to propose that structural features are not a strong determining factor for fixation of de novo created genes. Instead these proteins resemble random proteins given a particular GC level. The dependency on GC content is then gradually weakened during evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103739', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Stockholm University;', u'Arne Elofsson']]
[u'Accessible, curated metagenomic data through ExperimentHub', ['Edoardo Pasolli', 'Lucas Schiffer', 'Audrey Renson', 'Valerie Obenchain', 'Paolo Manghi', 'Duy Tin Truong', 'Francesco Beghini', 'Faizan Malik', 'Marcel Ramos', 'Jennifer B Dowd', 'Curtis Huttenhower', 'Martin Morgan', 'Nicola Segata', 'Levi Waldron'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'We present curatedMetagenomicData, a Bioconductor and command-line resource providing thousands of metagenomic profiles from the Human Microbiome Project and other publicly available datasets, and ExperimentHub, for convenient cloud-based distribution of data to the R desktop. curatedMetagenomicData provides standardized per-participant metadata linked to bacterial, fungal, archaeal, and viral taxonomic abundances, as well as quantitative metabolic functional profiles, generated by the HUMAnN2 and MetaPhlAn2 pipelines. The resulting datasets can be immediately analyzed with a wide range of statistical methods, requiring a minimum of bioinformatic expertise and no preprocessing of data. We demonstrate exploratory data analysis, an investigation of gut "enterotypes", and a comparison of the accuracy of disease classification from different data types. These documented analyses can be reproduced efficiently on a laptop, without the barriers of working with large-scale, raw sequencing data. The development of curatedMetagenomicData will continue with the addition, curation, and analysis of further microbiome datasets.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103085', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Centre for Integrative Biology, University of Trento, Trento, Italy;', u'Institute for Implementation Science and Population Health, CUNY, New York, United States of America;', u'Roswell Park Cancer Institute, University of Buffalo, Buffalo, United States of America;', u'Biostatistics Department, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, United States of America']]
[u'Decreasing before increasing: Evolution of nitrogen availability conditions in French forest ecosystems over the last century according to forest herbs', ['Gabriela Riofrio-Dillon', 'Jean-Claude Gegout', 'Romain Bertrand'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Based on a large number of floristic plots (n=82 581), the French forest status related to soil nitrogen (N) availability was reconstructed from herb species bio-indication spanning from1910 to 2010. The temporal changes highlighted a decrease in available-N until 1990s in coniferous and broadleaved forests (mean \u0394C:N=+0.79 and +0.74 C:N units, respectively). It was followed by an increase in available-N until 2010, in both coniferous and broadleaved forests (mean \u0394C:N=-0.10 and-0.16 C:N units, respectively). Spatially, our results confirm the temporal trends, and highlight the center-to-south of France as mainly impacted by the increased N availability in both forest types. The observed decrease in available-N may be related to acidification impacting on soil processes while the recent increase is consistent with the current cessation of acidification. The past N deposition is still impacting both forest soils and vegetation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103721', [u'Ecology'], [u'AgroParisTech;', u'CNRS']]
[u'Efficacy of the \u03b2-lactam\\\u03b2-lactamase inhibitor combination is linked to WhiB4 mediated changes in redox physiology of Mycobacterium tuberculosis', ['Amit Singh', 'Saurabh Mishra', 'Prashant Shukla', 'Ashima Bhaskar', 'Kushi Anand', 'Priyanka Baloni', 'Rajeev Kumar Jha', 'Abhilash Mohan', 'Raju S Rajmani', 'V Nagaraja', 'Nagasuma Chandra'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Inhibition of \u03b2-lactamase by clavulanate (Clav) sensitizes multi- and extensively drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) strains towards \u03b2-lactams such as amoxicillin (Amox). However, the underlying mechanism of how Mtb responds to Amox-Clav combination (Augmentin; AG) is not characterized. We integrated global expression profiling with the protein-protein interaction landscape and generated a genome-scale network of Mtb  in response to AG. In addition to specific targets (e.g., peptidoglycan biosynthesis and \u03b2-lactamase), the response to AG was also centered on redox-balance, central carbon metabolism (CCM), and respiration in Mtb . We discovered that AG modulates superoxide levels, NADH/NAD+ balance and mycothiol redox potential (EMSH) of Mtb. Higher intra-mycobacterial EMSH potentiates mycobactericidal efficacy of AG, whereas lower EMSH induces tolerance. Further, Mtb  responds to AG via a redox-sensitive transcription factor, WhiB4. Mtb\u0394whiB4 displayed higher expression of genes involved in \u03b2-lactam resistance along with those mediating respiration, CCM and redox balance. Moreimportantly, WhiB4 binds to the promoter regions and represses transcription of genes involved in \u03b2-lactamase expression in a redox-dependent manner. Lastly, while Mtb\u0394whiB4 maintained internal EMSH, exhibited greater \u03b2-lactamase activity and displayed AG-tolerance, overexpression of WhiB4 induced oxidative shift in EMSH and repressed \u03b2-lactamase activity to aggravate AG-mediated killing of drug-sensitive and -resistant strains of Mtb. \nAltogether, work demonstrate that efficacy of \u03b2-lactam\\\u03b2-lactamase inhibitor combination can be attenuated by elevating mycobacterial antioxidant capabilities and potentiated by impairing redox buffering capacity of Mtb. The functional linkage between \u03b2-lactams, redox balance, and WhiB4 can be exploited to potentiate AG action against drug-resistant Mtb.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103028', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Indian Institute of Science;', u'Indian Institute of Science and International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology;', u'National Institute of Immunology;', u'IISc;', u'IIsc']]
[u'Nucleotide sequence and DNaseI sensitivity are predictive of 3D chromatin architecture', ['Jacob Schreiber', 'Maxwell Libbrecht', 'Jeffrey Bilmes', 'William Noble'], u'January 27, 2017.', u"Recently, Hi-C has been used to probe the 3D chromatin architecture of multiple organisms and cell types. The resulting collections of pairwise contacts across the genome have connected chromatin architecture to many cellular phenomena, including replication timing and gene regulation. However, high resolution (10~kb or finer) contact maps remain scarce due to the expense and time required for collection. A computational method for predicting pairwise contacts without the need to run a Hi-C experiment would be invaluable in understanding the role that 3D chromatin architecture plays in genome biology.\n\nWe describe Rambutan, a deep convolutional neural network that predicts Hi-C contacts at 1~kb resolution using nucleotide sequence and DNaseI assay signal as inputs. Specifically, Rambutan identifies locus pairs that engage in high confidence contacts according to Fit-Hi-C, a previously described method for assigning statistical confidence estimates to Hi-C contacts. We first demonstrate Rambutan's performance across chromosomes at 1~kb resolution in the GM12878 cell line. Subsequently, we measure Rambutan's performance across six cell types. In this setting, the model achieves an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve between 0.7662 and 0.8246 and an area under the precision-recall curve between 0.3737 and 0.9008. We further demonstrate that the predicted contacts exhibit expected trends relative to histone modification ChIP-seq data, replication timing measurements, and annotations of functional elements such as promoters and enhancers. Finally, we predict Hi-C contacts for 53 human cell types and show that the predictions cluster by cellular function. \\\\", u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103614', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Washington']]
[u'Radiative energy budgets of phototrophic surface-associated microbial communities and their photosynthetic efficiency under diffuse and collimated light', ['Mads Lichtenberg', 'Kasper Elgetti Brodersen', 'Michael Kuhl'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'We investigated the radiative energy budgets of a heterogeneous photosynthetic coral reef sediment and a compact uniform cyanobacterial biofilm on top of coastal sediment. By combining electrochemical, thermocouple and fiber-optic microsensor measurements of O2, temperature and light, we could calculate the proportion of the absorbed light energy that was either dissipated as heat or conserved by photosynthesis. We show, across a range of different incident light regimes, that such radiative energy budgets are highly dominated by heat dissipation constituting up to 99.5% of the absorbed light energy. Highest photosynthetic energy conservation efficiency was found in the coral sediment under light-limiting conditions and amounted to ~13% of the absorbed light energy. Additionally, the effect of light directionality, i.e., diffuse or collimated light, on energy conversion efficiency was tested on the two surface-associated systems. The effects of light directionality on the radiative energy budgets of these phototrophic communities were not unanimous but, resulted in local spatial differences in heat-transfer, gross photosynthesis and light distribution. The light acclimation index, Ek was >2 times higher in the coral sediment compared to the biofilm and changed the pattern of photosynthetic energy conservation under light-limiting conditions. At moderate to high incident irradiances, the photosynthetic conservation of absorbed energy was highest in collimated light; a tendency that changed in the biofilm under sub-saturating incident irradiances, where higher photosynthetic efficiencies were observed under diffuse light. Our results suggest that the optical properties and the structural organization of phytoelements are important traits affecting the photosynthetic efficiency of biofilms and sediments.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103705', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Copenhagen, Marine Biological Section, Department of Biology']]
[u'Ribosome reinitiation can explain length-dependent translation of messenger RNA', ['David W. Rogers', 'Marvin A. Boettcher', 'Arne Traulsen', 'Duncan Greig'], u'January 27, 2017.', u"Models of mRNA translation usually presume that transcripts are linear; upon reaching the end of a transcript each terminating ribosome returns to the cytoplasmic pool before initiating anew on a different transcript. A consequence of linear models is that faster translation of a given mRNA is unlikely to generate more of the encoded protein, particularly at low ribosome availability. Recent evidence indicates that eukaryotic mRNAs are circularized, potentially allowing terminating ribosomes to preferentially reinitiate on the same transcript. Here we model the effect of ribosome reinitiation on translation and show that, at high levels of reinitiation, protein synthesis rates are dominated by the time required to translate a given transcript. Our model provides a simple mechanistic explanation for many previously enigmatic features of eukaryotic translation, including the negative correlation of both ribosome densities and protein abundance on transcript length, the importance of codon usage in determining protein synthesis rates, and the negative correlation between transcript length and both codon adaptation and 5' mRNA folding energies. In contrast to linear models where translation is largely limited by initiation rates, our model reveals that all three stages of translation - initiation, elongation, and termination/reinitiation - determine protein synthesis rates even at low ribosome availability.", u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103689', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'MPI for Evolutionary Biology;', u'MPI Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Experimental evidence that thermal selection has shaped the latitudinal distribution of mitochondrial haplotypes in Australian fruit flies', ['Florencia Camus', 'Jonci N Wolff', 'Carla M Sgro', 'Damian K Dowling'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Cellular metabolism is regulated by enzyme complexes within the mitochondrion, the function of which are sensitive to the prevailing temperature. Such thermal sensitivity, coupled with the observation that population frequencies of mitochondrial haplotypes tend to associate with latitude, altitude or climatic regions across species distributions, led to the hypothesis that thermal selection has played a role in shaping standing variation in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequence. This hypothesis, however, remains controversial, and requires evidence the distribution of haplotypes observed in nature corresponds with the capacity of these haplotypes to confer differences in thermal tolerance. Specifically, haplotypes predominating in tropical climates are predicted to encode increased tolerance to heat stress, but decreased tolerance to cold stress, than temperate counterparts. We present direct evidence for these predictions, using mtDNA haplotypes sampled from the Australian distribution of Drosophila melanogaster . We show that the ability of flies to tolerate extreme thermal challenges is affected by sequence variation across mtDNA haplotypes, and that the thermal performance associated with each haplotype corresponds with its latitudinal prevalence. The haplotype that predominates at low (subtropical) latitudes confers greater resilience to heat stress, but lower resilience to cold stress, than counterparts predominating at higher (temperate) latitudes. We explore molecular mechanisms that might underlie these responses, presenting evidence that the effects are in part regulated by SNPs that do not change the protein sequence. Our findings indicate that standing genetic variation in the mitochondrial genome can be shaped by thermal selection, and could therefore contribute to evolutionary adaptation under climatic stress.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103606', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University College London;', u'Monash University']]
[u'Spontaneous mutations and transmission distortions of genic copy number variants shape the standing genetic variation in Picea glauca', ['Atef Sahli', 'Isabelle Giguere', 'Jean Bousquet', 'John MacKay'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Copy number variations (CNVs) are large genetic variations detected among the individuals of every multicellular organism examined so far. These variations are believed to play an important role in the evolution and adaptation of species. In plants, little is known about the characteristics of CNVs, particularly regarding the rates at which they are generated and the mechanics of their transmission from a generation to the next. Here, we used SNP-array raw intensity data for 55 two-generations families (3663 individuals) to scan the gene space of the conifer tree Picea glauca (Moench) Voss for CNVs. We were particularly interested in the abundance, inheritance, spontaneous mutation rate spectrum and the evolutionary consequences they may have on the standing genetic variation of white spruce. Our findings show that CNVs affect a small proportion of the gene space and are predominantly copy number losses. CNVs were either inherited or generated through de novo events. De novo CNVs present high rates of spontaneous mutations that vary for different genes and alleles and are correlated with gene expression levels. Most of the inherited CNVs (70%) are transmitted from the parents in violation of Mendelian expectations. These transmission distortions can cause considerable frequency changes between generations and be dependent on whether the heterozygote parents contribute as male or female. Transmission distortions were also influenced by the partner genotype and the parents\u2019 genetic background. This study provides new insights into the effects of different evolutionary forces on copy number variations based on the analysis of a perennial plant.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103796', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Oxford, United Kingdom;', u'Laval University, Canada']]
[u'A miRNA catalogue and ncRNA annotation of the short-living fish Nothobranchius furzeri', ['Mario Baumgart', 'Emanuel Barth', 'Aurora Savino', 'Marco Groth', 'Philipp Koch', 'Andreas Petzold', 'Ivan Arisi', 'Matthias Platzer', 'Manja Marz', 'Alessandro Cellerino'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Background: The short-lived fish Nothobranchius furzeri is the shortest-lived vertebrate that can be cultured in captivity and was recently established as a model organism for aging research. Small non-coding RNAs, especially miRNAs, are implicated in age-dependent control of gene expression.  Results: Here, we present a comprehensive catalogue of miRNAs and several other non-coding RNA classes (ncRNAs) for Nothobranchius furzeri. Analyzing multiple small RNA-Seq libraries, we show most of these identified miRNAs are expressed in at least one of seven Nothobranchius species. Additionally, duplication and clustering of N. furzeri miRNAs was analyzed and compared to the four fish species Danio rerio, Oryzias latipes, Gasterosteus aculeatus and Takifugu rubripes. A peculiar characteristic of N. furzeri as compared to other teleosts was a duplication of the miR-29 cluster.  Conclusion: The completeness of the catalogue we provide is  comparable to that of zebrafish. This catalogue represents a basis to investigate the role of miRNAs in aging and development in this species.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103697', [u'Genomics'], [u'Leibniz Institute for Age Research - Fritz Lipmann Institute (FLI);', u'Friedrich Schiller University Jena;', u'Babraham Institute;', u'Dresden University of Technology;', u'European Brain Research Institute (EBRI);', u'Scuola Normale Superiore']]
[u'Revealing the causative variant in Mendelian patient genomes without revealing patient genomes', ['Karthik A Jagadeesh', 'David J Wu', 'Johannes A Birgmeier', 'Dan Boneh', 'Gill Bejerano'], u'January 27, 2017.', u"Given the rapidly growing utility of critical health information revealed in the human genome, secure genomic computation is essential to moving forward, especially as genome sequencing becomes commonplace. We devise and implement proof-of-principle computational operations for precisely identifying causal variants in Mendelian patients using secure multiparty computation methods based on Yao's protocol. We show multiple real scenarios (small patient cohorts, trio analysis, two hospital collaboration) where the causal variant is discovered jointly, while keeping up to 99.7% of all participants' most sensitive genomic information private. All similar operations performed today to diagnose such cases are done openly, keeping 0% of participants' genomic information private. Our work will help usher in an era where genomes can be both utilized and truly protected.", u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103655', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Fine-scale landscape genomics of Aedes aegypti reveals loss of Wolbachia transinfection, dispersal barrier and potential for occasional long distance movement', ['Thomas L Schmidt', 'Igor Filipovic', 'Ary A Hoffmann', 'Gordana Rasic'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'The endosymbiotic bacterium Wolbachia is a promising tool for controlling arboviral diseases transmitted by the mosquito Aedes aegypti, and can spread by itself through wild mosquito populations following local introductions. Recent Wolbachia introductions into Ae. aegypti populations in Cairns, Australia, have produced a slower than anticipated spread that could be due to: i) non-perfect transmission of Wolbachia from mother to offspring; ii) dispersal being leptokurtically biased towards long distances in Ae. aegypti adults; and iii) geographical barriers to Ae. aegypti dispersal. We investigated these three potential causes using double-digest restriction-site associated DNA sequencing and Wolbachia screening in 161 Ae. aegypti collected from Cairns in 2015. We detected differential Wolbachia status among full siblings in one out of 10 Wolbachia-infected matrilineages, providing the first evidence for transmission failure in this host/Wolbachia system. Full-siblings were also found in ovitraps up to 1312 m apart, indicating a potential for long-distance movement in Ae. aegypti females that are generally considered weak dispersers. We also detected a small but significant barrier effect of Cairns highways on Ae. aegypti dispersal using distance-based redundancy analysis (dbRDA) and a patch-based simulation analysis. These findings together may explain the slow spread of Wolbachia infection through the Ae. aegypti population in Cairns, and highlight the utility of genome-wide SNPs for fine-scale ecological investigations. Our approach could be extended to other host/Wolbachia systems that are increasingly considered for the biocontrol of disease vectors and pests.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103598', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'Reverse-complement parameter sharing improves deep learning models for genomics', ['Avanti Shrikumar', 'Peyton Greenside', 'Anshul Kundaje'], u'January 27, 2017.', u'Deep learning approaches that have produced breakthrough predictive models in computer vision, speech recognition and machine translation are now being successfully applied to problems in regulatory genomics. However, deep learning architectures used thus far in genomics are often directly ported from computer vision and natural language processing applications with few, if any, domain-specific modifications. In double-stranded DNA, the same pattern may appear identically on one strand and its reverse complement due to complementary base pairing. Here, we show that conventional deep learning models that do not explicitly model this property can produce substantially different predictions on forward and reverse-complement versions of the same DNA sequence. We present four new convolutional neural network layers that leverage the reverse-complement property of genomic DNA sequence by sharing parameters between forward and reverse-complement representations in the model. These layers guarantee that forward and reverse-complement sequences produce identical predictions within numerical precision. Using experiments on simulated and in vivo transcription factor binding data, we show that our proposed architectures lead to improved performance, faster learning and cleaner internal representations compared to conventional architectures trained on the same data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/27/103663', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University']]
