[u'An extensible ontology for inference of emergent whole cell function from relationships between subcellular processes', ['Jens Hansen', 'David Meretzky', 'Simeneh Woldesenbet', 'Gustavo Stolovitzky', 'Ravi Iyengar'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Whole cell responses arise from coordinated interactions between diverse human gene products that make up various pathways for sub-cellular processes (SCP). Lower level SCPs interact to form higher level SCPs, often in a context specific manner. We sought to determine if capturing such relationships enables us to describe the emergence of whole cell functions from interacting SCPs. We developed the "Molecular Biology of the Cell" ontology based on standard cell biology and biochemistry textbooks. Currently, our ontology contains 754 SCPs and 18,989 expertly curated gene-SCP associations. In contrast with other ontologies, our algorithm to populate the SCPs with genes is flexible and enables extension of the ontology on demand. Since cell biological knowledge is constantly growing we developed a dynamic enrichment algorithm for the prediction of SCP relationships beyond the current taxonomy. This algorithm enables us to identify interactions between SCPs as a basis for higher order function in a context dependent manner, allowing us to provide a detailed description of how these SCPs together give rise to whole cell functions. We conclude that this ontology can, from omics data sets, enable the development of detailed SCP networks for predictive modeling of human cell biological functions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112201.1', [], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Thomas J. Watson Research Center, IBM, Yorktown Heights, NY']]
[u'Genetic Analysis of a Metazoan Pathway using Transcriptomic Phenotypes', ['David Angeles Albores', 'Carmie Puckett Robinson', 'Brian A. Williams', 'Barbara J Wold', 'Paul W Sternberg'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'RNA-seq is commonly used to identify genetic modules that respond to a perturbation. Although transcriptomes have been mainly used for target gene discovery, their quantitative nature makes them attractive structures with which to study genetic interactions. To understand whether whole organism RNA-seq is suitable for genetic pathway reconstruction, we sequenced the transcriptome of four single mutants and two double mutants of the hypoxia pathway in C. elegans. By comparing the expression levels of double mutants with their corresponding single mutants, we were able to determine, on a genome-wide level, that EGL-9 acts along VHL-1-dependent and independent branches to inhibit HIF-1. We were also able to observe transcriptome-wide suppression of the egl-9(lf) phenotype in an egl-9(lf) hif-1(lf) double mutant. As a by-product of our analysis, we identified a core hypoxic response consisting of 355 genes, and 45 genes that have hif-1 independent, vhl-1-dependent expression. Finally, we are able to identify 31 genes that exhibit non-canonical epistasis: for these genes, vhl-1(lf) mutants show opposing effects to egl-9(lf) mutants, but the egl-9(lf);vhl-1(lf) exhibits the egl-9(lf) phenotype. We suggest that this non-canonical epistasis reflects unexplored aspects of the hypoxia pathway. We discuss the implications, benefits and advantages of using transcriptomic phenotypes to perform pathway analysis.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112920.1', [], [u'Caltech;', u'University of Southern California']]
[u'Simple rules for an efficient use of Geographic Information Systems in molecular ecology', ['Kevin Leempoel', 'Solange Duruz', 'Estelle Rochat', 'Ivo Widmer', 'Pablo Orozco-terWengel', 'Stephane Joost'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Geographic Information Systems (GIS) are becoming increasingly popular in the context of molecular ecology and conservation biology thanks to their display options efficiency, flexibility and management of geodata. Indeed, spatial data for wildlife and livestock species is becoming a trend with many researchers publishing genomic data that is specifically suitable for landscape studies. GIS uniquely reveal the possibility to overlay genetic information with environmental data and, as such, allow us to locate and analyze genetic boundaries of various plant and animal species or to study gene-environment associations (GEA). This means that, using GIS, we can potentially identify the genetic bases of species adaptation to particular geographic conditions or to climate change. However, many biologists are not familiar with the use of GIS and underlying concepts and thus experience difficulties in finding relevant information and instructions on how to use them. In this paper, we illustrate the power of free and open source GIS approaches and provide essential information for their successful application in molecular ecology. First, we introduce key concepts related to GIS than are too often overlooked in the literature, for example coordinate systems, GPS accuracy and scale. We then provide an overview of the most employed open-source GIS-related software, file formats and refer to major environmental databases. We also reconsider sampling strategies as high costs of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) data currently diminish the number of samples that can be sequenced per location. Thereafter, we detail methods of data exploration and spatial statistics suited for the analysis of large genetic datasets. Finally, we provide suggestions to properly edit maps and to make them as comprehensive as possible, either manually or trough programming languages.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113225', [], [u'EPFL;', u'Cardiff University']]
[u'Fungal derived 15-keto-prostaglandin E2 and host proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR-\u03b3) promote C. neoformans growth during infection.', ['Robert J Evans', 'Sarah Needs', 'Ewa Bielska', 'Robin C May', 'Stephen Renshaw', 'Simon Johnston'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Cryptococcus neoformans is one of the leading causes of invasive fungal infection in humans worldwide. C. neoformans can use macrophages as a proliferative niche to increase infective burden and avoid immune surveillance. However, the specific mechanisms by which C. neoformans manipulates host immunity to promote its growth during infection remain ill-defined. Here we demonstrate a key role for eicosanoid lipid mediators produced by C. neoformans in regulating host responses. C. neoformans is known to secrete several eicosanoids that are highly similar to those found in vertebrate hosts. Using the eicosanoid deficient cryptococcal mutant \u0394plb1, we demonstrate that prostaglandin E2 is required by C. neoformans for proliferation within macrophages and, using our zebrafish model of cryptococcosis, we confirm this role for PGE2 in vivo. Furthermore, we show that PGE2 must be dehydrogenated into 15-keto PGE2 to promote fungal growth. We find that activation of the intracellular 15-keto PGE2 receptor PPAR-\u03b3 promotes fungal burden in zebrafish suggesting that cryptococcal 15-keto-PGE2 is a novel virulence factor that may act as an agonist for PPAR-\u03b3.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113167', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u"A yield-cost tradeoff governs Escherichia coli's decision between fermentation and respiration in carbon-limited growth", ['Matteo Mori', 'Enzo Marinari', 'Andrea De Martino'], u'March 2, 2017.', u"Many microbial systems are known to actively reshape their proteomes in response to changes in growth conditions induced e.g. by nutritional stress or antibiotics. Part of the re-allocation accounts for the fact that, as the growth rate is limited by targeting specific metabolic activities, cells simply respond by fine-tuning their proteome to invest more resources into the limiting activity (i.e. by synthesizing more proteins devoted to it). However, this is often accompanied by an overall re-organization of metabolism, aimed at improving the growth yield under limitation by re-wiring resource through different pathways. While both effects impact proteome composition, the latter underlies a more complex systemic response to stress. By focusing on E. coli's \u2018acetate switch\u2019, we use mathematical modeling and a re-analysis of empirical data to show that the transition from a predominantly fermentative to a predominantly respirative metabolism  in carbon-limited growth results from the trade-off between maximizing the growth yield and minimizing its costs in terms of required the proteome share. In particular, E. coli's metabolic phenotypes appear to be Pareto-optimal for these objective functions over a broad range of dilutions.", u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113183', [], [u'Department of Physics, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA;', u'Dipartimento di Fisica, Sapienza Universit\xe0 di Roma, Rome, Italy;', u'CNR-NANOTEC & Human Genetics Foundation']]
[u'Cooperative nucleotide binding in Hsp90 and the underlying mechanisms', ['Philipp Wortmann', 'Markus Gotz', 'Thorsten Hugel'], u'March 2, 2017.', u"The function of the molecular chaperone Hsp90 depends on large conformational changes, rearrangement of local motifs, as well as the binding and hydrolysis of ATP. The complexity of the Hsp90 system impedes the detailed investigation of their interplay using standard methods. By the application of three-color single molecule FRET to Hsp90 and a reporter nucleotide, we directly observe cooperativity between the two nucleotide binding pockets in the protein dimer. Through allocating the microscopic states and extracting their kinetics, we identify the mechanisms underlying the cooperativity. Surprisingly, nucleotide binding affects several state transitions, which demonstrates the complexity of cooperativity in protein systems. The co-chaperone Aha1, known to accelerate Hsp90's ATPase activity, adds another layer of complexity by affecting transitions in a nucleotide-dependent and -independent manner.", u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113191', [], [u'University of Freiburg']]
[u'Human-specific methylated regions are enriched in schizophrenia', ['Niladri Banerjee', 'Tatiana Polushina', 'Francesco Bettella', 'Sudheer Giddaluru', 'Vidar M. Steen', 'Ole A. Andreassen', 'Stephanie Le Hellard'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Background: Despite the reduced fertility of patients, schizophrenia has a prevalence of ~1% in the general population. One explanation for this persistence is that schizophrenia is a by-product of human evolution. This hypothesis is supported by evidence suggesting that recently-evolved genomic regions in humans are involved in the genetic risk for schizophrenia. We tested if genetic variants located within human-specific differentially methylated regions (DMRs) are enriched for association with schizophrenia.  Methods: We used analytical tools that evaluate the polygenic enrichment of a set of genomic variants against all genomic variants. SNPs identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of schizophrenia and 11 other phenotypes were classified according to their location in previously defined human-specific DMRs. These DMR SNPs were then tested for enrichment of association with the GWAS trait.  Results: Schizophrenia was the only trait in which GWAS SNPs within human-specific DMRs showed clear enrichment of association that passed the genome-wide significance threshold. The enrichment was not observed for Neanderthal or Denisovan DMRs. The enrichment seen in human DMRs is comparable to that for genomic regions tagged by Neanderthal Selective Sweep markers, and stronger than that for Human Accelerated Regions.  Conclusions: Regions where DNA methylation modifications have changed during recent human evolution harbor more schizophrenia-associated genetic variants than expected. Our study further supports the hypothesis that genetic variants conferring risk of schizophrenia co-occur in genomic regions that have changed as the human species evolved. Our results also suggest that interaction with the environment might have contributed to that association.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113175', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Bergen;', u'University of Oslo']]
[u'Distinct projection patterns of different classes of layer 2 principal neurons in the olfactory cortex', ['Camille Mazo', 'Julien Grimaud', 'Venkatesh N Murthy', 'C. Geoffrey Lau'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Processing of olfactory information in the anterior piriform cortex (APC) is widely thought to be non-topographic due to distributed projections from the olfactory bulb (OB). Layer 2 principal neurons in the APC can be divided into 2 subtypes: semilunar (SL) and superficial pyramidal (SP) cells. Although it is known that SL and SP cells receive differential inputs from the OB, little is known about their projection pattern to downstream structures, such as the posterior piriform cortex (PPC). Here we examined feedforward and feedback axonal projections of SL and SP cells using a combination of mouse genetics, and retrograde labeling. Retrograde tracing from the OB or PPC showed that the APC projects to these higher and lower brain regions mainly through layer 2b cells, while dual-labeling revealed a sizeable fraction of cells extending collaterals to both target regions. Furthermore, a transgenic mouse line specifically labeling SL cells showed that they send profuse axonal projections to olfactory cortical areas, but not to the OB. These findings support a model in which information flow from SL to SP cells and back to the OB forms a hierarchical feedback circuit whereas the two cell types process recurrent and feedforward information in a parallel manner.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113134', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'ENS de Cachan, Universite Paris-Saclay;', u'Harvard University;', u'City University of Hong Kong']]
[u'Recombinant expression in E. coli of human FGFR2 with its transmembrane and extracellular domains', ['Adam Bajinting', 'Ho Leung Ng'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs) are a family of receptor tyrosine kinases \ncontaining three domains: an extracellular receptor domain, a single transmembrane helix, and an intracellular tyrosine kinase domain. FGFRs are activated by fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) as part of complex signal transduction cascades regulating angiogenesis, skeletal formation, cell differentiation, proliferation, cell survival, and cancer. We have developed the first recombinant expression system in E. coli to produce a construct of human FGFR2 containing its transmembrane and extracellular receptor domains. We demonstrate that the expressed construct is functional in binding heparin and dimerizing. Size exclusion chromatography demonstrates that the purified FGFR2 does not form a complex with FGF1 or adopts an inactive dimer conformation. Progress towards the successful recombinant production of intact FGFRs will facilitate further biochemical experiments and structure determination that will provide insight into how extracellular FGF binding activates intracellular kinase activity.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113142', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Hawaii']]
[u'Development of a high-density, 2M SNP genotyping array and 670k SNP imputation array for the domestic horse', ['Robert J Schaefer', 'Mikkel Schubert', 'Ernest Bailey', 'Danika L. Bannasch', 'Eric Barrey', 'Gila Kahila Bar-Gal', 'Gottfried Brem', 'Samantha A. Brooks', 'Ottmar Distl', 'Ruedi Fries', 'Carrie J. Finno', 'Vinzenz Gerber', 'Bianca Haase', 'Vidhya Jagannathan', 'Ted Kalbfleisch', 'Tosso Leeb', 'Gabriella Lindgren', 'Maria Susana Lopes', 'Nuria Mach', 'Artur da Camara Machado', 'James N. MacLeod', 'Annette McCoy', 'Julia Metzger', 'Cecilia Penedo', 'Sagi Polani', 'Stefan Rieder', 'Imke Tammen', 'Jens Tetens', 'Georg Thaller', 'Andrea Verini-Supplizi', 'Claire M. Wade', 'Barbara Wallner', 'Ludovic Orlando', 'James R. Mickelson', 'Molly E. McCue'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Background:  To date, genome-scale analyses in the domestic horse have been limited by suboptimal single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) density and uneven genomic coverage of the current SNP genotyping arrays. The recent availability of whole genome sequences has created the opportunity to develop a next generation, high-density equine SNP array.  Results: Using whole genome sequence from 153 individuals representing 24 distinct breeds collated by the equine genomics community, we cataloged over 23 million de novo discovered genetic variants. Leveraging genotype data from individuals with both whole genome sequence, and genotypes from lower-density, legacy SNP arrays, a subset of ~5 million high-quality, high-density array candidate SNPs were selected based on breed representation and uniform spacing across the genome. Considering probe design recommendations from a commercial vendor (Affymetrix) a set of ~2 million SNPs were selected for a next-generation high-density SNP chip (MNEc2M). Genotype data were generated using the MNEc2M array from a cohort of 332 horses from 20 breeds and a lower-density array, consisting of ~670 thousand SNPs (MNEc670k), was designed for genotype imputation.  Conclusions: Here, we document the steps taken to design both the MNEc2M and MNEc670k arrays, report genomic and technical properties of these genotyping platforms, and demonstrate the imputation capabilities of these tools for the domestic horse.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112979', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'University of Kentucky;', u'University of California-Davis;', u'Universit\xe9 Paris-Saclay;', u'The Koret School of Veterinary Medicine;', u'University of Veterinary Medicine Vienna;', u'University of Florida;', u'University of Veterinary Medicine, Hannover;', u'Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen;', u'University of Bern and Agroscope;', u'University of Sydney;', u'University of Bern;', u'University of Louisville;', u'Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences;', u'University of Azores;', u'INRA, AgroParis Tech, University of Paris-Saclay;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'University of California Davis;', u'Agroscope, Swiss National Stud Farm;', u'Georg-August University;', u'Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel;', u'University of Perugia']]
[u'The stoichiometric signature of Rhodopsin-family G protein coupled receptors', ['James H Felce', 'Sarah L Latty', 'Rachel G Knox', 'Susan R Mattick', 'Yuan Lui', 'Steven F Lee', 'David Klenerman', 'Simon J Davis'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Whether Rhodopsin-family G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) form dimers is highly controversial, with much data both for and against emerging from studies of mostly individual receptors. The types of large-scale comparative studies from which a consensus could eventually emerge have not previously been attempted. Here, we sought to determine the stoichiometric signatures of 60 GPCRs expressed by a single human cell-line using orthogonal bioluminescence resonance energy transfer-based and single-molecule microscopy assays. We observed that a relatively small fraction of Rhodopsin-family GPCRs behaved as dimers and that these receptors otherwise appeared to be monomeric. Mapped onto the entire family the analysis predicted that fewer than 20% of the ~700 Rhodopsinfamily receptors form dimers. The clustered distribution of Rhodopsin-family dimers, and a striking correlation between receptor stoichiometry and GPCR family-size that we also identified, suggested that evolution has tended to favor the lineage expansion of monomers rather than dimers.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112466', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Extensive farming in Estonia started through a sex-biased migration from the Steppe', ['Lehti Saag', 'Liivi Varul', 'Christiana Lyn Scheib', 'Jesper Stenderup', 'Morten E Allentoft', 'Lauri Saag', 'Luca Pagani', 'Maere Reidla', 'Kristiina Tambets', 'Ene Metspalu', 'Aivar Kriiska', 'Eske Willerslev', 'Toomas Kivisild', 'Mait Metspalu'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Farming-based economies appear relatively late in Northeast Europe and the extent to which they involve genetic ancestry change is still poorly understood. Here we present the analyses of low coverage whole genome sequence data from five hunter-gatherers and five farmers of Estonia dated to 4,500 to 6,300 years before present. We find evidence of significant differences between the two groups in the composition of autosomal as well as mtDNA, X and Y chromosome ancestries. We find that Estonian hunter-gatherers of Comb Ceramic Culture are closest to Eastern hunter-gatherers. The Estonian first farmers of Corded Ware Culture show high similarity in their autosomes with Steppe Belt Late Neolithic/Bronze Age individuals, Caucasus hunter-gatherers and Iranian farmers while their X chromosomes are most closely related with the European Early Farmers of Anatolian descent. These findings suggest that the shift to intensive cultivation and animal husbandry in Estonia was triggered by the arrival of new people with predominantly Steppe ancestry, but whose ancestors had undergone sex-specific admixture with early farmers with Anatolian ancestry.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112714', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Tartu; Estonian Biocentre;', u'Tallinn University;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Estonian Biocentre;', u'University of Tartu;', u'University of Tartu; Estonian Biocentre; University of Cambridge']]
[u'The Neural Basis of Motivational Influences on Cognitive Control: An ALE Meta-Analysis', ['Cameron Parro', 'Matt L Dixon', 'Kalina Christoff'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Cognitive control mechanisms support the deliberate regulation of thought and behavior based on internal goals. Many studies have now shown that motivational incentives improve cognitive control, reflected in faster and more accurate performance. While the neural basis of cognitive control has been thoroughly investigated, only recently has there been systematic investigation of the brain regions that may support motivation-related enhancements of cognitive control. Here, we present a quantitative meta-analysis of neuroimaging studies of motivated cognitive control using activation likelihood estimation (ALE) in order to delineate the brain regions that are consistently activated across studies. The analysis included functional neuroimaging studies that investigated changes in brain activation during cognitive control tasks when reward incentives were present versus absent. Consistent recruitment across studies was primarily observed in higher-order association cortices, including the inferior frontal sulcus (IFS), intraparietal sulcus (IPS), inferior frontal junction/premotor cortex (IFJ/PMC), and anterior insula. These activations were right-lateralized, with the exception of bilateral activations in the IFJ/PMC. A comparison with functional network boundaries revealed that the identified regions largely belong to the frontoparietal control network. Together, the distributed cortical regions identified here may contribute to enhanced top-down control by representing the relationship between task demands and expected motivational outcomes. Based on these findings, we propose a simple functional network model of motivated cognitive control.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113126', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Structural characterization of human Vaccinia-Related Kinases (VRK) bound to small-molecule inhibitors identifies different P-loop conformations', ['Rafael Miguez Counago', 'Charles K Allerston', 'Pavel Savitsky', 'Hatylas Azevedo', 'Paulo H Godoi', 'Carrow I Wells', 'Alessandra Mascarello', 'Fernando H. de Souza Gama', 'Katlin B. Massirer', 'William J. Zuercher', 'Cristiano R.W. Guimaraes', 'Opher Gileadi'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'The human genome encodes two active Vaccinia-related protein kinases (VRK), VRK1 and VRK2. These proteins have been implicated in a number of cellular processes and linked to a variety of tumors. However, understanding the cellular role of VRKs and establishing their potential use as targets for therapeutic intervention has been limited by the lack of tool compounds that can specifically modulate the activity of these kinases in cells. Here we identified BI-D1870, a dihydropteridine inhibitor of RSK kinases, as a promising starting point for the development of chemical probes targeting the active VRKs. We solved co-crystal structures of both VRK1 and VRK2 bound to BI-D1870 and of VRK1 bound to two broad-spectrum inhibitors. These structures revealed that both VRKs can adopt a P-loop folded conformation, which is stabilized by different mechanisms on each protein. Based on these structures, we suggest modifications to the dihydropteridine scaffold that can be explored to produce potent and specific inhibitors towards VRK1 and VRK2.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112763', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Structural Genomics Consortium, Universidade Estadual de Campinas; UNICAMP, Campinas, SP, Brazil;', u'Nuffield Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford;', u'Ache Laboratorios Farmaceuticos SA, Guarulhos, SP, Brazil;', u'Structural Genomics Consortium, UNC Eshelman School of Pharmacy, University of North Carolina;', u'Centro de Biologia Molecular e Engenharia Genetica, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP']]
[u'A team of heterochromatin factors collaborates with small RNA pathways to combat repetitive elements and germline stress', ['Alicia N. McMurchy', 'Przemyslaw Stempor', 'Tessa Gaarenstroom', 'Brian Wysolmerski', 'Yan Dong', 'Darya Aussianikava', 'Alex Appert', 'Ni Huang', 'Paulina Kolasinska-Zweirz', 'Alexandra Sapetschnig', 'Eric Miska', 'Julie Ahringer'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Repetitive sequences derived from transposons make up a large fraction of eukaryotic genomes and must be silenced to protect genome integrity.  Repetitive elements are often found in heterochromatin; however, the roles and interactions of heterochromatin proteins in repeat regulation are poorly understood.  Here we show that a diverse set of C. elegans heterochromatin proteins act together with the piRNA and nuclear RNAi pathways to silence repetitive elements and prevent genotoxic stress in the germ line.  Mutants in genes encoding HPL-2/HP1, LIN-13, LIN-61, LET-418/Mi-2, and H3K9me2 histone methyltransferase MET-2/SETDB1 also show functionally redundant sterility, increased germline apoptosis, DNA repair defects, and interactions with small RNA pathways. Remarkably, fertility of heterochromatin mutants could be partially restored by inhibiting cep-1/p53, endogenous meiotic double strand breaks, or the expression of MIRAGE1 DNA transposons. Functional redundancy among these factors and pathways underlies the importance of safeguarding the genome through multiple means.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112847', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Seasonal influenza circulation patterns and projections for 2017-2018', ['Trevor Bedford', 'Richard A Neher'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'This is not meant as a comprehensive report of recent influenza evolution, but is instead intended as particular observations that may be of relevance. Please also note that observed patterns reflect the GISAID database and may not be entirely representative of underlying dynamics. All analyses are based on the nextflu pipeline with continual updates posted to nextflu.org. We arrive at the following results:   H3N2: In H3N2, clade 3c2.a has continued to diversify genetically with complicated and rapid dynamics of different subclades. This diversification is not reflected in serological data that shows only minor to moderate antigenic evolution. Nevertheless, the highly parallel mutation patterns and the rapid rise and fall of clades suggests competitive dynamics of phenotypically distinct viruses.  H1N1pdm: Very few H1N1pdm viruses have been observed in recent months. The dominant clade continues to be 6b.1 and there is little amino acid sequence variation within HA. The only notable subclade that has been growing recently is the clade bearing HA1:R205K/S183P. This clade is dominated by North American viruses and we see no evidence that this clade has a particular competitive advantage.  B/Vic: Clade 1A has continued to dominate and mutation 117V has all but taken over the global population. The rise of this mutation was fairly gradual and we have no evidence that it is associated with antigenic change or other benefit to the virus.  B/Yam: Clade 3 has continued to dominate. Within clade 3, a clade with mutation HA1:251V is globally at frequency of about 80% throughout 2016. Within this clade, mutation 211R is at 25% frequency. In addition, a clade without prominent amino acid mutations has been rising throughout 2016.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113035', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'University of Basel']]
[u'The translational landscape of Zika virus during infection of mammalian and insect cells', ['Nerea Irigoyen', 'Adam M. Dinan', 'Luke W. Meredith', 'Ian G. Goodfellow', 'Ian Brierley', 'Andrew E. Firth'], u'March 2, 2017.', u"Zika virus is a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae, which has recently undergone a rapid expansion among humans in the Western Hemisphere. Here, we report a high-resolution map of ribosomal occupancy of the Zika virus genome during infection of mammalian and insect cells, obtained by ribosome profiling. In contrast to some other flaviviruses such as West Nile, we find no evidence for substantial frameshift-induced ribosomal drop-off during translation of the viral polyprotein, indicating that Zika virus must use alternative mechanisms to downregulate levels of catalytically active viral polymerase. We also show that high levels of ribosome-protected fragments map in-frame to two previously overlooked upstream open reading frames (uORFs) initiating at CUG and UUG codons, with likely consequences for the efficiency of polyprotein expression. Curiously, in African isolates of Zika virus, the two uORFs are fused in-frame into a single uORF. A parallel RNA-Seq analysis reveals the 5' end position of the subgenomic flavivirus RNA in mammalian and insect cells. Together, these provide the first analysis of flavivirus gene expression by ribosome profiling.", u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112904', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Transcriptome profiling reveals bisphenol A alternatives activate estrogen receptor alpha in human breast cancer cells', ['Robin Mesnage', 'Alexia Phedonos', 'Matthew Arno', 'Sucharitha Balu', 'J. Christopher Corton', 'Michael N Antoniou'], u'March 2, 2017.', u"Background: Plasticizers with estrogenic activity, such as bisphenol A (BPA), have been reported to have potential adverse health effects in humans. Due to mounting evidence of these health effects and public pressure, BPA is being phased out by the plastics manufacturing industry and replaced by other bisphenol variants in 'BPA-free' products. \nObjectives: We have compared estrogenic activity of BPA to 6 bisphenol analogues (bisphenol S, BPS; bisphenol F, BPF; bisphenol AP, BPAP; bisphenol AF, BPAF; bisphenol Z, BPZ; bisphenol B, BPB) in three human breast cancer cell lines.\nMethods: Estrogenicity was assessed by cell growth in an estrogen receptor (ER)-mediated cell proliferation assay, and by the induction of estrogen response element (ERE)-mediated transcription in a luciferase assay. Gene expression profiles were determined in MCF-7 human breast cancer cells by microarray analysis and confirmed by Illumina-based RNA sequencing.\nResults: All bisphenols showed estrogenic activity in promoting cell growth and inducing ERE-mediated transcription. BPAF was the most potent bisphenol, followed by BPB > BPZ ~ BPA > BPF ~ BPAP > BPS. The addition of ICI 182,780 antagonized the activation of ERs by bisphenols. Data mining of ToxCast high-throughput screening assays confirms our results but also shows divergence in the sensitivities of the assays. The comparison of transcriptome profile alterations resulting from BPA alternatives with an ER\u03b1; gene expression biomarker further indicates that all BPA alternatives act as ER\u03b1; agonists in MCF-7 cells. These results were confirmed by RNA sequencing. \nConclusion: In conclusion, BPA alternatives are not necessarily less estrogenic in a human breast cancer cell model. Three bisphenols (BPAF, BPB, and BPZ) were more estrogenic than BPA. The relevance of human exposure to BPA alternatives in hormone-dependent breast cancer risk should be investigated.", u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112862', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u"King's College London;", u'US Environmental Protection Agency']]
[u'Bacterial Microtubules Exhibit Polarized Growth, Mixed-Polarity Bundling, and Destabilization by GTP Hydrolysis', ['Cesar D Diaz Celis', 'Viviana I Risca', 'Felipe Hurtado', 'Jessica K Polka', 'Scott D Hansen', 'Daniel Maturana', 'Rosalba Lagos', 'R. Dyche Mullins', 'Octavio Monasterio'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Bacteria of the genus Prosthecobacter express homologs of eukaryotic \u03b1- and \u03b2-tubulin, called BtubA and BtubB, that have been observed to assemble into bacterial microtubules (bMTs). The btubAB genes likely entered the Prosthecobacter lineage via horizontal gene transfer and may derive from an early ancestor of the modern eukaryotic microtubule (MT). Previous biochemical studies revealed that BtubA/B polymerization is GTP-dependent and reversible and that BtubA/B folding does not require chaperones. To better understand bMT behavior and gain insight into the evolution of microtubule dynamics, we characterized in vitro bMT assembly using a combination of polymerization kinetics assays, and microscopy. Like eukaryotic microtubules, bMTs exhibit polarized growth with different assembly rates at each end. GTP hydrolysis stimulated by bMT polymerization drives a stochastic mechanism of bMT disassembly that occurs via polymer breakage. We also observed treadmilling (continuous addition and loss of subunits at opposite ends) of bMT fragments. Unlike MTs, polymerization of bMTs requires KCl, which reduces the critical concentration for BtubA/B assembly and induces bMTs to form stable mixed-orientation bundles in the absence of any additional bMT-binding proteins. Our results suggest that at potassium concentrations resembling that inside the cytoplasm of Prosthecobacter, bMT stabilization through self-association may be a default behavior. The complex dynamics we observe in both stabilized and unstabilized bMTs may reflect common properties of an ancestral eukaryotic tubulin polymer.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112987', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile;', u'Biophysics Graduate Group, University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Gene fusion between CDKN1A and RAB44 caused by exon skipping like mechanism due to disruption of a splice site', ['Han Sun', 'Jingyan Wu', 'Chenchen Zhu', 'Raeka Aiyar', 'Petra Jakob', 'William Mueller', 'Wu Wei', 'Lars Steinmetz'], u'March 2, 2017.', u"We anecdotally observed a novel exon skipping event, which was due to the disruption of an exon splicing enhancer far from the exon intron boundary, when doing CRISPR/Cas9 editing. That made us be interested in the investigation of exon skipping events systematically in large cancer cohorts' datasets from TCGA project and three other published studies. We identified this kind of events in 191 genes with the false positive rate estimated to be around 6%. Among these genes, we recaptured the well-known skipping event of exon 14 in the hepatocyte growth factor receptor (MET) in lung cancer patients. We also observed the same skipping events in both DNA mismatch repair gene MLH1 and renin receptor ATP6AP2 in lung and head and neck cancers although they were previously reported to be causative in inherited colorectal cancer and Parkinson disorder, respectively. In addition, we identified three kinds of novel skipping events of the same exon in the tumor suppressor PTEN in breast cancer. One of them might be able to produce an in frame protein with internal deletion of 128 amino acids affecting the phosphatase and catalytic domain. Most importantly, we discovered the gene fusion between cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor CDKN1A and RAS oncogene related protein RAB44. This gene fusion, accompanied by the exon skipping events within CDKN1A, was merely caused by a single nucleotide variation of a splice site of CDKN1A, contrary to the common knowledge that the gene fusions occur mainly as the result of large scale structural variations. Furthermore, the protein sequence of RAB44 was intact but the expression was activated clearly. Considering the high specificity that RAB44 is not expressed in all types of normal tissues and the relatively high prevalence of this kind of gene fusion in bladder cancer (1%), skin melanoma (1%) and stomach cancer (1/400), diagnosis of subgroups and targeted therapy must be worth further study.", u'/content/early/2017/03/02/111856', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Genetics, School of Medicine, Stanford University;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL);', u'Stanford Genome Technology Center, Stanford University;', u'Stanford University, European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL)']]
[u'How to get the most bang for your buck: the evolution and physiology of nutrition-dependent resource allocation strategies', ["Enoch Ng'oma", 'Anna M Perinchery', 'Elizabeth G. King'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'All organisms utilize resources to grow, survive, and reproduce. The supply of these resources varies widely across landscapes and time, imposing ultimate constraints on the maximal trait values for allocation-related traits. Consequently, an impressive diversity of phenotypically plastic strategies evolves in response to changes in resource availability. In this review, we address three key questions fundamental to our understanding of the evolution of allocation strategies and their underlying mechanisms. First, we ask: how diverse are flexible resource allocation strategies among different organisms? We find there are many, varied, examples of flexible strategies that depend on nutrition. However, this diversity is often ignored in some of the best-known cases of resource allocation shifts, such as the commonly observed pattern of lifespan extension under nutrient limitation. A greater appreciation of the wide variety of flexible allocation strategies leads directly to our second major question: what conditions select for different plastic allocation strategies? Here, we highlight the need for additional models that explicitly consider the evolution of phenotypically plastic allocation strategies and empirical tests of the predictions of those models in natural populations. Finally, we consider the question: what are the underlying mechanisms determining resource allocation strategies? Although evolutionary biologists assume differential allocation of resources is a major factor limiting trait evolution, few proximate mechanisms are known that specifically support the model. We argue that an integrated framework can reconcile evolutionary models with proximate mechanisms that appear at first glance to be in conflict with these models. Overall, we encourage future studies to 1) mimic ecological conditions in which those patterns evolve, and 2) take advantage of the omic opportunities to produce multi-level data and analytical models that effectively integrate across physiological and evolutionary theory.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113027', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Missouri']]
[u'Genome-wide analysis of cell-gene interactions', ['Stefano Cardinale'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'The study presents an analysis of how different cellular functions link cell size to the expression of synthetic genes in E. coli. The Size-Expression interaction was mapped with a two-gene genetic probe across 3800 single-gene deletion strains. Through regression analysis, expression-specific effects and gene-specific effects were derived from size effects and generic expression effects, respectively. The entire compendium of cell functions broadly mapped to four systems of distinct primary influence on the Size-Expression map. Specifically, membrane structural components primarily affected size, whereas protein and RNA stability primarily affected gene expression. In addition, major Size-Expression shifts showed no substantial gene-specific effects unless they were mediated by key components of the protein synthesis apparatus.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113001', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Technical University of Denmark']]
[u'RecBlast: Cloud-Based Large Scale Orthology Detection', ['Efrat Rapoport', 'Moran Neuhof'], u'March 2, 2017.', u"Background: The effective detection and comparison of orthologues is crucial for answering many questions in comparative genomics, phylogenetics and evolutionary biology. One of the most common methods for discovering orthologues is widely known as 'Reciprocal Blast'. While this method is simple when comparing only two genomes, performing a large-scale comparison of Multiple Genes across Multiple Taxa becomes a labor-intensive and inefficient task. The low efficiency of this complicated process limits the scope and breadth of questions that would otherwise benefit from this powerful method.  Findings: Here we present RecBlast, an intuitive and easy-to-use pipeline that enables fast and easy discovery of orthologues along and across the evolutionary tree. RecBlast is capable of running heavy, large-scale and complex Reciprocal Blast comparisons across multiple genes and multiple taxa, in a completely automatic way. RecBlast is available as a cloud-based web server, which includes an easy-to-use user interface, implemented using cloud computing and an elastic and scalable server architecture. RecBlast is also available as a powerful standalone software supporting multi-processing for large datasets, and a cloud image which can be easily deployed on Amazon Web Services cloud. We also include sample results spanning 448 human genes, which illustrate the potential of RecBlast in detecting orthologues and in highlighting patterns and trends across multiple taxa.  Conclusions: RecBlast provides a fast, inexpensive and valuable insight into trends and phenomena across distance phyla, and provides data, visualizations and directions for downstream analysis. RecBlast's fully automatic pipeline provides a new and intuitive discovery platform for researchers from any domain in biology who are interested in evolution, comparative genomics and phylogenetics, regardless of their computational skills.", u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112946', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tel Aviv University']]
[u'Genome-wide association study of asthma in individuals of African ancestry reveals novel asthma susceptibility loci', ['Michelle Daya', 'Nicholas Rafaels', 'Sameer Chavan', 'Henry Richard Johnston', 'Aniket Shetty', 'Christopher R Gignoux', 'Meher Preethi Boorgula', 'Monica Campbell', 'Pissamai Maul', 'Trevor Maul', 'Candelaria Vergara', 'Albert M Levin', 'Genevieve Wojcik', 'Dara G Torgerson', 'Victor E Ortega', 'Ayo Doumatey', 'Maria Ilma Araujo', 'Pedro C Avila', 'Eugene Bleecker', 'Carlos Bustamante', 'Luis Caraballo', 'Georgia M Dunston', 'Mezbah U Faruque', 'Trevor Ferguson', 'Camila Figueiredo', 'Jean G Ford', 'Pierre-Antoine Gourraud', 'Nadia N Hansel', 'Ryan D Hernandez', 'Edwin Francisco Herrera-Paz', 'Eimear E Kenny', 'Jennifer Knight-Madden', 'Rajesh Kumar', 'Lesli A Lange', 'Ethan M Lange', 'Antoine Lizee', 'Alvaro Mayorga', 'Deborah Meyers', 'Dan L Nicolae', "Timothy D O'Connor", 'Ricardo Riccio Oliveira', 'Christopher O Olopade', 'Olufunmilayo Olopade', 'Zhaohui S Qin', 'Charles Rotimi', 'Harold Watson', 'Rainford J Wilks', 'Keoki L Williams', 'James G Wilson', 'Carole Ober', 'Esteban G Burchard', 'Terri H Beaty', 'Margaret A Taub', 'Ingo Ruczinski', 'Rasika Ann Mathias', 'Kathleen C Barnes'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'BACKGROUND: Asthma is a complex disease with striking disparities across racial and ethnic groups, which may be partly attributable to genetic factors. One of the main goals of the Consortium on Asthma among African-ancestry Populations in the Americas (CAAPA) is to discover genes conferring risk to asthma in populations of African descent.  METHODS: We performed a genome-wide meta-analysis of asthma across 11 CAAPA datasets (4,827 asthma cases and 5,397 controls), genotyped on the African Diaspora Power Chip (ADPC) and including existing GWAS array data. The genotype data were imputed up to a whole genome sequence reference panel from n=880 African ancestry individuals for a total of 61,904,576 SNPs. Statistical models appropriate to each study design were used to test for association, and results were combined using the weighted Z-score method. We also used admixture mapping as a complementary approach to identify loci involved in asthma pathogenesis in subjects of African ancestry.  RESULTS: SNPs rs787160 and rs17834780 on chromosome 2q22\xb73 were significantly associated with asthma (p=6 \xb757\xd710\u22129 and 2\xb797 \xd7 10\u22128 respectively). These SNPs lie in the intergenic region between the Rho GTPase Activating Protein 15 (ARHGAP15) and Glycosyltransferase Like Domain Containing 1 (GTDC1) genes. Four low frequency variants on chromosome 1q21.3, which may be involved in the "atopic march" and which are not polymorphic in Europeans, also showed evidence for association with asthma (1\xb718 \xd7 10\u22126 \u2264p\u22643\xb706 \xd710 \u22126). SNP rs11264909 on chromosome 1q23\xb71, close to a region previously identified by the EVE asthma meta-analysis as having a putative African ancestry specific effect, only showed differences in counts in subjects homozygous for alleles of African ancestry. Admixture mapping also identified a significantly associated region on chromosome 6q23\xb72, which includes the Transcription Factor 21 (TCF21) gene, previously shown to be differentially expressed in bronchial tissues of asthmatics and non-asthmatics.  CONCLUSIONS: We have identified a number of novel asthma association signals warranting further investigation.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112953', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Colorado Denver;', u'Emory University;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine;', u'The University of the West Indies, Chronic Disease Research Centre;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Henry Ford Health System;', u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Wake Forest School of Medicine;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Universidade Federal da Bahia;', u'Northwestern University;', u'University of Arizona College of Medicine;', u'Universidad de Cartagena;', u'Howard University College of Medicine;', u'The University of the West Indies;', u'Einstein Medical Center;', u'Universidad Catolica de Honduras;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Centro de Neumologia y Alergias;', u'University of Chicago;', u'University of Maryland School of Medicine;', u'Centro de Pesquisas Goncalo Moniz;', u'The University of the West Indies, Queen Elizabeth Hospital;', u'University of Mississippi Medical Center;', u'Bloomberg School of Public Health, JHU']]
[u'Heterogeneous chromatin mobility derived from chromatin states is a determinant of genome organisation in S. cerevisiae', ['Sven A Sewitz', 'Zahra Fahmi', 'Latifa Aljebali', 'Jeremy Bancroft', 'Otavio J. B. Brustolini', 'Hicham Saad', 'Isabelle Goiffon', 'Csilla Varnai', 'Steven Wingett', 'Hua Wong', 'Biola-Maria Javierre', 'Stefan Schoenfelder', 'Simon Andrews', 'Stephen G. Oliver', 'Peter Fraser', 'Kerstin Bystricky', 'Karen Lipkow'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Spatial organisation of the genome is essential for the activation of correct gene expression profiles, but the mechanisms that shape three-dimensional genome organisation in eukaryotes are still far from understood. Here, we develop a new approach, combining bioinformatic determination of chromatin states, dynamic polymer modelling of genome structure, quantitative microscopy and Hi-C to demonstrate that differential mobility of yeast chromosome segments leads to self-organisation of the genome in three dimensions. More than forty percent of chromatin-associated proteins display a poised distribution and coordinated relocations. They are distributed heterogeneously along the chromosome, and by simulating the dynamics of this heteropolymer, we observe structural features that match our experimental results. Further, we show that this mechanism directly contributes to the directed relocalisation of active genes to the nuclear periphery.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/106344', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Nuclear Dynamics Programme, Babraham Institute, Cambridge, UK;', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK;', u'Cambridge Systems Biology Centre, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK;', u'Agricultural Biotechnology Institute, Federal University of Vicosa-MG, Brazil;', u'LBME, Centre de Biologie Integrative (CBI), Universite de Toulouse, France;', u'Institut Pasteur, Paris, France;', u'Bioinformatics Group, The Babraham Institute, Cambridge, CB22 3AT, UK']]
[u'Large-scale simultaneous measurement of epitopes and transcriptomes in single cells.', ['Marlon Stoeckius', 'Christoph Hafemeister', 'William Stephenson', 'Brian Houck-Loomis', 'Harold Swerdlow', 'Rahul Satija', 'Peter Smibert'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'Recent high-throughput single-cell sequencing approaches have been transformative for understanding complex cell populations, but are unable to provide additional phenotypic information, such as protein levels of well-established cell-surface markers. Using oligonucleotide-labeled antibodies, we integrate measurements of cellular proteins and transcriptomes into an efficient, sequencing-based readout of single cells. This method is compatible with existing single-cell sequencing approaches and will readily scale as the throughput of these methods increase.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/113068', [u'Genomics'], [u'New York Genome Center']]
[u'Task-specific sensory coding strategies matched to detection and discrimination behaviors in Apteronotus leptorhynchus', ['Kathryne M Allen', 'Gary Marsat'], u'March 2, 2017.', u'All sensory systems must reliably translate information about the environment into a neural code, mediating perception. The most relevant aspects of stimuli may change as behavioral context changes, making efficient encoding of information more challenging. Sensory systems must balance rapid detection of a stimulus with perception of fine details that enable discrimination between similar stimuli. We show that in a species of weakly electric fish, Apteronotus leptorhynchus, two coding strategies are employed for these separate behavioral tasks. Using communication signals produced in different contexts, we demonstrate a strong correlation between neural coding strategies and behavioral performance on a discrimination task. Extracellular recordings of pyramidal cells within the electrosensory lateral line lobe of alert fish show two distinct response patterns, either burst discharges with little variation between different signals of the same category, or a graded, heterogeneous response that contains enough information to discriminate between signals with slight variations. When faced with a discrimination-based task, the behavioral performance of the fish closely matches predictions based on coding strategy. Comparisons of these results with neural and behavioral responses observed in other model systems suggest that our study highlights a general principle in the way different neural codes are utilized in the sensory system.', u'/content/early/2017/03/02/112995', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'West Virginia University']]
