[u'An evolutionary module in central metabolism', ['Andrew F Schober', 'Christine Ingle', 'Junyoung O Park', 'Li Chen', 'Joshua D Rabinowitz', 'Ivan Junier', 'Olivier Rivoire', 'Kimberly A Reynolds'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'The ability to predict cell behavior is complicated by an unknown pattern of functional interdependence among genes. Here, we use the conservation of gene proximity across species (synteny) to infer functional couplings between genes. For the folate metabolic pathway, we observe a sparse, modular architecture of interactions, with two small groups of genes coevolving in the midst of others that evolve independently. For one such module - dihydrofolate reductase and thymidylate synthase - we use epistasis measurements and forward evolution to demonstrate both internal functional coupling and independence from the remainder of the genome. Mechanistically, the coupling is driven by a constraint on their relative activities, which must be balanced to prevent accumulation of a metabolic intermediate. The results indicate an organization of cellular systems not apparent from inspection of biochemical pathways or physical complexes, and support the strategy of using evolutionary information to decompose cellular systems into functional units.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/120006', [], [u'University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center;', u'Princeton University;', u'CNRS and Universite Grenoble Alpes TIMC-IMAG;', u'CNRS']]
[u'Transcripts evolutionary conservation and structural dynamics give insights into the role of alternative splicing for the JNK family.', ['Adel Ait-hamlat', 'Lelia Polit', 'Hugues Richard', 'Elodie Laine'], u'March 23, 2017.', u"Alternative splicing (AS), by producing several transcript isoforms from the same gene, has the potential to greatly expand the proteome in eukaryotes. Its deregulation has been associated to the development of various diseases, including cancer. Although the AS mechanisms are well described at the genomic level, little is known about the contribution of AS to protein evolution and the impact of AS at the level of the protein structure. Here, we address both issues by reconstructing the evolutionary history of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) family, and by describing the tertiary structures and dynamical behavior of several JNK isoforms. JNKs bear a great interest for medicinal research as they are involved in crucial signaling pathways. We reconstruct the phylogenetic forest relating 60 JNK transcripts observed in 7 species. We use it to estimate the evolutionary conservation of transcripts and to identify ASEs likely to be functionally important. We show that ASEs of ancient origin and having significant functional outcome may induce very subtle changes on the protein's structural dynamics. We also propose that phylogenetic reconstruction, combined with structural modeling, can help identify new potential therapeutic targets. Finally, we show that transcripts likely non-functional (i.e. not conserved) display peculiar sequence and structural properties. Our approach is implemented in PhyloSofS (Phylogenies of Splicing Isoforms Structures), a fully automated computational tool that infers plausible evolutionary scenarios explaining a set of transcripts observed in several species and models the three-dimensional structures of the protein isoforms. PhyloSofS has broad applicability and can be used, for example, to study transcripts diversity between different individuals (e.g. patients affected by a particular disease). It is freely available at www.lcqb.upmc.fr/PhyloSofS.", u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119891', [], [u'Sorbonne Universites, UPMC University Paris 06, CNRS, IBPS, UMR 7238, LCQB']]
[u'The Rice XA21 Ectodomain Fused to the Arabidopsis EFR Cytoplasmic Domain Confers Resistance to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae', ['Nicholas C Thomas', 'Nir Oksenberg', 'Furong Liu', 'Daniel Caddell', 'Alina Nalyvayko', 'Yen Nguyen', 'Benjamin Schwessinger', 'Pamela Ronald'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Rice (Oryza sativa) plants expressing the XA21 cell surface receptor kinase are resistant to Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) infection. We previously demonstrated that expressing a chimeric protein containing the EFR (ELONGATION FACTOR Tu RECEPTOR) ectodomain and the XA21 endodomain (EFR:XA21) in rice does not confer robust resistance to Xoo.\nTo test if the XA21 ectodomain is required for Xoo resistance, we produced transgenic rice lines expressing a chimeric protein consisting of the XA21 ectodomain and EFR endodomain (XA21:EFR) and inoculated these lines with Xoo. We also tested if the XA21:EFR rice plants respond to a synthetic sulfated 21 amino acid derivative (RaxX21-sY) derived from the activator of XA21-mediated immunity, RaxX.\nWe found that five independently transformed XA21:EFR rice lines displayed resistance to Xoo as measured by lesion length analysis, and showed that five lines express markers of the XA21 defense response (generation of reactive oxygen species and defense response gene expression) after treatment with RaxX21-sY.\nOur results indicate that expression of the XA21:EFR chimeric receptor in rice confers resistance to Xoo. These results suggest that the endodomain of the EFR and XA21 immune receptors are interchangeable and the XA21 ectodomain is the key determinant conferring robust resistance to Xoo.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119925', [], [u'Univsersity of Calofirnia, Riverside, Riverside, CA 92521, USA;', u'University of California, Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA;', u'The Australian National University, Research School of Biology, Acton ACT 2601, Australia']]
[u'Behavioral decoding of Drosophila locomotion in a circular arena', ['Shuang Qiu', 'R Meldrum Robertson', 'Chengfeng Xiao'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Motion detection and position tracking of animal behavior over a period of time produce massive amount of information, but analysis and interpretation of such huge datasets are challenging. Here we describe statistical methods to extract major movement structures of Drosophila locomotion in a circular arena, and examine the effects of pulsed light stimulation on these identified locomotor structures. Drosophila adults performed exploratory behavior when restrained individually in the circular arenas (1.27 cm diameter 0.3 cm depth). Measures of the distance to the center of the arena followed a gumbel distribution with mixed components. Representation learning of distance to center from 177,000 observations (from 63 controls and 55 flies with pulsed light stimulation) revealed three major movement components, indicating three locomotor structures characterized as: side-wall walk, angle walk and cross of the central region. Pulsed flies showed reduced cross of the central region compared with controls. We also showed that counter-clockwise walk and clockwise walk were the two major rotation behaviors with equal time proportion. There was a peak relative turning angle at 25.6\xb0 for counter-clockwise walk, and 334.4\xb0 for clockwise walk. Regression analysis of relative turning angle as a function of distance to center indicated that as distance to center increased, flies switched turning from directions for perimeter-returning to directions for major rotation. Pulsed flies reduced trajectories that had irregular circle-shape and increased trajectories with regular circle-shape during rotation. Taken together, we present a feasible approach to extract major locomotor structures of Drosophila locomotion in a circular arena, and demonstrate how pulsed light stimulation increased the regularity of locomotor trajectory.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119966', [], [u"Department of Biology, Queen's University"]]
[u'Genomic analysis of human polymorphisms affecting drug-protein interactions', ['Oriol Pich i Rosello', 'Anna V Vlasova', 'Polina A Shichkova', 'Yuri Markov', 'Peter K Vlasov', 'Fyodor A Kondrashov'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Human genetic variability is thought to account for a substantial fraction of individual biochemical characteristics \u2014 in biomedical sense, of individual drug response. However, only a handful of human genetic variants have been linked to medication outcomes. Here, we combine data on drug-protein interactions and human genome sequences to assess the impact of human variation on their binding affinity. Using data from the complexes of FDA-drugs and drug-like compounds, we predict SNPs substantially affecting the protein-ligand binding affinities. We estimate that an average individual carries ~6 SNPs affecting ~5 different FDA-approved drugs from among all of the approved compounds. SNPs affecting drug-protein binding affinity have low frequency in the population indicating that the genetic component for many ADEs may be highly personalized with each individual carrying a unique set of relevant SNPs. The reduction of ADEs, therefore, may primarily rely on the application of computational genome analysis in the clinic rather than the experimental study of common SNPs.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119933', [], [u'Universitat de Barcelona (UB), Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF);', u'Universitat de Barcelona (UB), Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG);', u'Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT), Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology;', u'National Research University Higher School of Economics;', u'Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF);', u'CRG, Instituci\xf3 Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avan\xe7ats (ICREA)']]
[u'Escape from bacterial diversity: potential enemy release in invading yellow starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis) microbiomes', ['Patricia Lu-Irving', 'Julia Harencar', 'Hailey Sounart', 'Shana R Welles', 'Sarah M Swope', 'David A Baltrus', 'Katrina M Dlugosch'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Invasive species may benefit from introduction to new regions where they can escape their natural enemies. Here we examined whether geographic patterns of microbial community composition support a role for enemy escape in the invasion of California, USA by yellow starthistle, a highly invasive plant in western North America.\nWe used high-throughput sequencing of the 16S V4 region to characterize bacterial community composition in the phyllosphere, rhizosphere, leaves, and roots of plants from seven populations in California and eight populations in the native European range. We compared bacterial diversity between the native and invaded ranges, and with previously published estimates of plant genetic diversity within each population.\nBacterial communities differed significantly among plant compartments, and between native and invaded ranges within compartments, with consistently lower diversity in the invaded range. Plant genetic diversity did not explain this pattern in bacterial diversity, but a positive relationship was found within ranges between bacterial diversity in roots and plant genetic diversity within populations.\nOur observation of lower bacterial diversity in the invaded relative to the native range of yellow starthistle is consistent with potential enemy escape, providing some of the first evidence for this scenario in plant microbiomes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119917', [], [u'University of Arizona;', u'California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo;', u'Mills College']]
[u'Novel Plasmodium falciparum metabolic network reconstruction identifies shifts associated with clinical antimalarial resistance', ['Maureen A. Carey', 'Jason A Papin', 'Jennifer Guler'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'BACKGROUND: Malaria remains a major public health burden and resistance has emerged to every antimalarial on the market, including the frontline drug artemisinin. Our limited understanding of Plasmodium biology hinders the elucidation of resistance mechanisms. In this regard, systems biology approaches can facilitate the integration of existing experimental knowledge and further understanding of these mechanisms.  RESULTS: Here, we developed a novel genome-scale metabolic network reconstruction, iPfal17, of the asexual blood-stage P. falciparum parasite to expand our understanding of metabolic changes that support resistance. We identified 11 metabolic tasks to evaluate iPfal17 performance. Flux balance analysis and simulation of gene knockouts and enzyme inhibition predict candidate drug targets unique to resistant parasites. Moreover, integration of clinical parasite transcriptomes into the iPfal17 reconstruction reveals patterns associated with antimalarial resistance. These results predict that artemisinin sensitive and resistant parasites differentially utilize scavenging and biosynthetic pathways for multiple essential metabolites including folate and polyamines, and others within the mitochondria. Our findings are consistent with experimental literature, while generating novel hypotheses about artemisinin resistance and parasite biology. We detect evidence that resistance parasites maintain greater metabolic flexibility, perhaps representing an incomplete transition to the metabolic state most appropriate for nutrient-rich blood.  CONCLUSION: Using this systems biology approach, we identify metabolic shifts that arise with or in support of the resistant phenotype. This perspective allows us to more productively analyze and interpret clinical expression data for the identification of candidate drug targets for the treatment of resistant parasites.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119941', [], [u'University of Virginia']]
[u'Weak epistasis may drive adaptation in recombining bacteria', ['Brian J Arnold', 'Michael Gutmann', 'Yonatan Grad', 'Sam K Sheppard', 'Jukka Corander', 'Marc Lipsitch', 'William P Hanage'], u'March 23, 2017.', u"The impact of epistasis on the evolution of multilocus traits depends on recombination. Population genetic theory has been largely developed for eukaryotes, many of which recombine so frequently that epistasis between polymorphisms has not been considered to play a large role in adaptation and has been compared to the fleeting influence of non-heritable effects. Many bacteria also recombine, some to the degree that their populations are described as 'panmictic' or 'freely recombining'. However, whether this recombination is sufficient to limit the ability of selection to act on epistatic contributions to fitness is unknown. We create a sensitive method to quantify homologous recombination in five bacterial pathogens and use these parameter estimates in a multilocus model of bacterial evolution with additive and epistatic effects. We find that even for highly recombining species (e.g. Streptococcus pneumoniae or Helicobacter pylori), selection may act on the cumulative effects of weak (as well as strong) interactions between distant mutations since homologous recombination typically transfers only short segments. Furthermore, whether selection acts more efficiently on physically proximal loci depends on the average recombination tract length. Epistasis may thus play an important role in the adaptive evolution of bacteria and, unlike in eukaryotes, does not need to be strong, involve near loci, or require specific metapopulation dynamics.", u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119958', [], [u'Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Bath;', u'University of Oslo']]
[u'Genomic changes associated with reproductive and migratory ecotypes in sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka)', ['Andrew J Veale', 'Michael A Russello'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Mechanisms underlying adaptive evolution can best be explored using paired populations displaying similar phenotypic divergence, illuminating the genomic changes associated with specific life history traits. Here we used paired migratory [anadromous vs. resident (kokanee)] and reproductive [shore- vs. stream-spawning] ecotypes of sockeye salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) sampled from seven lakes and two rivers spanning three catchments (Columbia, Fraser, and Skeena) in British Columbia, Canada to investigate the patterns and processes underlying their divergence. Restriction-site associated DNA sequencing was used to genotype this sampling at 7,347 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), 334 of which were identified as outlier loci and candidates for divergent selection within at least one ecotype comparison. Eighty-six of these outliers were present in multiple comparisons, with thirty-three detected across multiple catchments.  Of particular note, one outlier was detected as the most significant outlier between shore and stream-spawning ecotypes in several comparisons and across multiple catchments (Columbia, Fraser and Snake). We also detected several islands of divergence, some shared among comparisons, potentially showing linked signals of differential selection. The SNPs and genomic regions identified in our study offer a range of mechanistic hypotheses associated with the genetic basis of O. nerka life history variation and provide novel tools for informing fisheries management.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/117648', [], [u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'Rapid spatial learning controls instinctive defensive behavior in mice', ['Ruben Vale', 'Dominic Evans', 'Tiago Branco'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Instinctive defensive behaviors are essential for animal survival. Across the animal kingdom there are sensory stimuli that innately represent threat and trigger stereotyped behaviors such as escape or freezing. While innate behaviors are considered to be hard-wired stimulus-responses, they act within dynamic environments, and factors such as the properties of the threat and its perceived intensity, access to food sources or expectations from past experience, have been shown to influence defensive behaviors, suggesting that their expression can be modulated. However, despite recent work, little is known about how flexible mouse innate defensive behaviors are, and how quickly they can be modified by experience. To address this, we have investigated the dependence of escape behavior on learned knowledge about the spatial environment, and how the behavior is updated when the environment changes acutely. Using behavioral assays with innately threatening visual and auditory stimuli, we show that the primary goal of escape in mice is to reach a previously memorized shelter location. Memory of the escape target can be formed in a single shelter visit lasting less than 20 seconds, and changes in the spatial environment lead to a rapid update of the defensive action, including changing the defensive strategy from escape to freezing. Our results show that while there are innate links between specific sensory features and defensive behavior, instinctive defensive actions are surprisingly flexible and can be rapidly updated by experience to adapt to changing spatial environments.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/116236', [], [u'UCL Sainsbury Wellcome Centre']]
[u'Integrated Structure-Transcription analysis of small molecules reveals widespread noise in drug-induced transcriptional responses and a transcriptional signature for drug-induced phospholipidosis', ['Francesco Sirci', 'Francesco Napolitano', 'Sandra Pisonero Vaquero', 'Diego Carrella', 'Diego L. Medina', 'Diego di Bernardo'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'We performed an integrated analysis of drug chemical structures and drug-induced transcriptional responses. We demonstrated that a network representing 3D structural similarities among 5,452 compounds can be used to automatically group together drugs with similar scaffolds and mode-of-action. We then compared the structural network to a network representing transcriptional similarities among a subset of 1,309 drugs for which transcriptional response were available in the Connectivity Map dataset. Analysis of structurally similar, but transcriptionally different, drugs sharing the same mode of action (MOA) enabled us to detect and remove weak and noisy transcriptional responses, greatly enhancing the reliability and usefulness of transcription-based approaches to drug discovery and drug repositioning. Analysis of transcriptionally similar, but structurally different drugs with unrelated MOA, led us to the identification of a toxic transcriptional signature indicative of lysosomal stress (lysosomotropism) and lipid accumulation (phospholipidosis) partially masking the target-specific transcriptional effects of these drugs. We further demonstrated by High Content Screening that this transcriptional signature is caused by the activation of the transcription factor TFEB, a master regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy. Our results show that chemical structures and transcriptional profiles provide complementary information and that combined analysis can lead to new insights on on- and off-target effects of small molecules.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119990', [], [u'TIGEM']]
[u'From word models to executable models of signaling networks using automated assembly', ['Benjamin M Gyori', 'John A Bachman', 'Kartik Subramanian', 'Jeremy L Muhlich', 'Lucian Galescu', 'Peter K Sorger'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Word models describing molecular mechanisms are a common currency in spoken and written communication in biomedicine but are of limited use in predicting the behavior of complex biological networks. We present an approach to building computational models directly from natural language using automated assembly. Molecular mechanisms described in simple English are read by natural language processing algorithms, converted into an intermediate representation and assembled into executable or network models. We have implemented this approach in the Integrated Network and Dynamical Reasoning Assembler (INDRA), which draws on existing natural language processing systems as well as pathway information in Pathway Commons and other online resources. We demonstrate the use of INDRA and natural language to model three biological processes of increasing scope: (i) p53 dynamics in response to DNA damage, (ii) adaptive drug resistance in BRAF-V600E mutant melanomas, and (iii) the RAS signaling pathway. The use of natural language for modeling makes routine tasks more efficient for modeling practitioners and increases the accessibility and transparency of models for the broader biology community.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119834', [], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Institute for Human and Machine Cognition']]
[u'The acute toxicity of Oxydemeton-methyl in zebrafish', ['Guofeng Jia', 'Xiecheng Liu'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Oxydemeton-methyl, is an organothiophosphate insecticide, which is widely used in agricultural and urban pest controls. It exists in the environment and a large amount bioaccumulation in the wildlife due to its strong water solubility and mobility. Although its potentially harmful effect on animals and humans, few studies have focused on the oxydemeton-methyl pollution in the environment. Zebrafish have been used for many years to valuate the pollution status of water and toxicity of chemicals. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the effect of oxydemeton-methyl on the expression level of liver microsomal cytochrome P450, on the activity of NADPH-P450 reductase and reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in zebrafish.  Adult male and female zebrafish were treated with different concentration of oxydemeton-methyl (10, 50, 100 \u03bcM) for 5, 10, 20 and 30 days. We found that the oxydemeton-methyl exposure significantly increased the P450 levels and the activity of NAPDH-P450 reductase. ROS generation and the DNA damage were augmented in a dose-dependent manner in the zebrafish. These results indicated that oxydemeton-methyl is able to induce strong oxidative stress and hence highly toxic to the zebrafish.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119982', [], [u'Qingdao Municipal Hospital']]
[u'Size uniformity of animal cells is actively maintained by a p38 MAPK-dependent regulation of G1-length', ['Shixuan Liu', 'Miriam Bracha Ginzberg', 'Nish Patel', 'Marc Hild', 'Bosco Leung', 'Yen-Chi Chen', 'Zhengda Li', 'Nancy Chang', 'Shulamit Diena', 'Yuan Wang', 'William Trimble', 'Larry Wasserman', 'Jeremy Jenkins', 'Marc W Kirschner', 'Ran Kafri'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Animal cells within a tissue typically display a striking regularity in their size. To date, the molecular mechanisms that control this uniformity are still unknown. We have previously shown that size uniformity in animal cells is promoted, in part, by size-dependent regulation of G1 length. To identify the molecular mechanisms underlying this process, we performed a large-scale small molecule screen and found that the p38 MAPK pathway is involved in coordinating cell size and cell cycle progression. Small cells display higher p38 activity and spend more time in G1 than larger cells. Inhibition of p38 MAPK leads to loss of the compensatory G1 length extension in small cells, resulting in faster proliferation, smaller cell size and increased size heterogeneity. We propose a model wherein the p38 pathway responds to changes in cell size and regulates G1 exit accordingly, to increase cell size uniformity.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119867', [], [u'The Hospital for Sick Children, Canada;', u'Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Canada;', u'University of Washington, Canada;', u'University of Michigan, United States;', u'Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research, Canada;', u'The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, United States;', u'Carnegie Mellon University, United States;', u'Harvard Medical School, Canada']]
[u'ModuleDiscoverer: Identification of regulatory modules in protein-protein interaction networks.', ['Sebastian Vlaic', 'Christian Tokarski-Schnelle', 'Mika Gustafsson', 'Uta Dahmen', 'Reinhard Guthke', 'Stefan Schuster'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'The identification of disease associated modules based on protein-protein interaction networks (PPINs) and gene expression data has provided new insights into the mechanistic nature of diverse diseases. A major problem hampering their identification is the detection of protein communities within large-scale, whole-genome PPINs. Current strategies solve the maximal clique enumeration (MCE) problem, i.e., the enumeration of all non-extendable groups of proteins, where each pair of proteins is connected by an edge. The MCE problem however is non-deterministic polynomial time hard and can thus be computationally overwhelming for large-scale, whole-genome PPINs.\nWe present ModuleDiscoverer, a novel approach for the identification of regulatory modules from PPINs in conjunction with gene-expression data. ModuleDiscoverer is a heuristic that approximates the community structure underlying PPINs. Based on a high-confidence PPIN of Rattus norvegicus and publicly available gene expression data we apply our algorithm to identify the regulatory module of a rat-model of diet induced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). We validate the module using single-nucleotide polymorphism data from independent genome-wide association studies. Structural analysis of the module reveals 10 sub-modules. These sub-modules are associated with distinct biological functions and pathways that are relevant to the pathological and clinical situation in NASH.\nModuleDiscoverer is freely available upon request from the corresponding author.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119099', [], [u'Leibniz Institute for Natural Product Research and Infection Biology - Hans-Kn\xf6ll-Institute;', u'Link\xf6ping University;', u'University Hospital Jena, Friedrich-Schiller-University;', u'Friedrich-Schiller-University']]
[u'A fully automated computer based Skinner box for testing learning and memory in zebrafish', ['Alistair J Brock', 'Ari Sudwarts', 'Jennifer Daggett', 'Matthew O Parker', 'Caroline H Brennan'], u'March 23, 2017.', u"Zebrafish are an important model species with unparalleled potential to advance understanding of the genetics and neurobiology of behaviour through genetic and pharmacological screening and mutant analysis. However, advances using this species have been limited by the lack of robust, standardised methodology and equipment suitable for assessing adult behaviour. Here we describe a simple, fully automated, computer based, operant system for measuring behaviour in juvenile and adult zebrafish and provide detailed protocols for appetitive and aversive assays to assess cognitive function in adult zebrafish. Applications include the study of cognition in zebrafish (and other similar sized fish species) and in zebrafish models of psychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, Huntington's disease, frontotemporal dementia), and characterisation of the role of select brain regions, neurotransmitter systems and genes in zebrafish. Further, the scalable nature of the system makes the protocols suitable for use in pharmacological and genetic screening programmes.", u'/content/early/2017/03/23/110478', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Queen Mary University of London;', u'University of Portsmouth']]
[u'Conserved roles of RECQ-like helicases Sgs1 and BLM in preventing R-loop induced genome instability', ['Carolina A Novoa', 'Emily Yun-Chia Chang', 'Maria J Aristizabal', 'Yan Coulombe', 'Romulo Segovia', 'Yaoqing Shen', 'Christelle Keong', 'Steven JM Jones', 'Jean-Yves Masson', 'Michael S Kobor', 'Peter C Stirling'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Sgs1 is a yeast DNA helicase functioning in DNA replication and repair, and is the orthologue of the human Blooms syndrome helicase BLM. Here we analyze the mutation signature associated with SGS1 deletion in yeast, and find frequent copy number changes flanked by regions of repetitive sequence and high R-loop forming potential. We show that loss of SGS1 increases R-loop accumulation and sensitizes cells to replication-transcription collisions. Accordingly, in sgs1\u0394 cells the genome-wide distribution of R-loops shifts to known sites of Sgs1 action, replication pausing regions, and to long genes. Depletion of the orthologous BLM helicase from human cancer cells also increases R-loop levels, and R-loop-associated genome instability. In support of a direct effect, BLM is found physically proximal to DNA:RNA hybrids in human cells, and can efficiently unwind R-loops in vitro. Together our data describe a conserved role for Sgs1/BLM in R-loop suppression and support an increasingly broad view of DNA repair and replication fork stabilizing proteins as modulators of R-loop mediated genome instability.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119677', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'BC Cancer Agency;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'Universite de Laval;', u'Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre']]
[u'Treating the lungs via the brain: Mechanisms underpinning improvements in breathlessness with pulmonary rehabilitation.', ['Mari Herigstad', 'Olivia Faull', 'Anja Hayen', 'Eleanor Evans', 'Maxine Hardinge', 'Katja Wiech', 'Kyle T S Pattinson'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Background: Breathlessness in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is often discordant with airway pathophysiology ("over-perception"). Pulmonary rehabilitation has profound effects upon breathlessness, without influencing lung function. Learned associations can influence brain mechanisms of sensory perception. We therefore hypothesised that improvements in breathlessness with pulmonary rehabilitation may be explained by changing neural representations of learned associations, reducing "over-perception".  Methods: In 31 patients with COPD, we tested how pulmonary rehabilitation altered the relationship between brain activity during learned associations with a word-cue task (using functional magnetic resonance imaging), clinical, and psychological measures of breathlessness.  Results: Improvements in breathlessness and breathlessness-anxiety correlated with reductions in word-cue related activity in the insula and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) (breathlessness), and increased activations in attention regulation and motor networks (breathlessness-anxiety). Greater baseline (pre-rehabilitation) activity in the insula, ACC and prefrontal cortex correlated with the magnitude of improvement in breathlessness and breathlessness anxiety.  Conclusions: Pulmonary rehabilitation reduces the influence of learned associations upon neural processes that generate breathlessness. Patients with stronger word-cue related activity at baseline benefitted more from pulmonary rehabilitation. These findings highlight the importance of targeting learned associations within treatments for COPD, demonstrating how neuroimaging may contribute to patient stratification and more successful personalised therapy.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/117390', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Reading;', u'Oxford Univeristy Hospitals NHS Trust']]
[u'Selectivity profile of the poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor, A-966492', ['Ann-Gerd Thorsell', 'Herwig Schuler'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Among the clinical inhibitors of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) and the commonly used PARP research tool compounds, veliparib and niraparib were recently identified as the most selective inhibitors of PARP1 and PARP2. We characterized the potency of A-966492, a PARP inhibitor with a chemical structure similar to veliparib and niraparib, in in vitro inhibition experiments of six PARP family enzymes. We find that the selectivity of A-966492 for PARP1 and PARP2 is intermediate between veliparib and niraparib.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119818', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'A Molecular Portrait Of De Novo Genes', ['Nikolaos Vakirlis', 'Alex S Hebert', 'Dana A Opulente', 'Guillaume Achaz', 'Chris Todd Hittinger', 'Gilles Fischer', 'Josh J Coon', 'Ingrid Lafontaine'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'What is the source of new genes? What fuels genetic innovation, the substrate of long-term adaptation? The mechanism of gene acquisition by de novo emergence from previously non-coding sequences, has long been considered as highly improbable[1]. New genes were assumed to mostly appear by gene duplication and divergence[2] or by horizontal gene transfer[3]. In the last decade, only a handful of de novo genes have been functionally characterized[4\u22128], exemplifying their contribution to evolutionary innovations. However, the quantitative importance of de novo emergence and a proper description of the dynamics of emergence are still lacking, mainly due to the difficulty of distinguishing de novo candidates from highly diverged homologs, from wrongly annotated protein coding genes, and from genes acquired horizontally from remote species. Here we address these issues by using a multi-level systematic approach that carefully selects de novo candidates among a set of genes taxonomically restricted to yeast genomes. We predict 703 de novo genes in 15 yeast genomes whose phylogeny spans at least 100 million years of evolution[9]. We have validated 82 candidates, by providing new translation evidence for 25 of them through mass spectrometry experiments, in addition to those whose translation has been independently reported previously. Our results establish that de novo gene emergence is a widespread phenomenon in the yeast subphylum, only a few being ultimately maintained by selection. As we found that de novo genes preferentially arise in GC-rich intergenic regions transcribed from divergent promoters, such as recombination hotspots, we propose a mechanistic model for the early stages of de novo gene emergence and evolution in eukaryotes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119768', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UPMC Univ. Paris 06;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'On the mechanism of long-range alignment order of fibroblasts', ['Xuefei Li', 'Rajesh Balagam', 'Ting-Fang He', 'Peter P. Lee', 'Oleg A. Igoshin', 'Herbert Levine'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Long-range alignment ordering of fibroblasts have been observed in the vicinity of cancerous tumors and can be recapitulated with in vitro experiments. However, the mechanisms driving their ordering are not understood. Here we show that local collision-driven nematic alignment interactions among fibroblasts are insufficient to explain observed long-range alignment. One possibility is that there exists another orientation field co-evolving with the cells and reinforcing their alignment. We propose this field reflects the mechanical cross-talk between the fibroblasts and the underlying fibrous material on which they move. We demonstrate that this new long-range interaction can give rise to high nematic order and to the observed patterning of the cancer microenvironment.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119669', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Center for Theoretical Biological Physics, Rice University;', u'Department of Bioengineering, Rice University;', u'Immuno-Oncology, City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center']]
[u'Discovering Complete Quasispecies In Bacterial Genomes', ['Frederic Bertels', 'Chaitanya S Gokhale', 'Arne Traulsen'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Mobile genetic elements can be found in almost all genomes. Possibly the most common non-autonomous mobile genetic elements in bacteria are REPINs that can occur hundreds of times within a genome. The sum of all REPINs within a genome are an evolving populations because they replicate and mutate. We know the exact composition of this population and the sequence of each member of a REPIN population, in contrast to most other biological populations. Here, we model the evolution of REPINs as quasispecies. We fit our quasispecies model to ten different REPIN populations from ten different bacterial strains and estimate duplication rates. We find that our estimated duplication rates range from about 5 x 10e-9 to 37 x 10e-9 duplications per generation per genome. The small range and the low level of the REPIN duplication rates suggest a universal trade-off between the survival of the REPIN population and the reduction of the mutational load for the host genome. The REPIN populations we investigated also possess features typical of other natural populations. One population shows hallmarks of a population that is going extinct, another population seems to be growing in size and we also see an example of competition between two REPIN populations.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119743', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Neurodesign: Optimal experimental designs for task fMRI', ['Joke Durnez', 'Ross Blair', 'Russell Poldrack'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'A recent stream of alarming publications questions the validity of published neuroimaging findings.  As a consequence, fMRI teams worldwide are encouraged to increase their sample sizes to reach higher power and thus increase the positive predictive value of their findings.  However, an often-overlooked factor influencing power is the experimental design:  by choosing the appropriate experimental design, the statistical power of a study can be increased within subjects.  By optimizing the order and timing of the stimuli, power can be gained at no extra cost.\nTo facilitate design optimization, we created  a python package and web-based tool called Neurodesign to maximize the detection power or estimation efficiency within subjects, while controlling for psychological factors such as the predictability of the design.  We implemented the genetic algorithm, introduced by Wager and Nichols (2003) and further improved by Kao et al. (2009), to optimize the experimental design.  The  toolbox allows more complex experimental setups than existing toolboxes, while the GUI provides a more user-friendly experience.  The toolbox is accessible online at www.neuropowertools.org.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119594', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University']]
