[u'Excessive ERK-dependent synaptic clustering with enhanced motor learning in the MECP2 duplication syndrome mouse model of autism', ['Ryan Thomas Ash', 'Shelly Alexandra Buffington', 'Jiyoung Park', 'Mauro Costa-Mattioli', 'Huda Yaya Zoghbi', 'Stelios Manolis Smirnakis'], u'January 16, 2017.', u"Autism-associated genetic mutations may produce altered learning abilities by perturbing the balance between stability and plasticity of synaptic connections in the brain. Here we report an increase in the stabilization of dendritic spines formed during repetitive motor learning in the mouse model of MECP2-duplication syndrome, a high-penetrance form of syndromic autism. This increased stabilization is mediated entirely by spines that form cooperatively in clusters. The number of clusters formed and stabilized predicts the mutant's enhanced motor learning and memory phenotype, reminiscent of savant-like behaviors occasionally associated with autism. The ERK signaling pathway, which promotes cooperative plasticity between spines, was found to be hyperactive in MECP2-duplication motor cortex specifically after training. Inhibition of ERK signaling normalizes clustered spine stabilization and rescues motor learning behavior in mutants. We conclude that learning-associated dendritic spine clustering stabilized by hyperactive ERK signaling drives abnormal motor learning and memory consolidation in this model of syndromic autism.", u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100875', [], [u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'Heritability of the Symbiodinium community in vertically- and horizontally-transmitting broadcast spawning corals', ['Kate Quigley', 'Bette Willis', 'Line Bay'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'The dinoflagellate-coral partnership influences host tolerance to thermal stress that causes bleaching. However, the comparative roles of host genetic versus environmental factors in determining the composition of this symbiosis are largely unknown. Here we quantify the heritability of Symbiodinium communities in two broadcast spawning corals with different symbiont transmission modes: Acropora tenuis has environmental acquisition, and Montipora digitata has maternal transmission. Using high throughput sequencing of the ITS-2 region to characterize communities in parental colonies, juveniles and eggs, we describe new Symbiodinium types in both coral species and previously unknown symbiont dynamics. After one month of natural uptake in the field, Symbiodinium communities associated with A. tenuis juveniles were dominated by A3, C1, D1, A-type CCMP828, and D1a in proportional abundances that were conserved across two years. In contrast, M. digitata eggs were characterized by C15, D1, and A3. On average, host genetic influences accounted for 29% of phenotypic variation found in Symbiodinium communities in A. tenuis and 62% in M. digitata. Our results reveal hitherto unknown flexibility in the acquisition of Symbiodinium communities and substantial heritability in both species provides ample material for selection to produce partnerships that are locally adapted to changing environmental conditions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100453', [], [u'James Cook University;', u'Australian Institute of Marine Sciences']]
[u'Histological and haematological analysis of the ascidian Botrylloides leachii (Savigny, 1816) during whole-body regeneration', ['Simon Blanchoud', 'Lisa Zondag', 'Miles K Lamare', 'Megan J Wilson'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Whole-body regeneration, the formation of an entire adult from only a small fragment of its own tissue, is extremely rare among chordates. Exceptionally, in the colonial ascidian Botrylloides leachii, a fully functional adult is formed from their common vascular system, upon ablation of all adults from the colony, in just 10 days thanks to their high blastogenetic potential. While previous studies have identified key genetic markers and morphological changes, no study has yet focused on the haematological aspects of regeneration despite the major involvement of the remaining vascular system and the contained haemocytes in this process. To dissect this process, we analysed colony blood flow patterns using time-lapse microscopy to obtain a quantitative description of the velocity, reversal pattern, and average distance travelled by haemocytes. We also observed that flows present during regeneration are powered by temporally and spatially synchronized contractions of the terminal ampullae. In addition, we revised previous studies on B. leachii haematology as well as asexual development using histological sectioning, and compared the role of haemocytes during whole-body regeneration. We found that regeneration starts with a rapid healing response characterized by blood clotting and infiltration of immunocytes, followed by increased activity of haemoblasts, recruitment of macrophage-like cells for clearing the tissues of debris, and their subsequent disappearance from the circulation concomitant with the maturation of a single regenerated adult. Overall, we provide a uniquely detailed account of the haematological properties of regenerating B. leachii colonies, providing novel lines of inquiry towards the decipherment of regeneration in chordates.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/099580', [], [u'University of Otago']]
[u'Effects of altered excitation-inhibition balance on decision making in a cortical circuit model', ['Norman H Lam', 'Thiago Borduqui', 'Jaime Hallak', 'Antonio C Roque', 'Alan Anticevic', 'John H Krystal', 'Xiao-Jing Wang', 'John D Murray'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Background: Disruption of the synaptic balance between excitation and inhibition (E/I balance) in cortical circuits is a leading hypothesis for pathophysiologies of neuropsychiatric disorders, such as schizophrenia. However, it is poorly understood how synaptic E/I disruptions propagate upward to induce cognitive deficits, including impaired decision making (DM). \n\nMethods: We investigated how E/I perturbations may impair temporal integration of evidence during perceptual DM in a biophysically-based model of association cortical microcircuits. Using multiple psychophysical task paradigms, we characterized effects of NMDA receptor hypofunction at two key synaptic sites: inhibitory interneurons (elevating E/I ratio, via disinhibition), versus excitatory pyramidal neurons (lowering E/I ratio).   \n\nResults: Disruption of E/I balance in either direction can similarly impair DM as assessed by psychometric performance, following inverted-U dependence. Nonetheless, these regimes make dissociable predictions for task paradigms that characterize the time course of evidence accumulation. Under elevated E/I ratio, DM is impulsive: evidence early in time is weighted much more than late evidence. In contrast, under lowered E/I ratio, DM is indecisive: evidence integration and winner-take-all competition between options are weakened. These effects are well captured by an extended drift-diffusion model with self-coupling.\n\nConclusions: Our findings characterize critical roles of cortical E/I balance in cognitive functions, the utility of timing-sensitive psychophysical paradigms, and relationships between circuit and psychological models. The model makes specific predictions for behavior and neural activity that are testable in humans or animals under causal manipulations of E/I balance and in disease states.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100347.1', [], [u'Yale University;', u'University of Sao Paulo;', u'New York University']]
[u'Maintenance of Polymorphism in Spatially Heterogeneous Environments: An Experimental Test of Hard and Soft Selection', ['Romain Gallet', 'Remy Froissart', 'Virginie Ravigne'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Predicting and managing contemporary adaption requires a proper understanding of the determinants of genetic variation. Spatial heterogeneity of the environment may stably maintain polymorphism when habitat contribution to the next generation can be considered independent of the degree of adaptation of local populations within habitats (i.e., under soft selection). In contrast, when habitats contribute proportionally to the mean fitness of the populations they host (hard selection), polymorphism is not expected to be maintained by selection. Although mathematically established decades ago, this prediction had never been properly tested. Here we provide an experimental test in which polymorphic populations of Escherichia coli growing in heterogeneous habitats were exposed to hard and soft selection regimes. As predicted by theory, polymorphism was longer preserved in asymmetric environments under soft selection. Complementary tests established that soft selection actually protected polymorphism even when one genotype was present at low frequency.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100743', [], [u'INRA - UMR BGPI;', u'CNRS - UMR MIVEGEC;', u'CIRAD']]
[u'Cone-like rhodopsin expressed in the all cone retina of the colubrid pine snake as a potential adaptation to diurnality', ['Belinda Chang', 'Nihar Bhattacharyya', 'Benedict Darren', 'Ryan K. Schott', 'Vincent Tropepe'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Colubridae is the largest and most diverse family of snakes, with visual systems that reflect this diversity, encompassing a variety of retinal photoreceptor organizations. The transmutation theory proposed by Walls postulates that photoreceptors could evolutionarily transition between cell types in squamates, but few studies have tested this theory. Recently, evidence for transmutation and rod-like machinery in an all cone retina has been identified in a diurnal garter snake (Thamnophis), and it appears that the rhodopsin gene at least may be widespread among colubrid snakes. However, functional evidence supporting transmutation beyond the existence of the rhodopsin gene remains rare. We examined the all cone retina of another diurnal colubrid, Pituophis melanoleucus, distantly related to Thamnophis. We found that P. melanoleucus expresses two cone opsins (SWS1, LWS) and rhodopsin (RH1) within the eye. Immunohistochemistry localized rhodopsin to the outer segment of photoreceptors in the all-cone retina of the snake and all opsin genes produced functional visual pigments when expressed in vitro. Consistent with other studies, we found that P. melanoleucus rhodopsin is extremely blue-shifted. Surprisingly, P. melanoleucus rhodopsin reacted with hydroxylamine, a typical cone opsin characteristic. These results support the idea that the rhodopsin-containing photoreceptors of P. melanoleucus are the products of evolutionary transmutation from rod ancestors, and suggests that this phenomenon may be widespread in colubrid snakes. We hypothesize that transmutation may be an adaptation for diurnal, brighter-light vision, which could result in increased spectral sensitivity and chromatic discrimination with the potential for colour vision.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100792', [], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Applying meta-analysis to Genotype-Tissue Expression data from multiple tissues to identify eQTLs and increase the number of eGenes', ['Dat Duong'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'During the last decade, with the advent of inexpensive microarray and RNA-seq technologies, there have\nbeen many expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) studies for identifying genetic variants called eQTLs that\nregulate gene expression. Discovering eQTLs has been increasingly important as they may elucidate the\nfunctional consequence of non-coding variants identified from genome-wide association studies. Recently,\nseveral eQTL studies such as the Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) consortium have made a great effort to\nobtain gene expression from multiple tissues. One advantage of these multi-tissue eQTL datasets is that they\nmay allow one to identify more eQTLs by combining information across multiple tissues. Although a few\nmethods have been proposed for multi-tissue eQTL studies, they are often computationally intensive and may\nnot achieve optimal power because they do not consider a biological insight that a genetic variant regulates\ngene expression similarly in related tissues. In this paper, we propose an efficient meta-analysis approach\nfor identifying eQTLs from large multi-tissue eQTL datasets. We name our method RECOV because it uses\na random effects (RE) meta-analysis with an explicit covariance (COV) term to model the correlation of effect\nthat eQTLs have across tissues. Our approach is faster than the previous approaches and properly controls\nthe false-positive rate. We apply our approach to the real multi-tissue eQTL dataset from GTEx that contains\n44 tissues, and show that our approach detects more eQTLs and eGenes than previous approaches.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100701', [], [u'UCLA']]
[u'Rapid cerebrovascular reactivity mapping: Enabling vascular reactivity information to be routinely acquired', ['Nicholas P Blockley', 'James W Harkin', 'Daniel P Bulte'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Cerebrovascular reactivity mapping (CVR), using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and carbon dioxide as a stimulus, provides useful information on how cerebral blood vessels react under stress. This information has proven to be useful in the study of vascular disorders, dementia and healthy ageing. However, clinical adoption of this form of CVR mapping has been hindered by relatively long scan durations of 7 to 12 minutes. By replacing the conventional block presentation of carbon dioxide enriched air with a sinusoidally modulated stimulus, the aim of this study was to investigate whether more clinically acceptable scan durations are possible. Firstly, the conventional block protocol was compared with a sinusoidal protocol of the same duration of 7 minutes. Estimates of the magnitude of the CVR signal (CVR magnitude) and the relative timing of the CVR response (CVR phase) were found to be in good agreement between the stimulus protocols. Secondly, data from the sinusoidal protocol was reanalysed using decreasing amounts of data in the range 1 to 6 minutes. The CVR magnitude was found to tolerate this reduction in scan duration better than CVR phase. However, these analyses indicate that scan durations in the range of 3 to 5 minutes produce robust data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/094359', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Associative Learning from Replayed Experience', ['Elliot A. Ludvig', 'Mahdieh S. Mirian', 'E. James Kehoe', 'Richard S. Sutton'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'We develop an extension of the Rescorla-Wagner model of associative learning. In addition to learning from the current trial, the new model supposes that animals store and replay previous trials, learning from the replayed trials using the same learning rule. This simple idea provides a unified explanation for diverse phenomena that have proved challenging to earlier associative models, including spontaneous recovery, latent inhibition, retrospective revaluation, and trial spacing effects. For example, spontaneous recovery is explained by supposing that the animal replays its previous trials during the interval between extinction and test. These include earlier acquisition trials as well as recent extinction trials, and thus there is a gradual re-acquisition of the conditioned response. We present simulation results for the simplest version of this replay idea, where the trial memory is assumed empty at the beginning of an experiment, all experienced trials are stored and none removed, and sampling from the memory is performed at random. Even this minimal replay model is able to explain the challenging phenomena, illustrating the explanatory power of an associative model enhanced by learning from remembered as well as real experiences.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100800', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Warwick;', u'University of Alberta;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'The RAG transposon is active through the deuterostome evolution and domesticated in jawed vertebrates.', ['Jose Ricardo Poole', 'Sheng Feng Huang', 'An Long Xu', 'Pontarotti Pierre'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'RAG1 and RAG2 are essential subunits of the V(D)J recombinase required for the generation of the variability of antibodies and T-cell receptors in jawed vertebrates. It was demonstrated that the amphioxus homologue of RAG1-RAG2 is encoded in an active transposon, belonging to transposase DDE superfamily. We show here that the RAG transposon has been active through the deuterostome evolution and is still active in several lineages. The RAG transposon corresponds to several families present in deuterostomes. RAG1-RAG2 V(D)J recombinase evolved from one of them, partially due to the new ability of the transposon to interact with the cellular reparation machinery. Considering the fact that the RAG transposon survived millions of years in many different lineages, in multiple copies and that DDE transposases evolved many times their association with proteins involved in repair mechanisms, we propose that the apparition of V(D)J recombination machinery could be a predictable genetic event.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100735', [], [u'CNRS/AMU;', u'Sun Yat-sen University']]
[u'Mining human prostate cancer datasets: The "camcAPP" shiny app', ['Mark J Dunning', 'Sarah L Vowler', 'Emilie Lalonde', 'Helen Ross-Adams', 'Ian G Mills', 'Andy G Lynch', 'Alastair D Lamb'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'It is now becoming standard procedure to deposit the processed data accompanying a genomic study into a public repository such as Gene Expression Omnibus or ArrayExpress. However, there are still significant barriers to wet-lab researchers being able to interrogate such data and make relatively simple queries that can be automated using programming languages such as R.\n\nHere, we describe an online resource for interrogating two of our recent Prostate Cancer cohorts; along with related datasets. End-users are able to explore how their particular genes of interest behave in these different cohorts and confirm or generate hypothesis about whether the genes can discriminate samples into subtypes of varying clinical outcome or predict individual outcome.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/090589', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Cancer Research Uk Cambridge Institute;', u'Astrazeneca;', u'Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Canada;', u'Centre for Molecular Oncology, Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University, London;', u"Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology (CCRB), Queen's University of Belfast;", u'Cancer Research Uk, Cambridge Institute']]
[u'A Change-point Analysis Method for Single-trial Study of Simultaneous EEG-fMRI of Auditory/Visual Oddball Task', ['Aslan S Dizaji', 'Hamid Soltanian-Zadeh'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Simultaneous EEG-fMRI has been vastly used to investigate functional networks of brain combining high spatial resolution (millimeter) of fMRI with high temporal resolution (millisecond) of EEG. However, to extract the most relevant information from the acquired data, it is necessary to develop analysis methods with less ad hoc assumptions. To this end, brain rhythms are often used which are the specific frequency-bands of EEG signal and assumed to represent diverse sub-second cognitive processes at different parts of the cortex. Furthermore, single-trial analysis of EEG is believed to show more realistic picture of ongoing and event-related activities of brain. Here, we present a nonparametric multiple change-point detection and estimation method for the single-trial analysis of simultaneous EEG-fMRI experiment recorded during auditory and visual oddball tasks. In a simple attention task like oddball, the frontal cortex of brain is responsible to distinguish and respond appropriately to target versus standard events. By using EEG signal at the frontal cortex, we show that the \u03b1-band activity changes according to \u2033inhibition timing\u2033 hypothesis and the \u03b2-band activity is in line with \u2033maintaining the status quo\u2033 hypothesis. Furthermore, using these activities to build regressors in the GLM analysis of fMRI, we localize active brain regions with high spatial and temporal resolutions and elaborate further on the coordination of attentional networks across brain.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100487', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'School of Cognitive Sciences, Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences (IPM), Tehran, Iran']]
[u'Transcriptional repression by ApiAP2 factors is central to chronic toxoplasmosis', ['Joshua B Radke', 'Danielle Worth', 'Dong-Pyo Hong', 'Sherri Huang', 'William J Sullivan', 'Emma H Wilson', 'Michael White'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Bradyzoite differentiation is marked by major changes in gene expression resulting in a parasite that expresses a new repertoire of surface antigens hidden inside a modified parasitophorous vacuole called the tissue cyst.  The factors that control this important life cycle transition are not well understood.  Here we describe an important Toxoplasma repressor mechanism controlling bradyzoite differentiation that operates exclusively in the tachyzoite stage.  The ApiAP2 factor, AP2IV-4, is a nuclear factor dynamically expressed in late S phase through mitosis/cytokinesis of the tachyzoite cell cycle and absent from the bradyzoite.  Remarkably, deletion of the AP2IV-4 locus resulted in the increased expression of bradyzoite mRNAs in replicating tachyzoites and in two different genetic lineages, we confirmed the misexpression of tissue cyst wall components (e.g. BPK1, MCP4, CST1) and the bradyzoite surface antigen SRS9 in the tachyzoite stage.  In the murine animal model, the loss of AP2IV-4 had profound biological consequences.  Prugniaud strain parasites lacking AP2IV-4 were unable to form tissue cysts in brain tissue and the absence of this factor also recruited a potent immune response characterized by increases inflammatory monocytes, IFN-\u03b3 and higher numbers of both CD8+ and CD4+ T-cells.  Altogether these results indicate that suppression of bradyzoite antigens by AP2IV-4 during acute infection is required for Toxoplasma to establish a chronic infection in the immune-competent host.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100628', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of South Florida;', u'University of California Riverside;', u'Indiana University School of Medicine']]
[u'Experimental evolution reveals a novel avenue to release catabolite repression via mutations in XylR', ['Christian Sievert', 'Lizbeth M Nieves', 'Larry A Panyon', 'Taylor Loeffler', 'Chandler Morris', 'Reed A Cartwright', 'Xuan Wang'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Microbial production of fuels and chemicals from lignocellulosic biomass provides promising bio-renewable alternatives to the conventional petroleum-based products. However, heterogeneous sugar composition of lignocellulosic biomass hinders efficient microbial conversion due to carbon catabolite repression. The most abundant sugar monomers in lignocellulosic biomass materials are glucose and xylose. While industrial Escherichia coli strains efficiently utilize glucose, their ability to utilize xylose is often repressed in the presence of glucose. Here we independently evolved three E. coli strains from the same ancestor to achieve high efficiency for xylose fermentation. Each evolved strain has a point mutation in a transcriptional activator for xylose catabolic operons, either CRP or XylR, and these mutations are demonstrated to enhance xylose fermentation by allelic replacements. Identified XylR variants (R121C and P363S) have a higher affinity to their DNA binding sites, leading to a xylose catabolic activation independent of catabolite repression control. Upon introducing these amino acid substitutions into the E. coli D-lactate producer TG114, 94 % of a glucose-xylose mixture (50 g L-1 each) was utilized in mineral salt media that led to a 50 % increase in product titer after 96 h of fermentation. The two amino acid substitutions in XylR enhance xylose utilization and release glucose-induced repression in different E. coli hosts, including wild-type, suggesting its potential wide application in industrial E. coli biocatalysts.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100602', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Arizona State University']]
[u'The design principles of biochemical timers: circuits that discriminate between transient and sustained stimulation', ['Jaline Gerardin', 'Wendell A Lim'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Many cellular responses for which timing is critical display temporal filtering - the ability to suppress response until stimulated for longer than a given minimal time.  Temporal filtering can play a key role in filtering noise, choreographing the timing of events, and mediating the interpretation of dynamically encoded signals. To define the biochemical circuits capable of kinetic filtering, we comprehensively searched the space of three-node networks.  We define a metric of temporal ultrasensitivity, a measure of the steepness of activation as a function of stimulus duration.  We identified five classes of core network motifs capable of temporal filtering, each with different functional properties such as rejecting high frequency noise, committing to response (bistability), and distinguishing between long stimuli. Combinations of the two most robust motifs, double inhibition (DI) and positive feedback with AND logic (PFAND), underlie several natural timer circuits involved in processes such as cell cycle transitions, T cell activation, and departure from the pluripotent state.  The biochemical network motifs described in this study form a basis for understanding the common ways in which cells make dynamic decisions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100651', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'UCSF;', u'UCSF, HHMI']]
[u'Computer-Assisted Engineering of Hyperstable Fibroblast Growth Factor 2', ['Pavel Dvorak', 'David Bednar', 'Pavel Vanacek', 'Lukas Balek', 'Livia Eiselleova', 'Veronika Stepankova', 'Eva Sebestova', 'Michaela Kunova Bosakova', 'Zaneta Konecna', 'Stanislav Mazurenko', 'Antonin Kunka', 'Daniel Horak', 'Radka Chaloupkova', 'Jan Brezovky', 'Pavel Krejci', 'Zbynek Prokop', 'Petr Dvorak', 'Jiri Damborsky'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) play numerous regulatory functions in complex organisms, and their corresponding therapeutic potential is of growing interest to academics and industrial researchers alike. However, applications of these proteins are limited due to their low stability in vivo and in vitro. Here we tackle this problem using a generalizable computer-assisted protein engineering strategy to create a unique modified FGF2 with nine mutations displaying unprecedented stability and uncompromised biological function.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100636', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Masaryk University;', u'Institute of Macromolecular Chemistry, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic']]
[u'A lineage-related reciprocal inhibition circuitry for sensory-motor action selection', ['Benjamin Kottler', 'Vincenzo G. Fiore', 'Zoe N Ludlow', 'Edgar Buhl', 'Gerald Vinatier', 'Richard Faville', 'Danielle C Diaper', 'Alan Stepto', 'Jonah Dearlove', 'Yoshitsugu Adachi', 'Sheena Brown', 'Chenghao Chen', 'Daniel A Solomon', 'Katherine E White', 'Dickon M Humphrey', 'Sean M Buchanan', 'Stephan J Sigrist', 'Keita Endo', 'Kei Ito', 'Benjamin de Bivort', 'Ralf Stanewsky', 'Raymond J Dolan', 'Jean-Rene Martin', 'James JL Hodge', 'Nicholas J Strausfeld', 'Frank Hirth'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'The insect central complex and vertebrate basal ganglia are forebrain centres involved in selection and maintenance of behavioural actions. However, little is known about the formation of the underlying circuits, or how they integrate sensory information for motor actions. Here, we show that paired embryonic neuroblasts generate central complex ring neurons that mediate sensory-motor transformation and action selection in Drosophila. Lineage analysis resolves four ring neuron subtypes, R1-R4, that form GABAergic inhibition circuitry among inhibitory sister cells. Genetic manipulations, together with functional imaging, demonstrate subtype-specific R neurons mediate the selection and maintenance of behavioural activity. A computational model substantiates genetic and behavioural observations suggesting that R neuron circuitry functions as salience detector using competitive inhibition to amplify, maintain or switch between activity states. The resultant gating mechanism translates facilitation, inhibition and disinhibition of behavioural activity as R neuron functions into selection of motor actions and their organisation into action sequences.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100420', [u'Neuroscience'], [u"King's College London;", u'University College London;', u'University of Bristol;', u'CNRS/Universite Paris-Sud;', u'University of Arizona;', u'Harvard University;', u'Free University Berlin;', u'University of Tokyo']]
[u'Transposons modulate transcriptomic and phenotypic variation via the formation of circular RNAs in maize', ['Lu Chen', 'Pei Zhang', 'Yuan Fan', 'Juan Huang', 'Qiong Lu', 'Qing Li', 'Jianbing Yan', 'Gary J. Muehlbauer', 'Patrick S. Schnable', 'Mingqiu Dai', 'Lin Li'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are covalently closed, single-stranded RNA molecules. Recent studies in human showed that circRNAs can arise via transcription of reverse complementary pairs of transposons. Given the prevalence of transposons in the maize genome and dramatic genomic variation driven by transposons, we hypothesize that transposons in maize may be involved in the formation of circRNAs and further modulate phenotypic variation. To test our hypothesis, we performed circRNA-Seq on B73 seedling leaves and integrate these data with 977 publicly available mRNA-Seq datasets. We uncovered 1,551 high-confidence maize circRNAs, which show distinct genomic features as compared to linear transcripts. Comprehensive analyses demonstrated that LINE1-like elements (LLE) and their Reverse Complementary Pairs (LLERCPs) are significantly enriched in the flanking regions of circRNAs. Interestingly, the accumulation of circRNA transcripts increases, while the accumulation of linear transcripts decreases as the number of LLERCPs increases. Furthermore, genes with LLERCP-mediated circRNAs are enriched among loci that are associated with phenotypic variation. These results suggest that LLERCPs can modulate phenotypic variation by the formation of circRNAs. As a proof of concept, we showed that the presence/absence variation of LLERCPs could result in expression variation of one cicrRNA, circ352, and further related to plant height through the interaction between circRNA and functional linear transcript. Our first glimpse of circRNAs uncovers a new role for transposons in the modulation of transcriptomic and phenotypic variation via the formation of circRNAs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100578', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Key Laboratory of Crop Genetic Improvement, Huazhong Agricultural  University;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Department of Agronomy, Iowa State University']]
[u'A systematic comparison of error correction enzymes by next-generation sequencing', ['Nathan B Lubock', 'Di Zhang', 'George M Church', 'Sriram Kosuri'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Gene synthesis, the process of assembling gene-length fragments from shorter groups of oligonucleotides (oligos), is becoming an increasingly important tool in molecular and synthetic biology. The length, quality, and cost of gene synthesis is limited by errors produced during oligo synthesis and subsequent assembly. Enzymatic error correction methods are cost-effective means to ameliorate errors in gene synthesis. Previous analyses of these methods relied on cloning and Sanger sequencing to evaluate their efficiencies, limiting quantitative assessment and throughput. Here we develop a method to quantify errors in synthetic DNA by next-generation sequencing. We analyzed errors in a model gene assembly and systematically compared six different error correction enzymes across 11 conditions. We find that ErrASE and T7 Endonuclease I are the most effective at decreasing average error rates (up to 5.8-fold relative to the input), whereas MutS is the best for increasing the number of perfect assemblies (up to 25.2-fold). We are able to quantify differential specificities such as ErrASE preferentially corrects C/G \u2192 G/C transversions whereas T7 Endonuclease I preferentially corrects A/T \u2192 T/A transversions. More generally, this experimental and computational pipeline is a fast, scalable, and extensible way to analyze errors in gene assemblies, to profile error correction methods, and to benchmark DNA synthesis methods.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100685', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'UCLA;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Long-term sustained malaria control leads to inbreeding and fragmentation of Plasmodium vivax populations', ['Andreea Waltmann', 'Cristian Koepfli', 'Natacha Tessier', 'Stephan Karl', 'Andrew Darcy', 'Lyndes Wini', 'G.L. Abby Harrison', 'Celine Barnadas', 'Charlie Jennison', 'Harin Karunajeewa', 'Sarah Boyd', 'Maxine Whittaker', 'James Kazura', 'Melanie Bahlo', 'Ivo Mueller', 'Alyssa E Barry'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Plasmodium vivax populations are more resistant to malaria control strategies than Plasmodium falciparum, maintaining high genetic diversity and gene flow even at low transmission. To quantify the impact of declining transmission on P. vivax populations, we investigated population genetic structure over time during intensified control efforts and over a wide range of transmission intensities and spatial scales in the Southwest Pacific. Analysis of 887 P. vivax microsatellite haplotypes (Papua New Guinea, PNG = 443, Solomon Islands = 420, Vanuatu =24) revealed substantial population structure among countries and modestly declining diversity as transmission decreases over space and time. In the Solomon Islands, which has had sustained control efforts for 20 years, significant population structure was observed on different spatial scales down to the sub-village level. Up to 37% of alleles were partitioned between populations and significant multilocus linkage disequilibrium was observed indicating substantial inbreeding. High levels of haplotype relatedness around households and within a range of 300m are consistent with a focal and clustered infections suggesting that restricted local transmission occurs within the range of vector movement and that subsequent focal inbreeding may be a key factor contributing to the observed population structure. We conclude that unique transmission strategies, including relapse allows P. vivax populations to withstand pressure from control efforts for longer than P. falciparum. However sustained control efforts do eventually impact parasite population structure and with further control pressure, populations may eventually fragment into clustered foci that could be targeted for elimination.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100610.1', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Walter and Eliza Hall Institute for Medical Research;', u'The National Health Training and Research Institute, Ministry of Health, Solomon Islands;', u'National Vector Borne Disease Control Program, Ministry of Health, Solomon Islands;', u'Walter & Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research;', u'The Walter & Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research;', u'University of Queensland;', u'Case Western Reserve University;', u'Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research']]
[u'Senescence associated protein degradation', ['Gerardo Ferbeyre'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Senescent cells accumulate with age and contribute to pathologies associated to old age. The senescent program can be induced by pro-cancer stimuli or is developmentally controlled.  In cells forced to senesce by expression of oncogenes or short telomeres, aberrant activation of the ERK/MAP kinase signaling pathway leads to selective protein degradation by the ubiquitin proteasome system.  The proteins affected by this process control key cellular processes known to be defective in senescent cells. We discuss the evidence supporting a general role for senescence associated protein degradation for organismal aging.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100388', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Universite de Montreal']]
[u'Tunable Genotyping-By-Sequencing (tGBS\xae) Enables Reliable Genotyping of Heterozygous Loci', ['Alina Ott', 'Sanzhen Liu', 'James C. Schnable', 'Cheng-Ting Yeh', 'Cassy Wang', 'Patrick S Schnable'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Most Genotyping-by-Sequencing (GBS) strategies suffer from high rates of missing data and high error rates, particularly at heterozygous sites. Tunable genotyping-by-sequencing (tGBS\xae), a novel genome reduction method, consists of the ligation of single-strand oligos to restriction enzyme fragments. DNA barcodes are added during PCR amplification; additional (selective) nucleotides included at the 3\u2032-end of the PCR primers result in more genome reduction as compared to conventional GBS methods. By adjusting the number of selective bases different numbers of genomic sites can be targeted for sequencing. Because this genome reduction strategy concentrates sequencing reads on fewer sites, SNP calls are based on more reads than conventional GBS, resulting in higher SNP calling accuracy (>97-99%) even for heterozygous sites and less missing data per marker. tGBS genotyping is expected to be particularly useful for genomic selection, which requires the ability to genotype populations of individuals that are heterozygous at many loci.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100461', [u'Genomics'], [u'Iowa State University;', u'Kansas State University;', u'University of Nebraska-Lincoln;', u'Data2Bio']]
[u'Telomere elongation and Telomerase activity in Normal and Cancer cell lines: HEK-293, HeLa and A549', ['Ankur Patel', 'Grishma Joshi', 'Yunke Fu', 'Sherwin Shaju', 'Angelo Messina'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Telomerase, an eukaryotic ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex, consists of an essential RNA template and a reverse transcriptase termed as human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT). By using this reverse transcriptase enzyme, telomerase RNP maintains its telomeric length in all cancer cells and in few stem cells. As cells age, telomerase level decreases and telomere get shorten, leading to senescence. Presence of telomerase helps delay the senescence due to active production of telomere, leading to cell turning malignant and eventually cancerous. In this experiment, we would investigate the telomerase activity tested using q PCR and telomerase level using western blot in three different cell lines, HEK-293, HeLa and A549. \nHypothesis: -\nWhere HEK-293 cells have longer telomeres and higher telomerase activity, HeLa and A549 cell lines will have varied length of telomere but higher telomerase activity.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100446', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Long Island University,C.W.Post Campus;', u'Long Island University , .C.W.Post College;', u'Long Island University,C.W.Post College;', u'Long Island University,C.W.Post college']]
[u'The 3D genome organization of Drosophila melanogaster through data integration', ['Qingjiao Li', 'Harianto Tjong', 'Xiao Li', 'Ke Gong', 'Xianghong Jasmine Zhou', 'Irene Chiolo', 'Frank Alber'], u'January 15, 2017.', u"Genome structures are dynamic and non-randomly organized in the nucleus of higher eukaryotes. To maximize the accuracy and coverage of 3D genome structural models, it is important to integrate all available sources of experimental information about a genome's organization. It remains a major challenge to integrate such data from various complementary experimental methods. Here, we present an approach for data integration to determine a population of complete 3D genome structures that are statistically consistent with data from both genome-wide chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C) and lamina-DamID experiments. Our structures resolve the genome at the resolution of topological domains, and reproduce simultaneously both sets of experimental data. Importantly, this framework allows for structural heterogeneity between cells, and hence accounts for the expected plasticity of genome structures. As a case study we choose Drosophila melanogaster embryonic cells, for which both data types are available. Our 3D geome structures have strong predictive power for structural features not directly visible in the initial data sets, and reproduce experimental hallmarks of the D. melanogaster genome organization from independent and our own imaging experiments. Also they reveal a number of new insights about the genome organization and its functional relevance, including the preferred locations of heterochromatic satellites of differnet chromosomes, and observations about homologous pairing that cannot be directly observed in the original Hi-C or lamina-DamID data. To our knowledge our approach is the first that allows systematic integration of Hi-C and lamina DamID data for complete 3D genome structure calculation, while also explicitly considering genome structural variability.\nKeywords: 3D genome structure, higher order genome organization, population-based modeling, data integration, Hi-C, lamina-DamID, homologous pairing, Drosophila melanogaster.", u'/content/early/2017/01/15/099911', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Molecular and Computational Biology, Dept of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California']]
[u'Comprehensive characterization of neutrophil genome topology', ['Yina Zhu', 'Ke Gong', 'Matthew Denholtz', 'Vivek Chandra', 'Mark P. Kamps', 'Frank Alber', 'Cornelis Murre'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Neutrophils are responsible for the first line of defense against invading pathogens. Their nuclei are uniquely structured as multiple lobes that establish a highly constrained nuclear environment. Here we found that neutrophil differentiation was not associated with large-scale changes in the number and sizes of topologically associating domains. However, neutrophil genomes were enriched for long-range genomic interactions that spanned multiple topologically associating domains. Population-based simulation of spherical and toroid genomes revealed declining radii of gyration for neutrophil chromosomes. We found that neutrophil genomes were highly enriched for heterochromatic genomic interactions across vast genomic distances, a process named super-contraction. Super-contraction involved genomic regions located in the heterochromatic compartment in both progenitors and neutrophils or genomic regions that switched from the euchromatic to the heterochromatic compartment during neutrophil differentiation.  Super-contraction was accompanied by the repositioning of centromeres, pericentromeres and Long-Interspersed Nuclear Elements (LINEs) to the neutrophil nuclear lamina. We found that Lamin-B Receptor expression was required to attach centromeric and pericentromeric repeats but not LINE-1 elements to the lamina. Differentiating neutrophils also repositioned ribosomal DNA and mini-nucleoli to the lamina: a process that was closely associated with sharply reduced ribosomal RNA expression. We propose that large-scale chromatin reorganization involving super-contraction and recruitment of heterochromatin and nucleoli to the nuclear lamina facilitate the folding of the neutrophil genome into a confined geometry imposed by a multi-lobed nuclear architecture.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100198', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of California, San Diego;', u'University of Southern California']]
[u'Ancient duplication and horizontal transfer of a toxin gene cluster reveals novel mechanisms in the cercosporin biosynthesis pathway', ['Ronnie de Jonge', 'Malaika K Ebert', 'Callie R Huitt-Roehl', 'Paramita Pal', 'Jeffrey C Suttle', 'Jonathan D Neubauer', 'Wayne M Jurick', 'Gary A Secor', 'Bart PHJ Thomma', 'Yves Van de Peer', 'Craig A Townsend', 'Melvin D Bolton'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Cercospora species have a global distribution and are best known as the causal agents of leaf spot diseases of many crops. Cercospora leaf spot (CLS) is an economically devastating disease of sugar beet caused by C. beticola. The C. beticola genome encodes 63 biosynthetic gene clusters, including the cercosporin toxin biosynthesis (CTB) cluster. Studies spanning nearly 60 years have shown that cercosporin is photo-activated, critical for disease development, and toxic to most organisms except Cercospora spp. themselves, which exhibit cercosporin auto-resistance. We show that the CTB gene cluster has experienced an unprecedented number of duplications, losses, and horizontal transfers across a spectrum of plant pathogenic fungi. Although cercosporin biosynthesis has been widely assumed to rely on the eight gene CTB cluster, our comparative genomic analysis revealed extensive gene collinearity adjacent to the established cluster in all CTB cluster-harboring species. We demonstrate that the CTB cluster is larger than previously recognized and includes the extracellular proteins fasciclin and laccase required for cercosporin biosynthesis and the final pathway enzyme that installs the unusual cercosporin methylenedioxy bridge. Additionally, the expanded cluster contains CFP, which contributes to cercosporin auto-resistance in C. beticola. Together, our results give new insight on the intricate evolution of the CTB cluster.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100545', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Plant-Microbe Interactions - Utrecht University. Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB;', u'Laboratory of Phytopathology, Wageningen University;', u'Department of Chemistry, The John Hopkins University;', u'Northern Crop Science Laboratory, United States Department of Agriculture, Fargo;', u'Food Quality Laboratory, United States Department of Agriculture, Beltsville;', u'Department of Plant Pathology, North Dakota State University, Fargo;', u'Wageningen University;', u'Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, Ghent, Belgium. Department of Plant Biotechnology and Bio.;', u'Department of Chemistry, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore;', u'Northern Crop Science Laboratory, United States. Department of Agriculture, Fargo, ND, United States']]
[u'Darwin: A Hardware-acceleration Framework for Genomic Sequence Alignment', ['Yatish Turakhia', 'Kevin Jie Zheng', 'Gill Bejerano', 'William J. Dally'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Genomics is set to transform medicine and our understanding of life in fundamental ways. But the growth in genomics data has been overwhelming - far outpacing Moore\'s Law. The advent of third generation sequencing technologies is providing new insights into genomic contribution to diseases with complex mutation events, but have prohibitively high computational costs. Over 1,300 CPU hours are required to align reads from a 54X coverage of the human genome to a reference, and over 15,600 CPU hours to assemble the reads de novo. This paper proposes "Darwin" - a hardware-accelerated framework for genomic sequence alignment that, without sacrificing sensitivity, provides 125X and 15.6X speedup over the state-of-the-art software counterparts for reference-guided and de novo assembly of third generation sequencing reads, respectively. For pairwise alignment of sequences, Darwin is over 39,000X more energy-efficient than software. Darwin uses (i) a novel filtration strategy, called m-SIFT, to reduce the search space for sequence alignment at high speed, and (ii) a hardware-accelerated version of GACT, a novel algorithm to generate near-optimal alignments of arbitrarily long genomic sequences using constant memory for trace-back. Darwin\'s framework is general-purpose, with tunable speed and sensitivity to match the requirements of genomic application even beyond sequencing.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/092171', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Altered topology of neural circuits in congenital prosopagnosia', ['Gideon Rosenthal', 'Michal Tanzer', 'Erez Simony', 'Uri Hasson', 'Marlene Behrmann', 'Galia Avidan'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Using a novel fMRI-based inter-subject functional correlation (ISFC) approach, which isolates stimulus-locked inter-regional correlation patterns, we compared the cortical topology of the neural circuit for face processing in participants with congenital prosopagnosia (CP) and matched controls. Whereas the anterior temporal lobe served as the major network hub for face processing in controls, this was not the case for the CPs. Instead, this group evinced hyper-connectivity in posterior regions of the visual cortex, mostly associated with the lateral occipital and the inferior temporal cortices. Moreover, the extent to which the network organization was atypical differed as a function of the severity of the face recognition deficit. These results offer new insights into the perturbed cortical topology in CP, which may serve as the underlying neural basis of the behavioral deficits typical of this disorder. The approach adopted here has the potential to uncover altered topologies in other neurodevelopmental disorders, as well.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100479', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ben-Gurion University of the Negev;', u'Princeton University;', u'Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'Characterizing regulatory sequence features that discriminate between overlapping annotation labels', ['Akshay Kakumanu', 'Silvia Velasco', 'Esteban O Mazzoni', 'Shaun Mahony'], u'January 15, 2017.', u"Genomic loci with regulatory potential can be identified and annotated with various labels. For example, sites may be annotated as being bound or unbound by a transcription factor (TF) under particular cellular conditions, or as being proximal or distal to known transcription start sites. Given such a collection of labeled genomic sites, it is natural to ask what sequence features are associated with each annotation label. However, discovering such label-specific sequence features is often confounded by uneven overlaps between annotation labels. In order to meet this challenge, we developed SeqUnwinder, a principled approach to deconvolving interpretable discriminative sequence features associated with overlapping annotation labels. We demonstrate the novel analysis abilities of SeqUnwinder using three examples. Firstly, we show SeqUnwinder's ability to unravel sequence features associated with the dynamic binding behavior of TFs during motor neuron programming from features associated with chromatin state in the initial embryonic stem cells. Secondly, we demonstrate that multi-condition TF binding sites are typically characterized by better quality instances of the TF's cognate binding motifs. Finally, we demonstrate the scalability of SeqUnwinder to discover cell-specific sequence features from over one hundred thousand genomic loci that display DNase I hypersensitivity in one or more ENCODE cell lines.\n\nAvailability:  https://github.com/seqcode/sequnwinder", u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100511', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'New York University']]
[u'Spatially periodic activation patterns of retrosplenial cortex encode route sub-spaces and distance travelled', ['Andrew S Alexander', 'Douglas A Nitz'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Traversal of a complicated route is often facilitated by considering it as a set of\nrelated sub-spaces. Such compartmentalization processes could occur within\nretrosplenial cortex, a structure whose neurons simultaneously encode position\nwithin routes and other spatial coordinate systems. Here, retrosplenial cortex\nneurons were recorded as rats traversed a track having recurrent structure at\nmultiple scales. Consistent with a major role in compartmentalization of complex\nroutes, individual RSC neurons exhibited periodic activation patterns that\nrepeated across route segments having the same shape. Concurrently, a larger\npopulation of RSC neurons exhibited single-cycle periodicity over the full route,\neffectively defining a framework for encoding of sub-route positions relative to the\nwhole. The same population simultaneously provides a novel metric for distance\nfrom each route position to all others. Together, the findings implicate\nretrosplenial cortex in the extraction of path sub-spaces, the encoding of their\nspatial relationships to each other, and path integration.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100537', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCSD Cognitive Science']]
[u'Single-cell histories in growing populations: relating physiological variability to population growth', ['Philipp Thomas'], u'January 15, 2017.', u'Cell size and individual growth rates vary substantially across genetically identical cell populations. This variation cannot entirely be explained by asynchronous cell division cycles, but also needs to take into account the differences in the histories that cells experience during their lifespan. We describe a stochastic framework to characterise cell size histories in an exponentially growing population. We show that these histories differ from cells observed in isolation, such as observed in mother machines. Quantifying these historical fluctuations allows us to predict the population growth rate. We highlight that the maximum attainable population growth cannot exceed the rate at which an average cell grows, but the population doubles faster than an average cell doubles its size. We validate this prediction using recent single-cell data. The theory thus provides fundamental limits on population fitness in terms of individual cell properties.', u'/content/early/2017/01/15/100495', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Imperial College London']]
