[u'Ecological drivers of body size evolution and sexual size dimorphism in short-horned grasshoppers (Orthoptera: Acrididae)', ['Vicente Garcia-Navas', 'Victor Noguerales', 'Pedro Javier Cordero', 'Joaquin Ortego'], u'March 22, 2017.', u"Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is widespread and variable in nature. Although female-biased SSD predominates among insects, the proximate ecological and evolutionary factors promoting this phenomenon remain largely unstudied. Here, we employ modern phylogenetic comparative methods on 8 subfamilies of Iberian grasshoppers (85 species) to examine the validity of different models of evolution of body size and SSD and explore how they are shaped by a suite of ecological variables (habitat specialization, substrate use, altitude) and/or constrained by different evolutionary pressures (female fecundity, strength of sexual selection, length of the breeding season). Body size disparity primarily accumulated late in the history of the group and did not follow a Brownian motion pattern, indicating the existence of directional evolution for this trait. We found support for the converse of Rensch's rule across all taxa but not within the two most speciose subfamilies (Gomphocerinae and Oedipodinae), which showed an isometric pattern. Our results do not provide support for the fecundity or sexual selection hypotheses and we did not find evidence for significant effects of habitat use. Contrary to that expected, we found that species with narrower reproductive window are less dimorphic in size than those that exhibit a longer breeding cycle, suggesting that male protandry cannot solely account for the evolution of female-biased SSD in Orthoptera. Our study highlights the need to consider alternatives to the classical evolutionary hypotheses when trying to explain why in certain insect groups males remain small.", u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119560', [], [u'EBD-CSIC;', u'IREC']]
[u'Bamgineer: Introduction of simulated allele-specific copy number variants into exome and targeted sequence data sets', ['Soroush Samadian', 'Jeff P. Bruce', 'Trevor J. Pugh'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Somatic copy number variations (CNVs) play a crucial role in development of many human cancers. The broad availability of next-generation sequencing (NGS) data has enabled the development of algorithms to computationally infer CNV profiles from a variety of data types including exome and targeted sequence data; currently the most prevalent types of cancer genomics data. However, systemic evaluation and comparison of these tools remains challenging due to a lack of ground truth reference sets. To address this need, we have developed Bamgineer, a tool written in Python to introduce user-defined haplotype-phased allele-specific copy number events into an existing Binary Alignment Mapping (BAM) file, with a focus on targeted and exome sequencing experiments. As input, this tool requires a read alignment file (BAM format), lists of non-overlapping genome coordinates for introduction of gains and losses (bed file), and an optional file defining known haplotypes (vcf format). To improve runtime performance, Bamgineer introduces the desired CNVs in parallel using queuing and parallel processing on a local machine or on a high-performance computing cluster. As proof-of-principle, we applied Bamgineer to a single high-coverage (mean: 220X) exome sequence file from a blood sample to simulate copy number profiles of 3 exemplar tumours from each of 10 tumour types at 5 tumour cellularity levels (20-100%, 150 BAM files in total). In addition to these reference sets, we expect Bamgineer to be of use for systematic benchmarking of CNV calling algorithms using their own data and expected tumour content for a variety of applications. The source code and reference datasets are freely available at http://github.org/pughlab/bamgineer.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119636', [], [u'Princess Margaret Cancer Centre']]
[u'Profiling copy number variation and disease associations from 50,726 DiscovEHR Study exomes', ['Evan K Maxwell', 'Jonathan S Packer', "Colm O'Dushlaine", 'Shane E McCarthy', 'Abby Hare-Harris', 'Jeffrey Staples', 'Claudia Gonzaga-Jauregui', 'Samantha N Fetterolf', 'W Andrew Faucett', 'Joseph B Leader', 'Andres Moreno-De-Luca', 'Giusy Della Gatta', 'Margaret Scollan', 'Trikaldarshi Persaud', 'John Penn', 'Alicia Hawes', 'Xiaodong Bai', 'Sarah Wolf', 'Alexander E Lopez', 'Rick Ulloa', 'Christopher Spangel', 'Rostislav Chernomorksy', 'Ingrid B Borecki', 'Frederick E Dewey', 'Aris N Economides', 'John D Overton', 'H Lester Kirchner', 'Michael F Murray', 'Marylyn D Ritchie', 'David J Carey', 'David H Ledbetter', 'George D Yancopoulos', 'Alan R Shuldiner', 'Aris Baras', 'Omri Gottesman', 'Lukas Habegger', 'Christa Lese Martin', 'Jeffrey G Reid'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Copy number variants (CNVs) are a substantial source of genomic variation and contribute to a wide range of human disorders. Gene-disrupting exonic CNVs have important clinical implications as they can underlie variability in disease presentation and susceptibility. The relationship between exonic CNVs and clinical traits has not been broadly explored at the population level, primarily due to technical challenges. We surveyed common and rare CNVs in the exome sequences of 50,726 adult DiscovEHR study participants with linked electronic health records (EHRs). We evaluated the diagnostic yield and clinical expressivity of known pathogenic CNVs, and performed tests of association with EHR-derived serum lipids, thereby evaluating the relationship between CNVs and complex traits and phenotypes in an unbiased, real-world clinical context. We identified CNVs from megabase to exon-level resolution, demonstrating reliable, high-throughput detection of clinically relevant exonic CNVs. In doing so, we created a catalog of high-confidence common and rare CNVs and refined population frequency estimates of known and novel gene-disrupting CNVs. Our survey among an unselected clinical population provides further evidence that neuropathy-associated duplications and deletions in 17p12 have similar population prevalence but are clinically under-diagnosed. Similarly, adults who harbor 22q11.2 deletions frequently had EHR documentation of neurodevelopmental/neuropsychiatric disorders and congenital anomalies, but not a formal genetic diagnosis (i.e., deletion). In an exome-wide association study of lipid levels, we identified a novel five-exon duplication within LDLR segregating in a large kindred with features of familial hypercholesterolemia. Exonic CNVs provide new opportunities to understand and diagnose human disease.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119461', [], [u'Regeneron Genetics Center;', u'Geisinger Health System']]
[u'Decomposing leaf mass into photosynthetic and structural components explains divergent patterns of trait variation within and among plant species', ['Masatoshi Katabuchi', 'Kaoru Kitajima', 'S. Joseph Wright', 'Sunshine A. Van Bael', 'Jeanne L.D. Osnas', 'Jeremy W. Lichstein'], u'March 22, 2017.', u"Across the global flora, photosynthetic and metabolic rates depend more strongly on leaf area than leaf mass. In contrast, intraspecific variation in these rates is strongly mass-dependent. We show that decomposing leaf mass per area (LMA) into two components -'photosynthetic' LMAp (which determines photosynthetic capacity and metabolic rates, and also affects optimal leaf lifespan) and 'structural' LMAs (which determines leaf toughness and potential leaf lifespan) - provides improved predictions of trait variation (photosynthesis, respiration, and lifespan) across the global flora, and within and among tropical plant species in Panama. Our analysis shows that most interspecific LMA variation is due to LMAs (which explains why traits are area-dependent across species) and that intraspecific LMA variation is due to changes in both LMAp and LMAs (which explains why traits are mass-dependent within species). Our results suggest that leaf trait variation is multi-dimensional, thereby questioning the validity of the one-dimensional worldwide leaf economics spectrum.", u'/content/early/2017/03/22/116855', [], [u'University of Florida;', u'Kyoto University;', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute;', u'Tulane University']]
[u'The Readability Of Scientific Texts Is Decreasing Over Time', ['Pontus Plaven-Sigray', 'Granville James Matheson', 'Bjorn Christian Schiffler', 'William Hedley Thompson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Clarity and accuracy of reporting are fundamental to the scientific process. The understandability of written language can be estimated using readability formulae. Here, in a corpus consisting of 707 452 scientific abstracts published between 1881 and 2015 from 122 influential biomedical journals, we show that the readability of science is steadily decreasing. Further, we demonstrate that this trend is indicative of a growing usage of general scientific jargon. These results are concerning for scientists and for the wider public, as they impact both the reproducibility and accessibility of research findings.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119370', [], [u'Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'Alternative REST Splicing Underappreciated', ['Guo-Lin Chen', 'Gregory M Miller'], u'March 22, 2017.', u"As a major orchestrator of the cellular epigenome, the repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST) can either repress or activate thousands of genes depending on cellular context, suggesting a highly context-dependent REST function tuned by environmental cues. While REST shows cell-type non-selective active transcription, an N-terminal REST4 isoform caused by alternative splicing - inclusion of an extra exon (N3c) which introduces a pre-mature stop codon - has been implicated in neurogenesis and tumorigenesis. Recently, in line with established epigenetic regulation of pre-mRNA splicing, we demonstrated that REST undergoes extensive, context-dependent alternative splicing which results in the formation of a large number of mRNA variants predictive of multiple protein isoforms. Supported by that immunoblotting/-staining with different anti-REST antibodies yield inconsistent results, alternative splicing allows production of various structurally and functionally different REST protein isoforms in response to shifting physiological requirements, providing a reasonable explanation for the diverse, highly context-dependent REST function. However, REST isoforms might be differentially assayed or manipulated, leading to data misinterpretation and controversial findings. For example, in contrast to the proposed neurotoxicity of elevated nuclear REST in ischemia and Huntington's disease, Lu et al. recently reported decreased nuclear REST in Alzheimer's disease and neuroprotection of REST in ageing brain. Unfortunately, alternative REST splicing was largely neglected by Lu et al., making it necessary for a re-evaluation of their findings.", u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119552', [], [u'Northeastern University']]
[u'Continuum approximations for lattice-free multi-species models of collective cell migration', ['Oleksii Matsiaka', 'Catherine Penington', 'Ruth E Baker', 'Matthew J Simpson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Cell migration within tissues involves the interaction of many cells from distinct subpopulations.  In this work, we present a discrete model of collective cell migration where the motion of individual cells is driven by random forces, short range repulsion forces to mimic crowding, and longer range attraction forces to mimic adhesion.  This discrete model can be used to simulate a population of cells that is composed of $K\\ge1$ distinct subpopulations.  To analyse the discrete model we formulate a hierarchy of moment equations that describe the spatial evolution of the density of agents, pairs of agents, triplets of agents, and so forth. To solve the hierarchy of moment equations we introduce two forms of closure: (i) the mean field approximation, which effectively assumes that the distributions of individual agents are independent; and (ii) a moment dynamics description that is based on the Kirkwood superposition approximation.  The moment dynamics description provides an approximate way of incorporating spatial patterns, such as agent clustering, into the continuum description.  Comparing the performance of the two continuum descriptions confirms that both perform well when adhesive forces are sufficiently weak.  In contrast, the moment dynamics description outperforms the mean field model when adhesive forces are sufficiently large.  This is a first attempt to provide an accurate continuum description of a lattice-free, multi-species model of collective cell migration.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119586', [], [u'Queensland University of Technology;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Queensland Univeristy of Technology']]
[u'The functional anatomy of self-generated and predictable speech', ['Lena K L Oestreich', 'Thomas J Whitford', 'Marta I Garrido'], u'March 22, 2017.', u"Sensory attenuation refers to the cortical suppression of self-generated sensations relative to externally-generated sensations. This attenuation of cortical responsiveness is the result of internal forward models which make precise predictions about forthcoming sensations. Forward models of sensory attenuation in the auditory domain are thought to operate along auditory white matter pathways such as the arcuate fasciculus and the frontal aslant. The aim of this study was to investigate whether brain regions that are structurally connected via these white matter pathways are also effectively connected during overt speech, as well as as when listening to externally-generated speech that is temporally predictable via a visual cue. Using Electroencephalography (EEG) and Dynamic Causal Modelling (DCM) we investigated network models that link the primary auditory cortex to Wernicke's and Broca's area either directly or indirectly through Geschwind's territory, which are structurally connected via the arcuate fasciculus. Connections between Broca's and supplementary motor area, which are structurally connected via the frontal aslant, were also included. Our results revealed that bilateral areas interconnected by indirect and direct pathways of the arcuate fasciculus, in addition to regions interconnected by the frontal aslant best explain the EEG responses to both self-generated speech, and speech that is externally-generated but temporally predictable. These findings indicate that structurally connected brain regions thought to be involved in auditory attenuation are also effectively connected. Critically, our findings expand on the notion of internal forward models, whereby sensory consequences of our actions are internally predicted and reflected in reduced cortical responsiveness to these sensations.", u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119644', [], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'A likelihood ratio test for changes in homeolog expression bias', ['Ronald Dutilh Smith', 'Taliesin J Kinser', 'Gregory D Smith', 'Joshua R Puzey'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Gene duplications are a major source of raw material for evolution and a likely contributor to the diversity of life on earth. Duplicate genes (i.e., homeologs, in the case of a whole genome duplication) may retain their ancestral function, sub- or neofunctionalize, or be lost entirely. A primary way that duplicate genes may evolve new functions is by altering their expression patterns. Comparing the expression patterns of duplicate genes may give clues as to whether any of these evolutionary processes have occurred. Here we develop a likelihood ratio test for the analysis of the expression ratios of duplicate genes across two conditions. We demonstrate an application of this test by comparing homeolog expression patterns of 1,448 homeologous gene pairs using RNA-seq data generated from the leaves and petals of a tetraploid monkeyflower (Mimulus luteus). Using simulated data, we show the sensitivity of this test to different levels of homeolog expression bias. While we have developed this method for the analysis of duplicate genes, it can be used for comparing expression patterns of any two genes (or alleles) across any two conditions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119438', [], [u'The College of William and Mary']]
[u'Distinguishing among modes of convergent adaptation using population genomic data', ['Kristin M Lee', 'Graham Coop'], u'March 22, 2017.', u"Geographically separated populations can convergently adapt to the same selection pressure. Convergent evolution at the level of a gene may arise via three distinct modes. The selected alleles can (1) have multiple independent mutational origins, (2) be shared due to shared ancestral standing variation, or (3) spread throughout subpopulations via gene flow. We present a model-based, statistical approach that utilizes genomic data to detect cases of convergent adaptation at the genetic level, identify the loci involved and distinguish among these modes. To understand the impact of convergent positive selection on neutral diversity at linked loci, we make use of the fact that hitchhiking can be modeled as an increase in the variance in neutral allele frequencies around a selected site within a population. We build on coalescent theory to show how shared hitchhiking events between subpopulations act to increase covariance in allele frequencies between subpopulations at loci near the selected site, and extend this theory under different models of migration and selection on the same standing variation. We incorporate this hitchhiking effect into a multivariate normal model of allele frequencies that also accounts for population structure. Based on this theory, we present a composite likelihood-based approach that utilizes genomic data to identify loci involved in convergence, and distinguishes among alternate modes of convergent adaptation. We illustrate our method on genome-wide polymorphism data from two distinct cases of convergent adaptation. First, we investigate the adaptation for copper toxicity tolerance in two populations of the common yellow monkeyflower, Mimulus guttatus. We show that selection has occurred on an allele that has been standing in these populations prior to the onset of copper mining in this region. Lastly, we apply our method to data from four populations of the killifish, Fundulus heteroclitus, that show very rapid convergent adaptation for tolerance to industrial pollutants. Here, we identify a single locus at which both independent mutation events and selection on very young standing variation play a role in adaptation across the species' range.", u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119578', [], [u'University of California, Davis, United States']]
[u'Phandango: an interactive viewer for bacterial population genomics.', ['James Hadfield', 'Nicholas J Croucher', 'Richard J Goater', 'Khalil Abudahab', 'David M Aanensen', 'Simon R Harris'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Fully exploiting the wealth of data in current bacterial population genomics datasets requires synthesising and integrating different types of analysis across millions of base pairs in hundreds or thousands of isolates. Current approaches often use static representations of phylogenetic, epidemiological, statistical and evolutionary analysis results that are difficult to relate to one another. Phandango is an interactive application running in a web browser allowing fast exploration of large-scale population genomics datasets combining the output from multiple genomic analysis methods in an intuitive and interactive manner. \n\nPhandango is a web application freely available for use at https://jameshadfield.github.io/phandango and includes a diverse collection of datasets as examples. Source code together with a detailed wiki page is available on GitHub at https://github.com/jameshadfield/phandango', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119545', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Imperial College London;', u'Centre for Genomic Pathogen Surveillance']]
[u'Plant organ evolution revealed by phylotranscriptomics in Arabidopsis', ['Li Lei', 'Joshua G Steffen', 'Edward J Osborne', 'Christopher Toomajian'], u'March 22, 2017.', u"The evolution of species' phenotypes occurs through changes both in protein sequence and gene expression levels. Though much of plant morphological evolution can be explained by changes in gene expression, examining its evolution has challenges. To gain a new perspective on organ evolution in plants, we applied a phylotranscriptomics approach. We combined a phylostratigraphic approach with gene expression based on the strand-specific RNA-seq data from seedling, floral bud, and root of 19 Arabidopsis thaliana accessions to examine the age and sequence divergence of transcriptomes from these organs and how they adapted over time. Our results indicate that, among the sense and antisense transcriptomes of these organs, the sense transcriptomes of seedlings are the evolutionarily oldest across all accessions and are the most conserved in amino acid sequence for most accessions. In contrast, among the sense transcriptomes from these same organs, those from floral bud are evolutionarily youngest and least conserved in sequence for most accessions. Different organs have adaptive peaks at different stages in their evolutionary history, however, from the Magnoliophyta stage to the Brassicale stage, all three organs show a common adaptive signal. Our research is significantbecause it offers novel evolutionary insight on plant organs revealed by phylotranscriptomics.", u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119511', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'Colby-Sawyer College;', u'University of Utah;', u'Kansas State University']]
[u'Pan-genome and phylogeny of Bacillus cereus sensu lato', ['Adam L Bazinet'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Background: Bacillus cereus sensu lato (s. l.) is an ecologically diverse bacterial group of medical and agricultural significance. In this study, I used publicly available genomes to characterize the B. cereus s. l. pan-genome and performed the largest phylogenetic analyses of this group to date in terms of the number of genes and taxa included. With these fundamental data in hand, it became possible to identify genes associated with particular phenotypic traits (i.e., "pan-GWAS" analysis), and to quantify the degree to which taxa sharing common attributes were phylogenetically clustered.  Methods: A rapid k-mer based approach (Mash) was used to create reduced representations of selected Bacillus genomes, and a fast distance-based phylogenetic analysis of this data (FastME) was performed to determine which species should be included in B. cereus s. l. The complete genomes of eight B. cereus s. l. species were annotated de novo with Prokka, and these annotations were used by Roary to produce the B. cereus s. l. pan-genome. Scoary was used to associate gene presence and absence patterns with various phenotypes. The orthologous protein sequence clusters produced by Roary were filtered and used to build HaMStR databases of gene models that were used in turn to construct phylogenetic data matrices. Phylogenetic analyses used RAxML, DendroPy, ClonalFrameML, Gubbins, PAUP*, and SplitsTree. The genealogical sorting index was used to assess the tree-based clustering of taxa sharing common attributes.  Results: The B. cereus s. l. pan-genome currently consists of \u224860,000 genes, \u2248600 of which are "core" (common to at least 99% of taxa sampled). Pan-GWAS analysis revealed genes that were associated with phenotypes such as isolation source, oxygen requirement, and ability to cause diseases such as anthrax or food poisoning. Extensive phylogenetic analyses using an unprecedented amount of data produced phylogenies that were largely concordant with each other and with previous studies. Phylogenetic support as measured by bootstrap probabilities increased markedly when all suitable pan-genome data was included in phylogenetic analyses, as opposed to when only core genes were used. B. cereus s. l. taxa sharing common traits and species designations exhibited varying degrees of phylogenetic clustering.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119420', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Battelle National Biodefense Institute']]
[u'Two-photon calcium imaging of medial prefrontal cortex and hippocampus without cortical invasion', ['Masanori Matsuzaki', 'Masashi Kondo', 'Kenta Kobayashi', 'Masamichi Ohkura', 'Junichi Nakai'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'In vivo two-photon calcium imaging currently allows us to observe the activity of multiple neurons up to ~900 \xb5m below the cortical surface without cortical invasion. However, many other important brain areas are located deeper than this. Here, we used a 1100 nm laser, which underfilled the back aperture of the objective, and red genetically encoded calcium indicators to establish two-photon calcium imaging of the intact mouse brain and detect neural activity up to 1200 \u03bcm from the cortical surface. This imaging was obtained from the medial prefrontal cortex (the prelimbic area) and the hippocampal CA1 region. We found that the neural activity related to reward prediction is higher in the prelimbic area than in layer 2/3 of the secondary motor area, while it is negligible in the hippocampal CA1 region. Reducing the invasiveness of imaging is an important strategy to reveal the brain processes active in cognition and memory.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119404', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The University of Tokyo, Japan;', u'Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Japan;', u'National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Japan;', u'Saitama University, Japan']]
[u'Signatures of long-term balancing selection in human genomes', ['Barbara Domingues Bitarello', 'Cesare de Filippo', 'Joao Carlos Teixeira', 'Joshua Schmidt', 'Philip Kleinert', 'Diogo Meyer', 'Aida M Andres'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Balancing selection maintains advantageous diversity in populations through different mechanisms. While extensively explored from a theoretical perspective, an empirical understanding of its prevalence and targets lags behind our knowledge of positive selection. Here we describe a simple yet powerful statistic to detect signatures of long-term balancing selection (LTBS) based on the expectation that some types of LTBS result in an accumulation of polymorphic sites at moderate-to-intermediate frequencies. The Non-Central Deviation (NCD) quantifies the degree to which SNP frequencies within a window of a pre-defined size depart from deterministic expectations under balancing selection. The statistic can be implemented considering only polymorphisms (NCD1) or also including also information on fixed differences (NCD2), and can detect LTBS under different frequencies of the balanced allele(s). Because of its simplicity, NCD can be applied to single loci or genomic data, and to populations with or without known demographic history. We show that, in humans, NCD1 and NCD2 have high power to detect long-term balancing selection, with NCD2 outperforming all existing methods. We applied NCD2 to genome-wide data from African and European human populations, and found that 0.6% of the analyzed windows show signatures of LTBS, corresponding to 0.8% of the base pairs and 1.6% of the SNPs in the analyzed genome. This suggests that albeit not prevalent, LTBS affects the evolution of a sizable portion of the genome (it overlapping ~8% of protein-coding genes). These SNPs disproportionally overlap sites with protein-coding and amino-acid altering functions, but not putatively regulatory sites. Our catalog of candidates includes known targets of LTBS, but a majority of them have not been previously identified. As expected, immune-related genes are among those with the strongest signatures, although most candidates are involved in other biological functions, suggesting that balancing selection potentially influences diverse human phenotypes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119529', [u'Genomics'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics;', u'University of Sao Paulo']]
[u'Modeling noise mechanisms in neuronal synaptic transmission', ['Abhyudai Singh'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'In the nervous system, communication occurs via synaptic transmission where signaling molecules (neurotransmitters) are released by the presynaptic neuron, and they influence electrical activity of another neuron (postsynaptic neuron). The inherent probabilistic release of neurotransmitters is a significant source of noise that critically impacts the timing of spikes (action potential) in the postsynaptic neuron. We develop a stochastic model that incorporates noise mechanisms in synaptic transmission, such as, random docking of neurotransmitter-filled vesicle to a finite number of docking sites, with each site having a probability of vesicle release upon arrival of an action potential. This random, burst-like release of neurotransmitters serves as an input to an integrate-and-fire model, where spikes in the postsynaptic neuron are triggered when its membrane potential reaches a critical threshold for the first time. We derive novel analytical results for the probability distribution function of spike timing, and systematically investigate how underlying model parameters and noise processes regulate variability in the inter-spike times. Interestingly, in some parameter regimes, independent arrivals of action potentials in the presynaptic neuron generate strong dependencies in the spike timing of the postsynaptic neuron. Finally, we argue that probabilistic release of neurotransmitters is not only a source of disturbance, but plays a beneficial role in synaptic information processing.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119537', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Delaware']]
[u'Emergence of an adaptive command for orienting behavior in premotor brainstem neurons of barn owls', ['Fanny Cazettes', 'Brian J Fischer', 'Michael V Beckert', 'Jose L Pena'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'The brain can be viewed as a probabilistic estimator, where sensory statistics bias judgments. Owls underestimate the direction of peripheral sound sources. This bias for central locations was proposed to reflect the increased uncertainty about eccentric direction. \xa0Understanding the neural pathway supporting this behavior provides a means to address how adaptive motor commands are implemented by neurons. Here we find that the sensory evidence about sound direction is weighted by its reliability in premotor neurons of the owl\u2019s midbrain tegmentum such that the mean firing rate approximates the head-orienting bias. We demonstrate that this coding emerges through convergence of upstream projections from a map of space. We further show that manipulating the sensory input yields changes predicted by statistical inference in both premotor responses and behavioral bias. This work demonstrates how a topographic sensory representation can be linearly read out to adjust behavioral responses by statistics of the sensory input.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119180', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Champalimaud Foundation, Portugal;', u'Seattle University, United States;', u'Albert Einstein College of Medicine, United States']]
[u'PREDICTING COEXISTENCE IN SPECIES WITH CONTINUOUS ONTOGENETIC NICHE SHIFTS AND COMPETITIVE ASYMMETRY', ['Ronald D Bassar', 'Joseph Travis', 'Tim Coulson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'A longstanding problem in ecology is whether structured life cycles impede or facilitate coexistence between species. Theory based on populations with two discrete stages in the life-cycle indicates that coexistence requires at least one species to shift its niche between stages and that each species is a better competitor in one of the niches. However, in many cases, niche shifts are associated with changes in an underlying continuous trait like organism size and we have few predictions for how the conditions for coexistence are affected by this type of ontogenetic dynamics. Here we develop a framework for analyzing species coexistence based on Integral Projection Models (IPMs) that incorporates continuous ontogenetic changes in both the resource niche and competitive ability. We parameterize the model using experimental data from Trinidadian guppies and make predictions about how niche shifts and competitive symmetries allow or prevent species coexistence. Overall, our results show that the effects of competition on fitness depend upon trait-mediated niche-separation, trait-mediated competitive asymmetry in the part of the niche that is shared across body sizes, and the sensitivity of fitness to body size. When all three conditions are considered, we find multiple ecological and evolutionary routes to coexistence. When both species can shift their niche with increasing body size and competition for resources among the species and sizes is symmetric, then the species that shifts its niche to a greater degree with ontogeny will competitively exclude the other species. When competitive ability increases with increasing body size, then the two species can coexist when the better competitor shifts its niche with body size to a lesser degree than the weaker competitior. This region of coexistence shrinks as the better competitor increasingly shifts its niche with increasing size. When both species shift their niches with size, but each is a better competitor on resources used by smaller or larger individuals, then the model predicts an alternative stable state over some range of niche shifts. We discuss how our results provide new insights into species coexistence and the evolutionary consequences of size-structured interspecific competition.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119446', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Florida State University']]
[u'Space use and movement of jaguar (Panthera onca) in western Paraguay', ['Roy T McBride', 'Jeffrey J Thompson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'We present the first estimates of home range and core area size for jaguar (Panthera onca) in western Paraguay in the Dry Chaco, Humid Chaco and Pantanal. Using an autocorrelated kernel density estimator we estimated mean home range sizes of 818 km2 (95% CI:425-1981) in the Dry Chaco and 237 km2 (95% CI:90-427) in the Humid Chaco/Pantanal. The home range estimates for the Dry Chaco are the largest recorded for jaguar. Core areas, defined as the home range area where use was equal to expected use, was consistent across sexes and systems on average represented by the 59% utility distribution isopleth (range:56-64%). Males had a higher probability of larger home ranges and more directional and greater daily movements than females collectively and within systems. The large home ranges in the Dry Chaco are attributable to the relatively low productivity of that semi-arid ecosystem and high heterogeneity in resource distribution while the larger than expected home ranges in the Humid Chaco/Pantanal compared to home range estimates from the Brazilian Pantanal may be due to differences in geomorphology and hydrological cycle. Known mortality of study jaguars from persecution was high (~75%) and consequently we do not rule out the possibility that the observed large home ranges are partially a function of reduced densities. The large home ranges of jaguars in western Paraguay and a low proportional area of protected areas in the region demonstrate the importance of private ranchland for the long-term conservation of the species which, given the high mortality from persecution, highlight a crucial need to incorporate the livestock production sector in conservation decision making, including region-wide efforts to mitigate jaguar-livestock conflict.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119412', [u'Ecology'], [u'Faro Moro Eco Research;', u'Guyra Paraguay/CONACYT']]
[u'The role of coherence in bacterial communication', ['Sarangam Majumdar', 'Sisir Roy'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Bacteria within biofilms can coordinate their behavior through distinct from of communication mechanism. The well established cell  to  cell signaling process in bacteria is known as quorum sensing through chemical signaling molecules. Recently, another cell to  cell communication process based on ion channel mediated electrical signaling has also been observed. In this article, we propose a novel approach to explain the role of coherence and phase synchronization in the cell  to  cell bacterial communication. The observable long range coherent electrical signaling is species independent and it is caused by membrane potential  dependent modulation of tumbling frequency. Moreover, noise can play a constructive role in enhancing the synchronization of chaotic bacterial communication systems and noise associated with the opening and closing the gate of ion channel induce small kinetic viscosity that make a wave like pattern in concentration profile of quorum sensing.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119503', [u'Biophysics'], [u'DISIM, University of L Aquila;', u'National Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'Embryonic loss of human females with partial trisomy 19 identifies region critical for the single active X', ['Barbara R Migeon', 'Michael A Beer', 'Hans T Bjornsson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'To compensate for the sex difference in the number of X chromosomes, human females, like human males have only one active X. The other X chromosomes in cells of both sexes are silenced in utero by XIST, the Inactive X Specific Transcript gene, that is present on all X chromosomes. To investigate the means by which the human active X is protected from silencing by XIST, we updated the search for a key dosage sensitive XIST repressor using new cytogenetic data with more precise resolution. Here, based on a previously unknown sex bias in copy number variations, we identify a unique region in our genome, and propose candidate genes that lie within, as they could inactivate XIST. Unlike males, the females who duplicate this region of chromosome 19 (partial 19 trisomy) do not survive embryogenesis; this preimplantation loss of females may be one reason that more human males are born than females.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119495', [u'Genetics'], [u'The Johns Hopkins University;', u'The Johns hopkins University']]
[u'Cortical neural activity predicts sensory acuity under optogenetic manipulation.', ['John Briguglio', 'Mark Aizenberg', 'Vijay Balasubramanian', 'Maria Neimark Geffen'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Excitatory and inhibitory neurons in the mammalian sensory cortex form interconnected circuits controlling cortical stimulus selectivity, but their relation to sensory acuity remains unknown. Here we show that the behavioral alteration of frequency discrimination acuity in mice due to optogenetic activation and suppression of auditory cortex (AC) neurons varies from animal to animal in both magnitude and sign. We used Fisher information based on recordings from AC neural populations to estimate the behavioral discrimination acuity under different optogenetic conditions, and showed that the changes in population tuning consistently predict the changes in behavior for each individual separately. The strong correlation between cortical and behavioral changes demonstrates that AC facilitates frequency discrimination in a manner predicted by optimal decoding from cortical neurons. This suggests that diversity in auditory behavior may be partly explained by variations in the circuit properties of AC, consistent with theoretical prediction for balanced excitatory-inhibitory networks.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119453', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Inflammatory Breast Cancer: a model for investigating cluster-based dissemination', ['Mohit Kumar Jolly', 'Marcelo Boareto', 'Bisrat G Debeb', 'Nicola Aceto', 'Mary C Farach-Carson', 'Wendy A Woodward', 'Herbert Levine'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Metastases claim more than 90% of cancer-related deaths and are usually seeded by a subset of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) shed off from the primary tumor. In circulation, CTCs are found both as single cells and as clusters of cells. The clusters of cells, although many fewer in number, possess much higher metastatic potential as compared to that of individual CTCs. In this review, we highlight recent insights into molecular mechanisms that can enable formation of these clusters - (a) hybrid epithelial-mesenchymal (E/M) phenotype of cells that couples their ability to migrate and adhere, and (b) intercellular communication that can spatially coordinate the cluster formation and provide survival signals to cancer cells. Building upon these molecular mechanisms, we also offer a possible mechanistic understanding of why clusters are endowed with a higher metastatic potential. Finally, we discuss the highly aggressive Inflammatory Breast Cancer (IBC) as an example of a carcinoma that can metastasize via clusters and corroborates the proposed molecular mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119479', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Rice University;', u'ETH Zurich;', u'UT MD Anderson Cancer Center;', u'University of Basel;', u'UT Health School of Dentistry']]
[u'Cytosolic ribosomes on the surface of mitochondria', ['Vicki A.M. Gold', 'Piotr Chroscicki', 'Piotr Bragoszewski', 'Agnieszka Chacinska'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'By electron cryo-tomography and subtomogram averaging, translation-arrested ribosomes were used to depict the clustered organisation of the TOM complex on the surface of mitochondria, corroborating earlier reports of localized translation. Ribosomes were shown to interact specifically with the TOM complex and nascent chain binding was crucial for ribosome recruitment and stabilization. Ribosomes were bound to the membrane in discrete clusters, often in the vicinity of the crista junctions. This interaction highlights how protein synthesis may be coupled with transport, and the importance of spatial organization for efficient mitochondrial protein import.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119339', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Biophysics;', u'International Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology']]
[u'LncATLAS database for subcellular localisation of long noncoding RNAs', ['David Mas-Ponte', 'Joana Carlevaro-Fita', 'Emilio Palumbo', 'Toni Hermoso', 'Roderic Guigo', 'Rory Johnson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Background: The subcellular localisation of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) holds valuable clues to their molecular function. However, measuring localisation of newly-discovered lncRNAs involves time-consuming and costly experimental methods.  Results: We have created "LncATLAS", a comprehensive resource of lncRNA localisation in human cells based on RNA-sequencing datasets. Altogether, 6768 GENCODE-annotated lncRNAs are represented across various compartments of 15 cell lines. We introduce "Relative concentration index" (RCI) as a useful measure of localisation derived from ensemble RNAseq measurements. LncATLAS is accessible through an intuitive and informative webserver, from which lncRNAs of interest are accessed using identifiers or names. Localisation is presented across cell types and organelles, and may be compared to the distribution of all other genes. Publication-quality figures and raw data tables are automatically generated with each query, and the entire dataset is also available to download.  Conclusions: LncATLAS makes lncRNA subcellular localisation data available to the widest possible number of researchers. It is available at lncATLAS.crg.eu.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/116335', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG), The Barcelona Institute of Science and Technology;', u'Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern, 3008 Bern, Switzerland']]
