[u'Proof of concept: Molecular prediction of schizophrenia risk', ['Anna R. Docherty', 'Arden Moscati', 'Daniel E. Adkins', 'Gemma T. Wallace', 'Gaurav Kumar', 'Brien P. Riley', 'Aiden Corvin', "F. Anthony O'Neill", 'Michael Gill', 'Kenneth S. Kendler', 'Patrick F. Sullivan', 'Ayman H. Fanous', 'Silviu-Alin Bacanu'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Importance: Schizophrenia (SZ) has a complex, heterogeneous symptom presentation with limited established associations between biological markers and illness onset. Many (gene) molecular pathways (MPs) are enriched for SZ signal, but it is still unclear how these MPs, global PRS, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) complement component (C4) gene expression, and MHC loci might jointly contribute to SZ and its clinical presentation. It is also unclear whether sex or ancestry interacts with these metrics to increase risk in certain individuals.  Objective: To examine multiple genetic metrics, sex, and their interactions as possible predictors of SZ risk. Genetic information could aid in the clinical prediction of risk, but it is still unclear which genetic metrics are most promising, and how sex interacts with genetic risk metrics.  Design, Setting, and Participants: To examine molecular risk in a proof-of-concept study, we used the Wellcome Trust case-control cohort and classified cases as a function of 1) polygenic risk score (PRS) for both whole genome and for 345 implicated molecular pathways, 2) predicted C4 expression, 3) SZ-relevant MHC loci, 4) sex, and 5) ancestry.  Main Outcomes and Measures: PRSs, C4 expression, SZ-relevant MHC loci, sex, and ancestry as joint risk factors for SZ.  Results: Recursive partitioning yielded 15 molecular risk classes and retained as significant psychosis classifiers only sex, genome-wide SZ polygenic risk, and one MP PRS. Sex was the most robust classifier in a stepwise regression, and there was a significant interaction of sex with SZ PRS on case status, suggesting males have a lower polygenic risk threshold. By down-sampling case proportion to 1% and 1.4% population base rates in males and females, respectively, high-risk subtypes defined by this model had roughly a 52% odds of developing SZ (individuals with SZ PRS elevated by 2.6 SDs; incidence = 51.8%).  Conclusions and Relevance: This proof-of-concept suggests that global SZ PRS, sex, and their interaction are robust predictors of risk and that males have a lower PRS threshold for onset. Implications for the integration of these metrics with psychometrically-identified risk are discussed.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/129213.1', [], [u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Utah School of Medicine;', u'Virginia Institute for Psychiatric and Behavioral Genetics, Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'Center for Biomarker Research and Personalized Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University;', u'Trinity Translational Medicine Institute, Trinity College Dublin;', u"Queen's University Belfast;", u'Departments of Genetics and Psychiatry, UNC-Chapel Hill']]
[u'Multiple P450s And Variation In Neuronal Genes Underpins The Response To The Insecticide Imidacloprid In A Population Of Drosophila melanogaster', ['Shane Denecke', 'Roberto Fusetto', 'Felipe Martelli', 'Alex Giang', 'Paul Battlay', 'Alexandre Fournier-Level', "Richard O'Hair", 'Philip Batterham'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Insecticide resistance is an economically important example of evolution in response to intense selection pressure. Here, the genetics of resistance to the neonicotinoid insecticide imidacloprid is explored using the Drosophila Genetic Reference Panel, a collection of inbred Drosophila melanogaster genotypes derived from a single population in North Carolina. Imidacloprid resistance varied substantially among genotypes, and more resistant genotypes tended to show increased capacity to metabolize and excrete imidacloprid. Variation in resistance level was then associated with genomic and transcriptomic variation, implicating several candidate genes involved in central nervous system function and the cytochrome P450s Cyp6g1 and Cyp6g2. CRISPR-Cas9 mediated removal of Cyp6g1 suggested that it contributed to imidacloprid resistance only in backgrounds where it was already highly expressed. Cyp6g2, previously implicated in juvenile hormone synthesis via expression in the ring gland, was shown to be expressed in metabolically relevant tissues of resistant genotypes. Cyp6g2 overexpression was shown to both metabolize imidacloprid and confer resistance. These data collectively suggest that imidacloprid resistance is influenced by a variety of previously known and unknown genetic factors.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132373', [], [u'The University of Melbourne']]
[u'Bistability In Fluorescence From A Purple Non-Sulfur Bacteria', ['Anirban Bose', 'Sufi O. Raja', 'Sanhita Ray', 'Anjan Kr. Dasgupta'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Bistability has been observed for photosynthetic purple non-sulfur bacteria Rhodobacter capsulatus SB1003. The microbes respond to UV excitation (at 365nm) in a switchable manner. A time dependent increase in fluorescence (590-685nm) following roughly a first order kinetics is observed at normal temperature (298K). When either concentration is lowered the state switches to a steady state first order bleaching. Similar bistability  is also observed with respect to temperature variations, as amplification occurring at say 298K disappears below 280K. One can synthetically control bistability and force a re-emergence of fluorescence amplification by exposing the system to a static magnetic field (0.25T). Differential excitability of singlet and triplet states and selective sensitivity of triplets to static magnetic field may explain this result. The triplets dominate at low temperature preventing amplification of emission, and the reversal may be caused by the Zeeman splitting of the triplets, wherein the excitable singlets re-emerge. Evolutionary and ecological implication of bistable photosynthetic system is discussed in the text.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132498', [], [u'Calcutta University;', u'Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine (inStem);', u'University of Calcutta']]
[u'Meiotic Genes In Colpodean Ciliates Support Secretive Sexuality', ['Micah Dunthorn', 'Rebecca A. Zufall', 'Jingyun Chi', 'Konrad Paszkiewicz', 'Karen Moore', 'Frederic Mahe'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Colpodean ciliates potentially pose a problem to macro-organismic theories of evolution: they are putatively asexual and extremely ancient, and yet there is one apparently derived sexual species. If macro-organismic theories of evolution also broadly apply to microbial eukaryotes, though, then most or all of the colpodean ciliates should merely be secretively sexual. Here we show using de novo genome sequencing, that colpodean ciliates have the meiotic genes required for sex and these genes are under functional constraint. Along with these genomic data, we argue that these ciliates are sexual given the cytological observations of both micronuclei and macronuclei within their cells, and the behavioral observations of brief fusions as if the cells were mating. The challenge that colpodean ciliates pose is therefore not to evolutionary theory, but to our ability to induce microbial eukaryotic sex in the laboratory.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132472', [], [u'University of Kaiserslautern;', u'University of Houston;', u'University of Exeter']]
[u'A horizontally transferred autonomous Helitron became a full polydnavirus segment in Cotesia vestalis', ['Pedro Heringer', 'Guilherme Dias', 'Gustavo C. S. Kuhn'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Bracoviruses (BVs) and Ichnoviruses (IVs) belong to the family Polydnaviridae (PDV), which associates symbiotically with parasitoid wasps, working as vectors of virulence genes, and allowing the development of wasp larvae within hosts. One of the viral segments (c35) of Cotesia vestalis bracovirus (CvBV) contains an ORF that has been previously described as a helicase of unknown origin. Here we demonstrate that this gene is a Rep/Helicase from an autonomous Helitron transposable element (TE), which covers the viral segment almost entirely. This description of a PDV-Helitron fusion points to a new type of relationship between TEs and viruses. Our results also suggest that this TE underwent two consecutive horizontal transfer (HT) events: first from a Drosophila host ancestor to the genome of C. vestalis and its BV (CvBV), and then from C. vestalis to a lepidopteran host (Bombyx mori); the latter probably facilitated by viral segments injected during parasitization. We discuss this Helitron-BV fusion, the apparent TE exaptation by a PDV and its function, and implications for the study of wasp-host interaction and evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132399', [], [u'Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais']]
[u'Caterpillars lack a resident gut microbiome', ['Tobin J Hammer', 'Daniel H Janzen', 'Winnifred Hallwachs', 'Samuel L Jaffe', 'Noah Fierer'], u'April 30, 2017.', u"Many animals are inhabited by microbial symbionts that influence their hosts' development, physiology, ecological interactions, and evolutionary diversification. However, firm evidence for the existence and functional importance of resident microbiomes in larval Lepidoptera (caterpillars) is lacking, despite the fact that these insects are enormously diverse, major agricultural pests, and dominant herbivores in many ecosystems. Using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and quantitative PCR, we characterized the gut microbiomes of wild leaf-feeding caterpillars in the United States and Costa Rica, representing 124 species from 16 families. Compared with other insects and vertebrates assayed using the same methods, the microbes we detected in caterpillar guts were unusually low-density and highly variable among individuals. Furthermore, the abundance and composition of leaf-associated microbes were reflected in the feces of caterpillars consuming the same plants. Thus, microbes ingested with food are present (though possibly dead or dormant) in the caterpillar gut, but host-specific, resident symbionts are largely absent. To test whether transient microbes might still contribute to feeding and development, we conducted an experiment on field-collected caterpillars of the model species Manduca sexta. Antibiotic suppression of gut bacterial activity did not significantly affect caterpillar weight gain, development, or survival. The high pH, simple gut structure, and fast transit times that typify caterpillar digestive physiology may prevent microbial colonization. Moreover, host-encoded digestive and detoxification mechanisms likely render microbes unnecessary for caterpillar herbivory. Caterpillars illustrate the potential ecological and evolutionary benefits of independence from symbionts, a lifestyle which may be widespread among animals.", u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132522', [], [u'University of Colorado at Boulder;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'The Caterpillar Lab']]
[u'Niche filtering, not interspecific resource competition, explains the co-occurrence of butterfly species across the Japanese archipelago', ['Ryosuke Nakadai', 'Koya Hashimoto', 'Takaya Iwasaki', 'Yasuhiro Sato'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'The relevance of interspecific resource competition in the context of community assembly by herbivorous insects is a well-known topic in ecology. Most previous studies focused on local species assemblies, that shared host plants. Few studies evaluated species pairs within a single taxon when investigating the effects of host plant sharing at the regional scale. Herein, we explore the effect of plant sharing on the geographical co-occurrence patterns of 229 butterflies distributed across the Japanese archipelago; we use two spatial scales (10 \xd7 10 km and 1 \xd7 1 km grids) to this end. We considered that we might encounter one of two predictable patterns in terms of the relationship between co-occurrence and host-sharing among butterflies. On the one hand, host-sharing might promote distributional exclusivity attributable to interspecific resource competition. On the other hand, sharing of host plants might promote co-occurrence attributable to filtering by resource niche. At both grid scales, we found significant negative correlations between host use similarity and distributional exclusivity. Our results support the thesis that the butterfly co-occurrence pattern across the Japanese archipelago is better explained by filtering via resource niche rather than interspecific resource competition.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132530', [], [u'Faculty of Science, University of the Ryukyus;', u'Center for Ecological Research, Kyoto University;', u'Faculty of Science, Kanagawa University;', u'Faculty of Agriculture, Ryukoku University']]
[u'Rapid DNA Re-Identification for Cell Line Authentication and Forensics', ['Sophie Zaaijer', 'Yaniv Erlich', 'Daniel Speyer', 'Robert Piccone', 'Assaf Gordon'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'DNA re-identification is used for a broad range of applications, ranging from cell line authentication to crime scene sample identification. However, current re-identification schemes suffer from high latency. Here, we describe a rapid, inexpensive, and portable strategy to re-identify human DNA called MinION sketching. Using data from Oxford Nanopore Technologies\u2019 sequencer, MinION sketching requires only 3min of sequencing and ~91 random SNPs to identify a sample, enabling near real-time applications of DNA re-identification. This method capitalizes on the vastly growing availability of genomic reference data for individuals and cancer cell lines. Hands-on preparation of the samples can be reduced to <1 hour. This empowers the application of MinION sketching in research settings for routine cell line authentication or in forensics.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132381', [], [u'New York Genome Center/Columbia University, United States;', u'Columbia University, United States;', u'New York Genome Center, United States']]
[u'Comparative Genomics Of Two Sequential Candida glabrata Clinical Isolates', ['Luis Andre Vale-Silva', 'Emmanuel Beaudoing', 'Van Du T. Tran', 'Dominique Sanglard'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Candida glabrata is an important fungal pathogen which develops rapidly antifungal resistance in treated patients. It is known that azole treatments lead to antifungal resistance in this fungal species and that multidrug efflux transporters are involved in this process. Specific mutations in the transcriptional regulator PDR1 result in upregulation of the transporters. In addition, we showed that the PDR1 mutations can contribute to enhance virulence in animal models. We were interested in this study to compare genomes of two specific C. glabrata related isolates, one of which was azole-susceptible (DSY562) while the other was azole-resistant (DSY565). DSY565 contained a PDR1 mutation (L280F) and was isolated after a time lapse of 50 days of azole therapy. We expected that genome comparisons between both isolates could reveal additional mutations reflecting host adaptation or even additional resistance mechanisms. The PacbBio technology used here yielded 14 major contigs (sizes 0.18 Mb-1.6 Mb) and mitochondrial genomes from both DSY562 and DSY565 isolates that were highly similar to each other. Comparisons of the clinical genomes with the published CBS138 genome indicated important genome rearrangements, but not between the clinical strains. Among unique features, several retrotransposons were identified in the genomes of the investigated clinical isolates. DSY562 and DSY565 contained each a large set of adhesin-like genes (101 and 107, respectively), which exceed by far the number of reported adhesins (66) in the CBS138 genome. Comparison between DSY562 and DSY565 yielded 17 non-synonymous SNPs (among which the expected PDR1 mutation) as well as small size indels in coding regions (11) but mainly in adhesin-like genes. The genomes were containing a DNA mismatch repair allele of MSH2 known to be involved in the so-called hypermutator phenotype of this yeast species and the number of accumulated mutations between both clinical isolates is consistent with the presence of a MSH2 defect. In conclusion, this study is the first to compare genomes of C. glabrata sequential clinical isolates using the PacBio technology as an approach. The genomes of these isolates taken in the same patient at two different time points were exhibiting limited variations, even if submitted to the host pressure.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132464', [], [u'University of Lausanne and University Hospital Center;', u'University of Lausanne;', u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics']]
[u'Secondary Osteons Scale Allometrically In Mammalian Humerus And Femur', ['Alessandro A. Felder', 'Carina Phillips', 'Hannah Cornish', 'Martyn Cooke', 'John R. Hutchinson', 'Michael Doube'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Intra-cortical bone remodelling is a cell-driven process that replaces existing bone tissue with new bone tissue in the bone cortex, leaving behind histological features called secondary osteons. While the scaling of bone dimensions on a macroscopic scale is well known, less is known about how the spatial dimensions of secondary osteons vary in relation to the adult body size of the species. We measured the cross-sectional area of individual intact secondary osteons and their central Haversian canals in transverse sections from 40 stylopodial bones of 39 mammalian species. Scaling analysis of our data shows that mean osteonal resorption area (negative allometry, exponent 0.23, R2 0.54,  p<0.005) and Haversian canal area (negative allometry, exponent 0.34, R2 0.45, p<0.005) are significantly related to adult body mass, independent of phylogeny. This study is the most comprehensive of its kind to date, and allows us to describe overall trends in the scaling behaviour of secondary osteon dimensions, supporting the inference that osteonal resorption area may be limited by the need to avoid fracture in smaller mammalian species, but the need to maintain osteocyte viability in larger mammalian species.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/131300', [], [u'The Royal Veterinary College;', u'The Royal College of Surgeons of England']]
[u'The Evolution Of Covert Signaling', ['Paul E. Smaldino', 'Thomas J. Flamson', 'Richard McElreath'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Human sociality depends upon the benefits of mutual aid and extensive communication. However, mutual aid is made difficult by the problems of coordinating diverse norms and preferences, and communication is harried by substantial ambiguity in meaning. Here we demonstrate that these two facts can work together to allow cooperation to develop, by the strategic use of deliberately ambiguous signals: covert signaling. Covert signaling is the transmission of information that is accurately received by its intended audience but obscured when perceived by others. Such signals may allow coordination and enhanced cooperation while also avoiding the alienation or hostile reactions of individuals with different preferences. Although the empirical literature has identified potential mechanisms of covert signaling, such as encryption in humor, there is to date no formal theory of its dynamics. We introduce a novel mathematical model to assess the conditions under which a covert signaling strategy will evolve, as well as how signaling strategies coevolve with receiver attitudes. We show that covert signaling plausibly serves an important function in facilitating within-group cooperative assortment by allowing individuals to pair up with similar group members when possible and to get along with dissimilar ones when necessary. This mechanism has broad implications for theories of signaling and cooperation, humor, social identity, political psychology, and the evolution of human cultural complexity.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132407', [], [u'University of California, Merced;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology']]
[u'Three-Dimensional Two-Photon Optogenetics And Imaging Of Neural Circuits In Vivo', ['Weijian Yang', 'Luis Carrillo-Reid', 'Yuki Bando', 'Darcy S. Peterka', 'Rafael Yuste'], u'April 30, 2017.', u"We demonstrate a holographic system for simultaneous three-dimensional (3D) two-photon stimulation and imaging of neural activity in the mouse neocortex in vivo with cellular resolution. Dual two-photon excitation paths are implemented with independent 3D targeting for calcium imaging and precision optogenetics. We validate the usefulness of the microscope by photoactivating local pools of interneurons in awake mice visual cortex in 3D, which suppress the nearby pyramidal neurons' response to visual stimuli.", u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132506', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Transcription Factors Orchestrate Dynamic Interplay Between Genome Topology And Gene Regulation During Cell Reprogramming', ['Ralph Stadhouders', 'Enrique Vidal', 'Francois Serra', 'Bruno Di Stefano', 'Francois Le Dily', 'Javier Quilez', 'Antonio Gomez', 'Samuel Collombet', 'Clara Berenguer', 'Yasmina Cuartero', 'Jochen Hecht', 'Guillaume Filion', 'Miguel Beato', 'Marc A. Marti-Renom', 'Thomas Graf'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Chromosomal architecture is known to influence gene expression, yet its role in controlling cell fate remains poorly understood. Reprogramming of somatic cells into pluripotent stem cells by the transcription factors (TFs) Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and Myc offers an opportunity to address this question but is severely limited by the low proportion of responding cells. We recently developed a highly efficient reprogramming protocol that synchronously converts somatic into pluripotent stem cells. Here, we employ this system to integrate time-resolved changes in genome topology with gene expression, TF binding and chromatin state dynamics. This revealed that TFs drive topological genome reorganization at multiple architectural levels, which often precedes changes in gene expression. Removal of locus-specific topological barriers can explain why pluripotency genes are activated sequentially, instead of simultaneously, during reprogramming. Taken together, our study implicates genome topology as an instructive force for implementing transcriptional programs and cell fate in mammals.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132456', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG);', u'Harvard Stem Cell Institute;', u'IBENS']]
[u'Cells From The Same Lineage Switch From Reduction To Enhancement Of Size Variability In Arabidopsis Sepals', ['Satoru Tsugawa', 'Nathan Hervieux', 'Daniel Kierzkowski', 'Anne-Lise Routier-Kierzkowska', 'Aleksandra Sapala', 'Olivier Hamant', 'Richard S. Smith', 'Adrienne H. K. Roeder', 'Arezki Boudaoud', 'Chun-Biu Li'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'Organs form with remarkably consistent sizes and shapes during development, whereas a high variability in size and growth is observed at cell level. Given this contrast, it is unclear how such consistency at organ scale can emerge from cellular behavior. We examine the growth of cell lineages, or groups of cells that are the progeny of a single mother cell. At early stages of the lineage, we find that initially smaller lineages grow faster than the larger ones reducing variability in lineage size, a phenomenon we refer to as size uniformization. In contrast at later stages of the lineage, size variability is enhanced when initially larger cell lineages grow faster than the smaller ones. Our results imply that the cell lineage changes its growth pattern at a tipping point. Finally, we found that the growth heterogeneity of individual cells within a lineage is correlated with fast growth of the lineage. Consequently, fast growing lineages show greater cell growth heterogeneity, leading to uniformization in lineage size. Thus, cellular variability in growth contributes toward decreasing variability of cell lineages throughout the sepal.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132431', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Riken;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research;', u'ENS de Lyon;', u'Cornell University;', u'Stockholm University']]
[u'A High Resolution Whole Brain Imaging Using Oblique Light Sheet Tomography', ['Arun Narasimhan', 'Judith Mizrachi', 'Kannan Umadevi Venkatraju', 'Dinu F. Albeanu', 'Pavel Osten'], u'April 30, 2017.', u'We have developed a oblique version of the light sheet microscope to do volumetric imaging of the whole brains at high spatial resolution. Tissue clearing using aqueous techniques reduces the structural rigidity of the brain, To overcome this, we developed a gelatin based re-embedding procedure that makes the brain rigid enough to be sectioned. A few examples of whole brain volumetric images are shown using the oblique light sheet tomography.', u'/content/early/2017/04/30/132423', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory']]
