[u'Multiplexing droplet-based single cell RNA-sequencing using natural genetic barcodes', ['Hyun Min Kang', 'Meena Subramaniam', 'Sasha Targ', 'Michelle Nguyen', 'Lenka Maliskova', 'Eunice Wan', 'Simon Wong', 'Lauren Byrnes', 'Cristina Lanata', 'Rachel Gate', 'Sara Mostafavi', 'Alexander Marson', 'Noah Zaitlen', 'Lindsey A Criswell', 'Jimmie Ye'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Droplet-based single-cell RNA-sequencing (dscRNA-seq) has enabled rapid, massively parallel profiling of transcriptomes from tens of thousands of cells. Multiplexing samples for single cell capture and library preparation in dscRNA-seq would enable cost-effective designs of differential expression and genetic studies while avoiding technical batch effects, but its implementation remains experimentally challenging. Here, we introduce an in-silico algorithm demuxlet that harnesses natural genetic variation in a pool of cells from unrelated individuals to discover the sample identity of each cell and identify droplets containing cells from two different individuals (doublets). These capabilities enable simple experimental designs where cells from genetically diverse samples are multiplexed and captured at higher throughput than standard workflows. To demonstrate the performance of our method, we sequenced 3 multiplexed pools of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 8 lupus patients. Given genotyping data for each individual, demuxlet correctly recovered the sample identity of > 99% of singlets, and identified doublets enriched for multiple cell types and at rates consistent with previous estimates. We further demonstrate the utility of sample multiplexing by characterizing cell type-specific responses and interindividual variability in 2 pools of PBMCs from 8 additional lupus patients before and after cytokine stimulation. Demuxlet enables droplet-based single cell RNA-seq for large-scale studies of population variation and could be extended to other single cell datasets that incorporate natural or synthetic DNA barcodes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118778', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'UCSF;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'MTAG: Multi-Trait Analysis of GWAS', ['Patrick Turley', 'Raymond K. Walters', 'Omeed Maghzian', 'Aysu Okbay', 'James J. Lee', 'Mark Alan Fontana', 'Tuan Anh Nguyen-Viet', 'Nicholas A. Furlotte', 'Patrik Magnusson', 'Sven Oskarsson', 'Magnus Johannesson', 'Peter M. Visscher', 'David Laibson', 'David Cesarini', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Daniel J. Benjamin'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'We introduce Multi-Trait Analysis of GWAS (MTAG), a method for the joint analysis of summary statistics from GWASs of different traits, possibly from overlapping samples. We demonstrate MTAG using data on depressive symptoms (Neff = 354,862), neuroticism (N = 168,105), and subjective well-being (N = 388,538). Compared to 32, 9, and 13 genome-wide significant loci in the single-trait GWASs (most of which are novel), MTAG increases the number of loci to 74, 66, and 60, respectively. Moreover, the association statistics from MTAG yield more informative bioinformatics analyses and, consistent with theoretical calculations, improve prediction accuracy by approximately 25%.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118810', [u'Genomics'], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Harvard University;', u'Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Hospital for Special Surgery;', u'University of Southern California;', u'23andMe, Inc.;', u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'Uppsala Universitet;', u'Stockholm School of Economics;', u'University of Queensland;', u'New York University']]
[u'Chromatin-associated RNA sequencing (ChAR-seq) maps genome-wide RNA-to-DNA contacts', ['Jason C. Bell', 'David Jukam', 'Nicole A Teran', 'Viviana I Risca', 'Owen K Smith', 'Whitney L Johnson', 'Jan Skotheim', 'William J Greenleaf', 'Aaron Straight'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'RNA is a critical component of chromatin in eukaryotes, both as a product of transcription, and as an essential constituent of ribonucleoprotein complexes that regulate both local and global chromatin states. Here we present a proximity ligation and sequencing method called Chromatin-Associated RNA sequencing (ChAR-seq) that maps all RNA-to-DNA contacts across the genome. ChAR-seq provides unbiased, de novo identification of targets of chromatin-bound RNAs including nascent transcripts, chromosome-specific dosage compensation ncRNAs, and genome-wide trans-associated RNAs involved in co-transcriptional RNA processing.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118786', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University']]
