[u'The Genome Of The Contractile Demosponge Tethya wilhelma And The Evolution Of Metazoan Neural Signalling Pathways', ['Warren R Francis', 'Michael Eitel', 'Sergio Vargas', 'Marcin Adamski', 'Steven HD Haddock', 'Stefan Krebs', 'Helmut Blum', 'Gert Worheide'], u'March 27, 2017.', u'Porifera are a diverse animal phylum with species performing important ecological roles in aquatic ecosystems, and have become models for multicellularity and early-animal evolution. Demosponges are the largest class in sponges, but previous studies have relied on the only draft demosponge genome of Amphimedon queenslandica. Here we present the 125-megabase draft genome of the contractile laboratory demosponge Tethya wilhelma, sequenced to almost 150x coverage. We explore the genetic repertoire of transporters, receptors, and neurotransmitter metabolism across early-branching metazoans in the context of the evolution of these gene families. Presence of many genes is highly variable across animal groups, with many gene family expansions and losses. Three sponge classes show lineage-specific expansions of GABA-B receptors, far exceeding the gene number in vertebrates, while ctenophores appear to have secondarily lost most genes in the GABA pathway. Both GABA and glutamate receptors show lineage-specific domain rearrangements, making it difficult to trace the evolution of these gene families. Gene sets in the examined taxa suggest that nervous systems evolved independently at least twice and either changed function or were lost in sponges. Changes in gene content are consistent with the view that ctenophores and sponges are the earliest-branching metazoan lineages and provide additional support for the proposed ParaHoxozoa clade.', u'/content/early/2017/03/27/120998', [u'Genomics'], [u'LMU Munich;', u'Australian National University;', u'MBARI']]
[u"Exact And Approximate Limit Behaviour Of The Yule Tree's Cophenetic Index", ['Krzysztof Bartoszek'], u'March 27, 2017.', u'In this work we study the limit distribution of an appropriately normalized cophenetic index of the pure birth tree on n contemporary tips. We show that this normalized phylogenetic balance index is a submartingale that converges almost surely and in L2. We link our work with studies on trees without branch lengths and show that in this case the limit distribution is a contraction type distribution, similar to the Quicksort limit distribution. In the continuous branch case we suggest approximations to the limit distribution. We propose heuristic methods of simulating from these distributions and it may be observed that these algorithms result in reasonable tails. Therefore, we postulate using quantiles of the derived distributions for hypothesis testing, whether an observed phylogenetic tree is consistent with the pure birth process. Simulating a sample by the proposed heuristics is rapid while exact simulation (simulating the tree and then calculating the index) is a time-consuming procedure.', u'/content/early/2017/03/27/120931', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Uppsala University']]
[u'Genome Build Information Is An Essential Part Of Genomic Track Files', ['Chakravarthi Kanduri', 'Diana Domanska', 'Eivind Hovig', 'Geir Kjetil Sandve'], u'March 27, 2017.', u'Genomic locations are represented as coordinates on a specific genome build version, but the build information is frequently missing when coordinates are provided. It is essential to correctly interpret and analyse the genomic intervals contained in genomic track files. Here, we demonstrate that this crucial metadatum (or rather datum) is often isolated from the genomic track files in public repositories and journal articles, which could be a major time thief. We propose best practices to ensure that genome build version is always carried along with genomic track files. Although not a substitute to the best practices, we also provide a tool to predict the genome build version of genomic track files.', u'/content/early/2017/03/27/120923', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Oslo;', u'Department of Tumor Biology, Institute for Cancer Research, University of Oslo']]
[u'A Map Of Genetic Interactions In Cancer Cells', ['Benedikt Rauscher', 'Florian Heigwer', 'Luisa Henkel', 'Thomas Hielscher', 'Michael Boutros'], u'March 27, 2017.', u'Cancer genomes often harbor hundreds of molecular aberrations. Such genetic variants can be drivers or passengers of tumorigenesis and, as a side effect, create new vulnerabilities for potential therapeutic exploitation. To systematically identify genotype-dependent vulnerabilities and synthetic lethal interactions, forward genetic screens in different genetic backgrounds have been conducted. Here, we extended genetic interaction network analysis approaches that were established for model organisms to integrate and analyze data from 83 CRISPR/Cas9 screens in human cancer cell lines. We integrated functional data with information on loss-of-function variants to explore the relationships of more than 2.2 million gene-gene combinations. In addition to known gene-gene dependencies, our analysis identified new genotype-specific vulnerabilities of cancer cells. By clustering genes with similar genetic interaction profiles, we drew the largest map of genetic interactions in a cancer cell to date. This approach is scalable and highlights how diverse genetic screens can be integrated to comprehensively build maps of genetic interactions in cancer.', u'/content/early/2017/03/27/120964', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) and Heidelberg University;', u'German cancer Research Center (DKFZ);', u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ)']]
[u'Striatal Action-Value Neurons Reconsidered', ['Lotem Elber-Dorozko', 'Yonatan Loewenstein'], u'March 27, 2017.', u'It is generally believed that during economic decisions, striatal neurons represent the values associated with different actions. This hypothesis is based on a large number of electrophysiological studies, in which the neural activity of striatal neurons was measured while the subject was learning to prefer the more rewarding alternative. Here we present an alternative interpretation of the electrophysiological findings. We show that the standard statistical methods that were used to identify action-value neurons in the striatum erroneously detect the same action-value representations in unrelated neuronal recordings. This is due to temporal correlations in the neuronal data. We propose an alternative statistical method for identifying action-value representations that is not subject to this caveat. We apply it to previously identified action-value neurons in the basal ganglia and fail to detect action-value representations. In conclusion, we argue that there is no conclusive evidence for the generally accepted hypothesis that striatal neurons encode action-values.', u'/content/early/2017/03/27/087502', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Hebrew University']]
[u'Towards Human Super EEG', ['Lucy L. W. Owen', 'Jeremy R. Manning'], u'March 27, 2017.', u"Human Super EEG entails measuring ongoing activity from every cell in a living human brain at millisecond-scale temporal resolutions.  Although direct cell-by-cell Super EEG recordings are impossible using existing methods, here we present a technique for inferring neural activity at arbitrarily high spatial resolutions using human intracranial electrophysiological recordings.  Our approach, based on Gaussian process regression, relies on two assumptions.  First, we assume that some of the correlational structure of people's brain activity is similar across individuals.  Second, we resolve ambiguities in the data by assuming that neural activity from nearby sources will tend to be similar, all else being equal.  One can then ask, for an arbitrary individual's brain: given what we know about the correlational structure of other people's brains, and given the recordings we made from electrodes implanted in this person's brain, how would those recordings most likely have looked at other locations throughout this person's brain?", u'/content/early/2017/03/27/121020', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'Adjusting For Principal Components Of Molecular Phenotypes Induces Replicating False Positives', ['Andrew Dahl', 'Vincent Guillemot', 'Joel Mefford', 'Hugues Aschard', 'Noah Zaitlen'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'High-throughput measurements of molecular phenotypes provide an unprecedented opportunity to model cellular processes and their impact on disease. Such highly- structured data is strongly confounded, and principal components and their variants reliably estimate latent confounders. Conditioning on PCs in downstream analyses is known to improve power and reduce multiple-testing miscalibration and is an indispensable element of thousands of published functional genomic analyses. Further clarifying this approach is of fundamental interest to the genomics and statistics communities. We uncover a novel bias induced by PC conditioning and provide an analytic, deterministic and intuitive approximation. The bias exists because PCs are, roughly, unshielded colliders on a causal path: because PCs partially incorporate a causal genotype effect on one phenotype, the genotype becomes correlated with every phenotype conditional on PCs. We empirically quantify this bias in realistic simulations. For small genetic effects, a nearly negligible bias is observed for all tested PC variants. For large genetic effects, or other differential covariates, dramatic false positives can arise. Though one PC variant (supervised SVA) largely avoids this bias, it is computationally prohibitive genome-wide; further, its immunity to this bias is novel. Our analysis informs best practices for confounder correction in genomic studies.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120899', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Institut Pasteur']]
[u'Anatomical And Functional Organization Of The Human Substantia Nigra And Its Connections', ['Yu Zhang', 'Kevin Larcher', 'Bratislav Misic', 'Alain Dagher'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'We investigated the anatomical and functional organization of the human substantia nigra (SN) using diffusion and functional MRI data from the Human Connectome Project. We identified a tripartite connectivity-based parcellation of SN with a limbic, cognitive and motor arrangement. The medial SN connects with limbic striatal and cortical regions and encodes value (greater response to monetary wins than losses during fMRI), while the ventral SN connects with associative regions of cortex and striatum and encodes salience (equal response to wins and losses). The lateral SN connects with somatomotor regions of striatum and cortex and also encodes salience. Connectivity within the value-coding medial SN network was associated with a measure of decisional impulsivity, while the salience-coding ventral SN network was associated with motor impulsivity. In sum, there is anatomical and functional heterogeneity of human SN, and separate SN networks underpin value versus salience coding, and impulsive choice versus impulsive action.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120857', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'McGill University']]
[u'Polygenicity And Epistasis Underlie Fitness-Proximal Traits In The Caenorhabditis elegans Multiparental Experimental Evolution (CeMEE) Panel', ['Luke M Noble', 'Ivo Chelo', 'Thiago Guzella', 'Bruno Afonso', 'David D Riccardi', 'Patrick Ammerman', 'Adel Dayarian', 'Sara Carvalho', 'Anna Crist', 'Ania Pino-Querido', 'Boris Shraiman', 'Matthew V Rockman', 'Henrique Teotonio'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Understanding the genetic basis of complex traits remains a major challenge in biology. Polygenicity, phenotypic plasticity and epistasis contribute to phenotypic variance in ways that are rarely clear. This uncertainty is problematic for estimating heritability, for predicting individual phenotypes from genomic data, and for parameterizing models of phenotypic evolution. Here we report a recombinant inbred line (RIL) quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping panel for the hermaphroditic nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the C. elegans multiparental experimental evolution (CeMEE) panel. The CeMEE panel, comprising 507 RILs, was created by hybridization of 16 wild isolates, experimental evolution at moderate population sizes and predominant outcrossing for 140-190 generations, and inbreeding by selfing for 13-16 generations. The panel contains 22% of single nucleotide polymorphisms known to segregate in natural populations, and complements existing mapping resources for C. elegans by providing high nucleotide diversity across >95% of the genome. We apply it to study the genetic basis of two fitness components, fertility and hermaphrodite body size at time of reproduction, with high broad sense heritability in the CeMEE. While simulations show we should detect common alleles with additive effects as small as 5%, at gene-level resolution, the genetic architectures of these traits does not feature such alleles. We instead find that a significant fraction of trait variance, particularly for fertility, can be explained by sign epistasis with weak main effects. In congruence, phenotype prediction, while generally poor (r2<10%), requires modeling epistasis for optimal accuracy, with most variance attributed to the highly recombinant, rapidly evolving chromosome arms.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120865', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'New York University;', u'Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci\xeancia;', u'\xc9cole Normale Sup\xe9rieure;', u'University of California, Santa Barbara']]
[u'Multi-omics Biomarker Pipeline Reveals Elevated Levels Of Protein-Glutamine Gamma-Glutamyltransferase 4 In Seminal Plasma Of Patients With Prostate Cancer', ['Andrei P. Drabovich', 'Punit Saraon', 'Theano D. Karakosta', 'Apostolos Dimitromanolakis', 'Eleftherios P. Diamandis', 'Eric M. Hyndman', 'Keith Jarvi'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Prostate-specific antigen, a widely used biomarker of prostate cancer, lacks specificity and prognostic significance, which often results in over-diagnosis and over-treatment of prostate cancer. In this study, we investigated if seminal plasma proteins could increase specificity of detecting primary prostate cancer and discriminate between low- and high-grade cancers. To select 148 most promising biomarker candidates, we combined transcripts or proteins identified through five independent data mining or experimental approaches: tissue transcriptomics, seminal plasma proteomics, cell secretomics, tissue specificity and androgen regulation. To follow up these candidates, we designed a rigorous biomarker verification and validation pipeline based on multiplex quantitative selected reaction monitoring assays. We verified 77 and validated 19 most promising proteins in seminal plasma of 67 negative biopsy and 152 prostate cancer patients. Validation revealed a prostate-specific, secreted and androgen-regulated protein-glutamine gamma-glutamyltransferase 4 (TGM4), which could predict prostate cancer on biopsy and outperformed age and serum PSA. In the independent validation set re-measured by an in-house ELISA, TGM4 was significantly up-regulated (3.7-fold, P=0.005) and revealed AUC 0.66 for differentiating between negative biopsy and prostate cancer in patients with age \u226550 and blood serum PSA \u22654 ng/mL. Interestingly, none of validated biomarkers could differentiate between low- and high-grade cancers. Very low levels of TGM4 (120 pg/mL) were detected by ELISA in blood serum, but could not differentiate between negative biopsy, prostate cancer or prostate inflammation. Significantly higher levels of TGM4 in blood serum (3.5-fold, P = 0.0004) were found for younger men (<40 y.o.) relative to older men (\u226570 y.o.). Our work may represent one of the most comprehensive studies on prostate cancer biomarkers in seminal plasma. Even though moderate performance of TGM4 as a single biomarker will unlikely result in its immediate use in the clinic, TGM4 may be further investigated in the distinct subtypes of prostate cancer and included into emerging multi-biomarker panels.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120873', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'University Health Network;', u'Mount Sinai Hospital;', u'Prostate Cancer Centre, Southern Alberta Institute of Urology']]
[u'Distinguishing Signal From Autofluorescence In Cryogenic Correlated Light And Electron Microscopy Of Mammalian Cells', ['Stephen D Carter', 'Shrawan K Mageswaran', 'Zachary J Farino', 'Joao I Mamede', 'Catherine M Oikonomou', 'Thomas J Hope', 'Zachary Freyberg', 'Grant J Jensen'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Cryogenic correlated light and electron microscopy (cryo-CLEM) is a valuable tool for studying biological processes in situ. In cryo-CLEM, a target protein of interest is tagged with a fluorophore and the location of the corresponding fluorescent signal is used to identify the structure in low-contrast but feature-rich cryo-EM images. To date, cryo-CLEM studies of mammalian cells have relied on very bright organic dyes or fluorescent protein tags concentrated in virus particles. Here we describe a method to expand the application of cryo-CLEM to cells harboring genetically-encoded fluorescent proteins. We discovered that a variety of mammalian cells exhibit strong punctate autofluorescence when imaged under cryogenic conditions (80K). Compared to fluorescent protein tags, these sources of autofluorescence exhibit a broader spectrum of fluorescence, which we exploited to develop a simple, robust approach to discriminate between the two. We validate this method in INS-1E cells using a mitochondrial marker, and apply it to study the ultrastructural variability of secretory granules in a near-native state within intact INS-1E pancreatic cells by high-resolution 3D electron cryotomography.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120642', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'University of Pittsburgh;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Optimal Growth Of Microbes On Mixed Carbon Sources', ['Xin Wang', 'Chao Tang'], u'March 26, 2017.', u"A classic problem in microbiology is that bacteria display two types of growth behavior when cultured on a mixture of two carbon sources: in certain mixtures the bacteria consume the two carbon sources sequentially (diauxie) and in other mixtures the bacteria consume both sources simultaneously (co-utilization). The search for the molecular mechanism of diauxie led to the discovery of the lac operon and gene regulation in general. However, why microbes would bother to have different strategies of taking up nutrients remained a mystery. Here we show that diauxie versus co-utilization can be understood from the topological features of the metabolic network. A model of optimal allocation of protein resources to achieve maximum growth quantitatively explains why and how the cell makes the choice when facing multiple carbon sources. Our work solves a long-standing puzzle and sheds light on microbes' optimal growth in different nutrient conditions.", u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120667', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Peking University']]
[u'SNP genotyping and parameter estimation in polyploids using low-coverage sequencing data', ['Paul Blischak', 'Laura Kubatko', 'Andrea Wolfe'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Motivation: Genotyping and parameter estimation using high throughput sequencing data are everyday tasks for population geneticists, \nbut methods developed for diploids are typically not applicable to polyploid taxa. This is due to their duplicated chromosomes, as well as the complex patterns of allelic exchange that often accompany whole genome duplication (WGD) events. For WGDs within a single lineage (autopolyploids), inbreeding can result from mixed mating and/or double reduction. For WGDs that involve hybridization (allopolyploids), alleles are typically inherited through independently segregating subgenomes. Results: We present two new models for estimating genotypes and population genetic parameters from genotype likelihoods for auto- and allopolyploids. We then use simulations to compare these models to existing approaches at varying depths of sequencing coverage and ploidy levels. These simulations show that our models typically have lower levels of estimation error for genotype and parameter estimates, especially when sequencing coverage is low. Finally, we also apply these models to two empirical data sets from the literature. Overall, we show that the use of genotype likelihoods is a promising approach for conducting population genomic inferences in polyploids. Availability: A C++ program, EBG, is provided to perform inference using the models we describe. It is available under the GNU GPLv3 on GitHub: https://github.com/pblischak/polyploid-genotyping.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120261', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Ohio State University']]
[u'Demographic variability in spruce-fir-beech forest stands in Europe', ['Guillaume Lagarrigues', 'Franck Jabot', 'Andreas Zingg', 'Jean-Claude Gegout', 'Matija Klopcic', 'Benoit Courbaud'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Many studies have predicted large changes in forest dynamics during the next century because of global\nwarming. Although empirical approaches and studies based on species distribution models provide\nvaluable information about future changes, they do not take into account biotic interactions and\nstand-level demographic variations. The objective of this study was to quantify the local and regional\nvariability of the growth and regeneration of three important forest species growing often in mixed\nstands in Europe (Picea abies (L.) Karst., Abies alba Mill., Fagus sylvatica), and to assess the climatic\ndrivers of this variability. For that purpose, we collected a large forestry data set compiling the long-\nterm (up to 100 years) evolution of species and size distributions for 163 stands across Europe, in the\nmesic distribution area of these forests. We used an inverse modeling approach, Approximate Bayesian\nComputation, to calibrate an individual-based model of forest dynamics on these data. Our study\nrevealed that the variability of the demographic processes was of the same order of magnitude between\nstands of a same forest as between different forests. Out of the three species and two demographic\nprocesses studied, only the fir growth strongly varied with temperature. Water availability did not\nexplain any demographic variation over stands. For these forests experiencing mesic conditions, local\nunmeasured factors seem therefore to have an influence at least as important as macro-environmental\nfactors on demographic variations. Efforts to include these important factors in projection scenarios\nshould therefore be prioritized. Besides, our study demonstrates that inverse modelling methods make\npossible the analysis of long-term forestry data. Such data should therefore be more widely compiled\nand used for ecological and global change research.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120675', [u'Ecology'], [u'None;', u'IRSTEA;', u'WSL;', u'AgroParisTech;', u'University of Ljubljana']]
[u'Mitochondrial replacement in an iPSC model of Leber Hereditary Optic Neuropathy.', ['Raymond Wong', 'Shiang Y Lim', 'Sandy SC Hung', 'Stacey Jackson', 'Shahnaz Khan', 'Nicole J Van Bergen', 'Elisabeth De Smit', 'Helena H Liang', 'Lisa S Kearns', 'Linda Clarke', 'David A Mackey', 'Alex Hewitt', 'Ian A Trounce', 'Alice Pebay'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Cybrid technology was used to replace Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) causing mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations from patient-specific fibroblasts with wildtype mtDNA, and mutation-free induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) were generated subsequently. Retinal ganglion cell (RGC) differentiation demonstrates increased cell death in LHON-RGCs and can be rescued in cybrid corrected RGCs.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120659', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Centre for Eye Research Australia;', u"O'Brien Institute Department, St Vincent s Institute of Medical Research;", u'Lions Eye Institute, University of Western Australia;', u'University of Tasmania']]
[u'Conditioning by Subthreshold Synaptic Input Changes the Characteristic Firing Pattern of CA3 Hippocampal Neurons', ['Saray Soldado Magraner', 'Federico Brandalise', 'Suraj Honnuraiah', 'Michael Pfeiffer', 'Urs Gerber', 'Rodney Douglas'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Neurons are typically classified according to their intrinsic firing patterns and distinctive morphological features. However, we found that the in vitro patterns of neurons in the CA3 field of the rat hippocampus change very significantly following a short period of low frequency subthreshold stimulation of their afferents. This effect could be reproduced by intrasomatic current pulses and was blocked by kinase inhibitors. Cluster analysis of the firing patterns before and after conditioning revealed systematic transitions towards adapting and intrinsic burst behaviours, irrespective of the initial pattern exhibited by the cell. Using a conductance-based model, we demonstrate that the observed transitions can be mediated by recruitment of calcium and M-type potassium conductances. We conclude that CA3 neurons adapt their conductance profile to the statistics of ongoing activity in their embedding circuits, making their intrinsic firing pattern not a constant signature, but rather the reflection of long-term circuit activity.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/084152', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Neuroinformatics Zurich;', u'Center for Learning and Memory, University of Texas at Austin;', u'Institute of Neuroinformatics, University of Zurich and ETH Zurich, Switzerland;', u'Brain Research Institute, University of Zurich, Switzerland']]
[u'Context-Dependent Attractor Dynamics in Visual Cortex', ['Satohiro Tajima', 'Kowa Koida', 'Chihiro I Tajima', 'Hideyuki Suzuki', 'Kazuyuki Aihara', 'Hidehiko Komatsu'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'The capacity for flexible sensory-action association in animals has been related to context-dependent attractor dynamics outside the sensory cortices. Here we report a line of evidence that flexibly modulated attractor dynamics during task switching are already present in the higher visual cortex in macaque monkeys. With a nonlinear decoding approach, we can extract the particular aspect of the neural population response that reflects the task-induced emergence of bistable attractor dynamics in a neural population, which could be obscured by standard unsupervised dimensionality reductions such as PCA. The dynamical modulation selectively increases the information relevant to task demands, indicating that such modulation is beneficial for perceptual decisions. A computational model that features nonlinear recurrent interaction among neurons with a task-dependent background input replicates the key properties observed in the experimental data. These results suggest that the context-dependent attractor dynamics involving the sensory cortex can underlie flexible perceptual abilities.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120725', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Geneva, Switzerland;', u'Toyohashi University of Technology, Japan;', u'The University of Tokyo, Japan;', u'Osaka University, Japan;', u'University of Tokyo, Japan;', u'National Institute for Physiological Sciences, Japan']]
[u'A Dynamic Bioenergetic Model For Coral-Symbiodinium Symbioses And Coral Bleaching As An Alternate Stable State', ['Ross Cunning', 'Erik B. Muller', 'Ruth D. Gates', 'Roger M. Nisbet'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Coral reef ecosystems owe their ecological success - and vulnerability to climate change - to the symbiotic metabolism of corals and Symbiodinium spp. The urgency to understand and predict the stability and breakdown of these symbioses (i.e., coral \u2018bleaching\u2019) demands the development and application of theoretical tools. Here, we develop a dynamic bioenergetic model of coral-Symbiodinium symbioses that demonstrates realistic steady-state patterns in coral growth and symbiont abundance across gradients of light, nutrients, and feeding. Furthermore, by including a mechanistic treatment of photo-oxidative stress, the model displays dynamics of bleaching and recovery that can be explained as transitions between alternate stable states. These dynamics reveal that \u2018healthy\u2019 and \u2018bleached\u2019 states correspond broadly to nitrogen- and carbon-limitation in the system, with transitions between them occurring as integrated responses to multiple environmental factors. Indeed, a suite of complex emergent behaviors reproduced by the model (e.g., bleaching is exacerbated by nutrients and attenuated by feeding) suggests it captures many important attributes of the system; meanwhile, its modular framework and open source R code are designed to facilitate further problem-specific development. We see significant potential for this modeling framework to generate testable hypotheses and predict integrated, mechanistic responses of corals to environmental change, with important implications for understanding the performance and maintenance of symbiotic systems.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120733', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii at Manoa;', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology, University of California, Santa Barbara']]
[u'Exome-Capture RNA-Sequencing Of Decade-Old Breast Cancers And Matched Decalcified Bone Metastases Identifies Clinically Actionable Targets', ['Nolan Priedigkeit', 'Rebecca J Watters', 'Peter C Lucas', 'Ahmed Basudan', 'Rohit Bhargava', 'William Horne', 'Jay K Kolls', 'Zhou Fang', 'Margaret Q Rosenzweig', 'Adam M Brufsky', 'Kurt R Weiss', 'Steffi Oesterreich', 'Adrian V Lee'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Bone metastases (BoM) are a significant cause of morbidity in patients with Estrogen-receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer, yet characterizations of human specimens are limited. In this study, exome-capture RNA-sequencing (ecRNA-seq) on aged (8-12 years), formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) and decalcified cancer specimens was first evaluated. Gene expression values and RNA-seq quality metrics from FFPE or decalcified tumor RNA showed minimal differences when compared to matched flash-frozen or non-decalcified tumors. ecRNA-seq was then applied on a longitudinal collection of 11 primary breast cancers and patient-matched de novo or recurrent BoM. BoMs harbored shifts to more Her2 and LumB PAM50 intrinsic subtypes, temporally influenced expression evolution, recurrently dysregulated prognostic gene sets and altered expression of clinically actionable genes, particularly in the CDK-Rb-E2F and FGFR-signaling pathways. Taken together, this study demonstrates the use of ecRNA-seq on decade-old and decalcified specimens and defines expression-based tumor evolution in long-term, estrogen-deprived metastases that may have immediate clinical implications.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120709', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Individual heterogeneity and capture-recapture models: what, why and how?', ['Olivier Gimenez', 'Emmanuelle Cam', 'Jean-Michel Gaillard'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Variation among and within individuals in life history traits is ubiquitous in natural populations. When affecting fitness-related traits like survival or reproduction, individual heterogeneity plays a key role in population dynamics and life history evolution. However, it is only recently that properly accounting for individual heterogeneity when studying population dynamics of free-ranging populations has been made possible through the development of appropriate statistical models. We aim here to review case studies of individual heterogeneity in the context of capture-recapture models for the estimation of population size and demographic parameters with imperfect detection. First, we define what individual heterogeneity means and clarify the terminology used in the literature. Second, we review the literature and illustrate why individual heterogeneity is used in capture-recapture studies by focusing on the detection of life-history trade-offs, including senescence. Third, we explain how to model individual heterogeneity in capture-recapture models and provide the code to fit these models (https://github.com/oliviergimenez/indhet_in_CRmodels). The distinction is made between situations in which heterogeneity is actually measured and situations in which part of the heterogeneity remains unobserved. Regarding the later, we outline recent developments of random-effect models and finite-mixture models. Eventually, we discuss several avenues for future research.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120683', [u'Ecology'], [u'CNRS;', u'Universite Toulouse 3, Paul Sabatier']]
[u'Genome Wide Association Analyses Based On Broadly Different Specifications For Prior Distributions, Genomic Windows, And Estimation Methods', ['Chunyu Chen', 'Juan P. Steibel', 'Robert J. Tempelman'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'A popular strategy (EMMAX) for genome wide association (GWA) analysis fits all marker effects as classical random effects (i.e., Gaussian prior) by which association for the specific marker of interest is inferred by treating its effect as fixed.  It seems more statistically coherent to specify all markers as sharing the same prior distribution, whether it is Gaussian, heavy-tailed (BayesA), or has variable selection specifications based on a mixture of, say, two Gaussian distributions (SSVS).   Furthermore, all such GWA inference should be formally based on posterior probabilities or test statistics as we present here, rather than merely being based on point estimates.   We compared these three broad categories of priors within a simulation study to investigate the effects of different degrees of skewness for quantitative trait loci (QTL) effects and numbers of QTL using 43,266 SNP marker genotypes from 922 Duroc-Pietrain F2 cross pigs.  Genomic regions were based either on single SNP associations, on non-overlapping windows of various fixed sizes (0.5 to 3 MB) or on adaptively determined windows that cluster the genome into blocks based on linkage disequilibrium (LD).  We found that SSVS and BayesA lead to the best receiver operating curve properties in almost all cases.  We also evaluated approximate marginal a posteriori (MAP) approaches to BayesA and SSVS as potential computationally feasible alternatives; however, MAP inferences were not promising, particularly due to their sensitivity to starting values.  We determined that it is advantageous to use variable selection specifications based on adaptively constructed genomic window lengths for GWA studies.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120808', [u'Genetics'], [u'Michigan State University, United States']]
[u'Replication Defective Viral Genomes Exploit A Cellular Pro-Survival Mechanism To Establish Viral Persistence', ['Jie Xu', 'Yan Sun', 'Yize Li', 'Gordon Ruthel', 'Susan R Weiss', 'Arjun Raj', 'Daniel Beiting', 'Carolina Lopez'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Replication defective viral genomes (DVGs) generated during virus replication are the primary triggers of antiviral immunity in many infections. However, it is also well established that DVGs facilitate viral persistence. Why and how DVGs interact with the host to achieve these two opposing functions remains unknown. We report that DVGs engage a MAVS-mediated TNF response that selectively protects a subpopulation of cells from death and promotes the establishment of persistent infections. We find that this phenotype results from the dual activities of TNF, which drives apoptosis of highly infected cells while extending the survival of cells enriched in DVGs. The pro-survival effect of TNF depends on the activity of the TNFR2/TRAF1 pathway that is regulated by MAVS signaling. These results identify TNF as a pivotal factor in determining cell fate during a viral infection and delineate a MAVS/TNFR2-mediated mechanism that drives the persistence of otherwise acute viruses.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120766', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Machine Learning-Based State-Of-The-Art Methods For The Classification Of RNA-Seq Data', ['Almas Jabeen', 'Nadeem Ahmad', 'Khalid Raza'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'RNA-Seq measures expression levels of several transcripts simultaneously. The identified reads can be gene, exon, or other region of interest. Various computational tools have been developed for studying pathogen or virus from RNA-Seq data by classifying them according to the attributes in several pre-defined classes, but still computational tools and approaches to analyze complex datasets are still lacking. The development of classification models is highly recommended for disease diagnosis and classification, disease monitoring at molecular level as well as researching for potential disease biomarkers. In this chapter, we are going to discuss various machine learning approaches for RNA-Seq data classification and their implementation. Advancements in bioinformatics, along with developments in machine learning based classification, would provide powerful toolboxes for classifying transcriptome information available through RNA-Seq data.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120592', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Jamia Millia Islamia']]
[u'Accurate Cytogenetic Biodosimetry Through Automation Of Dicentric Chromosome Curation And Metaphase Cell Selection', ['Jin Liu', 'Yaking Li', 'Ruth Wilkins', 'Farrah Flegal', 'Joan H. M. Knoll', 'Peter K. Rogan'], u'March 26, 2017.', u'Software to automate digital pathology relies on image quality and the rates of false positive and negative objects in these images. Cytogenetic biodosimetry detects dicentric chromosomes (DCs) that arise from exposure to ionizing radiation, and determines radiation dose received from the frequency of DCs. We present image segmentation methods to rank high quality cytogenetic images and eliminate suboptimal metaphase cell data based on novel quality measures.  Improvements in DC recognition increase the accuracy of dose estimates, by reducing false positive (FP) DC detection. A set of chromosome morphology segmentation methods selectively filtered out false DCs, arising primarily from extended prometaphase chromosomes, sister chromatid separation and chromosome fragmentation. This reduced FPs by 55% and was highly specific to the abnormal structures (\u226597.7%). Additional procedures were then developed to fully automate image review, resulting in 6 image-level filters that, when combined, selectively remove images with consistently unparsable or incorrectly segmented chromosome morphologies.  Overall, these filters can eliminate half of the FPs detected by manual image review. Optimal image selection and FP DCs are minimized by combining multiple feature based segmentation filters and a novel image sorting procedure based on the known distribution of chromosome lengths.  Consequently, the average dose estimation error was reduced from 0.4Gy to <0.2Gy with minimal manual review required. These image filtering approaches constitute a reliable and scalable solution that results in more accurate radiation dose estimates.', u'/content/early/2017/03/26/120410', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Western Ontario;', u'CytoGnomix Inc;', u'Health Canada;', u'Canadian Nuclear Laboratories']]
[u'Decoding directional genetic dependencies through orthogonal CRISPR/Cas screens', ['Michael Boettcher', 'Ruilin Tian', 'James Blau', 'Evan Markegard', 'David Wu', 'Anne Biton', 'Noah Zaitlen', 'Frank McCormick', 'Martin Kampmann', 'Michael T McManus'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'Genetic interaction studies are a powerful approach to identify functional interactions between genes.  This approach can reveal networks of regulatory hubs and connect uncharacterised genes to well-studied pathways. However, this approach has previously been limited to simple gene inactivation studies. Here, we present an orthogonal CRISPR/Cas-mediated genetic interaction approach that allows the systematic activation of one gene while simultaneously knocking out a second gene in the same cell. We have developed this concept into a quantitative and scalable combinatorial screening platform that allows the parallel interrogation of hundreds of thousands of genetic interactions. We demonstrate that the established platformworks robustly to uncover genetic interactions in human cancer cells and to interpret the direction of the flow of genetic information.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120170', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'De novo BK channel mutation causes epilepsy by regulating voltage-dependent, but not calcium-dependent, activation', ['Qing Kenneth Wang', 'Marjolein Willemsen', 'Xia Li', 'Sibylle Poschmann', 'Qiuyun Chen', 'Nelly Jouayed Oundjian', 'Francesca M. Snoeijen-Schouwenaars', 'Erik-Jan Kamsteeg'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological diseases. Here we report the first de novo mutation in the BK channel (p.N995S) that causes epilepsy in two independent families. The p.N995S mutant channel showed a markedly increased macroscopic potassium current mediated by increases in both channel open probability and channel open dwell time. Mutation p.N995S affects the voltage-activation pathway of BK channel, but does not affect the calcium sensitivity. Paxilline blocks potassium currents from both WT and mutant BK channels. We also identified two variants of unknown significance, p.E656A and p.N1159S in epilepsy patients. However, they do not affect BK channel functions, therefore, are unlikely to be a cause of disease. These results expand the BK channelopathy to a more common disease of epilepsy, suggest that the BK channel is a drug target for treatment of epilepsy, and highlight the importance of functional studies in the era of precision medicine.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120543', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Cleveland Clinic and Case Western Reserve University, United States;', u'Radboud University Medical Center, Netherlands;', u'Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China;', u'Children Hospital Dritter Orden, Germany;', u'Columbia University Medical Center, United States;', u'Academic Centre for Epileptology Kempenhaeghe, United States']]
[u'Alternative miRNAs: Human Sequences Misidentified As Plant miRNAs In Plant Studies And In Human Plasma', ['Kenneth W Witwer'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'A recent study reported that plant miRNAs found in human circulation provide evidence of cross kingdom RNAi. Analysis of two human blood plasma sequencing datasets was said to provide evidence for uptake of plant miRNAs into human plasma. The results were also purportedly inconsistent with contamination. However, a review of these data suggests that they do not support dietary xenomiRNA uptake, but instead confirm previous findings that detection of rare plant miRNAs in mammalian sequencing datasets is artifactual. Only one putative plant miRNA (peu-MIR2910) in this study mapped consistently above background, and this sequence is found in a human rRNA. Several other rarer but consistently mapped plant miRNAs also have 100% or near 100% matches to human transcripts or genomic sequences, and some do not map to plant genomes at all. These misidentified alternative miRNAs, including MIR2910 and MIR2911, emphasize   the need for rigorous filtering strategies when assessing possible xenomiRNAs.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120634', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine']]
[u'Evolutionarily Conserved Alternative Splicing Across Monocots', ['Wenbin Mei', 'Jon Lucas Boatwright', 'Guanqiao Feng', 'James C Schnable', 'William Brad Barbazuk'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'One difficulty when identifying and analyzing alternative splicing (AS) events in plants is distinguishing functional AS from splicing noise. One way to add confidence to the validity of a splice isoform is to observe that it is conserved across evolutionarily related species. We use a high throughput method to identify junction based conserved AS events from RNA-Seq data across nine plant species including: five grass monocots (maize, sorghum, rice, Brachpodium and foxtail millet), plus two non-grass monocots (bananan and African oil palm), the eudicot Arabidopsis and the basal angiosperm Amborella. In total, 9,804 conserved AS events within 19,235 genes were identified conserved between 2 or more species studied. In grasses containing large regions of conserved synteny, the frequency of conserved AS events is twice that observed for genes outside of conserved synteny blocks. In plant-specific RS and RS2Z subfamilies, we observe both conservation and divergence of AS events after the whole genome duplication in maize. In addition, plant-specific RS and RS2Z subfamilies are highly connected with R2R3-MYB in splicing networks. Furthermore, we discovered that the network based on genes harboring conserved AS events is enriched for phosphatases, kinases and ubiquitylation genes, which suggests that AS may participate in regulating signaling pathways. These data lay the foundation for identifying and studying conserved AS events in the monocots, particularly across grass species, and this conserved AS resource identifies an additional layer between genotype to phenotype that may impact future crop improvement efforts.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120469', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Florida;', u'University Of Nebraska']]
[u'UpSetR: An R Package For The Visualization Of Intersecting Sets And Their Properties', ['Jake R Conway', 'Alexander Lex', 'Nils Gehlenborg'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'Venn and Euler diagrams are a popular yet inadequate solution for quantitative visualization of set intersections. A scalable alternative to Venn and Euler diagrams for visualizing intersecting sets and their properties is needed. We developed UpSetR, an open source R package that employs a scalable matrix-based visualization to show intersections of sets, their size, and other properties. UpSetR is available at https://cran.r-project.org/package=UpSetR and released under the MIT License. A Shiny app is available at https://gehlenborglab.shinyapps.io/upsetr.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120600', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'University of Utah']]
[u'Brucella abortus Induces A Warburg Shift In Host Metabolism That Enhances Intracellular Replication Of The Pathogen', ['Daniel M. Czyz', 'Jonathan Willett', 'Sean Crosson'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'Intracellular bacterial pathogens exploit host cell resources to replicate and survive inside the host. Targeting these host systems is one promising approach to developing novel antimicrobials for intracellular infections. We show that human macrophage-like cells infected with Brucella abortus undergo a metabolic shift characterized by attenuated tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolism, altered mitochondrial morphology and increased lactate production. This shift to an aerobic glycolytic state resembles the Warburg effect, a change in energy production that is well-described in cancer cells, and also occurs in activated inflammatory cells. B. abortus efficiently uses lactic acid as a carbon and energy source and requires the ability to metabolize lactate for normal replication in human macrophage-like cells. We further demonstrate that chemical inhibitors of host glycolysis and lactate production do not affect in vitro growth of B. abortus in axenic culture, but decrease its replication in the intracellular niche. Our data support a model in which infection shifts host metabolism to a Warburg-like state, and B. abortus uses this change in metabolism to promote intracellular replication. Pharmacological perturbation of these features of host cell metabolism may be a useful strategy to inhibit infection by intracellular pathogens.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120527', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Using Mobile Phones As Acoustic Sensors For High-Throughput Surveillance Of Mosquito Ecology', ['Haripriya Mukundarajan', 'Felix J H Hol', 'Erica A Castillo', 'Cooper Newby', 'Manu Prakash'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'The lack of high-resolution field data on the abundance, species and distribution of mosquitoes is a serious impediment to effective control of mosquito-borne disease, yet the availability of high-throughput, low-cost surveillance techniques remains a bottleneck in generating such data. Here, we establish that commercially available mobile phones (including low-cost basic models) are a powerful tool to probe mosquito activity, by sensitively acquiring acoustic data on their species-specific wingbeat sounds, together with the time and location of the human-mosquito encounter. We survey a range of medically important mosquito species to quantitatively demonstrate how acoustic recordings supported by spatio-temporal metadata enable rapid, non-invasive species identification. As proof-of-concept, we carry out field demonstrations where minimally-trained users map local mosquito fauna using their personal phones. Thus, by leveraging the global mobile phone infrastructure with the potential for engaging citizen scientists, our approach enables continuous large-scale acquisition of mosquito surveillance data in resource-constrained areas.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120519', [u'Ecology'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Pattern Component Modeling: A Flexible Approach For Understanding The Representational Structure Of Brain Activity Patterns', ['Joern Diedrichsen', 'Atsushi Yokoi', 'Spencer Arbuckle'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'Representational models specify how complex patterns of neural activity relate to visual stimuli, motor actions, or abstract thoughts. Here we review pattern component modeling (PCM), a practical Bayesian approach for evaluating such models. Similar to encoding models, PCM evaluates the ability of models to predict novel brain activity patterns. In contrast to encoding models, however, the activity of individual voxels across conditions (activity profiles) are not directly fitted. Rather, PCM integrates over all possible activity profiles and computes the marginal likelihood of the data under the activity profile distribution specified by the representational model. By using an analytical expression for the marginal likelihood, PCM allows the fitting of flexible representational models, in which the relative strength and form of the encoded features can be estimated from the data. We discuss here a number of different forms with which such flexible representational models can be specified, and how models of different complexity can be compared. We then provide a number of practical examples from our recent work in motor control, ranging from fixed models to more complex non-linear models of brain representations. The code for the fitting and cross-validation of representational models is provided in a open-source Matlab toolbox.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120584', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Western University;', u'Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Japan;', u'Brain and Mind Institute, Western University, Canada']]
[u'Semisynthetic pH-Sensitive Fluorophores For Imaging Exocytosis And Endocytosis', ['Magalie Martineau', 'Agila Somasundaram', 'Jonathan B Grimm', 'Todd D Gruber', 'Daniel Choquet', 'Justin W Taraska', 'Luke D Lavis', 'David Perrais'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'The GFP-based superecliptic pHluorin (SEP) enables detection of exocytosis and endocytosis, but its performance has not been duplicated in red fluorescent protein scaffolds. Here we describe semisynthetic pH-sensitive protein conjugates that match the properties of SEP. Conjugation to genetically encoded self-labeling tags or antibodies allows visualization of both exocytosis and endocytosis, constituting new bright sensors for these key steps of synaptic transmission.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/118505', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Interdisciplinary Institute for Neuroscience;', u'National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, US National Institutes of Health;', u'Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Fast functional annotation of metagenomic shotgun data by DNA alignment to a microbial gene catalog', ['Stuart M. Brown', 'Yuhan Hao', 'Hao Chen', 'Bobby Peter Laungani', 'Thahmina A. Ali', 'Changsu Dong', 'Carlos Lijeron', 'Baekdoo Kim', 'Konstantinos Krampis', 'Zhiheng Pei'], u'March 25, 2017.', u'Background: Metagenomic shotgun sequencing is becoming increasingly popular to study microbes associated with the human body and in environmental samples. A key goal of shotgun metagenomic sequencing is to identify gene functions and metabolic pathways that differ between samples or conditions. However, current methods to identify function in the large number of reads in a highthroughput sequence data file rely on the computationally intensive and low stringency approach of mapping each read to a generic database of proteins or reference microbial genomes. Results: We have developed an alternative analysis approach for shotgun metagenomic sequence data utilizing Bowtie2 DNA-DNA alignment of the reads to a database of well annotated genes compiled from human microbiome data. This method is rapid, and provides high stringency matches (>90% DNA sequence identity) of shotgun metagenomics reads to genes with annotated functions. We demonstrate the use of this method with synthetic data, Human Microbiome Project shotgun metagenomic data sets, and data from a study of liver disease. Differentially abundant KEGG gene functions can be detected in these experiments. Conclusions: Functional annotation of metagenomic shotgun sequence reads can be accomplished by rapid DNA-DNA matching to a custom database of microbial sequences using the Bowtie2 sequence alignment tool. This method can be used for a variety of microbiome studies and allows functional analysis which is otherwise computationally demanding. This rapid annotation method is freely available as a Galaxy workflow within a Docker image.', u'/content/early/2017/03/25/120402', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'NYU School of Medicine;', u'Hunter College;', u'NYU College of Medicine']]
[u'STAG-CNS: An Order-Aware Conserved Non-coding Sequences Discovery Tool For Arbitrary Numbers of Species', ['Xianjun Lai', 'Sairam Behera', 'Zhikai Liang', 'Yanli Lu', 'Jitender S Deogun', 'James Schnable'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'One method for identifying noncoding regulatory regions of a genome is to quantify rates of divergence between related species, as functional sequence will generally diverge more slowly. Most approaches to identifying these conserved noncoding sequences (CNS) based on alignment have had relatively large minimum sequence lengths (15 base pair) compared to the average length of known transcription factor binding sites. To circumvent this constraint, STAG-CNS integrates data from the promoters of conserved orthologous genes in three or more species simultaneously. Using data from up to six grass species made it possible to identify conserved sequences as short at 9 base pairs with FDP < 0.05. These CNS exhibit greater overlap with open chromatin regions identified using DNase I hypersensitivity, and are enriched in the promoters of genes involved in transcriptional regulation. STAG-CNS was further employed to characterize loss of conserved noncoding sequences associated with retained duplicate genes from the ancient maize polyploidy. Genes with fewer retained CNS show lower overall expression, although this bias is more apparent in samples of complex organ systems containing many cell types, suggesting CNS loss may correspond to a reduced number of expression contexts rather than lower expression levels across the entire ancestral expression domain.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120428', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Nebraska-Lincoln;', u'Sichuan Agricultural University']]
[u'RNA viruses drove adaptive introgressions between Neanderthals and modern humans', ['David Enard', 'Dmitri A Petrov'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Neanderthals and modern humans came in contact with each other and interbred at least twice in the past 100,000 years. Such contact and interbreeding likely led both to the transmission of viruses novel to either species and to the exchange of adaptive alleles that provided resistance against the same viruses. Here, we show that viruses were responsible for dozens of adaptive introgressions between Neanderthals and modern humans. We identify RNA viruses, specifically lentiviruses and orthomyxoviruses, as likely drivers of introgressions from Neanderthals to Europeans. Our results imply that many introgressions between Neanderthals and modern humans were adaptive, and that host genetic variation can be used to understand ancient viral epidemics, potentially providing important insights regarding current and future epidemics.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120477', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Adaptation, Specialization, and Coevolution within Phytobiomes', ['David A Baltrus'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Growth patterns of individual plants and evolutionary trajectories of plant communities are intimately linked with and are critically affected by host-associated microbiomes. Research across systems has begun to shed light on how these phytobiomes are established and under laboratory and natural conditions, and have cultivated hope that a better understanding of the governing principles for host-microbe interactions can guide attempts to engineer microbiomes to boost agricultural yields. One important, yet relatively understudied, parameter in regards to phytobiome membership is the degree to which specialization and coevolution between plant species and microbial strains structures these communities. In this article, I provide an broad overview about current knowledge concerning mechanisms enabling adaptation and specialization of phytobiome communties to host plants as well as the potential for plants themselves to recruit and cultivate interactions with beneficial microbes. I further explore the possibility of host-beneficial microbe coevolution and suggest interactions that could promote the evolution of such close-knit partnerships. It is my hope that this overview will encourage future experiments that can begin to fill in this black box of ecological and evolutionary interactions across phytobiomes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120493', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Arizona']]
[u'The mismatch in distributions of vertebrates and the plants that they disperse', ['Jacob W. Dittel', 'Christopher M Moore', 'Stephen Vander Wall'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Little is known about how mutualistic interactions affect the distribution of species richness on broad geographic scales. It has been predicted that the richness of species involved in obligate mutualisms should be positively associated across their range. Whereas, if mutualisms are facilitative, the distribution of mutualists should be correlated with other factors. This study is the first study to compare the co-distribution of mutualist species in general and seed dispersal mutualisms specifically. We used geographic distributions of plant and animal mutualists to investigate the co-distribution and patterns of seed dispersal mutualisms. We found the mutualism between dispersers and plants does not account for the distribution of either group. In fact, there is a mismatch of richness between plants and the animals that disperse their seeds. Environmental factors are better predictors of both animal distribution and seed dispersal mutualisms across North America.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120485', [u'Ecology'], [u'Oregon State University;', u'Case Western Reserve University;', u'University of Nevada, Reno']]
[u'Intersubject brain network organization during dynamic anxious anticipation', ['Mahshid Najafi', 'Joshua Kinnison', 'Luiz Pessoa'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'How do large-scale brain networks reorganize during the waxing and waning of anxious anticipation? Here, threat was dynamically modulated during functional MRI as two circles slowly meandered on the screen; if they touched, an unpleasant shock was delivered. We developed a novel intersubject network analysis method, which allows the investigation of network-level properties "across brains," and sought to determine how network properties changed during periods of approach (circles moving closer) and periods of retreat (circles moving apart). Dynamic threat altered network cohesion across the salience, executive, and task-negative networks, as well as subcortical regions. Functional connections between subcortical regions and the salience network also increased during approach vs. retreat, including the putative periaqueductal gray, habenula, and amygdala, showing that the latter is involved under conditions of relatively prolonged and uncertain threat (the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis was observed during both approach and retreat). Together, our findings unraveled dynamic properties of large-scale networks across participants while threat levels varied continuously, and demonstrate the potential of characterizing emotional processing at the level of distributed networks.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120451', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Maryland']]
[u'Enterovirus-A76 of South-East Asian ancestry in a Captive Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) in Jos, Nigeria', ['Arthur Obinna Oragwa', 'Uwem Etop George', 'Temitope Oluwasegun Cephas Faleye', 'Moses Olubusuyi Adewumi', 'Johnson Adekunle Adeniji'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'We recently detected EV-A119 and EV-B111 (previously shown to co-circulate between nonhuman primates (NHPs) and humans) in Nigerian children diagnosed with acute flaccid paralysis (AFP). This study was designed to investigate and catalogue EVs present in captive NHPs in Nigeria. \nTwenty-seven fecal samples collected from captive NHPs in a Wild Life Park and Zoological garden at Jos, Nigeria in April 2016 were analyzed in this study.  Samples were resuspended in a phosphate buffered saline (PBS)/chloroform mixture, and the clarified supernatant was subjected to RNA extraction, cDNA synthesis, a Panenterovirus 5I-UTR assay, and three different enterovirus VP1 snPCR assays. All amplicons from the snPCR assays were sequenced, and enteroviruses identified using the enterovirus genotyping tool and phylogenetic analysis. \nEight (29.63%) (two each from Chimpanzees, Patas Monkey, Mona Monkey and Baboon) of the 27 samples were positive for the 5I-UTR assay. One (3.70%) of the 27 samples was positive for the enterovirus VP1 snPCR assays in addition to its positivity by 5I-UTR assay. The same sample happens to be one of the two samples from Chimpanzees that tested positive for the 5I-UTR assay, and it was subsequently identified as EV-A76 of South-East Asia ancestry.\nThis study documents the first recorded attempt to detect and identify enteroviruses in NHPs in Nigeria. It also reports the first detection and identification of EV-A76 in Nigeria and particularly in a NHP. It is of utmost importance that the enterovirus VP1 assays be improved to enable detection of EVs that have been detected in NHPs but yet to be described in humans.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120501', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Jos, Jos, Plateau State, Nigeria;', u'University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria;', u'Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti, State, Nigeria;', u'WHO National Polio Laboratory, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria']]
[u'Differentially regulated ortholog analysis demonstrates that early transcriptional responses to cold are more conserved in Andropogoneae', ['Yang Zhang', 'Daniel W. Ngu', 'Daniel Carvalho', 'Zhikai Liang', 'Yumou Qiu', 'Rebecca L. Roston', 'James C. Schnable'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Cross-species comparisons of transcriptional regulation have the potential to identify functionally constrained transcriptional regulation and genes for which a change in transcriptional regulation correlates with a change in phenotype. Conventional differential gene expression analysis and a different approach based on identifying differentially regulated orthologs (DROs) are compared using paired time course gene expression data from two species which respond similarly to cold \u2013 maize (Zea mays) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor). Both approaches suggest that, for genes conserved at syntenic positions for millions of years, the majority of cold responsive transcriptional regulation is species specific, although initial transcriptional responses to cold appear to be more conserved between the two species than later responses. In maize, the promoters of genes with both species specific and conserved transcriptional responses to cold tend to contain more micrococcal nuclease hypersensitive sites in their promoters, a proxy for open chromatin. However, genes with conserved patterns of transcriptional regulation between the two species show lower ratios of nonsynonymous to synonymous substitutions consistent with this population of genes experiencing stronger purifying selection. We hypothesize that cold responsive transcriptional regulation is a fast evolving and largely neutral molecular phenotype for the majority of genes in Andropogoneae, while a smaller core set of genes involved in perceiving and responding to cold stress are subject to functionally constrained cold responsive regulation.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120303.1', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Nebraska-Lincoln;', u'Department of Agronomy and Horticulture;', u'Department of Statistics, University of Nebraska;', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Nebraska']]
[u'Three-dimensional actin-based protrusions of migrating neutrophils are intrinsically lamellar and facilitate direction changes', ['Lillian K Fritz-Laylin', 'Megan Riel-Mehan', 'Bi-Chang Chen', 'Samuel J Lord', 'Thomas D Goddard', 'Thomas E Ferrin', 'Graham Johnson', 'Eric Betzig', 'R. Dyche Mullins'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Leukocytes and other amoeboid cells change shape as they move, forming highly dynamic, actin-filled pseudopods. Although we understand much about the architecture and dynamics of thin lamellipodia made by slow-moving cells on flat surfaces, conventional light microscopy lacks the spatial and temporal resolution required to track complex pseudopods of cells moving in three dimensions. We therefore employed lattice light sheet microscopy to perform three-dimensional, time-lapse imaging of neutrophil-like HL-60 cells crawling through collagen matrices. To analyze three-dimensional pseudopods we: (i) developed fluorescent probe combinations that distinguish cortical actin from dynamic, pseudopod-forming actin networks, and (ii) adapted molecular visualization tools from structural biology to render and analyze complex cell surfaces. Surprisingly, three-dimensional pseudopods turn out to be composed of thin (<0.75 \u03bcm), flat sheets that sometimes interleave to form rosettes. Their laminar nature is not templated by an external surface, but likely reflects a linear arrangement of regulatory molecules. Although we find that pseudopods are dispensable for three-dimensional locomotion, their elimination dramatically decreases the frequency of cell turning, and pseudopod dynamics increase when cells change direction, highlighting the important role pseudopods play in pathfinding.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120444', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'Academia Sinica;', u'Allen Institute for Cell Science;', u'Janelia Farm Research Campus']]
[u'Disparate patterns of thermal adaptation between life stages in temperate vs. tropical populations of Drosophila melanogaster', ['Brent L Lockwood', 'Tarun Gupta', 'Rosemary Scavotto'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Ectotherms may be threatened by increasing global temperatures, particularly if thermal adaptation is slower than climate change, as recent work has suggested. But estimates of evolutionary rates depend on the strength of natural selection, which may vary across life stages. Thus, depending on the life stage examined, comparisons of thermal tolerance among populations and species may yield inaccurate estimates of the rate at which thermal tolerance can evolve. Here we compared acute thermal tolerance in two life stages, adults and embryos, among populations of Drosophila melanogaster that span a broad range of thermal habitats across temperate sites in eastern North America and tropical sites around the globe. We report no variation in adult thermal tolerance among populations across this broad geographic range. In contrast, embryonic thermal tolerance was significantly higher in individuals from tropical sites compared to temperate sites. Embryonic thermal tolerance was similar among temperate populations, but among tropical populations embryonic thermal tolerance was positively correlated with maximum habitat temperature. We further report that embryos live closer to their upper thermal limits than adults; i.e., thermal safety margins are smaller for embryos than adults. F1 hybrid embryos from crosses between temperate and tropical populations had embryonic thermal tolerance that matched that of tropical embryos, suggesting phenotypic dominance of heat-tolerant alleles. Together our findings demonstrate that thermal tolerance readily evolves in the earliest and most thermally sensitive life stage and suggest that thermal selection may be more limited in the adult life stage. Disparate patterns of embryonic thermal tolerance between temperate and tropical populations may be the result of regional differences in seasonality.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120360', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The University of Vermont']]
[u'PHATE: A Dimensionality Reduction Method for Visualizing Trajectory Structures in High-Dimensional Biological Data', ['Kevin R. Moon', 'David van Dijk', 'Zheng Wang', 'William Chen', 'Matthew J Hirn', 'Ronald R Coifman', 'Natalia B Ivanova', 'Guy Wolf', 'Smita Krishnaswamy'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'In recent years, dimensionality reduction methods have become critical for visualization, exploration, and interpretation of high-throughput, high-dimensional biological data, as they enable the extraction of major trends in the data while discarding noise. However, biological data contains a type of predominant structure that is not preserved in commonly used methods such as PCA and tSNE, namely, branching progression structure. This structure, which is often non-linear, arises from underlying biological processes such as differentiation, graded responses to stimuli, and population drift, which generate cellular (or population) diversity. We propose a novel, affinity-preserving embedding called PHATE (Potential of Heat-diffusion for Affinity-based Trajectory Embedding), designed explicitly to preserve progression structure in data.\n\nPHATE provides a denoised, two or three-dimensional visualization of the complete branching trajectory structure in high-dimensional data. It uses heat-diffusion processes, which naturally denoise the data, to compute cell-cell affinities. Then, PHATE creates a diffusion-potential geometry by free-energy potentials of these processes. This geometry captures high-dimensional trajectory structures, while enabling a natural embedding of the intrinsic data geometry. This embedding accurately visualizes trajectories and data distances, without requiring strict assumptions typically used by path-finding and tree-fitting algorithms, which have recently been used for pseudotime orderings or tree-renderings of cellular data. Furthermore, PHATE supports a wide range of data exploration tasks by providing interpretable overlays on top of the visualization. We show that such overlays can emphasize and reveal trajectory end-points, branch points and associated split-decisions, progression-forming variables (e.g., specific genes), and paths between developmental events in cellular state-space. We demonstrate PHATE on single-cell RNA sequencing and mass cytometry data pertaining to embryoid body differentiation, IPSC reprogramming, and hematopoiesis in the bone marrow. We also demonstrate PHATE on non-single cell data including single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) measurements of European populations, and 16s sequencing of gut microbiota.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120378', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Yale University;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Yale School of Medicine;', u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Regulatory remodeling in the allo-tetraploid frog Xenopus laevis', ['Dei M. Elurbe', 'Sarita S. Paranjpe', 'Georgios Georgiou', 'Ila van Kruijsbergen', 'Ozren Bogdanovic', 'Romain Gibeaux', 'Rebecca Heald', 'Ryan Lister', 'Martijn A. Huynen', 'Simon J. van Heeringen', 'Gert Jan C. Veenstra'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Background: Genome duplication has played a pivotal role in the evolution of many eukaryotic lineages, including the vertebrates. The most recent vertebrate genome duplication is that in Xenopus laevis, resulting from the hybridization of two closely related species about 17 million years ago. However, little is known about the consequences of this duplication at the level of the genome, the epigenome and gene expression.  Results: Of the parental subgenomes, S chromosomes have degraded faster than L chromosomes ever since the genome duplication and until the present day. Deletions appear to have the largest effect on pseudogene formation and loss of regulatory regions. Deleted regions are enriched for long DNA repeats and the flanking regions have high alignment scores, suggesting that non-allelic homologous recombination (NAHR) has played a significant role in the loss of DNA. To assess innovations in the X. laevis subgenomes we examined p300 (Ep300)-bound enhancer peaks that are unique to one subgenome and absent from X. tropicalis. A large majority of new enhancers are comprised of transposable elements. Finally, to dissect early and late events following interspecific hybridization, we examined the epigenome and the enhancer landscape in X. tropicalis x X. laevis hybrid embryos. Strikingly, young X. tropicalis DNA transposons are derepressed and recruit p300 in hybrid embryos.  Conclusions: The results show that erosion of X. laevis genes and functional regulatory elements is associated with repeats and NAHR, and furthermore that young repeats have also contributed to the p300-bound regulatory landscape following hybridization and whole genome duplication.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120212', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Radboud University Medical Center, CMBI, RIMLS, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Radboud University, Department of Molecular Developmental Biology, RIMLS, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Genomics and Epigenetics Division, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Sydney, Australia;', u'Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, CA 94720, Berkeley, USA;', u'Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Research and ARC Centre of Excellence in Plant Energy Biology']]
[u'Diverse genome organization following 13 independent mesopolyploid events in Brassicaceae contrasts with convergent patterns of gene retention', ['Terezie Mandakova', 'Zheng Li', 'Michael Barker', 'Martin Lysak'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Hybridization and polyploidy followed by genome-wide diploidization significantly impacted the diversification of land plants. The ancient At-\u03b1 whole-genome duplication (WGD) preceded the diversification of crucifers (Brassicaceae). Some genera and tribes also experienced younger, mesopolyploid WGDs concealed by subsequent genome diploidization. Here we tested if multiple base chromosome numbers originated due to genome diploidization after independent mesopolyploid WGDs and how diploidization impacted post-polyploid gene retention. Sixteen species representing ten Brassicaceae tribes were analyzed by comparative chromosome painting and/or whole-transcriptome analysis of gene age distributions and phylogenetic analyses of gene duplications. Overall, we found evidence for at least 13 independent mesopolyploidies followed by different degrees of diploidization across the Brassicaceae. New mesotetraploid events were uncovered for tribes Anastaticeae, Iberideae and Schizopetaleae, and mesohexaploid WGDs for Cochlearieae and Physarieae. In contrast, we found convergent patterns of gene retention and loss among these independent WGDs. Our combined analyses of Brassicaceae genomic data indicate that the extant chromosome number variation in many plant groups, and especially polybasic but monophyletic taxa, can result from clade-specific genome duplications followed by diploidization. Our observation of parallel gene retention and loss across multiple independent WGDs provides one of the first multi-species tests that post-polyploid genome evolution is predictable.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120048', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Masaryk University;', u'University of Arizona']]
[u'Sex-specific inhibition and stimulation of worker-reproductive transition in a termite', ['Qian Sun', 'Kenneth F Haynes', 'Jordan D Hampton', 'Xuguo Zhou'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'In social insects, the postembryonic development of individuals exhibits strong phenotypic plasticity in response to environment, thus generating the caste system. Different from eusocial Hymenoptera, in which queens dominate reproduction and inhibit worker fertility, the primary reproductive caste in termites (kings and queens) can be replaced by neotenic reproductives derived from functionally sterile individuals. Feedback regulation of nestmate differentiation into reproductives has been suggested, but the sex-specificity remains inconclusive. In the eastern subterranean termite, Reticulitermes flavipes, we tested the hypothesis that neotenic reproductives regulate worker-reproductive transition in a sex-specific manner. With this R. flavipes system, we demonstrate a sex-specific regulatory mechanism with both inhibitory and stimulatory functions. Neotenics inhibit workers of the same sex from differentiating into additional reproductives, but stimulate workers of the opposite sex to undergo this transition. Furthermore, this process is not affected by the presence of soldiers. Our results highlight the extraordinary reproductive plasticity of termites in response to social cues, and provide insights into the regulation of reproductive division of labour in a hemimetabolous social insect.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120352', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University of Kentucky']]
[u'Towards the human cellular microRNAome', ['Matthew N McCall', 'Min-Sik Kim', 'Mohammed Adil', 'Arun H Patil', 'Yin Lu', 'Christopher J Mitchell', 'Pamela Leal-Rojas', 'Jinchong Xu', 'Manoj Kumar', 'Valina L Dawson', 'Ted M Dawson', 'Alexander S Baras', 'Avi Z Rosenberg', 'Dan E Arking', 'Kathleen H Burns', 'Akhilesh Pandey', 'Marc Halushka'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'microRNAs are short RNAs that serve as master regulators of gene expression and are essential components of normal development as well as modulators of disease. MicroRNAs generally act cell autonomously and thus their localization to specific cell types is needed to guide our understanding of microRNA activity. Current tissue-level data has caused considerable confusion and comprehensive cell-level data does not yet exist. Here we establish the landscape of human cell-specific microRNA expression. This project evaluated 8 billion small RNA-seq reads from 46 primary cell types, 42 cancer or immortalized cell lines, and 26 tissues.  It identified both specific and ubiquitous patterns of expression that strongly correlate with adjacent super-enhancer activity. Analysis of unaligned RNA reads uncovered 207 unknown minor strand (passenger) microRNAs of known microRNA loci and 2,632 novel putative microRNA loci.  Although cancer cell lines generally recapitulated the expression patterns of matched primary cells, their isomiR sequence families exhibited increased disorder suggesting Drosha and Dicer-dependent microRNA processing variability. Cell-specific patterns of microRNA expression were used to deconvolute variable cellular composition of adipose tissue samples highlighting one use of this cell-specific microRNA expression data. Characterization of cellular microRNA expression across a wide variety of cell types provides a new understanding of this critical regulatory RNA species.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120394', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Rochester Medical Center;', u'Kyung Hee University;', u'Abdur Rahman University;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Ginkgo Bioworks;', u'Universidad de La Frontera;', u'Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions']]
[u'STAR-Fusion: Fast and Accurate Fusion Transcript Detection from RNA-Seq', ['Brian Haas', 'Alexander Dobin', 'Nicolas Stransky', 'Bo Li', 'Xiao Yang', 'Timothy Tickle', 'Asma Bankapur', 'Carrie Ganote', 'Thomas Doak', 'Natalie Pochet', 'Jing Sun', 'Catherine Wu', 'Thomas Gingeras', 'Aviv Regev'], u'March 24, 2017.', u"Motivation: Fusion genes created by genomic rearrangements can be potent drivers of tumorigenesis. However, accurate identification of functionally fusion genes from genomic sequencing requires whole genome sequencing, since exonic sequencing alone is often insufficient. Transcriptome sequencing provides a direct, highly effective alternative for capturing molecular evidence of expressed fusions in the precision medicine pipeline, but current methods tend to be inefficient or insufficiently accurate, lacking in sensitivity or predicting large numbers of false positives. Here, we describe STAR-Fusion, a method that is both fast and accurate in identifying fusion transcripts from RNA-Seq data.\nResults: We benchmarked STAR-Fusion's fusion detection accuracy using both simulated and genuine Illumina paired-end RNA-Seq data, and show that it has superior performance compared to popular alternative fusion detection methods.\nAvailability and implementation: STAR-Fusion is implemented in Perl, freely available as open source software at http://star-fusion.github.io, and supported on Linux.", u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120295', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Broad Institute;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Blueprint Medicines;', u'University of California at Berkeley;', u'Grail, Inc.;', u'Indiana University;', u'Brigham and Womens;', u'Dana Farber']]
[u'Population regulation in microbial consortia using dual feedback control', ['Xinying Ren', 'Ania-Ariadna Baetica', 'Anandh Swaminathan', 'Richard M Murray'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'An ongoing area of study in synthetic biology has\nbeen the design and construction of synthetic circuits that maintain homeostasis at the population level. Here, we are interested in designing a synthetic control circuit that regulates the total cell population and the relative ratio between cell strains in a culture containing two different cell strains. We\nhave developed a dual feedback control strategy that uses two separate control loops to achieve the two functions respectively. By combining both of these control loops, we have created a population regulation circuit where both the total population size and relative cell type ratio can be set by reference signals.\nThe dynamics of the regulation circuit show robustness and adaptation to perturbations in cell growth rate and changes in cell numbers. The control architecture is general and could\napply to any organism for which synthetic biology tools for quorum sensing, comparison between outputs, and growth control are available.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120253', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Caltech']]
[u'Generation Of A Double Binary Transgenic Zebrafish Model To Study Myeloid Gene Regulation In Response To Melanocyte Transformation', ['Amy Kenyon', 'Daria Gavriouchkina', 'Giorgio Napolitani', 'Vincenzo Cerundolo', 'Tatjana Sauka-Spengler'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'A complex network of inflammation succeeds somatic cell transformation and malignant disease. Immune cells and their associated molecules are responsible for detecting and eliminating cancer cells as they establish themselves as the precursors of a tumour. By the time a patient has a detectable solid tumour, cancer cells have escaped the initial immune response mechanisms. To date, no model exists for studying the underlying mechanisms that govern the initial phase of the immune response when transformed cells become precursors of cancer. Here we describe the development of a double binary zebrafish model designed for exploring regulatory programming of the myeloid cells as they respond to oncogenic transformed melanocytes. A hormone-inducible binary system allows for temporal control of different Ras-oncogenes (NRasK61Q, HRasG12V, KRasG12V) expression in melanocytes, enabling analysis of melanocyte transformation and melanoma initiation. This model was coupled to binary cell-specific biotagging models allowing in vivo biotinylation and subsequent isolation of macrophage or neutrophil nuclei for regulatory profiling of their active transcriptomes. Nuclear transcriptional profiling of neutrophils, performed for the first time as they respond to the earliest precursors of melanoma in vivo, revealed an intricate landscape of regulatory factors that may promote progression to melanoma including fgf1, fgf6, cathepsin H, cathepsin L, galectin 1 and galectin 3. The model presented here provides a powerful platform to study the myeloid response to the earliest precursors of melanoma.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/118620', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'A personalized, multi-omics approach identifies genes involved in cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure', ['Marc Santolini', 'Milagros C Romay', 'Clara L Yukhtman', 'Christoph D Rau', 'Shuxun Ren', 'Jeffrey J Saucerman', 'Jessica J Wang', 'James N Weiss', 'Yibin Wang', 'Aldons J Lusis', 'Alain Karma'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Identifying genes underlying complex diseases remains a major challenge. Biomarkers are typically identified by comparing average levels of gene expression in populations of healthy and diseased individuals. However, genetic diversities may undermine the effort to uncover genes with significant but individual contribution to the spectrum of disease phenotypes within a population. Here we leverage the Hybrid Mouse Diversity Panel (HMDP), a model system of 100+ genetically diverse strains of mice exhibiting different complex disease traits, to develop a personalized differential gene expression analysis that is able to identify disease-associated genes missed by traditional population-wide methods. The population-level and personalized approaches are compared for isoproterenol(ISO)-induced cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure using pre- and post-ISO gene expression and phenotypic data. The personalized approach identifies 36 Fold-Change (FC) genes predictive of the severity of cardiac hypertrophy, and enriched in genes previously associated with cardiac diseases in human. Strikingly, these genes are either up- or down-regulated at the individual strain level, and are therefore missed when averaging at the population level. Using insights from the gene regulatory network and protein-protein interactome, we identify Hes1 as a strong candidate FC gene. We validate its role by showing that even a mild knockdown of 20-40% of Hes1 can induce a dramatic reduction of hypertrophy by 80-90% in rat neonatal cardiac cells. These findings emphasize the importance of a personalized approach to identify causal genes underlying complex diseases as well as to develop personalized therapies.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120329', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Northeastern University;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'University of Virginia']]
[u'Optimising 3D scaffold for otic neural progenitor differentiation', ['Kamolchanok Ngamkham', 'Marcelo N Rivolta', 'Giuseppe Battaglia'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Hearing loss is a condition highly prevalent worldwide. It affects people\nof a broad age range since the causes and risk factors are varied. At present, some types of hearing impairments have a palliative treatment whereas some, especially for those where otic neurons are damaged, cannot be properly treated. Recent findings had shown it possible to use human embryonic stem cell-derived otic neural progenitors (ONPs) as a new mode of treating hearing loss caused by damage to the spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs). To improve the efficiency and overcome some limitations of this potential treatment, we have applied principles of tissue engineering which involves an interaction between cells and an extracellular matrix mimicking scaffold. Here, we describe the influence of poly(l-lactic acid)(PLLA) aligned fibres on ONP cell morphology, proliferation, neuronal differentiation and establishment of neural polarity under both progenitor and neuralising conditions. The results show that most of ONPs on aligned fibres exhibited bipolar morphology and extended their neurites along the major fibre axis. Their proliferation was lower than those in 2D culture but the differentiation of ONPs on aligned fibres was significantly enhanced in both progenitor and neuralising conditions as indicated by the fluorescence intensity and number of cells that were positive for neuronal markers (beta-tubulin III and NF200) and the expression pattern of spiral ganglion molecular markers (MMP13, NPR2 and NTNG1). Moreover, axonal and dendritic markers (TAU and MAP2 respectively) were also induced after 14 days in culture.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120279', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'University College London;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'Neuronal brain region-specific DNA methylation and chromatin accessibility are associated with neuropsychiatric disease heritability', ['Lindsay Rizzardi', 'Peter Hickey', 'Varenka Rodriguez', 'Rakel Tryggvadottir', 'Colin Callahan', 'Adrian Idrizi', 'Kasper Hansen', 'Andrew P Feinberg'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Epigenetic modifications confer stable transcriptional patterns in the brain, and both normal and abnormal brain function involve specialized brain regions, yet little is known about brain region-specific epigenetic differences. Here, we compared prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate gyrus, hippocampus and nucleus accumbens from 6 individuals, performing whole genome bisulfite sequencing for DNA methylation. In addition, we have performed ATAC-seq for chromatin accessibility, and RNA-seq for gene expression in the nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex from 6 additional individuals. We found substantial neuron- and brain region-specific differences in both DNA methylation and chromatin accessibility which were largely non-overlapping, and were greatest between nucleus accumbens and the other regions. In contrast, glial methylation and chromatin were relatively homogeneous across brain regions, although neuron/glia ratios varied greatly, demonstrating the necessity for cellular fractionation. Gene expression was also largely the same across glia from different brain regions and substantially different for neurons. Expression was correlated with methylation and accessibility across promoters and known enhancers. Several classes of transcription factor binding sites were enriched at regions of differential methylation and accessibility, including many that respond to synaptic activity. Finally, both regions of differential methylation and those of differential accessibility showed a surprising >10-fold enrichment of explained heritability associated with addictive behavior, as well as schizophrenia- and neuroticism-associated regions, suggesting that common psychiatric illness is mediated through brain region-specific epigenetic marks.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120386', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine']]
[u'Intramolecular dynamics of single molecules in free diffusion', ['Charles Limouse', 'Jason C Bell', 'Colin J Fuller', 'Aaron F Straight', 'Hideo Mabuchi'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Biomolecular systems such as multiprotein complexes or biopolymers can span several tens to several hundreds of nanometers, but the dynamics of such mesocale molecules remain challenging to probe. We have developed a single-molecule technique that uses Tracking Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy (tFCS) to measure the conformation and dynamics of molecular assemblies specifically at the mesoscale level (100-1000 nm). tFCS is non-perturbative, as molecules, which are tracked in real-time, are untethered and freely diffusing. To achieve sub-diffraction spatial resolution, we use a feedback scheme which allows us to maintain the molecule at an optimal position within the laser intensity gradient. We find that tFCS is sufficiently sensitive to measure the distance fluctuations between two sites within a DNA molecule separated by distances as short as 1000 bp. We demonstrate that tFCS detects changes in the compaction of reconstituted chromatin, and can assay transient protein mediated interactions between distant sites in an individual DNA molecule. Our measurements highlight the impact that tFCS can have in the study of a wide variety of biochemical processes involving mesoscale conformational dynamics.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120311', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Ethoscopes: An Open Platform For High-Throughput Ethomics', ['Quentin Geissmann', 'Luis Garcia Rodriguez', 'Esteban J. Beckwith', 'Alice S. French', 'Arian R. Jamasb', 'Giorgio Gilestro'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'We present ethoscopes, machines for high-throughput ethomics in Drosophila and other small animals. Ethoscopes present four unique features: they provide a software and hardware solution that is reproducible and easily scalable; they perform not just real-time tracking, but faithful real-time profiling of behaviour using a supervised machine learning algorithm; they can stimulate flies in a feedback-loop mode; they are highly customisable and open source.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/113647.1', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Polygonal Tree Ltd']]
[u'Network analysis of patient flow in two UK acute care hospitals identifies key sub-networks for A&E performance', ['Daniel Bean', 'Clive Stringer', 'Neeraj Beeknoo', 'James Teo', 'Richard Dobson'], u'March 24, 2017.', u"The topology of the patient flow network in a hospital is complex, comprising hundreds of overlapping patient journeys, and is a determinant of operational efficiency. To understand the network architecture of patient flow, we performed a data-driven network analysis of patient flow through two acute hospital sites of King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. Administration databases were queried for all intra-hospital patient transfers in an 18-month period and modelled as a dynamic weighted directed graph. A 'core' subnetwork containing only 13-17% of all edges channelled 83-90% of the patient flow, while an 'ephemeral' network constituted the remainder. Unsupervised cluster analysis and differential network analysis identified sub-networks where traffic is most associated with A&E performance the following day. Increased flow to clinical decision units was associated with the best A&E performance in both sites. The component analysis also detected a weekend effect on patient transfers which was not associated with performance. We have performed the first data-driven hypothesis-free analysis of patient flow which can enhance understanding of whole healthcare systems. Such analysis can drive transformation in healthcare as it has in industries such as manufacturing.", u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120188.1', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u"King's College London;", u"King's College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust"]]
[u'JfxNgs : A BAM/VCF viewer with javascript-based filtering/reformatting functionalities', ['Pierre Lindenbaum', 'Matilde Karakachoff', 'Richard Redon'], u'March 24, 2017.', u"Visualizing BAM and VCF files is a common task for\nbiologists, but they're missing a way to filter and to explore the details of each short-read or variation.\nIn that context, we wrote an interactive java-based interface named JfxNgs that uses javascript snippets to filter and reformat BAM and VCF files.", u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120196', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institut du thorax, INSERM, CNRS, UNIV Nantes, France;', u'Institut du thorax, INSERM, CNRS, UNIV Nantes, CHU Nantes, France']]
[u'Patterns of cancer somatic mutations predict genes involved in phenotypic abnormalities and genetic diseases', ['Paolo Provero', 'Ivan Molineris', 'Dejan Lazarevic', 'Davide Cittaro'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Genomic sequence mutations in both the germline and somatic cells can be pathogenic. Several authors have observed that often the same genes are involved in cancer when mutated in somatic cells and in genetic diseases when mutated in the germline. Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing techniques have provided us with large databases of both types of mutations, allowing us to investigate this issue in a systematic way. Here we show that high-throughput data about the frequency of somatic mutations in the most common cancers can be used to predict the genes involved in abnormal phenotypes and diseases. The predictive power of somatic mutation patterns is largely independent of that of methods based on germline mutation frequency, so that they can be fruitfully integrated into algorithms for the prioritization of causal variants. Our results confirm the deep relationship between pathogenic mutations in somatic and germline cells, provide new insight into the common origin of cancer and genetic diseases and can be used to improve the identification of new disease genes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120121', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Turin;', u'San Raffaele Scientific Institute']]
[u'The phosphatase PTPRG controls FGFR1 activity and influences sensitivity to FGFR kinase inhibitors', ['Jrgen Wesche', 'Michal Kostas', 'Ellen Margrethe Haugsten', 'Yan Zhen', 'Vigdis Srensen', 'Patrycja Szybowska', 'Elisa Fiorito', 'Susanne Lorenz', 'Gustavo Antonio de Souza', 'Antoni Wiedlocha'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'FGFR1 represents an important target for precision medicine and a detailed molecular understanding of the target is important in order to increase the efficacy of FGFR inhibitors. We have here applied proximity labelling of FGFR1 in an osteosarcoma cell line to identify determinants of FGFR1 activity. Many known FGFR interactors were identified (e.g. FRS2, PLCg, RSK2, SHC4, SRC), but the data also suggested novel determinants. A strong hit in our screen was the tyrosine phosphatase PTPRG. We show that PTPRG and FGFR1 interact and colocalize at the plasma membrane where PTPRG directly dephosphorylates activated FGFR1. We further show that osteosarcoma cell lines depleted for PTPRG display increased FGFR activity and are hypersensitive to stimulation by FGF1. In addition, PTPRG depletion elevated cell growth and negatively affected the efficacy of FGFR kinase inhibitors. Thus, PTPRG may have future clinical relevance by being a predictor of outcome after FGFR inhibitor treatment.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120204', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Oslo University Hospital, The Norwegian Radium Hospital;', u'Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte']]
[u'Assembling Metagenomes, One Community At A Time', ['Andries Johannes van der Walt', 'Marc Warwick Van Goethem', 'Jean-Baptiste Ramond', 'Thulani Peter Makhalanyane', 'Oleg Reva', 'Don Arthur Cowan'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Metagenomics allows unprecedented access to uncultured environmental microorganisms. The assembly of metagenomic sequences facilitates gene prediction and annotation, and enables the assembly of draft genomes of dominant taxa, including uncultured members of a community. However, while numerous platforms have been developed for this critical step, there is currently no strict standard for the assembly of metagenomic sequence data. To assist with selection of an appropriate metagenome assembler we evaluated the capabilities of eight prominent assembly tools on nine publicly-available environmental metagenomes. We found that assembler choice ultimately hinges on the scientific question at hand, the resources available and the bioinformatic competence of the researcher. We provide a concise workflow for the selection of the best assembly tool.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120154', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Pretoria']]
[u'External introductions helped drive and sustain the high incidence of HIV-1 in rural KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa', ['David Rasmussen', 'Eduan Wilkinson', 'Alain Vandormael', 'Frank Tanser', 'Deenan Pillay', 'Tanja Stadler', 'Tulio de Oliveira'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Despite increasing access to antiretroviral therapy, HIV incidence in rural KwaZulu-Natal communities remains among the highest ever reported in Africa. While many epidemiological factors have been invoked to explain this high incidence, widespread human mobility and movement of viral lineages between geographic locations have implicated high rates of transmission across communities. High rates of cross-community transmission call into question how effective increasing local coverage of antiretroviral therapy will be at preventing new infections, especially if many new cases arise from external introductions. To help address this question, we use a new phylodynamic modeling approach to estimate both changes in epidemic dynamics through time and the relative contribution of local transmission versus external introductions to overall incidence from HIV-1 subtype C phylogenies. Our phylodynamic estimates of HIV prevalence and incidence are remarkably consistent with population-based surveillance data. Our analysis also reveals that early epidemic dynamics in this population were largely driven by a wave of external introductions. More recently, we estimate that anywhere between 20-60% of all new infections arise from external introductions from outside the local community. These results highlight the power of using phylodynamic methods to study generalized HIV epidemics and the growing need to consider larger-scale regional transmission dynamics above the level of local communities when designing and testing prevention strategies.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/119826', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'ETH Zurich;', u'University of KwaZulu-Natal;', u'Africa Health Research Institute']]
[u'Contribution Of Trans Regulatory eQTL To Cryptic Genetic Variation In C. elegans', ['Basten Snoek', 'Mark Sterken', 'Roel Bevers', 'Rita Volkers', "Arjen van't Hof", 'Rachel Brenchley', 'Joost Riksen', 'Andrew Cossins', 'Jan Kammenga'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Background: Cryptic genetic variation (CGV) is the hidden genetic variation that can be unlocked by perturbing normal conditions. CGV can drive the emergence of novel complex phenotypes through changes in gene expression. Although our theoretical understanding of CGV has thoroughly increased over the past decade, insight into polymorphic gene expression regulation underlying CGV is scarce. Here we investigated the transcriptional architecture of CGV in response to rapid temperature changes in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. We analyzed regulatory variation in gene expression (and mapped eQTL) across the course of a heat stress and recovery response in a recombinant inbred population.  Results: We measured gene expression over three temperature treatments: i) control, ii) heat stress, and iii) recovery from heat stress. Compared to control, exposure to heat stress affected the transcription of 3305 genes, whereas 942 were affected in recovering worms. These affected genes were mainly involved in metabolism and reproduction. The gene expression pattern in recovering worms resembled both the control and the heat stress treatment. We mapped eQTL using the genetic variation of the recombinant inbred population and detected 2626 genes with an eQTL in the heat stress treatment, 1797 in the control, and 1880 in the recovery. The cis-eQTL were highly conserved across treatments. A considerable fraction of the trans-eQTL (40-57%) mapped to 19 treatment specific trans-bands. In contrast to cis-eQTL, trans-eQTL were highly environment specific and thus cryptic. Approximately 67% of the trans-eQTL were only induced in a single treatment, with heat-stress showing the most unique trans-eQTL.  Conclusions: These results illustrate the highly dynamic pattern of CGV across three different environmental conditions that can be evoked by a stress response over a relatively short time-span (2 hours) and that CGV is mainly determined by response related trans regulatory eQTL.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120147', [u'Genetics'], [u'Wageningen University;', u'Ecole polytechnique federale de Lausanne;', u'University of Liverpool']]
[u'Fragmentation Modes And The Evolution Of Life Cycles', ['Yuriy Pichugin', 'Jorge Pena', 'Paul Rainey', 'Arne Traulsen'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Reproduction is a defining feature of living systems. Reproduction modes range from binary fission in bacteria to various modes of collective-level reproduction in multicellular organisms. However, the evolution of these modes and their adaptive significance is unclear. We develop a model in which groups arise from the division of single cells that do not separate, but stay together until the moment of group fragmentation. Fragmentation occurs via either complete or partial fission, resulting in a wide range of life cycles. By determining the relationship between life cycle and population growth rate, we define optimal fragmentation modes that have a surprisingly narrow class of solutions. Our model and results provide a framework for analysing the evolution of simple life cycles and for testing the adaptive significance of different modes of reproduction.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120097', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Breathlessness And The Body: Neuroimaging Evidence For The Inferential Leap', ['Olivia Faull', 'Anja Hayen', 'Kyle Pattinson'], u'March 24, 2017.', u"Breathlessness debilitates millions of people with chronic illness. Mismatch between breathlessness severity and objective disease markers is common and poorly understood. Traditionally, sensory perception was conceptualised as a stimulus-response relationship, although this cannot explain how conditioned symptoms may occur in the absence of physiological signals from the lungs or airways. A Bayesian model is now proposed in which the brain generates sensations based on expectations learned from past experiences (priors), which are then checked against incoming afferent signals. In this model, psychological factors may act as moderators. They may either alter priors, or change the relative attention towards incoming sensory information, leading to more variable interpretation of an equivalent afferent input. In the present study we conducted a preliminary test of this model in a supplementary analysis of previously published data (Hayen 2017). We hypothesised that individual differences in psychological traits (anxiety, depression, anxiety sensitivity) would correlate with the variability of subjective evaluation of equivalent breathlessness challenges. To better understand the resulting inferential leap in the brain, we explored whether these behavioural measures correlated with activity in areas governing either prior generation or sensory afferent input. Behaviorally, anxiety sensitivity was found to positively correlate with each subject's variability of intensity and unpleasantness during mild breathlessness, and with unpleasantness during strong breathlessness. In the brain, anxiety sensitivity was found to positively correlate with activity in the anterior insula during mild breathlessness, and negatively correlate with parietal sensorimotor areas during strong breathlessness. Our findings suggest that anxiety sensitivity may reduce the robustness of this Bayesian sensory perception system, increasing the variability of breathlessness perception and possibly susceptibility to symptom misinterpretation. These preliminary findings in healthy individuals demonstrate how differences in psychological function influence the way we experience bodily sensations, which might direct us towards better understanding of symptom mismatch in clinical populations.", u'/content/early/2017/03/24/117408', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Reading']]
[u'Detection Of Cooperatively Bound Transcription Factor Pairs Using ChIP-seq Peak Intensities And Expectation Maximization', ['Vishaka Datta', 'Rahul Siddharthan', 'Sandeep Krishna'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Transcription factors (TFs) often work cooperatively, where the binding of one TF to DNA enhances the binding affinity of a second TF to a nearby location. Such cooperative binding is important for activating gene expression from promoters and enhancers in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Existing methods to detect cooperative binding of a TF pair rely on analyzing the sequence that is bound. We propose a method that uses, instead, only ChIP-Seq peak intensities and an expectation maximisation (CPI-EM) algorithm. We validate our method using ChIP-seq data from cells where one of a pair of TFs under consideration has been genetically knocked out. Our algorithm relies on our observation that cooperative TF-TF binding is correlated with weak binding of one of the TFs, which we demonstrate in a variety of cell types, including E. coli, S. cerevisiae, M. musculus, as well as human cancer and stem cell lines. We show that this method performs significantly better than a predictor based only on the ChIP-seq peak distance of the TFs under consideration. By explicitly avoiding the use of sequence information, our method may help uncover new sequence patterns of cooperative binding that sequence based methods could build upon. The CPI-EM algorithm is available at https://github.com/vishakad/cpi-em.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120113', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Bangalore;', u'The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, India']]
[u'Human Self-Initiated Action Is Preceded By A Reliable Process Of Noise Reduction', ['Nima Khalighinejad', 'Aaron Schurger', 'Andrea Desantis', 'Leor Zmigrod', 'Patrick Haggard'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'A gradual buildup of electrical potential over motor areas precedes self-initiated movements. These readiness potentials (RPs) could simply reflect stochastic fluctuations in neural activity. We operationalised self-initiated actions as endogenous skip responses while waiting for target stimuli in a perceptual decision task. Across-trial variability of EEG decreased more markedly prior to self-initiated compared to externally-triggered skip actions. This convergence towards a fixed pattern suggests a consistent preparatory process prior to self-initiated action. A leaky stochastic accumulator model could reproduce these features of the data, given the additional assumption of a decrease in noise level at the input to the accumulator prior to self-initiated, but not externally-triggered actions. The assumed reduction in neural noise was supported by analyses of both within-trial EEG variability and of spectral power. We suggest that a process of noise reduction is consistently recruited prior to self-initiated action. This precursor event may underlie the emergence of RP.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120105', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'INSERM, Universite Paris-Sud, Universite Paris-Saclay;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Trichoderma reesei Complete Genome Sequence, Repeat-Induced Point Mutation And Partitioning Of CAZyme Gene Clusters', ['Wan-Chen Li', 'Chien-Hao Huang', 'Chia-Ling Chen', 'Yu-Chien Chuang', 'Shu-Yun Tung', 'Ting-Fang Wang'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Trichoderma reesei (Ascomycota, Pezizomycotina) QM6a is a model fungus for a broad spectrum of physiological phenomena, including plant cell wall degradation, industrial production of enzymes, light responses, conidiation, sexual development, polyketide biosynthesis and plant-fungal interactions. The genomes of QM6a and its high-enzyme producing mutants have been sequenced by second-generation-sequencing methods and are publicly available from the Joint Genome Institute (JGI). While these genome sequences have offered useful information for genomic and transcriptomic studies, their limitations and especially their short read lengths make them poorly suited for some particular biological problems, including assembly, genome-wide determination of chromosome architecture and genetic modification or engineering. We integrated Pacific Biosciences and Illumina sequencing platforms for the highest-quality genome assembly yet achieved, revealing seven telomere-to-telomere chromosomes (34,922,528 bp; 10877 genes) with 1630 newly-predicted genes and >1.5 Mb of new sequences. Most new sequences are located on AT-rich blocks, including 7 centromeres, 14 subtelomeres and 2329 interspersed AT-rich blocks. The seven QM6a centromeres separately consist of 24 conserved repeats and 37 putative centromere-encoded genes. These findings open up a new perspective for future centromere and chromosome architecture studies. Next, we demonstrate that sexual crossing readily induced cytosine-to-thymine point mutations on both tandem and unlinked duplicated sequences. We also show by bioinformatic analysis that Trichoderma reesei has evolved a robust repeat-induced point mutation (RIP) system to accumulate AT-rich sequences, with longer AT-rich blocks having more RIP mutations. The widespread distribution of AT-rich blocks correlates genome-wide partitions with gene clusters, explaining why clustering of genes has been reported to not influence gene expression in Trichoderma reesei. Compartmentation of ancestral gene clusters by AT-rich blocks might promote flexibilities that are evolutionarily advantageous in this fungus soil habitats and other natural environments. Our analyses, together with the complete genome sequence, provide a better blueprint for biotechnological and industrial applications.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120071', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica. Taipei 115, Taiwan;', u'Academia Sinica']]
[u'Towards Water-Free Biobanks: Long-Term Dry-Preservation At Room Temperature Of Desiccation-Sensitive Enzyme Luciferase In Air-Dried Insect Cells', ['Shingo Kikuta', 'Shunsuke J. Watanabe', 'Ryoichi Sato', 'Oleg Gusev', 'Alexander Nesmelov', 'Yoichiro Sogame', 'Richard Cornette', 'Takahiro Kikawada'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Desiccation-tolerant cultured cells Pv11 derived from the anhydrobiotic Polypedilum vanderplanki embryo endure complete desiccation because of their ametabolic state and resume their metabolism after rehydration. These features led us to develop a novel dry preservation technology for enzymes as it was still unclear whether Pv11 cells preserved an exogenous enzyme in the dry state. This study shows that Pv11 cells protect an exogenous desiccation-sensitive enzyme, luciferase, preserving the enzymatic activity even after dry storage for 372 days at room temperature. A process including pre-incubation with trehalose, dehydration, storage, and rehydration allowed Pv11 (Pv11-Luc) cells stably expressing luciferase to survive desiccation and still emit luminescence caused by luciferase after rehydration. Luminescence produced by luciferase in Pv11-Luc cells after rehydration did not significantly decrease in presence of a translation inhibitor, showing that the activity did not derive from de novo enzyme synthesis following the resumption of cell metabolism. These findings indicate that the surviving Pv11 cells almost completely protect luciferase during desiccation. Lacking of the preincubation step resulted in the loss of luciferase activity after rehydration. We showed that preincubation with trehalose associated to induction of desiccation-tolerant related genes in Pv11 cells allowed effective in vivo preservation of enzymes in the dry state.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120063', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology;', u'RIKEN;', u'Kazan Federal University;', u'Institute of Agrobiological Sciences, NARO']]
[u'Type 1 diabetes genome-wide association analysis with imputation identifies five new risk regions', ['Nicholas James Cooper', 'Chris Wallace', 'Oliver S Burren', 'Antony Cutler', 'Neil Walker', 'John A Todd'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Type 1 diabetes genotype datasets have undergone several well powered genome wide analysis studies (GWAS), identifying 57 associated regions at the time of analysis. There are still many regions of smaller effect size or low frequency left to discover, and better exploitation of existing type 1 diabetes cohorts with meta analysis and imputation can precede the acquisition of new or larger cohorts. An existing dataset of 5,913 case and 8,829 control samples was analysed using genome-wide microarrays (Affymetrix GeneChip 500K and Illumina Infinium 550K) with imputation via IMPUTE2 with the 1000 Genomes Project (phase 3) reference panel. Genotyping coverage was doubled in known association regions, and increased by four fold in other regions compared to previous studies. Our analysis resulted in new index variants for 17/57 regions, an expanded set of plausible candidate SNPs for 17 regions, and five novel type 1 diabetes association regions at 1p31.3, 1q24.3, 1q31.2, 2q11.2 and 11q12.2. Candidate genes for the new loci included ITGB3BP, FASLG, RGS1, AFF3 and CD5/CD6. Further prioritisation of causal genes and causal variants will require detailed RNA and protein expression studies, in conjunction with genome annotation studies including analysis of physical promoter-enhancer interactions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/120022', [u'Genomics'], [u'JDRF/Wellcome Trust Diabetes and Inflammation Laboratory;', u'MRC Biostatistics Unit;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Clinical Informatics, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust']]
[u'Environmental Perturbations Lead To Extensive Directional Shifts In RNA Processing', ['Allison L Richards', 'Donovan Watza', 'Anthony Findley', 'Adnan Alazizi', 'Xiaoquan Wen', 'Athma A Pai', 'Roger Pique-Regi', 'Francesca Luca'], u'March 24, 2017.', u'Environmental perturbations have large effects on both organismal and cellular traits, including gene expression, but the extent to which the environment affects RNA processing remains largely uncharacterized. We assessed changes in RNA processing events across 89 environments in five human cell types and identified 15,628 event shifts (FDR = 15%) comprised of eight event types in 4,567 genes. Many of these changes occur consistently in the same direction across conditions, indicative of global regulation by trans factors. Accordingly, we demonstrate that environmental modulation of binding for splicing factors predicts shifts in intron retention, while binding for transcription factors predicts shifts in AFE usage in response to specific treatments. Further, we validate these findings profiling chromatin accessibility with ATAC-seq in LCLs exposed to selenium. Together, these results demonstrate that RNA processing is dramatically changed in response to specific environmental perturbations through different mechanisms regulated by trans factors.', u'/content/early/2017/03/24/119974', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wayne State University;', u'University of Michigan;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
