[u'Exon-Based Phylogenomics Strengthens The Phylogeny Of Neotropical Cichlids And Identifies Remaining Conflicting Clades (Cichlomorphae: Cichlidae: Cichlinae)', ['Katriina L. Ilves', 'Dax Torti', 'Hernan Lopez-Fernandez'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'The phenotypic, geographic, and species diversity of cichlid fishes have made them a group of great interest for studying evolutionary processes. Here we present a targeted-exon next-generation sequencing approach for investigating the evolutionary relationships of cichlid fishes (Cichlidae), with a particular focus on the Neotropical subfamily Cichlinae using a set of 923 primarily single-copy exons designed through mining of the Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) genome. Sequence capture and assembly were robust, leading to a complete dataset of 415 exons for 139 species (147 terminals) that consisted of 128 Neotropical species, six African taxa, and five Indo-Malagasy cichlids. Gene and species trees were calculated using alternative partitioning schemes and reconstruction methods. In general, all methods yielded similar topologies to previously hypothesized relationships within the Cichlinae and clarified several relationships that were previously poorly supported or in conflict. Additional work will be needed to fully resolve all aspects of Cichlinae phylogeny. Overall, this approach yielded a well-resolved phylogeny of Neotropical cichlids that will be of utility for future assessments of the evolutionary and ecological processes within this diverse group of fishes. Furthermore, the general methodology employed here of exon targeting and capture should be applicable to any group of organisms with the availability of a reference genome.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133512', [], [u'Pace University;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research;', u'Royal Ontario Museum']]
[u'Network Dynamics In The Healthy And Epileptic Developing Brain', ['Richard E. Rosch', 'Torsten Baldeweg', 'Friederike Moeller', 'Gerold Baier'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Electroencephalography (EEG) allows recording of cortical activity at high temporal resolution. EEG recordings can be summarised along different dimensions using network-level quantitative measures, e.g. channel-to-channel correlation, or band power distributions across channels. These reveal network patterns that unfold over a range of different time scales and can be tracked dynamically. Here we describe the dynamics of network-state transitions in EEG recordings of spontaneous brain activity in normally developing infants and infants with severe early infantile epileptic encephalopathies (n=8, age: 1-8 months). We describe differences in measures of EEG dynamics derived from band power, and correlation-based summaries of network-wide brain activity. We further show that EEGs from different patient groups and controls can be distinguished based on a small set of the novel quantitative measures introduced here, which describe dynamic network state switching. Quantitative measures related to the smoothness of switching from one correlation pattern to another show the largest differences between groups. These findings reveal that the early epileptic encephalopathies are associated with characteristic dynamic features at the network level. Quantitative network-based analyses like the one presented here may in future inform the clinical use of quantitative EEG for diagnosis.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133488', [], [u'University College London;', u'Great Ormond Street Hospital']]
[u'BugBase Predicts Organism Level Microbiome Phenotypes', ['Tonya Ward', 'Jake Larson', 'Jeremy Meulemans', 'Ben Hillmann', 'Joshua Lynch', 'Dimitri Sidiropoulos', 'John Spear', 'Greg Caporaso', 'Ran Blekhman', 'Rob Knight', 'Ryan Fink', 'Dan Knights'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Shotgun metagenomics and marker gene amplicon sequencing can be used to directly measure or predict the functional repertoire of the microbiota en masse, but current methods do not readily estimate the functional capability of individual microorganisms. Here we present BugBase, an algorithm that predicts organism-level coverage of functional pathways as well as biologically interpretable phenotypes such as oxygen tolerance, Gram staining, and pathogenic potential, within complex microbiomes using either whole-genome shotgun or marker gene sequencing data. We find the organism-level pathway coverage of BugBase predictions to be statistically higher powered than current bag-of-genes approaches for discerning functional changes in both host-associated and environmental microbiomes.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133462', [], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'Colorado School of Mines;', u'Northern Arizona University;', u'University of California San Diego;', u'St. Cloud State University']]
[u'Deep Sequencing: Intra-Terrestrial Metagenomics Illustrates The Potential Of Off-Grid Nanopore DNA Sequencing', ['Arwyn Edwards', 'Andre Soares', 'Sara Rassner', 'Paul Green', 'Joao Felix', 'Andrew Mitchell'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Genetic and genomic analysis of nucleic acids from environmental samples has helped transform our perception of the subsurface as a major reservoir of microbial novelty. Many of the microbial taxa living in the subsurface are under-represented in culture-dependent investigations. In this regard, metagenomic analyses of subsurface environments exemplify both the utility of metagenomics and its power to explore microbial life in some of the most extreme and inaccessible environments on Earth. Hitherto, the transfer of microbial samples to home laboratories for DNA sequencing and bioinformatics is the standard operating procedure for exploring microbial diversity. This approach incurs logistical challenges and delays the characterization of microbial biodiversity. For selected applications, increased portability and agility in metagenomic analysis is therefore desirable. Here, we describe the implementation of sample extraction, metagenomic library preparation, nanopore DNA sequencing and taxonomic classification using a portable, battery-powered, suite of off-the-shelf tools (the MetageNomad) to sequence ochreous sediment microbiota while within the South Wales Coalfield. While our analyses were frustrated by short read lengths and a limited yield of DNA, within the assignable reads, Proteobacterial taxa dominated, followed by members of Actinobacteria, Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, all of which have previously been identified in coals. Further to this, the fungal genus Candida was detected, as well as a methanogenic archaeal taxon. To the best of our knowledge, this application of the MetageNomad represents an initial effort to conduct metagenomics within the subsurface, and stimulates further developments to take metagenomics off the beaten track.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133413', [], [u'Aberystwyth University;', u'National Museums of Wales:The Big Pit;', u'Cardiff University']]
[u'A Universal Metric For Evaluating, Optimising And Benchmarking The Performance Of A Research Technology Platform (RTP)', ['Anna M. Petrunkina', 'Andrew Filby'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Research Technology Platforms (RTPs) exist to facilitate the application and utilisation of specific analytical technologies to the highest possible standard thus delivering reputable data across a broad spectrum of research themes. Specifically, RTPs centralise expertise in a given technology and provide an unparalleled level of continuity and practical knowledge retention that simply cannot be achieved by more organic, ad hoc means of support. As small non profit businesses often tasked with recovering all or a percentage of their running costs, RTPs are under significant pressure to keep pace with rapidly advancing technology and new methodologies against a back drop of dwindling funding for scientific research. At present there are a number of non-trivial issues that make assessing the operational performance of a RTP difficult to determine on a standalone basis let alone attempting to benchmark against other RTPs within the same or different technology fields. Firstly, depending on the technological speciality the RTP may work to one of essentially three operational models. RTPs such as Bio-Imaging or Cytometry provide access to well-maintained analytical systems that can be utilised by trained individuals for a timed access charge. In some cases there will be a requirement for assisted operation of certain instruments by core staff (e.g. cell sorters). Genomics and Proteomics RTPs tend to function on a project basis whereby users will not access the technology themselves rather pay for a full analytical service often with a milestone-based approach for tracking progress. Other RTPs work to a hybrid approach were technical staff provide certain elements of sample preparation for specific projects prior to analysis on core supported, user accessible instrumentation. Secondly the specific operational costs that each RTP is tasked to recover varies significantly on a local, national and international level due to institutional subsidies. These operational costs can include staff salaries, instrument maintenance, associated running consumables, and in some cases instrument depreciation but there is standardised rule as to what each RTP is tasked to recover and to what percentage. Here we present a generalised mathematical approach to describe the customisable metrics of any given RTP service. The general strategy how to increase performance within the framework of this approach has been identified through breaking down these customisable metrics into components and maximising them according to specific requirements. These strategies could be potentially adopted for different operational or local procedures, integrating the specifics related to the institutional or national policies. The approach laid down here should be considered as a trigger for opening a discussion around how to address optimising RTP performance and allow for benchmarking across the full breadth of RTPs.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133207', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Newcastle University']]
[u'Concentration Dependent Chromatin States Induced by the Bicoid Morphogen Gradient', ['Colleen E Hannon', 'Shelby A Blythe', 'Eric F Wieschaus'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'In Drosophila, graded expression of the maternal transcription factor Bicoid (Bcd) provides positional information to activate target genes at different positions along the anterior-posterior axis. We have measured the genome-wide binding profile of Bcd using ChIP-seq in embryos expressing single, uniform levels of Bcd protein, and grouped Bcd-bound targets into four classes based on occupancy at different concentrations. By measuring the biochemical affinity of target enhancers in these classes in vitro and genome-wide chromatin accessibility by ATAC-seq, we found that the occupancy of target sequences by Bcd is not primarily determined by Bcd binding sites, but by chromatin context. Bcd drives an open chromatin state at a subset its targets. Our data support a model where Bcd influences chromatin structure to gain access to concentration-sensitive targets at high concentrations, while concentration-insensitive targets are found in more accessible chromatin and are bound at low concentrations.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133348', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Princeton University/HHMI']]
[u'Hebbian Learning in a Random Network Captures Selectivity Properties of Prefrontal Cortex', ['Grace W Lindsay', 'Mattia Rigotti', 'Melissa R. Warden', 'Earl K Miller', 'Stefano Fusi'], u'May 2, 2017.', u"Complex cognitive behaviors, such as context-switching and rule-following,\nare thought to be supported by prefrontal cortex (PFC). Neural activity in PFC must\nthus be specialized to specific tasks while retaining flexibility. Nonlinear 'mixed' selectivity is an important neurophysiological trait for enabling complex and context-dependent behaviors. Here\nwe investigate (1) the extent to which PFC exhibits computationally-relevant properties such as mixed\nselectivity and (2) how such properties could arise via circuit mechanisms. We show that PFC cells recorded during a complex task show a moderate level of specialization and structure that is not replicated by a model wherein cells receive random feedforward inputs. While random connectivity can be effective at generating mixed selectivity, the data shows significantly more mixed selectivity than predicted by a model with otherwise matched parameters. A simple Hebbian learning rule applied to the random connectivity, however, increases mixed selectivity and allows the model to match the data more accurately. To explain how learning achieves this, we provide analysis along with a clear geometric interpretation of the impact of learning on selectivity. After learning, the model also matches the data on measures of noise, response density, clustering, and the distribution of\nselectivities. Of two styles of Hebbian learning tested, the simpler and more biologically\nplausible option better matches the data. These modeling results give intuition about\nhow neural properties important for cognition can arise in a circuit and make clear\nexperimental predictions regarding how various measures of selectivity would evolve\nduring animal training.", u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133025', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University;', u'IBM T. J. Watson Research Center;', u'Cornell University;', u'MIT']]
[u'Coal-Miner: A Coalescent-Based Method For GWA Studies Of Quantitative Traits With Complex Evolutionary Origins', ['Hussein A. Hejase', 'Natalie Vande Pol', 'Gregory M. Bonito', 'Patrick P. Edger', 'Kevin J. Liu'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Association mapping (AM) methods are used in genome-wide association (GWA) studies to test for statistically significant associations between genotypic and phenotypic data. The genotypic and phenotypic data share common evolutionary origins -- namely, the evolutionary history of sampled organisms -- introducing covariance which must be distinguished from the covariance due to biological function that is of primary interest in GWA studies. A variety of methods have been introduced to perform AM while accounting for sample relatedness. However, the state of the art predominantly utilizes the simplifying assumption that sample relatedness is effectively fixed across the genome. In contrast, population genetic theory and empirical studies have shown that sample relatedness can vary greatly across different loci within a genome; this phenomena -- referred to as local genealogical variation -- is commonly encountered in many genomic datasets. New AM methods are needed to better account for local variation in sample relatedness within genomes. We address this gap by introducing Coal-Miner, a new statistical AM method. The Coal-Miner algorithm takes the form of a methodological pipeline. The initial stages of Coal-Miner seek to detect candidate loci, or loci which contain putatively causal markers. Subsequent stages of Coal-Miner perform test for association using a linear mixed model with multiple effects which account for sample relatedness locally within candidate loci and globally across the entire genome. Using synthetic and empirical datasets, we compare the statistical power and type I error control of Coal-Miner against state-of-the-art AM methods. The simulation conditions reflect a variety of genomic architectures for complex traits and incorporate a range of evolutionary scenarios, each with different evolutionary processes that can generate local genealogical variation. The empirical benchmarks include a large-scale dataset that appeared in a recent high-profile publication. Across the datasets in our study, we find that Coal-Miner consistently offers comparable or typically better statistical power and type I error control compared to the state-of-art methods.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132951', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Statistical Mechanics Of Phase Space Partitioning In Large-Scale Spiking Neuron Circuits', ['Maximilian Puelma Touzel', 'Fred Wolf'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Synaptic interactions structure the phase space of the dynamics of neural circuits and constrain neural computation. Understanding how requires methods that handle those discrete interactions, yet few exist. Recently, it was discovered that even random networks exhibit dynamics that partitions the phase space into numerous attractor basins. Here we utilize this phenomenon to develop theory for the geometry of phase space partitioning in spiking neural circuits. We find basin boundaries structuring the phase space are pre-images of spike-time collision events. Formulating a statistical theory of spike-time collision events, we derive expressions for the rate of divergence of neighboring basins and for their size distribution. This theory reveals that the typical basin diameter grows with inhibitory coupling strength and shrinks with the rate of spike events. Our study provides an analytical and generalizable approach for dissecting how connectivity, coupling strength, single neuron dynamics and population activity shape the phase space geometry of spiking circuits.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132993', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Ecole Normale Superieure;', u'Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-Organization']]
[u'Gene annotation bias impedes biomedical research', ['Winston Haynes', 'Aurelie Tomczak', 'Purvesh Khatri'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'We found tremendous inequality across gene and protein annotation resources. We observe that this bias leads biomedical researchers to focus on richly annotated genes instead of those with the strongest molecular data. We advocate for researchers to reduce these biases by pursuing data-driven hypotheses.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133108', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Advanced Lesion Symptom Mapping Analyses And Implementation As BCBtoolkit', ['Chris Foulon', 'Leonardo Cerliani', 'Serge Kinkingnehun', 'Richard Levy', 'Charlotte Rosso', 'Marika Urbanski', 'Emmanuelle Volle', 'Michel Thiebaut de Schotten'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Patients with brain lesions provide a unique opportunity to understand the functioning of the human mind. However, brain lesions, even when focal, have local and remote effects impacting functionally and structurally connected circuits. Here we deliver for the first time a set of complementary solutions to measure the consequences of a given lesion upon the affected circuits. Our methods were applied to 37 patients with a focal brain lesion, revealing a large set of disconnected brain regions, which significantly impacted category fluency performance. These regions corresponded to areas that are classically considered as functionally engaged in verbal fluency and categorization tasks. These areas were organized into large functional networks, including the left ventral fronto-parietal network, whose cortical thickness proportionally decreased with performance on category fluency. Hence, the methods presented here reveal the remote effects of brain lesions, provide for the identification of the affected networks, and strengthen understanding of their relationship with cognitive and behavioural measures.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133314', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Brain Connectivity and Behaviour Laboratory;', u'Frontlab;', u"Centre de Neuroimagerie de l'ICM"]]
[u'Redox-Dependent Condensation Of Mycobacterial Genome By WhiB4', ['Manbeena Chawla', 'Mansi Mehta', 'Pankti Parikh', 'Saurabh Mishra', 'Prashant Shukla', 'Priyanka Baloni', 'Manika Vij', 'H. N. Verma', 'Munia Ganguli', 'Nagasuma Chandra', 'Amit Singh'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Conventionally, oxidative stress response in bacteria is mediated through coordination between the regulators of oxidant-remediation systems (e.g. OxyR, SoxR) and nucleoid condensation (e.g. Dps, Fis). However, Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) lacks these mechanisms. Therefore, how Mtb organizes genome architecture and regulates gene expression to counterbalance oxidative imbalance during infection is not known. Using systems biology and imaging techniques, we report that an intracellular redox-sensor, WhiB4, dynamically regulates genome condensation and multiple oxidative stress response networks in Mtb. Notably, a low degree of oxidative stress induced marginal genome condensation, while heightened oxidative stress triggered mycobacterial death through nucleoid hyper-condensation. Deletion of WhiB4 alleviated, whereas over-expression aggravated the negative impact of DNA condensation on oxidative stress survival of Mtb. Further, our results suggest that WhiB4 mediates both architectural and regulatory roles by controlling auto-expression, homo-interaction, and hetero-interaction with sigma factors, SigE and SigA, in response to changes in intramycobacterial redox potential. Over-expression of WhiB4 in Mtb disrupts redox homeostasis, damages genome integrity, and synergizes with host-generated radicals to exert efficient killing inside macrophages and mice. Expression of SigE counteracted the deleterious influence of WhiB4 over-expression on nucleoid condensation and survival, indicating that WhiB4-SigE constitutes a system that calibrates oxidative stress response in Mtb. We infer that WhiB4 is a novel redox-dependent architectural protein that structurally couples response to oxidative stress with changes in genome organization and transcription in Mtb. This previously unidentified dependence of Mtb on WhiB4 and nucleoid condensation to modulate oxidative stress response expands our understanding of bacterial pathogenicity.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133181', [u'Microbiology'], [u'IISc;', u'CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, South Campus;', u'Jaipur National University;', u'Indian Institute of Science']]
[u'Extracting Saccades From Eye Movements Triggered By Reflex Blinks', ['Uday K. Jagadisan', 'Neeraj J. Gandhi'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'The trigeminal blink reflex can be evoked by delivering an air puff to the eye. If timed appropriately, e.g., during motor preparation, the small, loopy blink-related eye movement (BREM) associated with eyelid closure disinhibits the saccadic system and reduces the reaction time of planned eye movements. The BREM and intended eye movement overlap temporally, thus a mathematical formulation is required to objectively extract saccade features - onset time and velocity profile - from the combined movement. While it has been assumed that the interactions are nonlinear, we show that blink-triggered movements can be modeled as a linear combination of a typical BREM and a normal saccade, crucially, with an imposed delay between the two components. Saccades reconstructed with this approach are largely similar to control movements in their temporal and spatial profiles. Furthermore, activity profiles of saccade-related bursts in superior colliculus neurons for the recovered saccades closely match those for normal saccades. Thus, blink perturbations, if properly accounted for, offer a non-invasive tool to probe the behavioral and neural signatures of sensory-to-motor transformations.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132605', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Population Temporal Structure Supplements The Rate Code During Sensorimotor Transformations', ['Uday K. Jagadisan', 'Neeraj J. Gandhi'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'In order to successfully interact with the environment the brain must funnel down the sensory inputs it receives to specific movements at specific times. Such sensory-to-motor transformations are critically mediated by neurons in premotor brain networks whose evolving activities represent sensory, cognitive, and movement-related information1-3. However, this multiplexing poses a conundrum - how does a decoder know precisely when to initiate a movement if such neurons are also active at times other than when a movement occurs (e.g., in response to sensory stimulation)? Extant models of movement generation that rely on firing rate, including rise-to-threshold4, inhibitory gating5, and dynamical switches at the population level6,7, leave certain explanatory gaps unfilled. Here, we propose a novel hypothesis: movement is triggered not only by an increase in firing rate, but critically by a reliable temporal pattern in the population response. We show that in brain regions involved in orienting eye movements - the superior colliculus (SC) and the frontal eye fields (FEF) - the temporal dynamics between neurons during visually-driven activity is different from that during pre-movement activation. Specifically, using a measure that captures the fidelity of the population code - here called temporal stability - we show that the temporal structure fluctuates in the visual response but remains stable during the pre-movement response, thus distinguishing incoming sensory input from motor output. This is an important attribute because SC and FEF \u201cvisuomovement\u201d neurons project directly to the brainstem8,9 which houses the controller for gaze shifts, and any increase in the incoming drive is poised to trigger a (potentially undesirable) gaze shift. We also demonstrate that a simple firing rate-based network with synaptic facilitation can distinguish between stable and fluctuating population codes, suggesting a putative mechanism for interpreting temporal structure. These findings offer an alternative perspective on the relationship between spatial attention and motor preparation10,11 by situating the correlates of movement initiation in the temporal features of activity in shared neural substrates. They also suggest a need to look beyond the instantaneous rate code and consider the effects of short-term population history on neuronal communication and its effects on behaviour.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132514', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Recurrent Convolutional Neural Networks: A Better Model Of Biological Object Recognition Under Occlusion', ['Courtney Spoerer', 'Patrick McClure', 'Nikolaus Kriegeskorte'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Feedforward neural networks provide the dominant model of how the brain performs visual object recognition. However, these networks lack the lateral and feedback connections, and the resulting recurrent neuronal dynamics, of the ventral visual pathway in the human and nonhuman primate brain. Here we investigate recurrent convolutional neural networks with bottom-up (B), lateral (L), and top-down (T) connections. Combining these types of connections yields four architectures (B, BT, BL, and BLT), which we systematically test and compare. We hypothesized that recurrent dynamics might improve recognition performance in the challenging scenario of partial occlusion. We introduce two novel occluded object recognition tasks to test the efficacy of the models, digit clutter (where multiple target digits occlude one another) and digit debris (where target digits are occluded by digit fragments). We find that recurrent neural networks outperform feedforward control models (approximately matched in parametric complexity) at recognising objects, both in the absence of occlusion and in all occlusion conditions. Recurrent neural networks are not only more neurobiologically plausible in their architecture; their dynamics also afford superior task performance. This work shows that computer vision can benefit from using recurrent convolutional architectures and suggests that the ubiquitous recurrent connections in biological brains are essential for task performance.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133330', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit']]
[u'Carrion Fly-Derived DNA Metabarcoding Is An Effective Tool For Mammal Surveys: Evidence From A Known Tropical Mammal Community', ['Torrey W. Rodgers', 'Charles Xu', 'Jacalyn Giacalone', 'Karen Kapheim', 'Kristin Saltonstall', 'Marta Vargas', 'Douglas Yu', 'Panu Somervuo', 'W. Owen McMillan', 'Patrick Jansen'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Metabarcoding of vertebrate DNA derived from carrion flies has been proposed as a promising tool for biodiversity monitoring. To evaluate its efficacy, we conducted metabarcoding surveys of carrion flies on Barro Colorado Island (BCI), Panama, which has a well-known mammal community, and compared our results against diurnal transect counts and camera-trapping. We collected 1084 flies in 29 sampling days, which were pooled into 102 DNA extractions. We then conducted metabarcoding with mammal-specific (16S) and vertebrate-specific (12S) primers targeting mtDNA, and sequenced these amplicons on Illumina MiSeq. For taxonomic assignment, we compared BLAST with the new program PROTAX, and we found PROTAX significantly improved species identifications. We detected 20 mammal, four bird, and one lizard species from carrion fly metabarcoding, all but one of which were previously known from BCI. Fly metabarcoding detected more mammal species than concurrent transect counts (29 sampling days, 13 species) and concurrent camera-trapping (84 sampling days, 17 species), and detected 67% of the number of mammal species documented by 8 years of transect counts and camera-trapping combined, although fly metabarcoding missed several abundant species. This study demonstrates that carrion fly metabarcoding is a powerful tool for mammal biodiversity surveys, and has the potential to detect a broader range of species than more commonly used methods.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133405', [u'Zoology'], [u'Utah State University;', u'University of Notre Dame;', u'Montclair State University;', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute;', u'Kunming Institute of Zoology;', u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'A Supervised Statistical Learning Approach For Accurate Legionella pneumophila Source Attribution During Outbreaks', ['Andrew Buultjens', 'Kyra Chua', 'Sarah Baines', 'Jason Kwong', 'Wei Gao', 'Zoe Cutcher', 'Stuart Adcock', 'Susan Ballard', 'Takehiro Tomita', 'Nela Subasinghe', 'Glen Carter', 'Sacha Pidot', 'Lucinda Franklin', 'Torsten Seemann', 'Anders Goncalves Da Silva', 'Benjamin Howden', 'Timothy Stinear'], u'May 2, 2017.', u"Public health agencies are increasingly relying on genomics during Legionnaires' disease investigations. However, the causative bacterium (Legionella pneumophila) has an unusual population structure with extreme temporal and spatial genome sequence conservation. Furthermore, Legionnaires' disease outbreaks can be caused by multiple L. pneumophila genotypes in a single source. These factors can confound cluster identification using standard phylogenomic methods. Here, we show that a statistical learning approach based on L. pneumophila core genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) comparisons eliminates ambiguity for defining outbreak clusters and accurately predicts exposure sources for clinical cases.  We illustrate the performance of our method by genome comparisons of 234 L. pneumophila isolates obtained from patients and cooling towers in Melbourne, Australia between 1994 and 2014. This collection included one of the largest reported Legionnaires' disease outbreaks, involving 125 cases at an aquarium. Using only sequence data from L. pneumophila cooling tower isolates and including all core genome variation, we built a multivariate model using discriminant analysis of principal components (DAPC) to find cooling tower-specific genomic signatures, and then used it to predict the origin of clinical isolates. Model assignments were 93% congruent with epidemiological data, including the aquarium Legionnaires' outbreak and three other unrelated outbreak investigations. We applied the same approach to a recently described investigation of Legionnaires' disease within a UK hospital and observed model predictive ability of 86%. We have developed a robust means to breach L. pneumophila genetic diversity extremes and provide objective source attribution data for outbreak investigations.", u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133033', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'Department of Health and Human Services, Victoria, Australia']]
[u'A unified internal model theory to resolve the paradox of active versus passive self-motion sensation', ['Jean Laurens', 'Dora E Angelaki'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Brainstem and cerebellar neurons implement an internal model to accurately estimate self-motion during externally-generated (\u2018passive\u2019) movements. However, these neurons show reduced responses during self-generated (\u2018active\u2019) movements, indicating that the brain computes the predicted sensory consequences of motor commands in order to cancel sensory signals. Remarkably, the computational processes underlying sensory prediction during active motion and their relationship to internal model computations established during passive movements remain unknown. Here we construct a Kalman filter that incorporates motor commands into a previously-established model of optimal passive self-motion estimation. We find that the simulated sensory error and feedback signals match experimentally measured neuronal response during active and passive head and trunk rotations and translations. We conclude that a single internal model of head motion can process motor commands and sensory afferent signals optimally, and we describe how previously identified neural responses in the brainstem and cerebellum may represent distinct nodes in these computations.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132936', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Baylor College of Medicine, United States']]
[u'Perceived closeness and autistic traits modulate interpersonal vocal communication', ['Olivia Spinola', 'T.A. Sumathi', 'Nandini Chatterjee Singh', 'Bhismadev Chakrabarti'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Vocal modulation is a critical component of interpersonal communication. It not only serves as a dynamic and flexible tool for self-expression and linguistic information but also plays a key role in social behaviour. Variation in vocal modulation can be driven by individual traits of the individual interlocutors, as well as by factors relating to the dyad, such as the perceived closeness between interlocutors. Accordingly, the current study examines the role of a) individual differences in autism-related traits, and b) perceived closeness between interlocutors on vocal modulation. Since lack of appropriate vocal modulation is often associated with Autism Spectrum Disorders we also focus on autism-related individual traits. The role of these individual and dyad-level factors on vocal modulation is tested for cultural generalizability by conducting this study in three separate samples from India, Italy, and the UK.  Articulatory features were extracted from recorded conversations between a total of 85 same-sex pairs of participants and correlated with their self-reported perceived closeness (CR) to the other member of the pair and with the individual Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ). Results indicated a significant positive correlation between interpersonal closeness and articulation area in all three samples. A significant negative correlation between AQ and articulation area was observed only in the UK sample. This study thus provides novel insights into determinants of interpersonal vocal communication and a test of their cultural generalizability.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133066', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Universita` degli Studi di Milano Bicocca;', u'National Brain Research Centre, India;', u'University of Reading']]
[u'Stable Membrane Topologies Of Small Dual-Topology Membrane Proteins', ['Nir Fluman', 'Victor Tobiasson', 'Gunnar von Heijne'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'The topologies of \u03b1-helical membrane proteins are generally thought to be determined during their cotranslational insertion into the membrane. It is typically assumed that membrane topologies remain static after this process has ended. Recent findings, however, question this static view by suggesting that some parts of, or even the whole protein, can reorient in the membrane on a biologically relevant time scale. Here, we focus on anti-parallel homo- or hetero-dimeric Small Multidrug Resistance proteins, and examine whether the individual monomers can undergo reversible topological inversion (flip-flop) in the membrane until they are trapped in a fixed orientation by dimerization. By perturbing dimerization using various means, we show that the membrane topology of a monomer is unaffected by the presence or absence of its dimerization partner. Thus, membrane-inserted monomers attain their final topologies independently of dimerization, suggesting that wholesale topological inversion is an unlikely event in vivo.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133298', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Stockholm University']]
[u'Focal Versus Distributed Temporal Cortex Activity For Speech Sound Category Assignment', ['Sophie Bouton', 'Valerian Chambon', 'Remi Tyrand', 'Adrian G. Guggisberg', 'Margitta Seeck', 'Sami Karkar', 'Dimitri van de Ville', 'Anne-Lise Giraud'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Percepts and words can be decoded from largely distributed neural activity measures. The existence of widespread representations might, however, conflict with the fundamental notions of hierarchical processing and efficient coding. Using fMRI and MEG during syllable identification, we first show that sensory and decisional activity co-localize to a restricted part of the posterior superior temporal cortex. Next, using intracortical recordings we demonstrate that early and focal neural activity in this region distinguishes correct from incorrect decisions and can be machine-decoded to classify syllables. Crucially, significant machine-decoding was possible from neuronal activity sampled across widespread regions, despite weak or absent sensory or decision-related responses. These findings show that a complex behavior like speech sound categorization relies on an efficient readout of focal neural activity, while distributed activity, although decodable by machine-learning, reflects collateral processes of sensory perception and decision.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133272', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Geneva - Biotech Campus;', u'Ecole Normale Superieure & PSL Research University;', u'University of Geneva - HUG;', u'Ecole Centrale de Lyon;', u'EPFL - Biotech Campus']]
[u'LEAP: A Generalization Of The Landau-Vishkin Algorithm With Custom Gap Paneities', ['Hongyi Xin', 'Jeremie Kim', 'Sunny Nahar', 'Carl Kingsford', 'Can Alkan', 'Onur Mutlu'], u'May 2, 2017.', u"Motivation: Approximate String Matching is a pivotal problem in the field of computer science. It serves as an integral component for many string algorithms, most notably, DNA read mapping and alignment. The improved LV algorithm proposes an improved dynamic-programming strategy over the banded Smith-Waterman algorithm but suffers from support of a limited selection of scoring schemes. In this paper, we propose the Leaping Toad problem, a generalization of the approximate string matching problem, as well as LEAP, a generalization of the Landau-Vishkin's algorithm that solves the Leaping Toad problem under a broader selection of scoring schemes. Results: We benchmarked LEAP against 3 state-of-the-art approximate string matching implementations. We show that when using a bit-vectorized De Bruijn sequence based optimization, LEAP is up to 7.4x faster than the state-of-the-art bit-vector Levenshtein distance implementation and up to 32x faster than the state-of-the-art affine-gap-penalty parallel Needleman-Wunsch Implementation.", u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133157', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Bilkent University;', u'ETH Zurich']]
[u'NMDA receptor blockade causes selective prefrontal disinhibition in a roving auditory oddball paradigm', ['Richard E Rosch', 'Ryszard Auksztulewicz', 'Pui Duen Leung', 'Karl J Friston', 'Torsten Baldeweg'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are expressed widely throughout the human cortex. Yet disturbances in NMDAR transmission - as implicated in patients with schizophrenia or pharmacologically induced - can cause a regionally specific set of electrophysiological effects. Here, we present a double-blind placebo-controlled study of the effects of the NMDAR blocker ketamine in human volunteers. We employ a marker of auditory learning and putative synaptic plasticity - the mismatch negativity - in a roving auditory oddball paradigm. Using recent advances in Bayesian modelling of group effects in dynamic causal modelling, we fit biophysically plausible network models of the auditory processing hierarchy to whole-scalp evoked response potential recordings. This allowed us to identify the regionally specific effects of ketamine in a distributed network of interacting cortical sources. Under placebo, our analysis replicated previous findings regarding the effects of stimulus repetition and deviance on connectivity within the auditory hierarchy. Crucially, we show that the effect of ketamine is best explained as a selective change in intrinsic inhibition, with a pronounced ketamine-induced reduction of inhibitory interneuron connectivity in frontal sources. These results are consistent with findings from invasive recordings in animal models exposed to NMDAR blockers, and provide evidence that inhibitory-interneuron specific NMDAR dysfunction may be sufficient to explain electrophysiological abnormalities of sensory learning induced by ketamine in human subjects.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133371', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Reverse Engineering of Trascriptional Networks Uncovers Candidate Master Regulators Governing Neuropathology of Schizophrenia', ['Abolfazl Doostparast Torshizi', 'Chris Armoskus', 'Siwei Zhang', 'Winton Moy', 'Oleg V Evgrafov', 'Jubao Duan', 'James A Knowles', 'Kai Wang'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Tissue-specific reverse engineering of transcriptional networks has led to groundbreaking discoveries uncovering underlying regulators of cellular networks in various diseases. However, whether these approaches can be applied to complex psychiatric diseases is largely explored, partly due to the general lack of appropriate cellular models for mental disorders. In this study, using a recently published high quality RNA-seq data on dorsolateral prefrontal cortex from 307 Schizophrenia (SCZ) patients and 245 controls, we deconvoluted the transcriptional network aiming at the identification of master regulators mediating expression of a large body of genes. Together with an independent RNA-seq data on cultured primary neuronal cells derived from olfactory neuroepithelium from a cohort of 143 SCZ cases and 112 controls, we identified five candidate master regulators (MRs), including TCF4, NR1H2, HDAC9, ZNF10, and ZNF436. TCF4 was previously identified as a SCZ susceptibility gene, but its regulatory subnetworks had been elusive. Other genes have not been convincingly associated with SCZ in previous studies. Additional analysis of predicted transcription factor binding site, ChIP-Seq data and ATAC-Seq data confirmed many predicted regulatory targets by the identified MRs. Our study uncovered a few candidate master regulators for SCZ that affects a collection of genes, and these master regulators may serve as therapeutic targets for intervention.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133363', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute for Genomic Medicine, Columbia University;', u'Zilkhe Neurogenetic Institute, University of Southern California;', u'Center for Psychiatric Genetics, North Shore University Health System and The University of Chicago']]
[u'Glioma Grade Map: A Machine-Learning Based Imaging Biomarker For Tumor Characterization', ['Andras Jakab', 'Peter P. Molnar', 'Miklos Emri', 'Ervin Berenyi'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Purpose: To use T1-, T2-weighted and diffusion tensor MR images to portray glioma grade by employing a voxel-wise supervised machine learning approach, and to assess the feasibility of this tool in preoperative tumor characterization.  Materials and Methods: Conventional MRI, DTI datasets and histopathological evaluations of 40 patients with WHO grade II-IV gliomas were retrospectively analyzed. Databases were construed incorporating preoperative images, tumor delineation and grades. This data was used to train a multilayer perceptron based artificial neural network that performed voxel-by-voxel correlation of tumor grade and the feature vector. Results were mapped to grayscale images, whereas grade map was defined as a composite image that depicts grade assignments for intra-tumoral regions. The voxel-wise probability for high grade tumor classification was calculated for the entire tumor volumes, defined as the grade index.  Results: The color hue on glioma grade maps allowed the discrimination of low and high grade cases. This method revealed connection between the heterogeneous appearance of tumors and the histopathological findings. Classification by the grade index had 92.31% specificity, 85.71% sensitivity.  Conclusion: Glioma grade maps are advantageous in the visualization of the heterogeneous nature of intra-tumoral diffusion and relaxivity and can further enhance the characterization of tumors by providing a preoperative modality that expands information available for clinicians.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133249', [u'Pathology'], [u"University Children's Hospital Zurich;", u'Institute of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Debrecen;', u'Department of Nuclear Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Debrecen;', u'Dept. of Biomedical Laboratory and Imaging Science, University of Debrecen']]
[u'Mitochondria Are Physiologically Maintained At Close To 50 C', ['Dominique Chretien', 'Paule Benit', 'Hyung-Ho Ha', 'Susanne Keipert', 'Riyad El-Khoury', 'Young-Tae Chang', 'Martin Jastroch', 'Howard Jacobs', 'Pierre Rustin', 'Malgorzata Rak'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'In warm-blooded species, heat released as a by-product of metabolism ensures stable internal temperature throughout the organism, despite varying environmental conditions. Mitochondria are major actors in this thermogenic process. The energy released by the oxidation of respiratory substrates drives ATP synthesis and metabolite transport, with a variable proportion released as heat. Using a temperature-sensitive fluorescent probe targeted to mitochondria, we measured mitochondrial temperature in situ under different physiological conditions. At a constant external temperature of 38 C, mitochondria were more than 10 C warmer when the respiratory chain was fully functional, both in HEK cells and primary skin fibroblasts. This differential was abolished by respiratory inhibitors or in cells lacking mitochondrial DNA, but enhanced by expressing thermogenic enzymes such as the alternative oxidase or the uncoupling protein UCP1. The activity of various RC enzymes was maximal at, or slightly above, 50 C.  Our study prompts a re-examination of the literature on mitochondria, taking account of the inferred high temperature.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133223', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Inserm UMR 1141, France;', u'Sunchon National University, Republic of Korea;', u'Helmholtz Centre Munich, Germany;', u'American University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon;', u'National University of Singapore, Singapore;', u'University of Helsinki, Finland']]
[u'Negative Correlation Between The Expression Of tlr4 And grp78 Is Characteristic Of Sepsis Onset And Progression', ['Razvan Stan', 'Camila Bonin', 'Rose Porto', 'Francisco Soriano', 'Maristela M. de Camargo'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'In sepsis caused by Gram-negative bacteria, modulation of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) activity by modulators such as glucose-regulated protein 78 kDa (GRP78), is believed to shift the equilibrium between pro- and anti-inflammatory downstream signaling cascade. We measured daily mRNA tlr4 and grp78 expression levels in peripheral blood of a cohort of septic patients, upon intensive care admission, and modeled these mRNA values based on a sine damping function. We obtained negative correlations between tlr4 and grp78 mRNA in the survivor group. In contrast, such relation is lost in the deceased patients. Effect sizes were 2.035 (tlr4) and 2.168 (grp78). Measuring the correlation patterns of the expression of these two genes may serve as a robust means to gauge sepsis progression, requiring three points of measurement on the first day of hospitalization. Higher levels of grp78 and lower levels of tlr4 anticipated a positive evolution of sepsis, resulting in patient survival.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133264', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Sao Paulo']]
[u'Network Reconstruction And Systems Analysis Of Plant Cell Wall Deconstruction By Neurospora crassa', ['Areejit Samal', 'James P. Craig', 'Samuel T. Coradetti', 'J. Philipp Benz', 'James A. Eddy', 'Nathan D. Price', 'N. Louise Glass'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Plant biomass degradation by fungal derived enzymes is rapidly expanding in economic importance as a clean and efficient source for biofuels. The ability to rationally engineer filamentous fungi would facilitate biotechnological applications for degradation of plant cell wall polysaccharides. However, incomplete knowledge of biomolecular networks responsible for plant cell wall deconstruction impedes experimental efforts in this direction. To expand this knowledge base, a detailed network of reactions important for deconstruction of plant cell wall polysaccharides into simple sugars was constructed for the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa. To reconstruct this network, information was integrated from five heterogeneous data types: functional genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, genetics, and biochemical characterizations. The combined information was encapsulated into a feature matrix and the evidence weighed to assign annotation confidence scores for each gene within the network. Comparative analyses of RNA-seq and ChIP-seq data shed light on the regulation of the plant cell wall degradation network (PCWDN), leading to a novel hypothesis for degradation of the hemicellulose mannan. The transcription factor CLR-2 was subsequently experimentally shown to play a key role in the mannan degradation pathway of Neurospora crassa. Our network serves as a scaffold for integration of diverse experimental data, leading to elucidation of regulatory design principles for plant cell wall deconstruction by filamentous fungi, and guiding efforts to rationally engineer industrially relevant hyper-production strains.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133165', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, WA 98109, USA;', u'Energy Biosciences Institute, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94704, USA;', u'Univ. of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Splatter: Simulation Of Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Data', ['Luke Zappia', 'Belinda Phipson', 'Alicia Oshlack'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'As single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technologies have rapidly developed so have methods of analysis. Many of these methods have been tested and developed using simulated datasets. While this is a valid and useful approach many currently published simulations are problematic because they are not well documented, code may not be available for reproducing the simulation or their similarity to real data is not demonstrated. Here we present the Splatter package for simple simulation of single-cell RNA-seq data. Splatter is a Bioconductor R package that provides a consistent, easy to use and well-documented interface for multiple scRNA-seq simulation methods. The Splatter package makes it easy to compare simulated datasets with real data to produce a realistic simulation that can be used to evaluate analysis methods. In addition we develop our own simulation, Splat, based on a gamma-poisson distribution. Splat incorporates a number of key features including high-expression outlier genes, defined library sizes, a mean-variance trend and expression-based dropout. Furthermore, Splat can simulate single populations of cells, populations with multiple cell types or differentiation paths.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133173', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Murdoch Childrens Research Institute']]
[u'The Landscape Of Human Mutually Exclusive Splicing', ['Klas Hatje', 'Ramon Vidal', 'Raza-Ur Rahman', 'Dominic Simm', 'Bjoern Hammesfahr', 'Orr Shomroni', 'Martin Kollmar', 'Stefan Bonn'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Mutually exclusive splicing of exons is a mechanism of functional gene and protein diversification with pivotal roles in organismal development and diseases such as Timothy syndrome, cardiomyopathy and cancer in humans. In order to obtain a first genome-wide estimate of the extent and biological role of mutually exclusive splicing in humans we predicted and subsequently validated mutually exclusive exons (MXEs) using 515 publically available RNA-seq datasets. Here, we provide evidence for the expression of over 855 MXEs, 42% of which represent novel exons, increasing the annotated human mutually exclusive exome more than five-fold. The data provides strong evidence for the existence of large and multi-cluster MXEs in higher vertebrates and offers new insights into MXE splicing mechanics and evolution. Finally, MXEs are significantly enriched in pathogenic mutations and their spatio-temporal expression predicts human disease pathology.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133215', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Roche Pharmaceutical Research and Early Development;', u'DZNE;', u'University of Goettingen;', u'MPI for Biophysical Chemistry']]
[u'Identifying differential isoform abundance with RATs: a universal tool and a warning', ['Kimon Froussios', 'Kira Mourao', 'Gordon G Simpson', 'Geoffrey J Barton', 'Nicholas J Schurch'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Motivation: The biological importance of changes in gene and transcript expression is well recognised and is reflected by the wide variety of tools available to characterise these changes. Regulation via Differential Transcript Usage (DTU) is emerging as an important phenomenon. Several tools exist for the detection of DTU from read alignment or assembly data, but options for detection of DTU from alignment-free quantifications are limited.\nResults: We present an R package named RATs - (Relative Abundance of Transcripts) - that identifies DTU transcriptome-wide directly from transcript abundance estimations. RATs is agnostic to quantification methods and exploits bootstrapped quantifications, if available, to inform the significance of detected DTU events. RATs contextualises the DTU results and shows good False Discovery performance (median FDR \u22640.05) at all replication levels. We applied RATs to a human RNA-seq dataset associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis with three DTU events validated by qRT-PCR. RATs found all three genes exhibited statistically significant changes in isoform proportions based on Ensembl v60 annotations, but the DTU for two were not reliably reproduced across bootstrapped quantifications. RATs also identified 500 novel DTU events that are enriched for eleven GO terms related to regulation of the response to stimulus, regulation of immune system processes, and symbiosis/parasitism. Repeating this analysis with the Ensembl v87 annotation showed the isoform abundance profiles of two of the three validated DTU genes changed radically. RATs identified 414 novel DTU events that are enriched for five GO terms, none of which are in common with those previously identified. Only 141 of the DTU evens are common between the two analyses, and only 8 are among the 248 reported by the original study. Furthermore, the original qRT-PCR probes no longer match uniquely to their original transcripts, calling into question the interpretation of these data. We suggest parallel full-length isoform sequencing, annotation pre-filtering and sequencing of the transcripts captured by qRT-PCR primers as possible ways to improve the validation of RNA-seq results in future experiments.\nAvailability: The package is available through Github at https://github.com/bartongroup/Rats .', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132761', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Dundee']]
[u'FORKS: Finding Orderings Robustly using K-means and Steiner trees', ['Mayank Sharma', 'Huipeng Li', 'Debarka Sengupta', 'Shyam Prabhakar', 'Jayadeva Jayadeva'], u'May 2, 2017.', u'Recent advances in single cell RNA-seq technologies have provided researchers with unprecedented details of transcriptomic variation across individual cells. However, it has not been straightforward to infer differentiation trajectories from such data. Here, we present Finding Orderings Robustly using K-means and Steiner trees (FORKS), an algorithm that pseudo-temporally orders cells and thereby infers bifurcating state trajectories. FORKS, which is a generic method, can be applied to both single-cell or bulk differentiation data. It is a semi-supervised approach, in that it requires the user to specify the starting point of the time course. We systematically benchmarked FORKS and 6 other pseudo-time estimation algorithms on 5 benchmark datasets, and found it to be more accurate, more reproducible, faster and more memory-efficient than existing methods for pseudo-temporal ordering. Another major advantage of our approach is that the algorithm requires no hyper-parameter tuning.', u'/content/early/2017/05/02/132811', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi;', u'Genome Institute of Singapore;', u'Indraprasth Institute of Information Technology, Delhi']]
[u'PaperBLAST: Text-mining papers for information about homologs', ['Morgan N Price', 'Adam P. Arkin'], u'May 2, 2017.', u"Large-scale genome sequencing has identified millions of protein-coding genes whose function is unknown. Many of these proteins are similar to characterized proteins from other organisms, but much of this information is missing from annotation databases and is hidden in the scientific literature. To make this information accessible, PaperBLAST uses EuropePMC to search the full text of scientific articles for references to genes. PaperBLAST also takes advantage of curated resources that link protein sequences to scientific articles (Swiss-Prot, GeneRIF, and EcoCyc). PaperBLAST's database includes over 700,000 scientific articles that mention over 400,000 different proteins. Given a protein of interest, PaperBLAST quickly finds similar proteins that are discussed in the literature and presents snippets of text from relevant articles or from the curators. PaperBLAST is available at http://papers.genomics.lbl.gov/.", u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133041', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Lawrence Berkeley Lab']]
[u'Metagenomic binning through low density hashing', ['Yunan Luo', 'Y. William Yu', 'Jianyang Zeng', 'Bonnie Berger', 'Jian Peng'], u'May 2, 2017.', u"Bacterial microbiomes of incredible complexity are found throughout the world, from exotic marine locations to the soil in our yards to within our very guts. With recent advances in Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, we have vastly greater quantities of microbial genome data, but the nature of environmental samples is such that DNA from different species are mixed together. Here, we present Opal for metagenomic binning, the task of identifying the origin species of DNA sequencing reads. Our Opal method introduces low-density, even-coverage hashing to bioinformatics applications, enabling quick and accurate metagenomic binning. Our tool is up to two orders of magnitude faster than leading alignment-based methods at similar or improved accuracy, allowing computational tractability on large metagenomic datasets.  Moreover, on public benchmarks, Opal is substantially more accurate than both alignment-based and alignment-free methods (e.g. on SimHC20.500, Opal achieves 95% F1-score while Kraken and CLARK achieve just 91% and 88%, respectively); this improvement is likely due to the fact that the latter methods cannot handle computationally-costly long-range dependencies, which our even-coverage, low-density fingerprints resolve. Notably, capturing these long-range dependencies drastically improves Opal's ability to detect unknown species that share a genus or phylum with known bacteria.  Additionally, the family of hash functions Opal uses can be generalized to other sequence analysis tasks that rely on k-mer based methods to encode long-range dependencies.", u'/content/early/2017/05/02/133116', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Illinois;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Tsinghua University;', u'MIT']]
[u'Morphine selectively promotes glutamate release from glutamatergic terminals of projection neurons from medial prefrontal cortex to dopamine neurons of ventral tegmental area', ['Ping Zheng', 'Li Yang', 'Ming Chen'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Recently, we found that morphine promoted presynaptic glutamate release of dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which constituted the main mechanism for morphine-induced increase in VTA-DA neuron firing and related behaviors (Chen et al., 2015). However, what source of presynaptic glutamate release of DA neurons in the VTA is promoted by morphine remains unknown. To address this question, we used optogenetic strategy to selectively activate glutamatergic inputs from different projection neurons and then observed the effect of morphine on them. The result shows that morphine promotes glutamate release from glutamatergic terminals of projection neurons from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) to VTA DA neurons, but has no effect on that from the basolateral amygdala (BLA) or the lateral hypothalamus (LH) to VTA DA neurons, and the inhibition of glutamatergic projection neurons from the mPFC to the VTA significantly reduces morphine-induced increase in locomotor activity of mice.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/133090', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Fudan University, China;', u'Fudan Univeristy, China']]
[u'Cell-cycle dependent organization and dynamics of RNA Polymerase I in live human cells', ['William Conway', 'Won-Ki Cho', 'Namrata Jayanth', 'Susan Mullen', 'Ibrahim I Cisse'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'RNA Polymerase I (Pol I) is responsible for over 60% of transcriptional output in human cells, yet basic questions concerning the spatial and temporal organization of the polymerase remain unanswered. Here we investigate how mammalian cells rely on Pol I organization throughout the cell cycle to balance different needs, from complete transcription shut down to massive increase in protein synthesis (and thus ribosomal RNA synthesis) before cell division. In contrast to our previous reports on RNA Polymerase II,  Pol I clusters are stable with active transcription, and the presence of transient Pol I clusters correlates with inactive ribosomal transcription. Our results suggest that both stable and transient populations Pol I clusters co-exist in individual living cells, and their relative fraction may directly reflect the global gene expression need of the cell.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/133082', [u'Biophysics'], [u'MIT']]
[u'Dense Bicoid Hubs Accentuate Binding along the Morphogen Gradient', ['Mustafa Mir', 'Armando Reimer', 'Jenna E. Haines', 'Xiao-Yong Li', 'Michael Stadler', 'Hernan Garcia', 'Michael E. Eisen', 'Xavier Darzacq'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Morphogen gradients direct the spatial patterning of developing embryos, however, the mechanisms by which these gradients are interpreted remain elusive. Here we perform in vivo single molecule imaging of the transcription factor Bicoid that forms a gradient along the anteroposterior axis of the early Drosophila melanogaster embryo. We observe that Bicoid binds to DNA with a rapid off-rate, such that its average occupancy at target loci becomes on-rate dependent, a property required for concentration-sensitive regulation. Surprisingly, we also observe abundant specific DNA binding in posterior nuclei, where Bicoid levels are vanishingly low. Live embryo imaging reveals "hubs" of local high Bicoid concentration that are dependent on the ubiquitous maternal factor Zelda. We propose that localized modulation of transcription factor on-rates via clustering provides a general mechanism to facilitate binding to low-affinity targets under limiting factor conditions, and that this may be a prevalent feature directing other developmental transcription networks.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/133124', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'BasecRAWller: Streaming Nanopore Basecalling Directly from Raw Signal', ['Marcus Stoiber', 'James Brown'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'All current nanopore basecalling applications begin with the segmentation of raw signal into discrete events, which are ultimately processed into called bases. We propose the basecRAWller algorithm, a pair of unidirectional recurrent neural networks that enables the calling of DNA bases in real time directly from the rawest form of nanopore output. This shift in nanopore basecalling provides a number of advantages over current processing pipelines including: 1) streaming basecalling, 2) tunable ratio of insertions to deletions, and 3) potential for streaming detection of modified bases. Key to the streaming basecalling capability is sequence prediction at a delay of less than 1/100th of a second, allowing future signal to continuously modulate sequence prediction. BasecRAWller is computationally efficient enabling basecalling at speeds faster than current nanopore instrument measurement speeds on a single core. Further, basecalling can be paused and resumed without any change in the resulting predicted sequence, transforming the potential applications for dynamic read rejection capabilities. The basecRAWller algorithm provides an alternative approach to nanopore basecalling at comparable accuracy and provides the community with the capacity to train their own basecRAWller neural networks with minimal effort.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/133058', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'Lawrence Berekeley National Laboratory']]
[u'Distinct features of multivesicular body-lysosome fusion revealed by a new cell-free content-mixing assay', ['Mahmoud Abdul Karim', 'Sevan Mattie', 'Christopher Brett'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'When marked for degradation, surface receptor and transporter proteins are internalized and delivered to endosomes where they are packaged into intralumenal vesicles (ILVs). Many rounds of ILV formation create multivesicular bodies (MVBs) that fuse with lysosomes exposing ILVs to hydrolases for catabolism. Despite being critical for protein degradation, the molecular underpinnings of MVB-lysosome fusion remain unclear, although machinery underlying other lysosome fusion events is implicated. But how then is specificity conferred? And how is MVB maturation and fusion coordinated for efficient protein degradation? To address these questions, we developed a cell-free MVB-lysosome fusion assay using S. cerevisiae as a model. After confirming that the Rab7 ortholog Ypt7 and the multisubunit tethering complex HOPS are required, we found that the Qa-SNARE Pep12 distinguishes this event from homotypic lysosome fusion. Mutations that impair MVB maturation block fusion by preventing Ypt7 activation, confirming that a Rab-cascade mechanism harmonizes MVB maturation with lysosome fusion.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/133074', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Concordia University;', u'McGill University']]
[u'FastNet: Fast and accurate inference of phylogenetic networks using large-scale genomic sequence data', ['Hussein Hejase', 'Natalie VandePol', 'Gregory A Bonito', 'Kevin J Liu'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Advances in next-generation sequencing technologies and phylogenomics have reshaped our understanding of evolutionary biology. One primary outcome is the emerging discovery that interspecific gene flow has played a major role in the evolution of many different organisms across the Tree of Life. To what extent is the Tree of Life not truly a tree reflecting strict "vertical" divergence, but rather a more general graph structure known as a phylogenetic network which also captures "horizontal" gene flow?\nThe answer to this fundamental question not only depends upon densely sampled and divergent genomic sequence data, but also computational methods which are capable of accurately and efficiently inferring phylogenetic networks from large-scale genomic sequence datasets. Recent methodological advances have attempted to address this gap. However, in a recent performance study, we demonstrated that the state of the art falls well short of the scalability requirements of existing phylogenomic studies. The methodological gap remains: how can phylogenetic networks be accurately and efficiently inferred using genomic sequence data involving many dozens or hundreds of taxa? In this study, we address this gap by proposing a new phylogenetic divide-and-conquer method which we call FastNet. Using synthetic and empirical data spanning a range of evolutionary scenarios, we demonstrate that FastNet outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of computational efficiency and topological accuracy.\nWe predict an imminent need for new computational methodologies that can cope with dataset scale at the next order of magnitude, involving thousands of genomes or more. We consider FastNet to be a next step in this direction. We conclude with thoughts on the way forward through future algorithmic enhancements.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132795', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'AASRA: An Anchor Alignment-Based Small RNA Annotation Pipeline', ['Chong Tang', 'Yeming Xie', 'Wei Yan'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'SncRNA-Seq has become a routine for sncRNA profiling; however, software packages currently available are either exclusively for miRNA or piRNA annotation (e.g., miRDeep, miRanalyzer, Shortstack, PIANO), or for direct mapping of the sequence reads to the genome (e.g., Bowtie 2, SOAP and BWA), which tend to generate inaccurate counting due to repetitive matches to the genome or sncRNA homologs. Moreover, novel sncRNA variants in the sequencing reads, including those bearing small overhangs or internal insertions, deletions or mutations, are totally excluded from counting by these algorithms, leading to potential quantification bias. To overcome these problems, a comprehensive software package that can annotate all known small RNA species with adjustable tolerance towards small mismatches is needed. AASRA is based on our unique anchor alignment algorithm, which not only avoids repetitive or ambiguous counting, but also distinguishes mature miRNA from precursor miRNA reads. Compared to all existing pipelines for small RNA annotation, AASRA is superior in the following aspects: 1) AASRA can annotate all known sncRNA species simultaneously with the capability of distinguishing mature and precursor miRNAs; 2) AASRA can identify and allow for inclusion of sncRNA variants with small overhangs and/or internal insertions/deletions into the final counts; 3) AASRA is the fastest among all small RNA annotation pipelines tested. AASRA represents an all-in-one sncRNA annotation pipeline, which allows for high-speed, simultaneous annotation of all known sncRNA species with the capability to distinguish mature from precursor miRNAs, and to identify novel sncRNA variants in the sncRNA-Seq sequencing reads.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132928', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Nevada, Reno School of Medicine']]
[u'Contribution Of Genetic Variation And Developmental Stage To Methylome Dynamics In Myeloid Differentiation', ['Xiang Chen', 'Yiping Fan', 'Jinjun Cheng', 'Beisi Xu', 'Yong-Dong Wang', 'Donald Yergeau', 'John Easton', 'James R. Downing', 'JInghui Zhang'], u'May 1, 2017.', u"DNA methylation is important to establish a cell's developmental identity. It also modulates cellular responses to endogenous developmental stimuli or environmental changes. We designed an in vitro myeloid differentiation model to analyze the genetic and developmental contribution to methylome dynamics using whole-genome bisulfide sequencing and transcriptome sequencing. Using a recursive partitioning approach, we identified 34,502 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) associated with genetic background and/or developmental stimuli. Specifically, 23,792 DMRs (69%) were significantly associated with inter-individual variations, of which 82% were associated with genetic polymorphisms in cis. Notably, inter-individual variations further modified 57 of 212 (26%) developmental DMRs with transcriptomic responses. Our study presents a novel analytical approach to determine the bona fide genetic contribution embedded in outlier patterns of CpG-SNPs in individual methylomes. This approach can be used to study genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying differential responses to developmental stimuli, environmental changes, and inter-individual differences in drug responses.", u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132985', [u'Genomics'], [u"St. Jude Children's Research Hospital"]]
[u"Platelet Phosphorylated TDP-43: An Exploratory Study For A Peripheral Surrogate Biomarker Development For Alzheimer's Disease", ['Rodger Wilhite', 'Jessica M. Sage', 'Abdurrahman Bouzid', 'Tyler Primavera', 'Abdulbaki Agbas'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Alzheimer disease (AD) is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. The World Health Organization predicted that the world population with AD will rise to about 75 million by 2030. Therefore, AD and other forms of dementia create a non-curable disease population, and a socioeconomic burden in world societies. It is imperative to diagnose AD and other neurodegenerative diseases at their early stage. Consequently, to develop a blood-based biomarker is important so that the remedial or disease-altering therapeutical intervention for AD patients would be available at early stage of the disease. We have identified an easy, feasible, cost-effective, and less invasive assay method that measures a cellular protein that may be a potential biomarker candidate for the neurodegenerative diseases; platelet phosphorylated Transactive Response DNA Binding Protein 43 (pTDP-43). This protein recently gained an attention that can be served for monitoring the development of at least two neurodegenerative diseases (i.e., AD and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS). We have identified an assay platform and generated some preliminary data may suggest that the platelet TDP-43 that were increased (<65%) in post-mortem AD brain regions and similar trends were also observed in AD patient platelet. In this study, we propose that platelet phosphorylated form of TDP-43 could be used as a potential surrogate biomarker that is easy to measure, reproducible, sensitive, and cost effective for screening the patients with some early clinical signs of AD and can be used to monitor disease prognosis.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132837', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Kansas City University of Medicine and Biosciences']]
[u'piClusterBusteR: Software For Automated Classification And Characterization Of piRNA Cluster Loci', ['Patrick A. Schreiner', 'Peter Atkinson'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Background: Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs) are sRNAs that have a distinct biogenesis and molecular function from siRNAs and miRNAs. The piRNA pathway is well-conserved and shown to play an important role in the regulatory capacity of germline cells in Metazoans. Significant subsets of piRNAs are generated from discrete genomic loci referred to as piRNA clusters. Given that the contents of piRNA clusters dictate the target specificity of primary piRNAs, and therefore the generation of secondary piRNAs, they are of great significance when considering transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation on a genomic scale. A quantitative comparison of top piRNA cluster composition can provide further insight into piRNA cluster biogenesis and function.  Results: We have developed software for general use, piClusterBusteR, which performs nested annotation of piRNA cluster contents to ensure high-quality characterization, provides a quantitative representation of piRNA cluster composition by feature, and makes available annotated and unannotated piRNA cluster sequences that can be utilized for downstream analysis. The data necessary to run piClusterBusteR and the skills necessary to execute this software on any species of interest are not overly burdensome for biological researchers. piClusterBusteR has been utilized to compare the composition of top piRNA generating loci amongst 13 Metazoan species. Characterization and quantification of cluster composition allows for comparison within piRNA clusters of the same species and between piRNA clusters of different species.  Conclusions: We have developed a tool that accurately, automatically, and efficiently describes the contents of piRNA clusters in any biological system that utilizes the piRNA pathway. The results from piClusterBusteR have provided an in-depth description and comparison of the architecture of top piRNA clusters within and between 13 species, as well as a description of annotated and unannotated sequences from top piRNA cluster loci in these Metazoans. piClusterBusteR is available for download on GitHub: https://github.com/pschreiner/piClusterBuster', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/133009', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California, Riverside']]
[u'Long-Lasting Contribution Of Dopamine In The Nucleus Accumbens Core, But Not Dorsal Lateral Striatum, To Sign-Tracking', ['Kurt Michael Fraser', 'Patricia H. Janak'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'The attribution of incentive salience to reward-paired cues is dependent on dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens core. These dopamine signals conform to traditional reward-prediction error signals and have been shown to diminish with time. Here we examined if the diminishing dopamine signal in the nucleus accumbens core has functional implications for the expression of sign-tracking, a Pavlovian conditioned response indicative of the attribution of incentive salience to reward-paired cues. Food-restricted male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained in a Pavlovian paradigm in which an insertable lever predicted delivery of food reward in a nearby food cup. After 7 or 14 training sessions, rats received infusions of saline, the dopamine antagonist flupenthixol (100 mM), or the GABA agonists baclofen and muscimol (0.5 mM baclofen/0.05 mM muscimol) into the nucleus accumbens core or the dorsal lateral striatum. Dopamine antagonism within the nucleus accumbens core attenuated sign-tracking, whereas reversible inactivation did not affect sign-tracking but increased non-specific food cup checking behaviors. Neither drug in the dorsal lateral striatum affected sign-tracking behavior. Critically, extended training did not alter these effects. Though extended experience with an incentive stimulus may reduce cue-evoked dopamine in the nucleus accumbens core, this does not alter the function of dopamine in this region to promote Pavlovian cue approach nor result in the recruitment of dorsal lateral striatal systems for this behavior. These data support the notion that dopamine within the mesoaccumbal system, but not the nigrostriatal system, contributes critically to incentive motivational processes independent of the length of training.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132977', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Johns Hopkins University; Johns Hopkins School of Medicine']]
[u'Policies or Knowledge: Priors differ between perceptual and sensorimotor tasks', ['Claire Chambers', 'Hugo Fernandes', 'Konrad Kording'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'If the brain abstractly represents probability distributions as knowledge, then the modality of a decision, e.g. movement vs perception, should not matter. If on the other hand, learned representations are policies, they may be specific to the task where learning takes place. Here, we test this by asking if a learned spatial prior generalizes from a sensorimotor estimation task to a two-alternative-forced choice (2-Afc) perceptual comparison task. A model and simulation-based analysis revealed that while subjects learn the experimentally-imposed prior distribution in the sensorimotor estimation task, measured priors are consistently broader than expected in the 2-Afc task. That the prior does not fully generalize suggests that sensorimotor priors strongly resemble policies. In disagreement with standard Bayesian thought, the modality of the decision has a strong influence on the implied prior distributions.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132829', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Population Genomics Of Cryptococcus neoformans var. grubii Reveals New Biogeographic Relationships And Finely Maps Hybridization', ['Johanna Rhodes', 'Christopher A. Desjardins', 'Sean M. Sykes', 'Mathew A. Beale', 'Mathieu Vanhove', 'Sharadha Sakthikumar', 'Yuan Chen', 'Sharvari Gujja', 'Sakina Saif', 'Anuradha Chowdhary', 'Daniel John Lawson', 'Vinicius Ponzio', 'Arnaldo Colombo', 'Wieland Meyer', 'David Engelthaler', 'Ferry Hagen', 'Maria Teresa Illnait-Zaragozi', 'Alexandre Alanio', 'Jo-Marie Vreulink', 'Joseph Heitman', 'John R. Perfect', 'Anastasia Litvintseva', 'Tihana Bicanic', 'Thomas S. Harrison', 'Matthew C. Fisher', 'Christina A. Cuomo'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Cryptococcus neoformans var. grubii is the causative agent of cryptococcal meningitis, a significant source of mortality in immunocompromised individuals, typically HIV/AIDS patients from developing countries. Despite the worldwide emergence of this ubiquitous infection, little is known about the global molecular epidemiology of this fungal pathogen. Here we sequence the genomes of 188 diverse isolates and characterized the major subdivisions, their relative diversity and the level of genetic exchange between them. While most isolates of C. neoformans var. grubii belong to one of three major lineages (VNI, VNII, and VNB), some haploid isolates show hybrid ancestry including some that appear to have recently interbred, based on the detection of large blocks of each ancestry across each chromosome. Many isolates display evidence of aneuploidy, which was detected for all chromosomes. In diploid isolates of C. neoformans var. grubii (serotype A/A) and of hybrids with C. neoformans var. neoformans (serotype A/D) such aneuploidies have resulted in loss of heterozygosity, where a chromosomal region is represented by the genotype of only one parental isolate. Phylogenetic and population genomic analyses of isolates from Brazil revealed that the previously \u201cAfrican\u201d VNB lineage occurs naturally in the South American environment. This suggests migration of the VNB lineage between Africa and South America prior to its diversification, supported by finding ancestral recombination events between isolates from different lineages and regions. The results provide evidence of substantial population structure, with all lineages showing multi-continental distributions demonstrating the highly dispersive nature of this pathogen.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132894', [u'Genomics'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'Broad Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Duke University Medical Center;', u'Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute, University of Delhi;', u'University of Bristol;', u'Federal University of Sao Paulo;', u'University of Sydney, Westmead Institute for Medical Research;', u'Translational Genomics Research Institute;', u'Canisius-Wilhelmina Hospital;', u'Instituto de Medicina Tropical Pedro Kouri;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'Stellenbosch University;', u'Duke Univeristy Medical Center;', u'St. Georges University London']]
[u'Disparity, Diversity, And Duplications In The Caryophyllales', ['Stephen Smith', 'Caroline Parins-Fukuchi', 'Ya Yang', 'Michael Moore', 'Samuel F. Brockington', 'Riva Bruenn', 'Chloe P. Drummond', 'Joseph W. Brown', 'Joseph F. Walker', 'Noah Last', 'Norman A. Douglas'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'The role whole genome duplication (WGD) plays in the history of lineages is actively debated. WGDs have been associated with advantages including superior colonization, adaptations, and increased effective population size. However, the lack of a comprehensive mapping of WGDs within a major plant clade has led to questions regarding the potential association of WGDs and higher diversification rates. Using seven chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal genes, we constructed a phylogeny of 5,036 species of Caryophyllales, representing nearly half of the extant species. We phylogenetically mapped putative WGDs as identified from analyses on transcriptomic and genomic data and analyzed these in conjunction with shifts in climatic niche and lineage diversification rate. Thirteen putative WGDs and twenty-seven diversification shifts could be mapped onto the phylogeny. Of these, four WGDs were concurrent with diversification shifts, with other diversification shifts occurring at shallower nodes than WGDs. Five WGDs were associated with shifts to colder climatic niches. While we find that many diversification shifts occurred after WGDs it is difficult to directly associate these and consider diversification and duplication to be tightly correlated. Our findings suggest that duplications may often along with shifts in either diversification rate, climatic niche, or rate of evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132878', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Oberlin College;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of California;', u'University of Wisconsin;', u'University of Florida']]
[u'Distance Is Not Everything In Imaging Genomics Of Functional Networks: Reply To A Commentary On Correlated Gene Expression Supports Synchronous Activity In Brain Networks', ['Jonas Richiardi', 'Andre Altmann', 'Michael Greicius'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Our 2015 paper (Richiardi et al., 2015), showed that transcriptional similarity of gene expression level is higher than expected by chance within functional brain networks (defined by functional magnetic resonance imaging), a relationship that is driven by around 140 genes. These results were replicated in vivo in adolescents, where we showed that SNPs of these genes where associated above chance with in-vivo fMRI connectivity, and in the mouse, where mouse orthologs of our genes showed above- chance association with meso-scale axonal connectivity. This paper has received a commentary on biorXiv (Pantazatos and Li, 2016), making several claims about our results and methods, mainly pointing out that Euclidean distance explains our results (\u2018...high within-network SF is entirely attributable to proximity and is unrelated to functional brain networks...\u2019). Here we address these claims and their weaknesses, and show that our original results stand, contrary to the claims made in the commentary.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132746', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Geneva;', u'University College London;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'In Utero Diffusion Tensor Imaging Of The Fetal Brain: A Reproducibility Study', ['Andras Jakab', 'Ruth Tuura', 'Christian Kellenberger', 'Ianina Scheer'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Our purpose was to evaluate the within-subject reproducibility of in utero diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) metrics and the visibility of major white matter structures. Images for 30 fetuses (20-33. postmenstrual weeks, normal neurodevelopment: 6 cases, cerebral pathology: 24 cases) were acquired on 1.5T or 3.0T MRI. DTI with 15 diffusion-weighting directions was repeated three times for each case, TR/TE: 2200/63 ms, voxel size: 1*1 mm, slice thickness: 3-5 mm, b-factor: 700 s/mm2. Reproducibility was evaluated from structure detectability, variability of DTI measures using the coefficient of variation (CV), image correlation and structural similarity across repeated scans for six selected structures. The effect of age, scanner type, presence of pathology was determined using Wilcoxon rank sum test. White matter structures were detectable in the following percentage of fetuses in at least two of the three repeated scans: corpus callosum genu 76%, splenium 64%, internal capsule, posterior limb 60%, brainstem fibers 40% and temporooccipital association pathways 60%. The mean CV of DTI metrics ranged between 3% and 14.6% and we measured higher reproducibility in fetuses with normal brain development. Head motion was negatively correlated with reproducibility, this effect was partially ameliorated by motion-correction algorithm using image registration. Structures on 3.0 T had higher variability both with- and without motion correction. Fetal DTI is reproducible for projection and commissural bundles during mid-gestation, however, in 16-30% of the cases, data were corrupted by artifacts, resulting in impaired detection of white matter structures. To achieve robust results for the quantitative analysis of diffusivity and anisotropy values, fetal-specific image processing is recommended and repeated DTI is needed to ensure the detectability of fiber pathways.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132704', [u'Neuroscience'], [u"University Children's Hospital Zurich"]]
[u'A Migratory Divide In The Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris)', ['C. J. Battey', 'Ethan B. Linck', 'Kevin L. Epperly', 'Cooper French', 'David L. Slager', 'Paul W. Sykes', 'John Klicka'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Divergence in migratory behavior is a potential mechanism of reduced hybrid fitness in sympatric populations, and is a key life history trait used in the identification of demographically independent units for conservation purposes. In the Painted Bunting (Passerina ciris), a North American songbird, populations on the Atlantic coast and interior southern United States are known to be allopatric during the breeding season, but efforts to map connectivity with wintering ranges in Mexico, Florida, and the Caribbean have been largely inconclusive. Using genomic and morphological data from natural history specimens and banded birds, we found evidence of three genetically differentiated Painted Bunting populations with distinct wintering ranges and molt-migration phenologies. In addition to confirming that the Atlantic coast population remains allopatric throughout the annual cycle, we identified an unexpected migratory divide within the interior breeding range. Populations breeding in the Lower Mississippi River Valley winter on the Yucatan Peninsula, and are parapatric with other interior populations that winter in mainland Mexico and Central America. Across the interior breeding range, genetic ancestry is also associated with variation in wing length; suggesting that selective pressures may be promoting morphological divergence in populations with different migration strategies.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132910', [u'Zoology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center;', u'Burke Museum of Natural History & University of Washington']]
[u'High-Throughput Profiling Identifies Resource Use Efficient And Abiotic Stress Tolerant Sorghum Varieties', ['Kira M. Veley', 'Jeffrey C. Berry', 'Sarah J. Fentress', 'Daniel P. Schachtman', 'Ivan Baxter', 'Rebecca Bart'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Energy sorghum (Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench) is a rapidly growing, high-biomass, annual crop prized for abiotic stress tolerance. Measuring genotype-by-environment (G x E) interactions remains a progress bottleneck. High throughput phenotyping within controlled environments has been proposed as a potential solution. Early, measureable indicators of desirable traits that translate to the field would increase the speed of crop improvement efforts. Here we identify shape, color and ionomic indicators of abiotic stress for genetically diverse sorghum varieties. We subjected a panel of 30 sorghum genotypes to either nitrogen deprivation or drought stress and measured responses within an automated phenotyping facility, followed by ionomic profiling. Images of growing plants were collected every day for three weeks, and key metrics are reported. Responses to stress were quantified using differences in shape (16 measureable outputs), color (hue and intensity) and ionome (18 elements). We found shape characteristics to be reliable indicators of performance under both stress conditions tested. In contrast, color was a defining indicator of nitrogen starvation but not drought stress. Through this analysis we were able to measure the speed at which specific genotypes respond to stress and identify individual genotypes that perform most favorably under these stress conditions. These data are made available through an open access, user-friendly, web-based interface. Ionomic profiling was conducted as an independent, low cost and high throughput option for characterizing G x E. The effect of genotype on the ionome was consistent between the two experiments confirming the robustness of the high throughput platform. In addition, multiple individual elements were identified as quantitative outputs of abiotic stress. While the important challenge of translation between controlled environment- and field-based experiments remains, the multiple revealed quantitative outputs from different abiotic stress conditions are genetically encoded. Consequently, the genetic explanations for these responses can now be elucidated using classical and molecular genetics. We propose this work as a time efficient method of dissecting the genetic mechanisms used by sorghum to respond to abiotic stress. In summary, this work provides a mechanism to overlay high throughput phenotyping with field studies to accelerate crop improvement.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132787', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'University of Nebraska']]
[u'Identification Of Cellular-Activity Dynamics Across Large Tissue Volumes In The Mammalian Brain', ['Logan M. Grosenick', 'Michael Broxton', 'Christina K. Kim', 'Conor Liston', 'Ben Poole', 'Samuel Yang', 'Aaron S. Andalman', 'Edward Scharff', 'Noy Cohen', 'Ofer Yizhar', 'Charu Ramakrishnan', 'Surya Ganguli', 'Patrick Suppes', 'Marc Levoy', 'Karl Deisseroth'], u'May 1, 2017.', u"Tracking the coordinated activity of cellular events through volumes of intact tissue is a major challenge in biology that has inspired significant technological innovation. Yet scanless measurement of the high-speed activity of individual neurons across three dimensions in scattering mammalian tissue remains an open problem. Here we develop and validate a computational imaging approach (SWIFT) that integrates high-dimensional, structured statistics with light field microscopy to allow the synchronous acquisition of single-neuron resolution activity throughout intact tissue volumes as fast as a camera can capture images (currently up to 100 Hz at full camera resolution), attaining rates needed to keep pace with emerging fast calcium and voltage sensors. We demonstrate that this large field-of-view, single-snapshot volume acquisition method \u2014 which requires only a simple and inexpensive modification to a standard fluorescence microscope \u2014 enables scanless capture of coordinated activity patterns throughout mammalian neural volumes. Further, the volumetric nature of SWIFT also allows fast in vivo imaging, motion correction, and cell identification throughout curved subcortical structures like the dorsal hippocampus, where cellular-resolution dynamics spanning hippocampal subfields can be simultaneously observed during a virtual context learning task in a behaving animal. SWIFT's ability to rapidly and easily record from volumes of many cells across layers opens the door to widespread identification of dynamical motifs and timing dependencies among coordinated cell assemblies during adaptive, modulated, or maladaptive physiological processes in neural systems.", u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132688', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Perceptual Expectations Do Not Modulate Image Repetition Effects As Measured By Event-Related Potentials', ['Daniel Feuerriegel', 'Owen Churches', 'Scott Coussens', 'Hannah A. D. Keage'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Repeated stimulus presentation leads to complex changes in cortical neuron response properties, commonly known as repetition suppression or stimulus-specific adaptation. Circuit-based models of repetition suppression provide a framework for investigating patterns of repetition effects that propagate through cortical hierarchies. To further develop such models it is critical to determine whether (and if so, when) repetition effects are modulated by top-down influences, such as those related to perceptual expectation. We investigated this by presenting pairs of repeated and alternating face images, and orthogonally manipulating expectations regarding the likelihood of stimulus repetition. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from n=39 healthy adults, to map the spatiotemporal progression of stimulus repetition and expectation effects, and interactions between these factors, using mass univariate analyses. We also tested whether the ability to predict unrepeated (compared to repeated) face identities could influence the magnitude of observed repetition effects, by presenting separate blocks with predictable and unpredictable alternating faces. Multiple repetition and expectation effects were identified between 99-800ms from stimulus onset, which did not statistically interact at any point. Repetition effects in blocks with predictable alternating faces were smaller than in unpredictable alternating face blocks between 117-179ms and 506-652ms, and larger between 246-428ms. ERP repetition effects appear not to be modulated by perceptual expectations, supporting separate mechanisms for repetition and expectation suppression. However, previous studies that aimed to test for repetition effects, in which the repeated (but not unrepeated) stimulus was predictable, are likely to have conflated repetition and stimulus predictability effects.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132621', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'Flinders University;', u'University of South Australia']]
[u'High-Risk Human Papillomavirus E7 Alters Host DNA Methylome And Represses HLA-E Expression In Human Keratinocytes', ['Louis Cicchini', 'Rachel Z. Blumhagen', 'Joseph A. Westrich', 'Mallory E. Meyers', 'Cody J. Warren', 'Charlotte Siska', 'David Raben', 'Katerina J. Kechris', 'Dohun Pyeon'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection distinctly alters methylation patterns in HPV-associated cancer. We have recently reported that HPV E7-dependent promoter hypermethylation leads to downregulation of the chemokine CXCL14 and suppression of antitumor immune responses. To investigate the extent of gene expression dysregulated by HPV E7-induced DNA methylation, we analyzed parallel global gene expression and DNA methylation using normal immortalized keratinocyte lines, NIKS, NIKS-16, NIKS-18, and NIKS-16\u0394E7. We show that expression of the MHC class I genes is downregulated in HPV-positive keratinocytes in an E7-dependent manner. Methylome analysis revealed hypermethylation at a distal CpG island (CGI) near the HLA-E gene in NIKS-16 cells compared to either NIKS cells or NIKS-16\u0394E7 cells, which lack E7 expression. The HLA-E CGI functions as an active promoter element which is dramatically repressed by DNA methylation. HLA-E protein expression on cell surface is downregulated by high-risk HPV16 and HPV18 E7 expression, but not by low-risk HPV6 and HPV11 E7 expression. Conversely, demethylation at the HLA-E CGI restores HLA-E protein expression in HPV-positive keratinocytes. Because HLA-E plays an important role in antiviral immunity by regulating natural killer and CD8+ T cells, epigenetic downregulation of HLA-E by high-risk HPV E7 may contribute to virus-induced immune evasion during HPV persistence.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132902', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Colorado School of Medicine;', u'Colorado School of Public Health']]
[u'Modeling Zero-Inflated Count Data With glmmTMB', ['Mollie E. Brooks', 'Kasper Kristensen', 'Koen J. van Benthem', 'Arni Magnusson', 'Casper W. Berg', 'Anders Nielsen', 'Hans J. Skaug', 'Martin Maechler', 'Benjamin M. Bolker'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Ecological phenomena are often measured in the form of count data. These data can be analyzed using generalized linear mixed models (GLMMs) when observations are correlated in ways that require random effects. However, count data are often zero-inflated, containing more zeros than would be expected from the standard error distributions used in GLMMs, e.g., parasite counts may be exactly zero for hosts with effective immune defenses but vary according to a negative binomial distribution for non-resistant hosts. We present a new R package, glmmTMB, that increases the range of models that can easily be fitted to count data using maximum likelihood estimation. The interface was developed to be familiar to users of the lme4 R package, a common tool for fitting GLMMs. To maximize speed and flexibility, estimation is done using Template Model Builder (TMB), utilizing automatic differentiation to estimate model gradients and the Laplace approximation for handling random effects. We demonstrate glmmTMB and compare it to other available methods using two ecological case studies. In general, glmmTMB is more flexible than other packages available for estimating zero-inflated models via maximum likelihood estimation and is faster than packages that use Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling for estimation; it is also more flexible for zero-inflated modelling than INLA, but speed comparisons vary with model and data structure. Our package can be used to fit GLMs and GLMMs with or without zero-inflation as well as hurdle models. By allowing ecologists to quickly estimate a wide variety of models using a single package, glmmTMB makes it easier to find appropriate models and test hypotheses to describe ecological processes.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132753', [u'Ecology'], [u'Technical University of Denmark;', u'University of Zurich;', u'International Council for the Exploration of the Sea;', u'University of Bergen;', u'ETH Zurich;', u'McMaster University']]
[u'European Admixture In Chinchorro DNA', ['Robert Smith'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'It is widely held that, except for migrations from Beringia or Siberia, there was no contact between the Old World and the New World prior to the colonization of North America by the Norse in the late 10th century AD. Analyses of 23 ancient American DNA samples reveal, however, the presence of European admixture in a sample taken from a Chinchorro mummy of northern Chile dated to 3972-3806 BC. This discovery implies a more complex history of the peopling of the Americas than previously accepted.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132555', [u'Genetics'], [u'Independent researcher']]
[u'Mutual Information Estimation For Transcriptional Regulatory Network Inference', ['Jonathan Ish-Horowicz', 'John Reid'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Mutual information-based network inference algorithms are an important tool in the reverse-engineering of transcriptional regulatory networks, but all rely on estimates of the mutual information between the expression of pairs of genes. Various methods exist to compute estimates of the mutual information, but none have been firmly established as optimal for network inference. The performance of 9 mutual information estimation methods are compared using three popular network inference algorithms: CLR, MRNET and ARACNE. The performance of the estimators is compared on one synthetic and two real datasets. For estimators that discretise data, the effect of discretisation parameters are also studied in detail. Implementations of 5 estimators are provided in parallelised C++ with an R interface. These are faster than alternative implementations, with reductions in computation time up to a factor of 3,500. The B-spline estimator consistently performs well on real and synthetic datasets. CLR was found to be the best performing inference algorithm, corroborating previous results indicating that it is the state of the art mutual inference algorithm. It is also found to be robust to the mutual information estimation method and their parameters. Furthermore, when using an estimator that discretises expression data, using N 1/3 bins for N samples gives the most accurate inferred network. This contradicts previous findings that suggested using N 1/2 bins.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132647', [u'Genetics'], [u'MRC Biostatistics Unit']]
[u'Widespread Inter-Chromosomal Epistasis Regulates Glucose Homeostasis And Gene Expression', ['Anlu Chen', 'Liu Yang', 'Scott M. Williams', 'Nathan Morris', 'David A. Buchner'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'The relative contributions of additive versus non-additive interactions in the regulation of complex traits remains controversial. This may be in part because large-scale epistasis has traditionally been difficult to detect in complex, multi-cellular organisms. We hypothesized that it would be easier to detect interactions using mouse chromosome substitution strains that simultaneously incorporate allelic variation in many genes on a controlled genetic background. Analyzing metabolic traits and gene expression levels in the offspring of a series of crosses between mouse chromosome substitution strains demonstrated that inter-chromosomal epistasis was a dominant feature of these complex traits. Epistasis typically accounted for a larger proportion of the heritable effects than those due solely to additive effects. These epistatic interactions typically resulted in trait values returning to the levels of the parental CSS host strain. Due to the large epistatic effects, analyses that did not account for interactions consistently underestimated the true effect sizes due to allelic variation or failed to detect the loci controlling trait variation. These studies demonstrate that epistatic interactions are a common feature of complex traits and thus identifying these interactions is key to understanding their genetic regulation.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132175', [u'Genetics'], [u'Case Western Reserve University']]
[u'Pharmacological inhibition of the DNA damage checkpoint prevents radiation-induced oocyte death', ['Vera D Rinaldi', 'Kristin Hsieh', 'Robert Munroe', 'Ewelina Bolcun-Filas', 'John C Schimenti'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Ovarian function is directly correlated with survival of the primordial follicle reserve. Women diagnosed with cancer have a primary imperative of treating the cancer, but since the resting oocytes are hypersensitive to the DNA-damaging modalities of certain chemo- and radiotherapeutic regimens, such patients face the collateral outcome of premature loss of fertility and ovarian endocrine function. Current options for fertility preservation primarily include collection and cryopreservation of oocytes or in vitro fertilized oocytes, but this necessitates a delay in cancer treatment and additional assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedures. Here, we evaluated the potential of pharmacological preservation of ovarian function by inhibiting a key element of the oocyte DNA damage checkpoint response, checkpoint kinase 2 (CHK2; CHEK2). Whereas non-lethal doses of ionizing radiation (IR) eradicate immature oocytes in wild type mice, irradiated \tChk2-/- mice retain their oocytes and thus, fertility. Using an ovarian culture system, we show that transient administration of the CHK2 inhibitor 2-(4-(4-Chlorophenoxy)phenyl)-1H-benzimidazole-5-carboxamide-hydrate ("CHK2iII") blocked activation of the CHK2 targets TRP53 and TRP63 in response to sterilizing doses of IR, and preserved oocyte viability. After transfer into sterilized host females, these ovaries proved functional and readily yielded normal offspring. These results provide experimental evidence that chemical inhibition of CHK2 is a potentially valid treatment for preserving fertility and ovarian endocrine function of women exposed to DNA-damaging cancer therapies such as IR.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132779', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Cornell University;', u'The Jackson Laboratory']]
[u'Deletion Of EP4 In S100a4-Lineage Cells Reduces Scar Tissue Formation During Early But Not Later Stages Of Tendon Healing', ['Jessica E. Ackerman', 'Katherine T. Best', "Regis J. O'Keefe", 'Alayna Loiselle'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Tendon injuries heal via scar tissue rather than regeneration. This healing response forms adhesions between the flexor tendons in the hand and surrounding tissues, resulting in impaired range of motion and hand function. Mechanistically, inflammation has been strongly linked to adhesion formation, and Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) is associated with both adhesion formation and tendinopathy. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that deletion of the PGE2 receptor EP4 in S100a4-lineage cells would decrease adhesion formation. S100a4-Cre; EP4flox/flox (EP4cKOS100a4) repairs healed with improved gliding function at day 14, followed by impaired gliding at day 28, relative to wild type. Interestingly, EP4cKOS100a4 resulted in only transient deletion of EP4, suggesting up-regulation of EP4 in an alternative cell population in these mice. Loss of EP4 in Scleraxis-lineage cells did not alter gliding function, suggesting that Scx-lineage cells are not the predominant EP4 expressing population. In contrast, a dramatic increase in \u03b1-SMA+ and \u03b1-SMA+, EP4+ cells were observed in EP4cKOS100a4 suggesting that EP4cKOS100a4 repairs heal with increased infiltration of EP4 expressing \u03b1-SMA myofibroblasts, identifying a potential mechanism of late up-regulation of EP4 and impaired gliding function in EP4cKOS100a4 tendon repairs.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132860', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Rochester Medical Center;', u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'RGBM: Regularized Gradient Boosting Machines For The Identification of Transcriptional Regulators Of Discrete Glioma Subtypes', ['Raghvendra Mall', 'Luigi Cerulo', 'Khalid Kunji', 'Halima Bensmail', 'Thais Sabedot', 'Houtan Noushmehr', 'Antonio Iavarone', 'Michele Ceccarelli'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'The transcription factors (TF) which regulate gene expressions are key determinants of cellular phenotypes. Reconstructing large-scale genome-wide networks which capture the influence of TFs on target genes are essential for understanding and accurate modelling of living cells. We propose RGBM: a gene regulatory network (GRN) inference algorithm, which can handle data from heterogeneous information sources including dynamic time-series, gene knockout, gene knockdown, DNA microarrays and RNA-Seq expression profiles. RGBM allows to use an a priori mechanistic of active biding network consisting of TFs and corresponding target genes. RGBM is evaluated on the DREAM challenge datasets where it surpasses the winners of the competitions and other established methods for two evaluation metrics by about 10-15%. We use RGBM to identify the main regulators of the molecular subtypes of brain tumors. Our analysis reveals the identity and corresponding biological activities of the master regulators driving transformation of the G-CIMP-high into the G-CIMP-low subtype of glioma and PA-like into LGm6-GBM, thus, providing a clue to the yet undetermined nature of the transcriptional events driving the evolution among these novel glioma subtypes. RGBM is available for download on CRAN at https://cran.rproject.org/web/packages/RGBM/index.html', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132670', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'QCRI, HBKU, Doha, Qatar;', u'University of Sannio, Italy;', u'Department of Neurosurgery, Brain Tumor Center, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI, USA;', u'Dept. of Neurology, Dept. of Pathology, Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University']]
[u'Translating GWAS Findings Into Therapies For Depression And Anxiety Disorders: Drug Repositioning Using Gene-Set Analyses And Testing For Enrichment Of Psychiatric Drug Classes', ['Hon-Cheong So'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Depression and anxiety disorders are the first and sixth leading cause of disability worldwide according to latest reports from the World Health Organization. Despite their high prevalence and the significant disability resulted, there are limited advances in new drug development. On the other hand, the advent of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) has greatly improved our understanding of the genetic basis underlying psychiatric disorders. In this work we employed gene-set analyses of GWAS summary statistics for drug repositioning. We explored five related GWAS datasets, including two on major depressive disorder (MDD-PGC and MDD-CONVERGE, with the latter focusing on severe depression cases), one on anxiety disorders, and two on depressive symptoms and neuroticism in the population. We extracted gene-sets associated with each drug from DSigDB and examined their association with each GWAS phenotype. We also performed repositioning analyses on meta-analyzed GWAS data, integrating evidence from all related phenotypes. Importantly, we showed that the repositioning hits are generally enriched for known psychiatric medications or those considered in clinical trials, except for MDD-PGC. Enrichment was seen for antidepressants and anxiolytics but also for antipsychotics. We also revealed new candidates for repositioning, some of which were supported by experimental or clinical studies. For example, the top repositioning hit using meta-analyzed p-values was fendiline, which was shown to produce antidepressant-like effects in mouse models by inhibition of acid sphingomyelinase and reducing ceramide levels. Taken together, our findings suggest that human genomic data such as GWAS might be useful in guiding drug discoveries for depression and anxiety disorders.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132563', [u'Genetics'], [u'Chinese University of Hong Kong']]
[u'A High Resolution Atlas Of Gene Expression In The Domestic Sheep (Ovis aries)', ['Emily L. Clark', 'Stephen J. Bush', 'Mary E. B. McCulloch', 'Iseabail L. Farquhar', 'Rachel Young', 'Lucas Lefevre', 'Clare Pridans', 'Hiu-Gwen Tsang', 'Mick Watson', 'Bruce Whitelaw', 'Thomas Freeman', 'Kim M. Summers', 'Alan L. Archibald', 'David A. Hume'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'Sheep are a key source of meat, milk and fibre for the global livestock sector, and an important biomedical model. Global analysis of gene expression across multiple tissues has aided genome annotation and supported functional annotation of mammalian genes. We present a large-scale RNA-Seq dataset representing all the major organ systems from adult sheep and from several juvenile, neonatal and prenatal developmental time points. The Ovis aries reference genome (Oar v3.1) includes 27,504 genes (20,921 protein coding), of which 25,350 (19,921 protein coding) had detectable expression in at least one tissue in the sheep gene expression atlas dataset. Network-based cluster analysis of this dataset grouped genes according to their expression pattern. The principle of guilt by association was used to infer the function of uncharacterised genes from their co-expression with genes of known function. We describe the overall transcriptional signatures present in the sheep gene expression atlas and assign those signatures, where possible, to specific cell populations or pathways. The findings are related to innate immunity by focusing on clusters with an immune signature, and to the advantages of cross-breeding by examining the patterns of genes exhibiting the greatest expression differences between purebred and crossbred animals. This high-resolution gene expression atlas for sheep is, to our knowledge, the largest transcriptomic dataset from any livestock species to date. It provides a resource to improve the annotation of the  current reference genome for sheep, presenting a model transcriptome for ruminants and insight into gene, cell and tissue function at multiple developmental stages.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132696', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Edinburgh, The Roslin Institute;', u'University of Edinburgh, Centre for Synthetic and Systems Biology']]
[u'Nucleotide-Driven Triple-State Remodeling Of The AAA-ATPase Channel In The Activated Human 26S Proteasome', ['Yanan Zhu', 'Wei Li Wang', 'Daqi Yu', 'Qi Ouyang', 'Ying Lu', 'Youdong Mao'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'The proteasome is a sophisticated ATP-dependent molecular machine responsible for protein degradation in all eukaryotic cells. It remains elusive how conformational changes of the AAA-ATPase unfoldase in the regulatory particle (RP) control the gating of substrate-translocation channel to the proteolytic chamber of the core particle (CP). Here we report three alternative states of the ATP-\u03b3S-bound human proteasome, in which the CP gate is asymmetrically open, visualized by cryo-EM at near-atomic resolutions. Only four nucleotides are stably bound to the AAA-ATPase ring in the open-gate states. Concerted nucleotide exchange gives rise to a back-and-forth wobbling motion of the AAA-ATPase channel, coincident with remarkable transitions of their pore loops between the spiral staircase and saddle-shaped circle topologies. Gate opening in the CP is thus controlled with nucleotide-driven remodeling of the AAA-ATPase unfoldase. These findings demonstrate an elegant mechanism of allosteric coordination among sub-machines within the holoenzyme that is crucial for substrate translocation.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132613', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Peking University;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute']]
[u'An Anisotropic Attraction Model For The Diversity And Robustness Of Cell Arrangement In Nematodes', ['Kazunori Yamamoto', 'Akatsuki Kimura'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'In early embryogenesis stages in animals, cells are arranged into a species-specific pattern in a robust manner. The cell arrangement patterns are diverse, even among close relatives. We evaluated how the diversity and robustness are achieved in developing embryos. We succeeded in reproducing different patterns of cell arrangements observed in various nematode species using Caenorhabditis elegans embryos by changing the eggshell shapes. This implies that the diversity of cell arrangements can be explained by differences in a shape parameter. Additionally, we found that the cell arrangement was robust against eggshell deformation. Computational modeling revealed that, in addition to repulsion forces, attraction forces are sufficient for this robustness. Genetic perturbation experiments demonstrated that attraction forces derived from cell adhesion are necessary for the robustness. The proposed model accounts for both diversity and robustness of cell arrangements and contributes to our understanding of how diversity and robustness are achieved in developing embryos.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132654', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'SOKENDAI (The Graduate University for Advanced Studies);', u'National Institute of Genetics']]
[u'Detecting Presence Of Mutational Signatures In Cancer With Confidence', ['Xiaoqing Huang', 'Damian Wojtowicz', 'Teresa M. Przytycka'], u'May 1, 2017.', u"Cancers arise as the result of somatically acquired changes in the DNA of cancer cells. However, in addition to the mutations that confer a growth advantage, cancer genomes accumulate a large number of somatic mutations resulting from  normal DNA damage and repair processes as well as mutations triggered by carcinogenic exposures or cancer related aberrations of DNA maintenance machinery. These mutagenic processes often produce characteristic mutational patterns called mutational signatures. Decomposition of cancer's mutation catalog into mutations consistent with such signatures can provide valuable information about cancer etiology. However, the results from different decomposition methods are not always consistent. Hence, one needs to not only be able to decompose a patient's mutational profile into signatures but also to establish the accuracy of such decomposition. We proposed two complementary ways of measuring confidence and stability of decomposition results and applied them to analyze mutational signatures in breast cancer genomes. We identified very stable and highly unstable signatures, as well as signatures that have been missed altogether. We also provided additional support for the novel signatures. Our results emphasize the importance of assessing the confidence and stability of inferred signature contributions. All tools developed in this paper have been implemented in an R package, called SignatureEstimation, which is available from  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/CBBresearch/Przytycka/index.cgi#signatureestimation.", u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132597', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Center of Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, NIH']]
[u'High-Density Super-Resolution Microscopy With An Incoherent Light Source And A Conventional Epifluorescence Microscope Setup', ['Kirti Prakash'], u'May 1, 2017.', u'We report that single-molecule superresolution microscopy can be achieved with a conventional epifluorescence microscope setup and a Mercury arc lamp. The configuration termed as Omnipresent Localisation Microscope (OLM), is an extension of Single Molecule Localisation Microscopy (SMLM) techniques and allows single molecules to be switched on and off (\u2018blinking\u2019), detected and localised. The use of a short burst of deep blue excitation can be further used to reactivate the blinking, once the blinking process has slowed or stopped. A resolution of 90 nm is achieved on test specimens (mouse and amphibian meiotic chromosomes). Finally, for the first time, we demonstrate that STED and OLM can be performed on the same biological sample using a simple buffer. It is hoped that such a correlative imaging will provide a basis for a further enhanced resolution.', u'/content/early/2017/05/01/132571', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Carnegie Institution for Science']]
