[u'Mendelian randomization: a novel approach for the prediction of adverse drug events and drug repurposing opportunities', ['Venexia M Walker', 'George Davey Smith', 'Neil M Davies', 'Richard M Martin'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Identification of unintended drug effects, specifically drug repurposing opportunities and adverse drug events, maximizes the benefit of a drug and protects the health of patients. However, current observational research methods are subject to several biases. These include confounding by indication, reverse causality, and missing data. We propose that Mendelian randomization (MR) offers a novel approach for the prediction of unintended drug effects.  In particular, we advocate the synthesis of evidence from this method and other approaches, in the spirit of triangulation, to improve causal inferences concerning drug effects. MR overcomes some of the limitations associated with the existing methods in this field. Furthermore, it can be applied either pre- or post-approval of the drug and could therefore prevent the potentially harmful exposure of patients in clinical trials and beyond. The potential of MR as a pharmacovigilance and drug repurposing tool is yet to be realized and could both help prevent adverse drug events and identify novel indications for existing drugs in the future.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105338', [], [u'University of Bristol']]
[u'Cancer Cell Line Profiler (CCLP): a webserver for the prediction of compound activity across the NCI60 panel', ['Isidro Cortes-Ciriano', 'Daniel Murrell', 'Bernard Chetrit', 'Andreas Bender', 'Therese Malliavin', 'Pedro Ballester'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Summary: CCLP (Cancer Cell Line Profiler) is a webserver for the prediction of compound activity across the NCI60 panel. CCLP uses a multi-task Random Forest model trained on 941,831 data-points that integrates structural information from 17,142 compounds and multi-omics data sets from 59 cancer cell lines. In addition, CCLP also implements conformal prediction to provide individual prediction errors\nat several confidence levels. CCLP computes compound descriptors for a set of input molecules and predicts their activity across the NCI60 panel. The output of running CCLP consists of one barplot per input compound displaying the predicted activities and errors across the NCI60 panel, as well as a text file reporting the predicted activities and errors in prediction. Availability: CCLP is freely available on the web at cclp.marseille.inserm.fr. Corresponding authors: isidrolauscher@gmail.com and pedro.ballester@inserm.fr', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105478', [], [u'Harvard Medical School, USA;', u'University of Cambridge, UK;', u'INSERM, France;', u'Institut Pasteur and CNRS UMR 3528, France']]
[u'Dynamic species classification of microorganisms across time, abiotic and biotic environments - a sliding window approach', ['Frank Pennekamp', 'Jason I. Griffiths', 'Emanuel A. Fronhofer', 'Mathew Seymour', 'Aurelie Garnier', 'Florian Altermatt', 'Owen L. Petchey'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Technological advances have greatly simplified to take and analyze digital images and videos, and ecologists increasingly use these techniques for trait, behavioral and taxonomic analyses. The development of techniques to automate biological measurements from the environment opens up new possibilities to infer species numbers, observe presence/absence patterns and recognize individuals based on audio-visual information. \nStreams of quantitative data, such as temporal species abundances, are processed by machine learning (ML) algorithms into meaningful information. Machine learning approaches learn to distinguish classes (e.g., species) from observed quantitative features (phenotypes), and in-turn predict the distinguished classes in subsequent observations. However, in biological systems, the environment changes, often driving  phenotypic changes in behaviour and morphology. \nHere we describe a framework for classifying species under dynamic biotic and abiotic conditions using a novel sliding window approach. We train a random forest classifier on subsets of the data, covering restricted temporal, biotic and abiotic ranges (i.e. windows). We test our approach by applying the classification framework to experimental microbial communities where results were validated against manual classification. Individuals from one to six ciliate species were monitored over hundreds of generations in dozens of different species combinations and over a temperature gradient. We describe the steps of our classification pipeline and systematically explore the effects of the abiotic and biotic environments as well as temporal effects on classification success. \nDifferences in biotic and abiotic conditions caused simplistic classification approaches to be unsuccessful. In contrast, the sliding window approach allowed classification to be highly successful, because phenotypic differences driven by environmental change could be captured in the learning algorithm. Importantly, automatic classification showed comparable success compared to manual identifications.\nOur framework allows for reliable classification even in dynamic environmental contexts, and may help to improve long-term monitoring of species from environmental samples. It therefore has application in disciplines with automatic enumeration and phenotyping of organisms such as eco-toxicology, ecology and evolutionary ecology, and broad-scale environmental monitoring.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105395', [], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'Eawag: Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Technology;', u'Bangor University']]
[u'Riparian vegetation limits oxidation of thermodynamically unfavorable bound-carbon stocks along an aquatic interface', ['Emily B. Graham', 'Malak Tfaily', 'Alex R. Crump', 'Amy E. Goldman', 'Evan Arntzen', 'Elvira Romero', 'C. Tom Resch', 'David W. Kennedy', 'James C. Stegen'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'In light of increasing terrestrial carbon (C) transport across aquatic boundaries, the mechanisms governing organic carbon (OC) oxidation along terrestrial-aquatic interfaces are crucial to future climate predictions. Here, we investigate biochemistry, metabolic pathways, and thermodynamics corresponding to OC oxidation in the Columbia River corridor. We leverage natural vegetative differences to encompass variation in terrestrial C inputs. Our results suggest that decreases in terrestrial C deposition associated with diminished riparian vegetation induce oxidation of physically-bound (i.e., mineral and microbial) OC at terrestrial-aquatic interfaces. We also find that contrasting metabolic pathways oxidize OC in the presence and absence of vegetation and, in direct conflict with the concept of priming, that inputs of water-soluble and thermodynamically-favorable terrestrial OC protects bound-OC from oxidation. Based on our results, we propose a mechanistic conceptualization of OC oxidation along terrestrial-aquatic interfaces that can be used to model heterogeneous patterns of OC loss under changing land cover distributions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105486', [], [u'Pacific Northwest National Laboratory']]
[u'Sex chromosome evolution, heterochiasmy and physiological QTL in the salmonid Brook Charr Salvelinus fontinalis', ['Ben J. G. Sutherland', 'Ciro Rico', 'Celine Audet', 'Louis Bernatchez'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Whole genome duplication can have large impacts on genome evolution. However, much remains unknown about these impacts, such as the mechanisms of coping with a duplicated sex determination system, which may result in increased sex determination mechanism diversity. Sexual conflict (i.e. alleles having different optimums in each sex) can result in sequestration of genes into non-recombining sex chromosomes. Development of sex chromosomes may involve heterochiasmy (i.e. sex-specific recombination rate), which is also poorly understood. Family Salmonidae is a model system for these phenomena, having undergone autotetraploidization and subsequent rediploidization in most of the genome at the base of the lineage. The salmonid master sex determining gene is known, and many species have non-homologous sex chromosomes, putatively due to transposition of this gene. In this study, we identify the sex chromosome of Brook Charr Salvelinus fontinalis and compare sex chromosome identities across the lineage (eight species, four genera). Although non-homology is frequent, homologous sex chromosomes and other consistencies are present in distantly related species, indicating probable convergence on specific sex and neo-sex chromosomes. We also characterize strong heterochiasmy with 2.7-fold more crossovers in maternal than paternal haplotypes with paternal crossovers biased to chromosome ends. Y chromosome crossovers are restricted to a single end of the chromosome, and this chromosome contains a large interspecific inversion, although its status between males and females remains unknown. Finally, we identify QTL for 21 unique growth, reproductive and stress-related phenotypes to improve knowledge of the genetic architecture of these traits important to aquaculture and evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105411', [], [u'Institut de Biologie Integrative et des Systemes (IBIS), Universite Laval, Quebec, QC, Canada;', u'School of Marine Studies, Molecular Diagnostics Laboratory, University of the South Pacific, Fiji;', u'Institut des Sciences de la Mer de Rimouski, Universite du Quebec a Rimouski, Rimouski, QC, Canada']]
[u'Data-Driven Extraction of a Nested Structure of Human Cognition', ['Taylor Bolt', 'Jason Nomi', 'Thomas Yeo', 'Lucina Uddin'], u'February 2, 2017.', u"Decades of cognitive neuroscience research have revealed two basic facts regarding task-driven brain activation patterns. First, distinct patterns of activation occur in response to different task demands. Second, a superordinate, dichotomous pattern of activation/de-activation, is commonly observed across a variety of task demands. We explore the possibility that a hierarchical model incorporates these two observed brain activation phenomena into a unifying framework. We apply a latent variable approach, exploratory bi-factor analysis, to a large set of brain activation patterns to determine the potential existence of a nested structure of factors that underlies a variety of commonly observed activation patterns. We find that a general factor, associated with a superordinate brain activation/de-activation pattern, explained the majority of the variance (52.37%). The bi-factor analysis also revealed several sub-factors that explained an additional 31.02% of variance in brain activation patterns, associated with different manifestations of the superordinate brain activation/de-activation pattern, each emphasizing different contexts in which the task demands occurred. Importantly, this nested factor structure provided better overall fit to the data compared with a non-nested factor structure model. These results point to domain-general psychological process, representing a 'focused awareness' process or 'attentional episode' that is variously manifested according to the sensory modality of the stimulus and degree of cognitive processing. This novel model provides the basis for constructing a biologically-informed, data-driven taxonomy of psychological processes.", u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105403', [], [u'University of Miami;', u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Efficient Detection of Communities in Biological Bipartite Networks', ['Paola Pesantez-Cabrera', 'Ananth Kalyanaraman'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Methods to efficiently uncover and extract community structures are required in a number of biological applications where networked data and their interactions can be modeled as graphs, and observing tightly-knit groups of vertices ("communities") can offer insights into the structural and functional building blocks of the underlying network. Classical applications of community detection have largely focused on unipartite networks-i.e., graphs built out of a single type of objects. However, due to increased availability of biological data from various sources, there is now an increasing need for handling heterogeneous networks which are built out of multiple types of objects. In this paper, we address the problem of identifying communities from biological bipartite networks-i.e., networks where interactions are observed between two different types of objects (e.g., genes and diseases, drugs and protein complexes, plants and pollinators, hosts and pathogens). Toward detecting communities in such bipartite networks, we make the following contributions: i) (metric) we propose a variant of bipartite modularity; ii) (algorithms) we present an efficient algorithm called biLouvain that implements a set of heuristics toward fast and precise community detection in bipartite networks; and iii) (experiments) we present a thorough experimental evaluation of our algorithm including comparison to other state-of-the-art methods to identify communities in bipartite networks. Experimental results show that our biLouvain algorithm identifies communities that have a comparable or better quality (as measured by bipartite modularity) than existing methods, while significantly reducing the time-to-solution between one and four orders of magnitude.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105197', [], [u'Washington State University']]
[u'ATLAS: Analysis Tools for Low-depth and Ancient Samples', ['Vivian Link', 'Athanasios Kousathanas', 'Krishna Veeramah', 'Christian Sell', 'Amelie Scheu', 'Daniel Wegmann'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Post-mortem damage (PMD) obstructs the proper analysis of ancient DNA samples. Currently, PMD can only be addressed by adjusting sequencing quality scores or by removing potentially damaged data. Here we present ATLAS, a suite of methods to analyze ancient samples that properly account for PMD. It works directly from raw BAM files and contains all necessary methods to infer patterns of PMD, recalibrate base quality scores and accurately genotype ancient DNA, along with many other useful tools. ATLAS enables the building of complete and customized pipelines for the analysis of ancient and low-depth samples in a very user-friendly way. Using simulations we show that, in the presence of PMD, a dedicated pipeline of ATLAS calls genotypes more accurately than the state of the art pipeline of GATK combined with mapDamage 2.0.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105346', [], [u'Department of Biology, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University;', u'Institute of Anthropology, Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany']]
[u'Unifying concepts of biological function from molecules to ecosystems.', ['Keith D Farnsworth', 'Larissa Albantakis', 'Tancredi Caruso'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'The concept of function arises at all levels of biological study and is often loosely and variously defined, especially within ecology. This has led to ambiguity, obscuring the common structure that unites levels of biological organisation, from molecules to ecosystems. Here we build on already successful ideas from molecular biology and complexity theory to create a precise definition of biological function which spans scales of biological organisation and can be quantified in the unifying currency of biomass, enabling comparisons of functional effectiveness (irrespective of the specific function) across the field of ecology. We give precise definitions of ecological and ecosystem function that bring clarity and precision to studies of biodiversity-ecosystem function relationships and questions of ecological redundancy. To illustrate the new concepts and their unifying power, we construct a simple community-level model with nutrient cycling and animal-plant mutualism, emphasising the importance of its network structure in determining overall functioning. This type of network structure is that of an autocatalytic set of functional relationships, which also appears at biochemical, cellular and organism levels of organisation, creating a nested hierarchy.  This enables a common and unifying concept of function to apply from molecular interaction networks up to the global ecosystem.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105320', [], [u"Queen's University Belfast;", u'University of Wisconsin']]
[u'Two stochastic processes shape diverse senescence patterns in a single-cell organism', ['Ulrich K Steiner', 'Adam Lenart', 'Ming Ni', 'Peipei Chen', 'Xiaohu Song', 'Francois Taddei', 'Ariel Lindner', 'James Vaupel'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Despite advancements in aging research, we lack basic understanding of the biological processes that shape senescence. Here, we show that for a simple isogenic bacterial system, Escherichia coli, in a controlled environment, senescence results from two stochastic processes: a primary random deterioration process within the cell underlying classical senescence patterns; and a secondary process of stochastic asymmetric transmission of a factor influencing mortality at cell fission. This second process is required to explain the near non-senescence of old mothers offspring and the lack of a mother offspring correlation in age at death. We observed that life span is predominantly determined by underlying stochastic stage dynamics. Our findings do not support evolutionary postulates that base their reasoning on the age-specific action of alleles, but could support stage-specific actions of alleles.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105387', [], [u'University of Southern Denmark;', u'Max-Planck Odense Centre on the Biodemography of Aging, Campusvej 55, 5230 Odense, Denmark;', u'INSERM U1001, 75014 Paris, France;', u'Center for Research and Interdisciplinarity, Paris Descartes University, 75014, Paris, France']]
[u'Demographic variability and heterogeneity among individuals within and among clonal bacteria strains', ['Lionel Jouvet', 'Alexandro Rodriguez-Rojas', 'Ulrich K Steiner'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Identifying what drives individual heterogeneity has been of long interest to us ecologists, evolutionary biologists and biodemographers, because only such identification provides deeper understanding of ecological and evolutionary population dynamics. In natural populations we are challenged to accurately decompose the generating genetically fixed and selectively neutral dynamic moments of heterogeneity. Rather than working on wild populations we present here data from a simple bacterial system in the lab, Escherichia coli. Our system, based on cutting-edge microfluidic techniques, provides high control over the genotype and the environment. Only such high control provides the means to unambiguously decompose and quantify fixed, genetic variability, and dynamic, stochastic variability among individual demographic components. We show that within clonal individual variability (neutral dynamic heterogeneity) in lifespan and lifetime reproduction is dominating at about 93-95%, over the 5-7% genetically (adaptive fixed) driven differences. The genetic differences among the clonal strains still lead to substantial variability in population growth rates (fitness), but the neutral variability slows adaptive change, by enhancing genetic drift, and lowering overall population growth. We also revealed a surprising diversity in demographic patterns among the clonal strains, which indicates diverse underlying stochastic cell-intrinsic processes that shape these demographic patterns. Such diversity is surprising since all cells belong to the same bacteria species, E. coli, and still exhibit patterns such as classical senescence, non-senescence, or negative senescence. We end by discussing whether similar levels of neutral variability might be detected in other systems and close by stating the open questions how such neutral heterogeneity is maintained, how it has evolved, and whether it is adaptive.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105353', [], [u'Max-Planck Odense Centre on the Biodemography of Aging, Campusvej 55, 5230 Odense, Denmark;', u'Institute of Biology, Freie Universitaet Berlin, Koenigin-Luise-Strasse 1-3, 14195 Berlin, Germany;', u'University of Southern Denmark']]
[u'Gene length as a regulator for ribosome recruitment and protein synthesis: theoretical insights', ['Lucas D. Fernandes', 'Alessandro de Moura', 'Luca Ciandrini'], u'February 2, 2017.', u"Protein synthesis rates are determined, at the translational level, by properties of the transcript's sequence. The efficiency of an mRNA can be tuned by varying the ribosome binding sites controlling the recruitment of the ribosomes, or the codon usage establishing the speed of protein elongation. In this work we promote transcript length as a further key determinant of translation efficiency. Based on a physical model that considers the kinetics of ribosomes advancing on the mRNA and diffusing in its surrounding, we explain how the transcript length might play a central role in establishing ribosome recruitment and the overall translation rate of an mRNA. We also demonstrate how this process might be involved in shaping the experimental ribosome density-gene length dependence. Finally, we argue that cells could exploit this mechanism to adjust and balance the usage of its ribosomal resources.", u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105296', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Universidade de Sao Paulo;', u'University of Aberdeen;', u'University of Montpellier']]
[u'Epidemic establishment and cryptic transmission of Zika virus in Brazil and the Americas', ['Nuno R. Faria', 'Josh Quick', 'Ingra Morales', 'Julien Theze', 'Jacqueline G. de Jesus', 'Marta Giovanetti', 'Moritz U. G. Kraemer', 'Sarah C. Hill', 'Allison Black', 'Antonio C. da Costa', 'Luciano C. Franco', 'Sandro P. Silva', 'Chiej-Hsi Wu', 'Jayna Ragwhani', 'Simon Cauchemez', 'Louis du Plessis', 'Mariana P. Verotti', 'Wanderson K. Oliveira', 'Eduardo H. Carmo', 'Giovanini Evelim Coelho', 'Ana Carolina Faria E. Silva Santelli', 'Livia C. Vinhal', 'Claudio Maierovitch Pessanha Henriques', 'Jared Simpson', 'Matt Loose', 'Kristian G. Andersen', 'Nathan Grubaugh', 'Sneha Somasekar', 'Charles Y. Chiu', 'Lia Laura Lewis-Ximenez', 'Sally A. Baylis', 'Alexandre Otavio Chieppe', 'Shirlei Ferreira Aguiar', 'Carlos Augusto Fernandes', 'Poliana da Silva Lemos', 'Bruna L. S. Nascimento', 'Hamilton Antonio de Oliveira Monteiro', 'Isadora Cristina Siqueira', 'Maria Goretti Lins de Queiroz', 'Themis Rocha Souza', 'Joao Filipe Bezerra', 'Marta Rejane Lemos', 'Gilberto Fernandes Pereira', 'Dalane Loudal Florentino Teixeira', 'Lucia C. A. C. Moura', 'Rafael Dhalia', 'Rafel F. Franca', 'Tereza Magalhaes', 'Ernesto Torres de Azevedo Marques', 'Gabriel da Luz Wallau', 'Magliones Carneiro de Lima', 'Valeria Nascimento', 'Erenilde Marques de Cerqueira', 'Maricelia Maia de Lima', 'Denise Lima Mascarenhas', 'Jose Pereira de Moura Neto', 'Anna Sara Shafferman Levin', 'Tania Regina Tozetto Mendoza', 'Silvia Fonseca', 'Maria Cassia Mendes-Correa', 'Flavio Padua Milagres', 'Aluisio Segurado', 'Edward C. Holmes', 'Andrew Rambaut', 'Trevor Bedford', 'Marcio Nunes Roberto Teixeira', 'Ester Cerdeira Sabino', 'Luiz Carlos Junior Alcantara', 'Nicholas Loman', 'Oliver G. Pybus'], u'February 2, 2017.', u"Zika virus (ZIKV) transmission in the Americas was first confirmed in April 2015 in Northeast Brazil. Brazil has the highest number of reported ZIKV cases worldwide (>200,000 by 24 Dec 2016) as well as the greatest number of cases associated with microcephaly and other birth defects (2,366 confirmed cases by 31 Dec 2016). Following the initial detection of ZIKV in Brazil, 47 countries and territories in the Americas have reported local ZIKV transmission, with 22 of these reporting ZIKV-associated severe disease. Yet the origin and epidemic history of ZIKV in Brazil and the Americas remain poorly understood, despite the value of such information for interpreting past trends in reported microcephaly. To address this we generated 53 complete or partial ZIKV genomes, mostly from Brazil, including data generated by the ZiBRA project - a mobile genomics lab that travelled across Northeast Brazil in 2016. One sequence represents the earliest confirmed ZIKV infection in Brazil. Joint analyses of viral genomes with ecological and epidemiological data estimate that the ZIKV epidemic first became established in NE Brazil by March 2014 and likely disseminated from there, both nationally and internationally, before the first detection of ZIKV in the Americas. Estimated dates of the international spread of ZIKV from Brazil coincide with periods of high vector suitability in recipient regions and indicate the duration of pre-detection cryptic transmission in those regions. NE Brazil's role in the establishment of ZIKV in the Americas is further supported by geographic analysis of ZIKV transmission potential and by estimates of the virus' basic reproduction number.", u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105171', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK;', u'Institute of Microbiology and Infection, University of Birmingham, UK;', u'Department of Infectious Disease, Institute of Tropical Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz (FIOCRUZ), Salvador, Bahia, Brazil;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, USA;', u'Evandro Chagas Institute, Ministry of Health, Ananindeua, Brazil;', u'Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, UK;', u'Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases and Center of Bioinformatics and Biostatistics;', u'Coordenacao dos Laboratorios de Saude Publica, Ministry of Health, Brasilia, Brazil;', u'Coordenacao Geral Vigilancia e Resposta as Emergencias em Saude Publica, Ministry of Health, Brazil;', u'Departamento de Vigilancia das Doencas Transmissiveis, Ministry of Health, Brasilia, Brazil;', u'Coordenacao Geral Controle e Prevencao, Ministry of Health, Brazil;', u'Programa Nacional de Controle da Dengue Zika Chikungunya Malaria, Ministry of Health, Brazil;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto, Canada;', u'University of Nottingham, Nottingham, United Kingdom;', u'Department of Immunology and Microbial Science, The Scripps Research Institute, USA;', u'Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Medicine & Infectious Diseases, University of California, USA;', u'Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz (FIOCRUZ), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;', u'Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, Langen, Germany;', u'Laboratorio Central de Saude Publica Noel Nutels, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;', u'Laboratorio Central de Saude Publica do Estado do Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, Brazil;', u'Laboratorio Central de Saude Publica do Estado da Paraiba, Joao Pessoa, Brazil;', u'Fundacao Oswaldo Cruz (FIOCRUZ), Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil;', u'Laboratorio Central de Saude Publica do Estado de Alagoas, Maceio, Brazil;', u'Universidade Estadual de Feira de Santana, Feira de Santana, Bahia, Brazil;', u'Secretaria de Saude de Feira de Santana, Feira de Santana, Bahia, Brazil;', u'Universidade Federal do Amazonas, Manaus;', u'Hospital Sao Francisco, Ribeirao Preto, Brazil;', u'Universidade Federal do Tocantins, Palmas, Brazil;', u'University of Sydney, Australia;', u'University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, United States']]
[u'Integrative genomics study of microglial transcriptome reveals effect of DLG4 (PSD95) on white matter in preterm infants.', ['Michelle L Krishnan', 'Juliette Van Steenwinckel', 'Anne-Laure Schang', 'Jun Yan', 'Johanna Arnadottir', 'Tifenn Le Charpentier', 'Zsolt Csaba', 'Pascal Dournaud', 'Sara Cipriani', 'Constance Auvynet', 'Luigi Titomanlio', 'Julien Pansiot', 'Gareth Ball', 'James P Boardman', 'Andrew J Walley', 'Alka Saxena', 'Ghazala Mirza', 'Bobbi Fleiss', 'A David Edwards', 'Enrico G. Petretto', 'Pierre Gressens'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Preterm birth places newborn infants in an adverse environment that leads to brain injury linked to neuroinflammation. To characterise this pathology, we present a translational bioinformatics investigation, with integration of human and mouse molecular and neuroimaging datasets to provide a deeper understanding of the role of microglia in preterm white matter damage.  We examined preterm neuroinflammation in a mouse model of encephalopathy of prematurity induced by IL1B exposure, carrying out a gene network analysis of the cell-specific transcriptomic response to injury, which we extended to analysis of protein-protein interactions, transcription factors, and human brain gene expression, including translation to preterm infants by means of imaging-genetics approaches in the brain.  We identified the endogenous synthesis of DLG4 (PSD95) protein by microglia in mouse and human, modulated by inflammation and development. Systemic genetic variation in DLG4 was associated with structural features in the preterm infant brain, suggesting that genetic variation in DLG4 may also impact white matter development and inter-individual susceptibility to injury.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105288', [u'Genomics'], [u'Centre for the Developing Brain, Department of Perinatal Imaging and Health, Kings College London;', u'PremUP, PROTECT, INSERM, Universite Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cite, Paris, France;', u'Medical Research Council/University of Edinburgh Centre for Reproductive Health, Edinburgh;', u'Cell Biology and Genetics Research Centre, St. Georges University of London;', u'Genomics Core Facility, NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, Guys and St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust;', u'Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology;', u'Centre for the Developing Brain, Kings College London, PremUP, PROTECT, INSERM;', u'Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore']]
[u'Cinnamon hydro alcoholic extract increased expression level of UCP3 gene in skeletal muscle of obese male Wistar Rats', ['Elham Golmohammadi', 'Sanaz Mahmazi', 'Mehdi Rahnema'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Uncoupling proteins  are the mitochondrial inner membrane proteins regulating basal metabolism. UCP3 in muscle and adipose tissue helping metabolism and fat oxidation affecting thermogenesis, involve in fatty acid metabolism and energy homeostasis. 42 adult rats divided into 6 groups including control group, the high-fat diet Obese group, experimental groups that in addition to the high-fat diet received 50,100,200 mg/Kg  doses of cinnamon extract and the sham group with 200 mg/Kg  extract treatment . RNA extracted from muscles, cDNA synthesized and UCP3 gene expression level was examined by real-time PCR. In muscls of  Obese rats significant decrease in UCP3 gene expression was observed but in exprimental groups there was significant increased level of UCP3 gene expression in 100, 50mg/Kg dose of treatment.UCP3 might be a target for pharmacological up regulation in treatment of obesity. Cinnamon might influence UCP3 expression, in a dose dependent manner and low dose was more effective.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105155', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of genetics, Faculty of basic Sciences, Islamic Azad University, Zanjan Branch, zanjan, I;', u'Department of physiology, Faculty of basic Sciences, Islamic Azad University, Zanjan Branch, zanjan,']]
[u'Music-induced analgesia in chronic pain conditions: a systematic review and meta-analysis', ['Eduardo A. Garza-Villarreal', 'Victor Pando', 'Christine Parsons', 'Peter Vuust'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Music is increasingly used as an adjuvant for chronic pain management as it is not invasive, inexpensive, and patients usually report positive experiences with it. However, little is known about its clinical efficacy in chronic pain patients. In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we investigated randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of adult patients that reported any type of music intervention for chronic pain, chosen by the researcher or patient, lasting for any duration. Searches were performed using PsycINFO, Scopus and PubMed for RTCs published until the end of May 2016. The primary outcome was reduction in self-reported pain using a standardized pain measurement instrument reported post-intervention. The secondary outcomes were: quality of life measures, depression and anxiety measures, among others. The study was pre-registered with PROSPERO (CRD42016039837) and the meta-analysis was done using RevMan. We identified 768 titles and abstracts, and we included 14 RTCs that fulfilled our criteria. The sample size of the studies varied between 25 and 200 participants. We found that music reduced chronic pain, and depression, with higher effect size on pain and depression. We also found music had a higher effect when the participant chose the music in contrast with researcher-chosen music. The sample size of RCTs was small and sometimes with different outcome measures. Our analysis suggests that music may be beneficial as an adjuvant for chronic pain patients, as it reduces self-reported pain and its common co-morbidities. Importantly, the analgesic effect of music appears higher with self-chosen over researcher-chosen music.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105148', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatria;', u'Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico;', u'University of Aarhus']]
[u'Comparative analysis of protein abundance studies to quantify the Saccharomyces cerevisiae proteome', ['Brandon Ho', 'Anastasia Baryshnikova', 'Grant W Brown'], u'February 2, 2017.', u"Global gene expression and proteomics tools have allowed large-scale analyses of the transcriptome and proteome in eukaryotic cells. These tools have enabled studies of protein abundance changes that occur in cells under stress conditions, providing insight into regulatory programs required for cellular adaptation. While the proteome of yeast has been subjected to the most comprehensive analysis of any eukaryote, each of the existing datasets is separate and reported in different units. A comparison of all the available protein abundance data sets is key towards developing a complete understanding of the yeast proteome. We evaluated 19 quantitative proteomic analyses performed under normal and stress conditions and normalized and converted all measurements of protein abundance into absolute molecules per cell. Our analysis yields an estimate of the cellular abundance of 97% of the proteins in the yeast proteome, as well as an assessment of the variation in each abundance measurement. We evaluate the variance and sensitivity associated with different measurement methods. We find that C-terminal tagging of proteins, and the accompanying alterations to the 3' untranslated regions of the tagged genes, has little effect on protein abundance. Finally, our normalization of diverse datasets facilitates comparisons of protein abundance remodeling of the proteome during cellular stresses.", u'/content/early/2017/02/02/104919', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Toronto;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'Progressive alterations in brain connectivity patterns revealed by diffusion-tensor brain networks across severity stages in Alzheimer \u2032s disease', ['Javier Rasero', 'Carmen Alonso-Montes', 'Ibai Diez', 'Laiene Olabarrieta-Landa', 'Lakhdar Remaki', 'Inaki Escudero', 'Beatriz Mateos Goni', 'Paolo Bonifazi', 'Manuel Fernandez Martinez', 'Juan Carlos Arango-Lasprilla', 'Sebastiano Stramaglia', 'Jesus M Cortes'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Alzheimer \u2032s disease (AD) is a chronically progressive neurodegenerative disease highly correlated to aging. Whether AD originates by targeting a localized brain area and propagates to the rest of the brain across disease-severity progression is a question with an unknown answer. Here, this question is addressed at the group-level by looking to differences in diffusion-tensor brain networks. In particular, making use of data from Alzheimer \u2032s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), 4 different groups were defined (all of them matched by age, sex and education level): G1 (N1=36, healthy control participants, HC), G2 (N2=36, early mild cognitive impairment, EMCI), G3 (N3=36, late mild cognitive impairment, LMCI) and  G4 (N4=36, AD). We built diffusion-tensor brain networks and performed group comparison across 3 disease stages: stage I (HC vs EMCI), stage II (HC vs LMCI) and stage III (HC vs AD). The group comparison was performed using the multivariate distance matrix regression analysis, a technique that was born in genomics and was recently proposed to handle functional network data, but here was applied to diffusion-tensor data. The results were three-fold: First, no significant differences were found in stage I. Second, in stage II, statistically significant differences were found in the connectivity pattern of a subnetwork strongly associated to memory function  (including part of the hippocampus, amygdala, entorhinal cortex, fusiform gyrus, inferior and middle temporal gyrus, parahippocampal gyrus and temporal pole). Third, a widespread disconnection across the entire AD brain was found in stage III, affecting stronger to the same memory subnetwork appearing in stage II plus to other subnetworks, including the default mode network, the medial visual network, frontoparietal regions, and subnetworks encompassing mainly subcortical structures (including part of the hippocampus, amygdala and putamen). The novelty of the approach lies in the fact that group differences were approached across severity progression. A better possibility would have been to analyze well time-resolved longitudinal data, building diffusion-tensor networks belonging to the same patient across all disease stages (from control to AD), but such data (to the best of our knowledge) are not available yet.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105270', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'BioCruces Health Research Institute;', u'BCAM - Basque Center for Applied Mathematics;', u'Dipartimento di Fisica e INFN, Sezione di Bari']]
[u'Analysis and prediction of super-enhancers using sequence and chromatin signatures', ['Aziz Khan', 'Xuegong Zhang'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Background: Super-enhancers are clusters of active enhancers densely occupied by the Mediators, transcription factors and chromatin regulators, control expression of cell identity and disease associated genes. Current studies demonstrated the possibility of multiple factors with important roles in super-enhancer formation; however, a systematic analysis to asses the relative contribution of chromatin and sequence features of super-enhancers and their constituents remain unclear. In addition, a predictive model that integrates various types of data to predict super-enhancers has not been established.  Results: Here, we integrated diverse types of genomic and epigenomic datasets to identify key signatures of super-enhancers and their constituents and to investigate their relative contribution. Through computational modelling, we found that Cdk8, Cdk9 and Smad3 as new key features of super-enhancers along with many known. Comprehensive analysis of these features in embryonic stem cells and pro-B cells revealed their role in the super-enhancer formation and cellular identity. Further, we observed significant correlation and combinatorial predictive ability among many cofactors at the constituents of super-enhancers. By utilizing these features, we developed computational models which can accurately predict super-enhancers and their constituents. We validated these models using cross-validation and also independent datasets in four human cell-types.  Conclusions: Our analysis of these features and prediction models can serve as a resource to further characterize and understand the formation of super-enhancers. Taken together, our results also suggest a possible cooperative and synergistic interactions of numerous factors at super-enhancers and their constituents. We have made available our analysis pipeline as an open-source tool with a command line interface at https://github.com/asntech/improse.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105262', [u'Genomics'], [u'Tsinghua University, Beijing, China']]
[u'Inhibitory neuron diversity originates from cardinal classes shared across germinal zones.', ['Christian Mayer', 'Christoph Hafemeister', 'Rachel C Bandler', 'Robert Machold', 'Gord Fishell', 'Rahul Satija'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'During embryogenesis, the ventral telencephalon gives rise to a remarkable variety of GABAergic cell types, from long-range projection neurons to locally-projecting interneurons. Our current understanding of how this diversity is generated is far from complete. Using Drop- seq to profile the single-cell transcriptomes of over 36,000 ventral telencephalic cells isolated from three distinct germinal zones (the ganglionic eminences), we found that regardless of their origin and ultimate fate, all lineages transit through one of three cardinal transcriptional programs that define the earliest branch points in cell fate determination. Thus, the ability of these germinal zones to generate distinct cells likely relies on the small number of genes that are differentially expressed within each of these regions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105312', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'NYU Neuroscience Institute, Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, USA; New York Genome Center, NY;', u'New York Genome Center, New York, NY, USA;', u'NYU Neuroscience Institute, Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, USA;', u'New York Genome Center; New York University, Center for Genomics and Systems Biology']]
[u'Scaling single cell transcriptomics through split pool barcoding', ['Alexander B Rosenberg', 'Charles Roco', 'Richard A Muscat', 'Anna Kuchina', 'Sumit Mukherjee', 'Wei Chen', 'David J Peeler', 'Zizhen Yao', 'Bosiljka Tasic', 'Drew L Sellers', 'Suzie H Pun', 'Georg Seelig'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Constructing an atlas of cell types in complex organisms will require a collective effort to characterize billions of individual cells. Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has emerged as the main tool for characterizing cellular diversity, but current methods use custom microfluidics or microwells to compartmentalize single cells, limiting scalability and widespread adoption. Here we present Split Pool Ligation-based Transcriptome sequencing (SPLiT-seq), a scRNA-seq method that labels the cellular origin of RNA through combinatorial indexing. SPLiT-seq is compatible with fixed cells, scales exponentially, uses only basic laboratory equipment, and costs one cent per cell. We used this approach to analyze 109,069 single cell transcriptomes from an entire postnatal day 5 mouse brain, providing the first global snapshot at this stage of development. We identified 13 main populations comprising different types of neurons, glia, immune cells, endothelia, as well as types in the blood-brain-barrier. Moreover, we resolve substructure within these clusters corresponding to cells at different stages of development. As sequencing capacity increases, SPLiT-seq will enable profiling of billions of cells in a single experiment.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105163', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Allen Institute for Brain Science']]
[u'Phenoplasm: a database of disruption phenotypes for malaria parasite genes', ['Theo Sanderson', 'Julian C. Rayner'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Two decades from the first Plasmodium transfection, attempts have been made to disrupt more than 900 genes in malaria parasites. These reverse-genetic results exist across five Plasmodium species. While results from the rodent malarias have been curated and systematised, data for species of human malaria parasites currently exists only scattered over a large literature. To facilitate systematic views of previous experimental genetic data across Plasmodium species, the Phenotype database for Plasmodium (PhenoPlasm) (http://www.phenoplasm.org) provides a user-friendly interface for linking citation-backed Plasmodium reverse genetic phenotypes to gene IDs. This database has been populated with phenotypic data on 324 P. falciparum genes, curated from 141 individual publications, as well as existing curated data from RMgmDB. These data are presented using 1:1 ortholog mapping to allow a researcher interested in a gene in one species to see results across Plasmodium. The collaborative nature of the database enables any researcher to add new phenotypes as they are discovered.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/101717', [u'Genetics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'The rhythm of attentional stimulus selection during visual competition', ['Sebastien M Crouzet', 'Rufin VanRullen'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Recent research indicates that attentional stimulus selection could in fact be a rhythmic process, operating as a sequence of successive cycles. When two items must be monitored, an intriguing corollary of this "blinking spotlight" notion could be that the successive cycles are directed alternately to each target; as a result, each item would effectively be selected at half the intrinsic rate of attentional selection. Here, we tested this prediction in two experiments. In an endogenous attention task, subjects covertly monitored one or two peripheral images in order to detect a brief contrast change. In the sustained occipital EEG power spectrum, selecting two vs. one item resulted in a relative increase around 4Hz and a relative decrease around 10-11Hz. In a second experiment, we tested if comparable oscillations could be observed in the stimulus-evoked EEG visual representational content. Subjects saw a first peripheral image displayed alone for 600ms, before a second one also appeared for the same duration, but at a different peripheral location. Using pattern analysis on EEG evoked- responses, we were able to create item selective classifiers that constantly indicated which stimulus was on the screen. The time-course of single-trial classifier decision values presented a relative spectral peak around 11Hz when only one object was present, and around 4-5Hz when two objects were on the screen. These results are both compatible with an attentional stimulus selection process sampling the visual field at around 10-11Hz, and resulting in a half-frequency effective sampling around 4-5Hz when there are two items to monitor.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105239', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition']]
[u'Genetic equidistance at the nucleotide level', ['Dejian Yuan', 'Shi Huang'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'The genetic equidistance phenomenon was first discovered in 1963 by Margoliash and shows complex taxa to be all approximately equidistant to a less complex species in amino acid percentage identity. The result has been mis-interpretated by the ad hoc universal molecular clock hypothesis, and the much overlooked mystery was finally solved by the maximum genetic diversity hypothesis (MGD). Here, we studied 15 proteomes and their coding DNA sequences (CDS) to see if the equidistance phenomenon also holds at the CDS level. We performed DNA alignments for a total of 5 groups with 3 proteomes per group and found that in all cases the outgroup taxon was equidistant to the two more complex taxa species at the DNA level. Also, when two sister taxa (snake and bird) were compared to human as the outgroup, the more complex taxon bird was closer to human, confirming species complexity rather than time to be the primary determinant of MGD. Finally, we found the fraction of overlap sites where coincident substitutions occur to be inversely correlated with CDS conservation, indicating saturation to be more common in less conserved DNAs. These results establish the genetic equidistance phenomenon to be universal at the DNA level and provide additional evidence for the MGD theory.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105072', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Central South University']]
[u'Metaviz: interactive statistical and visual analysis of metagenomic data', ['Justin Wagner', 'Florin Chelaru', 'Jayaram Kancherla', 'Joseph N Paulson', 'Victor Felix', 'Anup Mahurkar', 'Hector Corrada Bravo'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Along with the survey techniques of 16S rRNA amplicon and whole-metagenome shotgun sequencing, an array of tools exists for clustering, taxonomic annotation, normalization, and statistical analysis of microbiome sequencing results. Integrative and interactive visualization that enables researchers to perform exploratory analysis in this feature rich hierarchical data is an area of need. In this work, we present Metaviz, a web browser-based tool for interactive exploratory metagenomic data analysis. Metaviz can visualize abundance data served from an R session or a Python web service that queries a graph database. As metagenomic sequencing features have a hierarchy, we designed a novel navigation mechanism to explore this feature space. We visualize abundance counts with heatmaps and stacked bar plots that are dynamically updated as a user selects taxonomic features to inspect. Metaviz also supports common data exploration techniques, including PCA scatter plots to interpret variability in the dataset and alpha diversity boxplots for examining ecological community composition. The Metaviz application and documentation is hosted at http://www.metaviz.org.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105205', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Maryland;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'University of Maryland, Baltimore']]
[u'p53 binding sites in normal and cancer cells are characterized by distinct chromatin context', ['Feifei Bao', 'Peter R LoVerso', 'Jeffrey N Fisk', 'Victor B Zhurkin', 'Feng Cui'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'The tumor suppressor protein p53 interacts with DNA in a sequence-dependent manner. Thousands of p53 binding sites have been mapped genome-wide in normal and cancer cells. However, the way p53 selectively binds its cognate sites in different types of cells is not fully understood. Here, we performed a comprehensive analysis of 25 published p53 cistromes and identified 3,551 and 6,039 high-confidence binding sites in normal and cancer cells, respectively. Our analysis revealed two distinct epigenetic features underlying p53-DNA interactions in vivo. First, p53 binding sites are associated with transcriptionally active histone marks (H3K4me3 and H3K36me3) in normal-cell chromatin, but with repressive histone marks (H3K27me3) in cancer-cell chromatin. Second, p53 binding sites in cancer cells are characterized by a lower level of DNA methylation than their counterparts in normal cells, probably related to global hypomethylation in cancers. Intriguingly, regardless of the cell type, p53 sites are highly enriched in the endogenous retroviral elements of the ERV1 family, highlighting the importance of this repeat family in shaping the transcriptional network of p53. Moreover, the p53 sites exhibit an unusual combination of chromatin patterns: high nucleosome occupancy and, at the same time, high sensitivity to DNase I. Our results suggest that p53 can access its target sites in a chromatin environment that is non-permissive to most DNA-binding transcription factors, which may allow p53 to act as a pioneer transcription factor in the context of chromatin.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105221', [u'Genomics'], [u'Rochester Institute of Technology;', u'NIH']]
[u'Comprehensive single cell transcriptional profiling of a multicellular organism by combinatorial indexing', ['Junyue Cao', 'Jonathan S. Packer', 'Vijay Ramani', 'Darren A. Cusanovich', 'Chau Huynh', 'Riza Daza', 'Xiaojie Qiu', 'Choli Lee', 'Scott N. Furlan', 'Frank J. Steemers', 'Andrew Adey', 'Robert H. Waterston', 'Cole Trapnell', 'Jay Shendure'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Conventional methods for profiling the molecular content of biological samples fail to resolve heterogeneity that is present at the level of single cells. In the past few years, single cell RNA sequencing has emerged as a powerful strategy for overcoming this challenge. However, its adoption has been limited by a paucity of methods that are at once simple to implement and cost effective to scale massively. Here, we describe a combinatorial indexing strategy to profile the transcriptomes of large numbers of single cells or single nuclei without requiring the physical isolation of each cell (Single cell Combinatorial Indexing RNA-seq or sci-RNA-seq). We show that sci-RNA-seq can be used to efficiently profile the transcriptomes of tens-of-thousands of single cells per experiment, and demonstrate that we can stratify cell types from these data. Key advantages of sci-RNA-seq over contemporary alternatives such as droplet-based single cell RNA-seq include sublinear cost scaling, a reliance on widely available reagents and equipment, the ability to concurrently process many samples within a single workflow, compatibility with methanol fixation of cells, cell capture based on DNA content rather than cell size, and the flexibility to profile either cells or nuclei. As a demonstration of sci-RNA-seq, we profile the transcriptomes of 42,035 single cells from C. elegans at the L2 stage, effectively 50-fold "shotgun cellular coverage" of the somatic cell composition of this organism at this stage. We identify 27 distinct cell types, including rare cell types such as the two distal tip cells of the developing gonad, estimate consensus expression profiles and define cell-type specific and selective genes. Given that C. elegans is the only organism with a fully mapped cellular lineage, these data represent a rich resource for future methods aimed at defining cell types and states. They will advance our understanding of developmental biology, and constitute a major leap towards a comprehensive, single-cell molecular atlas of a whole animal.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/104844', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA;', u'Illumina Inc., Advanced Research Group, San Diego, CA, USA;', u'Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA']]
[u'Network analysis of the hominin origin of Herpes Simplex virus 2 from fossil data', ['Simon Underdown', 'Krishna Kumar', 'Charlotte Houldcroft'], u'February 2, 2017.', u'Herpes simplex virus 2 is a human herpesvirus found worldwide that causes genital lesions and more rarely causes encephalitis. This pathogen is most common in Africa, and particularly in central and east Africa, an area of particular significance for the evolution of modern humans. Unlike HSV1, HSV2 has not simply co-speciated with humans from their last common ancestor with primates. HSV2 jumped the species barrier between 1.4 and 3 MYA, most likely through an intermediate but unknown hominin species. \nIn this paper, we use probability-based network analysis to determine the probable path between intermediate hosts of HSV2, from chimpanzees to modern humans, using paleoenvironmental data on the distribution of African tropical rainforest over the last 3 million years and data on the age and distribution of fossil species of hominin present in Africa between 1.4 and 3 MYA. Our model identifies Homo rudolfensis as the most likely intermediate host of HSV2.', u'/content/early/2017/02/02/105007', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Oxford Brookes University;', u'University of Cambridge']]
