[u'When a foundation crumbles: forecasting forest community dynamics following the decline of the foundation species Tsuga canadensis', ['Bradley S Case', 'Hannah L Buckley', 'Audrey A Barker Plotkin', 'David A Orwig', 'Aaron M Ellison'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'In the forests of northeastern North America, invasive insects and pathogens are causing major declines in some tree species and a subsequent reorganization of associated forest communities. Using observations and experiments to investigate the consequences of such declines are hampered because trees are long-lived. Simulation models can provide a means to forecast possible futures based on different scenarios of tree species decline, death, and removal. Such modeling is particularly urgent for species such as eastern hemlock (Tsuga canadensis), a foundation species in many northeast forest regions that is declining due to the hemlock woolly adelgid (Adelges tsugae). Here, we used an individual-based forest simulator, SORTIE-ND, to forecast changes in forest communities in central Massachusetts over the next 200 years under a range of scenarios: a no-adelgid, status-quo scenario; partial resistance of hemlock to the adelgid; adelgid irruption and total hemlock decline over 25 years, adelgid irruption and salvage logging of hemlock trees; and two scenarios of preemptive logging of hemlock and hemlock/white pine. We applied the model to six study plots comprising a range of initial species mixtures, abundances, and levels of hemlock dominance. Simulations indicated that eastern white pine, and to a lesser extent black birch and American beech, would gain most in relative abundance and basal area following hemlock decline. The relative dominance of these species depended on initial conditions and the amount of hemlock mortality, and their combined effect on neighborhood-scale community dynamics. Simulated outcomes were little different whether hemlock died out gradually due to the adelgid or disappeared rapidly following logging. However, if eastern hemlock were to become partially resistant to the adelgid, hemlock would be able to retain its dominance despite substantial losses of basal area. Our modeling highlights the complexities associated with secondary forest succession due to ongoing hemlock decline and loss. We emphasize the need both for a precautionary approach in deciding between management intervention or simply doing nothing in these declining hemlock forests, and for clear aims and understanding regarding desired community- and ecosystem-level outcomes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099333', [], [u'Auckland University of Technology;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'Comparison of one-stage and two-stage genome-wide association studies', ['Shang Xue', 'Funda Ogut', 'Zachary Miller', 'Janu Verma', 'Peter Bradbury', 'James Holland'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Linear mixed models are widely used in humans, animals, and plants to conduct genome-wide association studies (GWAS). A characteristic of experimental designs for plants is that experimental units are typically multiple-plant plots of families or lines that are replicated across environments. This structure can present computational challenges to conducting a genome scan on raw (plot-level) data. Two-stage methods have been proposed to reduce the complexity and increase the computational speed of whole-genome scans. The first stage of the analysis fits raw data to a model including environment and line effects, but no individual marker effects. The second stage involves the whole genome scan of marker tests using summary values for each line as the dependent variable.  Missing data and unbalanced experimental designs can result in biased estimates of marker association effects from two-stage analyses. In this study, we developed a weighted two-stage analysis to reduce bias and improve power of GWAS while maintaining the computational efficiency of two-stage analyses. Simulation based on real marker data of a diverse panel of maize inbred lines was used to compare power and false discovery rate of the new weighted two-stage method to single-stage and other two-stage analyses and to compare different two-stage models. In the case of severely unbalanced data, only the weighted two-stage GWAS has power and false discovery rate similar to the one-stage analysis. The weighted GWAS method has been implemented in the open-source software TASSEL.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099291', [], [u'North Carolina State University, United States;', u'Artvin Coruh University, Turkey;', u'Cornell University, United States;', u'USDA-ARS, United States;', u'USDA-ARS and NC State U., United States']]
[u'The Modulation of Pain by Circadian and Sleep-Dependent Processes: A Review of the Experimental Evidence', ['Megan Hastings Hagenauer', 'Jennifer A. Crodelle', 'Sofia H. Piltz', 'Natalia Toporikova', 'Paige Ferguson', 'Victoria Booth'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'This proceedings paper is the first in a series of three papers developing mathematical models for the complex relationship between pain and the sleep-wake cycle. Here, we briefly review what is known about the relationship between pain and the sleep-wake cycle in humans and laboratory rodents in an effort to identify constraints for the models. While it is well accepted that sleep behavior is regulated by a daily (circadian) timekeeping system and homeostatic sleep drive, the joint modulation of these two primary biological processes on pain sensitivity has not been considered. Under experimental conditions, pain sensitivity varies across the 24 h day, with highest sensitivity occurring during the evening in humans. Pain sensitivity is also modulated by sleep behavior, with pain sensitivity increasing in response to the build up of homeostatic sleep pressure following sleep deprivation or sleep disruption. To explore the interaction between these two biological processes using modeling, we first compare the magnitude of their effects across a variety of experimental pain studies in humans. To do this comparison, we normalize the results from experimental pain studies relative to the range of physiologically-meaningful stimulation levels. Following this normalization, we find that the estimated impact of the daily rhythm and of sleep deprivation on experimental pain measurements is surprisingly consistent across different pain modalities. We also review evidence documenting the impact of circadian rhythms and sleep deprivation on the neural circuitry in the spinal cord underlying pain sensation.  The characterization of sleep-dependent and circadian influences on pain sensitivity in this review paper is used to develop and constrain the mathematical models introduced in the two companion articles.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098269', [], [u'University of Michigan;', u'Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute;', u'Technical University of Denmark;', u'Washington and Lee University;', u'University of Alabama']]
[u'Hybrid incompatibility caused by an epiallele', ['Todd Blevins', 'Jing Wang', 'David Pflieger', 'Frederic Pontvianne', 'Craig S. Pikaard'], u'January 9, 2017.', u"Hybrid incompatibility resulting from deleterious gene combinations is thought to be an important step towards reproductive isolation and speciation. Here we demonstrate involvement of a silent epiallele in hybrid incompatibility. In Arabidopsis thaliana strain Col-0, one of the two copies of a duplicated histidine biosynthesis gene, HISN6B is not expressed, for reasons that have been unclear, making its paralog, HISN6A essential.  By contrast, in strain Cvi-0, HISN6B is essential because HISN6A is mutated. As a result of these differences, Cvi-0 x Col-0 hybrid progeny that are homozygous for both Col-0 HISN6B and Cvi-0 HISN6A do not survive. We show that HISN6B is not a defective pseudogene in the Col-0 strain, but a stably silenced epiallele. Mutating HISTONE DEACETYLASE 6 (HDA6) or the cytosine methyltransferase genes, MET1 or CMT3 erases HISN6B's silent locus identity in Col-0, reanimating the gene such that hisn6a lethality and hybrid incompatibility are circumvented. These results show that HISN6-dependent hybrid lethality is a revertible epigenetic phenomenon and provide additional evidence that epigenetic variation has the potential to limit gene flow between diverging populations of a species.", u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099317', [], [u'Universit\xe9 de Strasbourg, CNRS, IBMP UPR 2357;', u'Department of Biology, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA;', u'Universit\xe9 de Strasbourg, CNRS, IBMP UPR 2357, F-67000 Strasbourg, France;', u'CNRS, Laboratoire G\xe9nomes et D\xe9veloppement des Plantes, Universit\xe9 de Perpignan;', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, 47405, USA']]
[u'Targeted capture of complete coding regions across divergent species', ['Ryan Schott', 'Bhawandeep Panesar', 'Daren C Card', 'Matthew Preston', 'Todd A Castoe', 'Belinda SW Chang'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Despite continued advances in sequencing technologies, there is a need for methods that can efficiently sequence large numbers of genes from diverse species. One approach to accomplish this is targeted capture (hybrid enrichment). While these methods are well established for genome resequencing projects, cross-species capture strategies are still being developed and generally focus on the capture of conserved regions, rather than complete coding regions from specific genes of interest. The resulting data is thus useful for phylogenetic studies, but the wealth of comparative data that could be used for evolutionary and functional studies is lost. Here we design and implement a targeted capture method that enables recovery of complete coding regions across broad taxonomic scales. Capture probes were designed from multiple reference species and extensively tiled in order to facilitate cross-species capture. Using novel bioinformatics pipelines we were able to recover nearly all of the targeted genes with high completeness from species that were up to 200 myr divergent. Increased probe diversity and tiling for a subset of genes had a large positive effect on both recovery and completeness. The resulting data produced an accurate species tree, but importantly this same data can also be applied to studies of molecular evolution and function that will allow researchers to ask larger questions in broader phylogenetic contexts. Our method demonstrates the utility of cross-species approaches for the capture of full length coding sequences, and will substantially improve the ability for researchers to conduct large-scale comparative studies of molecular evolution and function.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099325', [], [u'University of Toronto;', u'University of Texas']]
[u'NAPR: a cloud-based framework for neuroanatomical age prediction', ['Heath R Pardoe', 'Ruben Kuzniecky'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'This paper describes NAPR, a cloud-based framework for accessing age prediction models created using machine learning-based analysis of neuroimaging data. The NAPR service is provided at <https://www.cloudneuro.org>. The NAPR system allows external users to predict the age of individual subjects using their own MRI data. As a demonstration of the NAPR approach, age prediction models were trained using healthy control data from the ABIDE, CoRR, DLBS and NKI Rockland neuroimaging datasets (total N = 2367). MRI scans were processed using Freesurfer v5.3. Age prediction models were trained using relevance vector machines and Gaussian processes machine learning techniques. NAPR will allow for rigorous and transparent out-of-sample assessment of age prediction model performance, and may therefore assist in the translation of neuroimaging-based modelling techniques to the clinic.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099309', [], [u'New York University School of Medicine']]
[u'Familiarity with companions aids recovery from fear in zebrafish', ['Ajay S. Mathuru', 'Annett Schirmer', 'Tabitha Phui Yeng Ng', 'Caroline Kibat', 'Ruey-Kuang Cheng', 'Suresh Jesuthasan'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Interaction with social partners during or after a stressful episode aids recovery in humans and other mammals. We asked if a comparable phenomenon exists in zebrafish (Danio rerio) that live in shoals in the wild. In the first experiment, we observed that most quantifiable parameters of swimming behavior were similar when zerbafish swam alone or with companions. However, after exposure to an alarm substance (Schreckstoff), individuals recovering alone continued to display behaviors associated with fear after removal of the stimulus, while those recovering with companions did not. In the next two experiments, we examined the role of familiarity of companions. Subjects spent more time in the vicinity of familiar companions in a two-choice assay. While both familiar and unfamiliar companions reduced behavioral signs of distress, familiar companions additionally modulated cortisol and endogenous isotocin in subjects. Shortly after being united with familiar companions, isotocin spiked followed by a dampening of circulating cortisol levels. These results suggest that zebrafish experience fear attenuation in the presence of others and familiar companions are more effective at buffering the stress associated with escaping predation. Changes in behavior, circulating cortisol and isotocin levels due to social partners are reminiscent of changes due to amelioration of fear in some mammalian species in the presence of companions. The two phenomena may be related.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098509', [], [u'Yale-NUS College;', u'National University of Singapore;', u'Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology;', u'Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine']]
[u'Using high-throughput barcode sequencing to efficiently map connectomes', ['Ian D Peikon', 'Justus M Kebschull', 'Vasily V Vagin', 'Diana I Ravens', 'Eric Brouzes', 'Ivan R Correa', 'Dario Bressan', 'Anthony Zador'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'The function of a neural circuit is determined by the details of its synaptic connections. At present, the only available method for determining a neural wiring diagram with single synapse precision--a "connectome"--is based on imaging methods that are slow, labor-intensive and expensive. Here we present SYNseq, a method for converting the connectome into a form that can exploit the speed and low cost of modern high-throughput DNA sequencing. In SYNseq, each neuron is labeled with a unique random nucleotide sequence--an RNA "barcode"--which is targeted to the synapse using engineered proteins. Barcodes in pre- and postsynaptic neurons are then associated through protein-protein crosslinking across the synapse, extracted from the tissue, and then joined into a form suitable for sequencing. Although at present the inefficiency in our hands of barcode joining precludes the widespread application of this approach, we expect that with further development SYNseq will enable tracing of complex circuits at high speed and low cost.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099093', [], [u'Cold Spring Harbor Lab;', u'CSHL;', u'Stony Brook University;', u'NEB;', u'CRUK']]
[u'Fine-scale human population structure in southern Africa reflects ecogeographic boundaries', ['Caitlin Uren', 'Minju Kim', 'Alicia R Martin', 'Dean Bobo', 'Christopher R Gignoux', 'Paul D van Helden', 'Marlo Moller', 'Eileen G Hoal', 'Brenna Henn'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Recent genetic studies have established that the KhoeSan populations of southern Africa are distinct from all other African populations and have remained largely isolated during human prehistory until about 2,000 years ago. Dozens of different KhoeSan groups exist, belonging to three different language families, but very little is known about their population history. We examine new genome-wide polymorphism data and whole mitochondrial genomes for more than one hundred South Africans from the \u2260Khomani San and Nama populations of the Northern Cape, analyzed in conjunction with 19 additional southern African populations. Our analyses reveal fine-scale population structure in and around the Kalahari Desert. Surprisingly, this structure does not always correspond to linguistic or subsistence categories as previously suggested, but rather reflects the role of geographic barriers and the ecology of the greater Kalahari Basin. Regardless of subsistence strategy, the indigenous Khoe-speaking Nama pastoralists and the N|u-speaking \u2260Khomani (formerly hunter-gatherers) share ancestry with other Khoe-speaking forager populations that form a rim around the Kalahari Desert. We reconstruct earlier migration patterns and estimate that the southern Kalahari populations were among the last to experience gene flow from Bantu-speakers, approximately 14 generations ago. We conclude that local adoption of pastoralism, at least by the Nama, appears to have been primarily a cultural process with limited genetic impact from eastern Africa.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098095', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, Stellenbosch University;', u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University;', u'Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT, Department of Genetics, Massachusetts General Hospital;', u'Department of Genetics, Stanford University']]
[u'Parasite escape through trophic specialization in a species flock', ['Pascal Hablutzel', 'Maarten PM Vanhove', 'Pablo Deschepper', 'Arnout F Gregoir', 'Anna K Roose', 'Filip AM Volckaert', 'Joost AM Raeymaekers'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'In adaptive radiations species diversify rapidly to occupy an array of ecological niches. In these different niches, species might be exposed to parasites through different routes and at different levels. If this is the case, adaptive radiations should be accompanied by a turnover in parasite communities. How the adaptive radiation of host species might be entangled with such a turnover of parasite communities is poorly documented in nature. In the present study, we examined the intestinal parasite faunas of eleven species belonging to the tribe Tropheini, one of several adaptive radiations of cichlid fishes in Lake Tanganyika. The most parsimonious ancestral foraging strategy among Tropheini is relatively unselective substrate ingestion by browsing of aufwuchs. Certain lineages however evolved more specialized foraging strategies, such as selective combing of microscopic diatoms or picking of macro-invertebrates. We found that representatives of such specialized lineages bear reduced infection with intestinal acanthocephalan helminths. Possibly, the evolution of selective foraging strategies entailed reduced ingestion of intermediate invertebrate hosts of these food-web transmitted parasites. In Tropheini, trophic specialization is therefore intertwined with divergence in parasite infection. We conclude that the study of parasite communities could improve our understanding of host evolution, ecological speciation and the origin of adaptive radiations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098533', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Leuven;', u'Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences;', u'Norwegian University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Closed-reference metatranscriptomics enables in planta profiling of putative virulence activities in the grapevine trunk-disease complex', ['Abraham Morales-Cruz', 'Gabrielle Allenbeck', 'Rosa Figueroa-Balderas', 'Vanessa E Ashworth', 'Daniel P Lawrence', 'Renaud Travadon', 'Rhonda J Smith', 'Kendra Baumgartner', 'Philippe Rolshausen', 'Dario Cantu'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Grapevines, like other perennial crops, are affected by so-called "trunk diseases", which damage the trunk and other woody tissues. Mature grapevines typically contract more than one trunk disease and often multiple grapevine trunk pathogens (GTPs) are recovered from infected tissues. The co-existence of different GTP species in complex and dynamic microbial communities complicates the study of the molecular mechanisms underlying disease development especially under vineyard conditions. The objective of this study was to develop and optimize a community-level transcriptomics (i.e., metatranscriptomics) approach that can monitor simultaneously the virulence activities of multiple GTPs in planta. The availability of annotated genomes for the most relevant co-infecting GTPs in diseased grapevine wood provided the unprecedented opportunity to generate a multi-species reference for mapping and quantifying DNA and RNA sequencing reads. We first evaluated popular sequence read mappers using permutations of multiple simulated datasets. Alignment parameters of the selected mapper were optimized to increase the specificity and sensitivity for its application to metagenomics and metatranscriptomics analyses. Initial testing on grapevine wood experimentally inoculated with individual GTPs confirmed the validity of the method. Using naturally-infected field samples expressing a variety of trunk disease symptoms, we show that our approach provides quantitative assessments of species composition as well as genome-wide transcriptional profiling of potential virulence factors, namely cell wall degradation, secondary metabolism and nutrient uptake for all co-infecting GTPs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099275', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of California Davis;', u'University of California Riverside;', u'University of California Cooperative Extension;', u'USDA-ARS']]
[u'Utilization of network graph connectivity to evaluate complications of inpatient medical and surgical populations as a method to prioritize quality improvement efforts', ['Kattie Bear-Pfaffendorf'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Network graphs can provide a quantitative framework for identifying complications with significant volumes and strong relationships to other complications, as a method for prioritization of quality improvement work. Here we examine the application of network graphing techniques to acute care inpatient complications on acute care medical-surgical units of a quaternary care center. The 3M PPC software identified 66 complications among 106 unique patients with two or more complications during an inpatient hospital stay. The network graph highlighted renal failure without dialysis and septicemia and severe infections as highly connected complications in this population.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099150', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Allina Health']]
[u'Critical Assessment of Metagenome Interpretation \u2212 a benchmark of computational metagenomics software', ['Alexander Sczyrba', 'Peter Hofmann', 'Peter Belmann', 'David Koslicki', 'Stefan Janssen', 'Johannes Droege', 'Ivan Gregor', 'Stephan Majda', 'Jessika Fiedler', 'Eik Dahms', 'Andreas Bremges', 'Adrian Fritz', 'Ruben Garrido-Oter', 'Tue Sparholt Jorgensen', 'Nicole Shapiro', 'Philip D Blood', 'Alexey Gurevich', 'Yang Bai', 'Dmitrij Turaev', 'Matthew Z DeMaere', 'Rayan Chikhi', 'Niranjan Nagarajan', 'Christopher Quince', 'Lars Hestbjerg Hansen', 'Soren J Sorensen', 'Burton K H Chia', 'Bertrand Denis', 'Jeff L Froula', 'Zhong Wang', 'Robert Egan', 'Dongwan Don Kang', 'Jeffrey J Cook', 'Charles Deltel', 'Michael Beckstette', 'Claire Lemaitre', 'Pierre Peterlongo', 'Guillaume Rizk', 'Dominique Lavenier', 'Yu-Wei Wu', 'Steven W Singer', 'Chirag Jain', 'Marc Strous', 'Heiner Klingenberg', 'Peter Meinicke', 'Michael Barton', 'Thomas Lingner', 'Hsin-Hung Lin', 'Yu-Chieh Liao', 'Genivaldo Gueiros Z. Silva', 'Daniel A Cuevas', 'Robert A Edwards', 'Surya Saha', 'Vitor C Piro', 'Bernhard Y Renard', 'Mihai Pop', 'Hans-Peter Klenk', 'Markus Goeker', 'Nikos Kyrpides', 'Tanja Woyke', 'Julia A Vorholt', 'Paul Schulze-Lefert', 'Edward M Rubin', 'Aaron E Darling', 'Thomas Rattei', 'Alice C McHardy'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'In metagenome analysis, computational methods for assembly, taxonomic profiling and binning are key components facilitating downstream biological data interpretation. However, a lack of consensus about benchmarking datasets and evaluation metrics complicates proper performance assessment. The Critical Assessment of Metagenome Interpretation (CAMI) challenge has engaged the global developer community to benchmark their programs on datasets of unprecedented complexity and realism. Benchmark metagenomes were generated from newly sequenced ~700 microorganisms and ~600 novel viruses and plasmids, including genomes with varying degrees of relatedness to each other and to publicly available ones and representing common experimental setups. Across all datasets, assembly and genome binning programs performed well for species represented by individual genomes, while performance was substantially affected by the presence of related strains. Taxonomic profiling and binning programs were proficient at high taxonomic ranks, with a notable performance decrease below the family level. Parameter settings substantially impacted performances, underscoring the importance of program reproducibility. While highlighting current challenges in computational metagenomics, the CAMI results provide a roadmap for software selection to answer specific research questions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099127', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Bielefeld University, Germany;', u'Heinrich Heine University and Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Germany;', u'Bielefeld University and Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Germany;', u'Oregon State University, USA;', u'Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Germany. University of California, USA;', u'Heinrich Heine University and University of Duisburg and Essen, Germany;', u'Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Germany;', u'Aarhus University and University of Copenhagen, Denmark;', u'Joint Genome Institute, USA;', u'Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, USA;', u'Institute of Translational Biomedicine, Russia;', u'Chinese Academy of Science & John Innes Centre, China;', u'University of Vienna, Austria;', u'University of Technology of Sydney, Australia;', u'Research Center in Computer Science and National Centre of the Scientific Research, France;', u'Genome Institute of Singapore, Singapore;', u'University of Warwick, UK;', u'Aarhus University, Denmark;', u'University of Copenhagen, Denmark;', u'Intel Corporation, USA;', u'National Institute of Research in Informatics and Automatics, France;', u'Institute of Research in Informatics and Random Systems, France;', u'National Centre of the Scientific Research, France;', u'Joint BioEnergy Institute, USA. Taipei Medical University, Taiwan;', u'Joint BioEnergy Institute and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, USA;', u'Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Germany;', u'University of Calgary, Canada;', u'University of Goettingen, Germany;', u'University Medical Center, Germany;', u'National Health Research Institutes, Taiwan;', u'San Diego State University, USA;', u'Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research, USA;', u'Robert Koch Institute, Germany. Ministry of Education of Brazil, Brazil;', u'Robert Koch Institute, Germany;', u'University of Maryland, USA;', u'Newcastle University, UK;', u'Leibinz Institute DSMZ - German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures, Germany;', u'Institute of Microbiology, Switzerland;', u'Max Planck Institute for Plant Breeding Research, Germany']]
[u'An epigenetic change in a moth is generated by temperature and transmitted to many subsequent generations mediated by RNA', ['Jaroslav Pavelka', 'Simona Polakova', 'Vera Pavelkova'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Based on the presented results, the epigenetic phenomenon (paramutation)  found in the short antennae (sa) mutation of the flour moth (Ephestia kuehniella) is probably determined by a small RNA (maybe piRNA) and transmitted in this way to subsequent generations through the male and female gametes. It is triggered by a change in the ambient environment; it persists for many generations (20 so far); during the epigenetic effect the original wild type appeared again. The epigenetic effect of the flour moth is induced by changes in ontogenetic development, such as increased temperature on pupae development, little nutritious food, different salts in food of certain chemicals into eggs. We found this mechanism may explain the intermittent clearance of this effect at some individuals and/or progeny of a pair in the generation chain in which the effect transfers. As the nature of the observed phenomenon could related to sirtuin genes, we hypothesize an association of these genes and non-coding small Piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs). The key is that the survival of RNA over many generations carries a number of practical implications. It is evident that the reaction to environmental change can manifest through RNA. It follows that there may be evolutionary significance in the long-term transmission of traits to future generations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099259', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of West Bohemia;', u'Beleco;', u'Faculty of Science, University of South Bohemia']]
[u'Multivariate cross-frequency coupling via generalized eigendecomposition', ['Michael Cohen'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'This paper presents a new framework for analyzing cross-frequency coupling in multichannel electrophysiological recordings. The generalized eigendecomposition-based cross-frequency coupling framework (gedCFC) is inspired by source separation algorithms combined with dynamics of mesoscopic neurophysiological processes. It is unaffected by factors that confound traditional CFC methods such as non-stationarities, non-sinusoidality, and non-uniform phase angle distributions -- attractive properties considering that brain activity is neither stationary nor perfectly sinusoidal. The gedCFC framework opens new opportunities for conceptualizing CFC as network interactions with diverse spatial/topographical distributions. Five specific methods within the gedCFC framework are detailed, with validations in simulated data and applications in several empirical datasets. gedCFC accurately recovers physiologically plausible CFC patterns embedded in noise where traditional CFC methods perform poorly. It is also demonstrated that spike-field coherence in multichannel local field potential data can be analyzed using the gedCFC framework, with significant advantages over traditional spike-field coherence analyses. Null-hypothesis testing is also discussed.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099184', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Radboud University']]
[u'Spontaneous Neural Encoding of Social Network Position', ['Carolyn Parkinson', 'Adam M. Kleinbaum', 'Thalia Wheatley'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Humans form complex social networks that include numerous non\u2010reproductive bonds with non\u2010kin. Navigating these networks presents a considerable cognitive challenge thought to have comprised a driving force in human brain evolution. Yet, little is known about how and to what extent the human brain encodes the structure of the social networks in which it is embedded. By combining social network analysis and multi\u2010voxel pattern analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, we show that social network information about direct relationships, bonds between third parties, and aspects of the broader network topology is accurately perceived and automatically activated upon seeing a familiar other.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098988', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth College;', u'Dartmouth College']]
[u'Automatic classification of diatoms of Merja fouarate', ['Nouzha Chahboune', 'Mohamed Mehdi', 'Allal Douira'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'This work consists of developing an automatic method of form analysis and classification of diatoms through processing of scanned images.  The fundamental objective is to determine to what extent two diatoms are similar from the images stored in a database, and to conclude to what classes they belong. To do so, a comparison is made between a manual identification and an automatic identification, based on the ultimate points and the Freeman Chain Code.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099135', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Ibn Tofail University, Faculty of Science;', u'Tofail University, Faculty of Science']]
[u'Visual motion computation in recurrent neural networks', ['Marius Pachitariu', 'Maneesh Sahani'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Populations of neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) transform direct thalamic inputs into a cortical representation which acquires new spatio-temporal properties. One of these properties, motion selectivity, has not been strongly tied to putative neural mechanisms, and its origins remain poorly understood. Here we propose that motion selectivity is acquired through the recurrent mechanisms of a network of strongly connected neurons. We first show that a bank of V1 spatiotemporal receptive fields can be generated accurately by a network which receives only instantaneous inputs from the retina. The temporal structure of the receptive fields is generated by the long timescale dynamics associated with the high magnitude eigenvalues of the recurrent connectivity matrix. When these eigenvalues have complex parts, they generate receptive fields that are inseparable in time and space, such as those tuned to motion direction. We also show that the recurrent connectivity patterns can be learnt directly from the statistics of natural movies using a temporally-asymmetric Hebbian learning rule. Probed with drifting grating stimuli and moving bars, neurons in the model show patterns of responses analogous to those of direction-selective simple cells in primary visual cortex. These computations are enabled by a specific pattern of recurrent connections, that can be tested by combining connectome reconstructions with functional recordings.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099101', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University College London']]
[u'The 2D-structure of the T. brucei pre-edited RPS12 mRNA is not affected by macromolecular crowding', ['W.-Matthias Leeder', 'Stephan Voskuhl', 'H. Ulrich Goringer'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Mitochondrial transcript maturation in African trypanosomes requires RNA editing to convert nucleotide-deficient pre-mRNAs into translatable mRNAs. The different pre-mRNAs have been shown to adopt highly stable 2D-folds, however, it is not known whether these structures resemble the in vivo folds given the extreme crowding conditions within the mitochondrion. Here we analyze the effects of macromolecular crowding on the structure of the mitochondrial RPS12 pre-mRNA. We use polyethylene glycol as a macromolecular cosolute and monitor the structure of the RNA globally and with nucleotide resolution. We demonstrate that crowding has no impact on the 2D-fold and we conclude that the MFE-structure in dilute solvent conditions represents a good proxy for the folding of the pre-mRNA in its mitochondrial solvent context.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099200', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Darmstadt University of Technology']]
[u'Watching the clock for 25 years in FlyClockbase: Variability in circadian clocks of Drosophila melanogaster as uncovered by biological model curation', ['Katherine S Scheuer', 'Bret Hanlon', 'Jerdon W Dresel', 'Erik D Nolan', 'John C Davis', 'Laurence Loewe'], u'January 9, 2017.', u"High-quality model curation provides insights by organizing biological knowledge-fragments. We aim to integrate published results about circadian clocks in Drosophila melanogaster while exploring economies of scale in model curation. Clocks govern rhythms of gene-expression that impact fitness, health, cancer, memory, mental functions, and more. Human clock insights have been pioneered in flies. Flies simplify investigating complex gene regulatory networks, which express proteins cyclically using environmentally entrained interlocking feedback loops. Simulations could simplify research further, but currently few models test their quality directly against experimentally observed time series scattered across publications. We designed FlyClockbase for robust efficient access to such scattered data for biologists and modelers, prioritizing simplicity and openness to encourage experimentalists to preserve more annotations and raw-data. Such details could multiply long-term value for modelers interested in meta-analyses, parameter estimates, and hypothesis testing. Currently FlyClockbase contains over 400 wildtype time series of core circadian components systematically curated from 86 studies published between 1990 and 2015. Using FlyClockbase, we show that PERIOD protein amount peak time variance unexpectedly exceeds that of TIMELESS. We hypothesize, PERIOD's exceedingly more complex phosphorylation rules are responsible. Human error analysis improved data quality and revealed significance-degrading outliers, possibly violating presumed absence of wildtype heterogeneity or lab evolution. We found PCR-measured peak time variances exceed those from other methods, pointing to initial count stochasticity. Our trans-disciplinary analyses demonstrate how compilers with more biology-friendly logic could simplify, guide, and naturally distribute biological model curation. Resulting quality increases and cost reductions benefit curation-dependent grand challenges like personalizing medicine.", u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099192', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'JDINAC: joint density-based non-parametric differential interaction network analysis and classification using high-dimensional sparse omics data', ['Jiadong Ji', 'Di He', 'Yang Feng', 'Yong He', 'Fuzhong Xue', 'Lei Xie'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Motivation: A complex disease is usually driven by a number of genes interwoven into networks, rather than a single gene product. Network comparison or differential network analysis has become an important means of revealing the underlying mechanism of pathogenesis and identifying clinical biomarkers for disease classification. Most studies, however, are limited to network correlations that mainly capture the linear relationship among genes, or rely on the assumption of a parametric probability distribution of gene measurements. They are restrictive in real application.  Results: We propose a new Joint density based non-parametric Differential Interaction Network Analysis and Classification (JDINAC) method to identify differential interaction patterns of network activation between two groups. At the same time, JDINAC uses the network biomarkers to build a classification model. The novelty of JDINAC lies in its potential to capture non-linear relations between molecular interactions using high-dimensional sparse data as well as to adjust confounding factors, without the need of the assumption of a parametric probability distribution of gene measurements. Simulation studies demonstrate that JDINAC provides more accurate differential network estimation and lower classification error than that achieved by other state-of-the-art methods. We apply JDINAC to a Breast Invasive Carcinoma dataset, which includes 114 patients who have both tumor and matched normal samples. The hub genes and differential interaction patterns identified were consistent with existing experimental studies. Furthermore, JDINAC discriminated the tumor and normal sample with high accuracy by virtue of the identified biomarkers. JDINAC provides a general framework for feature selection and classification using high-dimensional sparse omics data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099234', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Shandong University;', u'The Graduate Center, The City University of New York;', u'Department of Statistics, Columbia University;', u'Department of Statistics, School of Management, Fudan University;', u'Department of Computer Science, Hunter College, The City University of New York']]
[u'Multiplex PCR method for MinION and Illumina sequencing of Zika and other virus genomes directly from clinical samples', ['Joshua Quick', 'Nathan D Grubaugh', 'Steven T Pullan', 'Ingra M Claro', 'Andrew D Smith', 'Karthik Gangavarapu', 'Glenn Oliveira', 'Refugio Robles-Sikisaka', 'Thomas F Rogers', 'Nathan A Beutler', 'Dennis R Burton', 'Lia Laura Lewis-Ximenez', 'Jaqueline Goes de Jesus', 'Marta Giovanetti', 'Sarah Hill', 'Allison Black', 'Trevor Bedford', 'Miles W Carroll', 'Marcio Nunes', 'Luiz Carlos Alcantara', 'Ester C Sabino', 'Sally A Baylis', 'Nuno Faria', 'Matthew Loose', 'Jared T Simpson', 'Oliver G Pybus', 'Kristian G Andersen', 'Nicholas J Loman'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Genome sequencing has become a powerful tool for studying emerging infectious diseases; however, genome sequencing directly from clinical samples without isolation remains challenging for viruses such as Zika, where metagenomic sequencing methods may generate insufficient numbers of viral reads. Here we present a protocol for generating coding-sequence complete genomes comprising an online primer design tool, a novel multiplex PCR enrichment protocol, optimised library preparation methods for the portable MinION sequencer (Oxford Nanopore Technologies) and the Illumina range of instruments, and a bioinformatics pipeline for generating consensus sequences. The MinION protocol does not require an internet connection for analysis, making it suitable for field applications with limited connectivity. Our method relies on multiplex PCR for targeted enrichment of viral genomes from samples containing as few as 50 genome copies per reaction. Viral consensus sequences can be achieved starting with clinical samples in 1-2 days following a simple laboratory workflow. This method has been successfully used by several groups studying Zika virus evolution and is facilitating an understanding of the spread of the virus in the Americas.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098913', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Birmingham;', u'The Scripps Research Institute;', u'Public Health England, Porton Down;', u'University of Sao Paulo;', u'Scripps Translational Science Institute;', u'Fiocruz Rio de Janeiro;', u'Fiocruz Bahia;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Instituto Evandro Chagas;', u'Paul-Ehrlich-Institut, Langen;', u'University of Nottingham;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research']]
[u'Biocuration as an undergraduate training experience: Improving the annotation of the insect vector of Citrus greening disease', ['Surya Saha', 'Prashant S Hosmani', 'Krystal Villalobos-Ayala', 'Sherry Miller', 'Teresa Shippy', 'Andrew Rosendale', 'Chris Cordola', 'Tracey Bell', 'Hannah Mann', 'Gabe DeAvila', 'Daniel DeAvila', 'Zachary Moore', 'Kyle Buller', 'Kathryn Ciolkevich', 'Samantha Nandyal', 'Robert Mahoney', 'Joshua Von Voorhis', 'Megan Dunlevy', 'David Farrow', 'David Hunter', 'Taylar Morgan', 'Kayla Shore', 'Victoria Guzman', 'Allison Izsak', 'Danielle E Dixon', 'Liliana Cano', 'Andrew Cridge', 'Shannon Johnson', 'Brandi L Cantarel', 'Stephen Richardson', 'Adam English', 'Nan Leng', 'Xiaolong Cao', 'Haobo Jiang', 'Chris Childers', 'Mei-Ju Chen', 'Mirella Flores', 'Wayne Hunter', 'Michelle Cilia', 'Lukas A Mueller', 'Monica Munoz-Torres', 'David Nelson', 'Monica F Poelchau', 'Josh Benoit', 'Helen Wiersma-Koch', "Tom D'elia", 'Susan J Brown'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'The Asian citrus psyllid (Diaphorina citri Kuwayama) is the insect vector of the bacterium Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas), the pathogen associated with citrus Huanglongbing (HLB, citrus greening). HLB threatens citrus production worldwide. Suppression or reduction of the insect vector using chemical insecticides has been the primary method to inhibit the spread of citrus greening disease. Accurate structural and functional annotation of the Asian citrus psyllid genome, as well as a clear understanding of the interactions between the insect and CLas, are required for development of new molecular-based HLB control methods. A draft assembly of the D. citri genome has been generated and annotated with automated pipelines. However, knowledge transfer from well-curated reference genomes such as that of Drosophila melanogaster to newly sequenced ones is challenging due to the complexity and diversity of insect genomes. To identify and improve gene models as potential targets for pest control, we manually curated several gene families with a focus on genes that have key functional roles in D. citri biology and CLas interactions. This community effort produced 530 manually curated gene models across developmental, physiological, RNAi regulatory, and immunity-related pathways. As previously shown in the pea aphid, RNAi machinery genes putatively involved in the microRNA pathway have been specifically duplicated. A comprehensive transcriptome enabled us to identify a number of gene families that are either missing or misassembled in the draft genome. In order to develop biocuration as a training experience, we included undergraduate and graduate students from multiple institutions, as well as experienced annotators from the insect genomics research community. The resulting gene set (OGS v1.0) combines both automatically predicted and manually curated gene models. All data are available on https://citrusgreening.org/.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099168', [u'Genomics'], [u'Boyce Thompson Institute;', u'Indian River State College;', u'Kansas State University,;', u'University of Cincinnati;', u'Kansas State University;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of Puget Sound;', u'University of Florida / IFAS Indian River Research and Education Center;', u'University of Otago;', u'Los Alamos National Laboratory;', u'University of Tennesse Southwestern Medical Center,;', u'Baylor College of Medicine, i5K Arthropod Genomics;', u'Illumina, Inc.;', u'Oklahoma State University;', u'USDA Agricultural Research Service, National Agricultural Library;', u'National Taiwan University;', u'USDA ARS, U. S. Horticultural Research Laboratory;', u'USDA ARS, Emerging Pests and Pathogens Research Unit;', u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;', u'The University of Tennessee Health Science Center']]
[u'Epidemiological and ecological modelling reveal diversity in microbial population structures from a cross-sectional community swabbing study', ['Abigail L Coughtrie', 'Denise E Morris', 'Rebecca Anderson', 'Nelupha Begum', 'David W Cleary', 'Saul N Faust', 'Johanna M Jefferies', 'Alex R Kraaijeveld', 'Michael V Moore', 'Mark A Mullee', 'Paul J Roderick', 'Andrew Tuck', 'Robert N Whittaker', 'Ho Ming Yuen', 'C. Patrick Doncaster', 'Stuart C Clarke'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'Respiratory tract infections (RTI) are responsible for over 4 million deaths per year worldwide with pathobiont carriage a required precursor to infection. Through a cross-sectional community-based nasal self-swabbing study we sought to determine carriage epidemiology for respiratory pathogens amongst bacteria (Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenza, Moraxella catarrhalis, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Neisseria meningitidis) and viruses (RSV, Influenza viruses A and B, Rhinovirus/Enterovirus, Coronavirus, Parainfluenza viruses 1-3 and Adenovirus (ADV)). Carriage of bacterial and viral species was shown to vary with participant age, recent RTI and the presence of other species. The spatial structure of microbial respiratory communities was less nested (more disordered) in the young (0-4 years) and those with recent RTI. Species frequency distributions were flatter than random expectation in young individuals (\u03c72 = 20.42, p = 0.002), indicating spatial clumping of species consistent with facilitative relationships amongst them. Deviations from a neutral model of ecological niches were observed for samples collected in the summer and from older individuals (those aged 5-17, 18-64 and \u226565 years) but not in samples collected from winter, younger individuals (those aged 0-4 years), individuals with recent RTI and individuals without recent RTI, demonstrating the importance of both neutral and niche processes in respiratory community assembly. The application of epidemiological methods and ecological theory to sets of respiratory tract samples has yielded novel insights into the factors that drive microbial community composition, such as seasonality and age, as well as species patterns and interactions within the nose.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099069', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Southampton;', u'University Hospital Southampton Foundation NHS Trust']]
[u'Snaptron: querying and visualizing splicing across tens of thousands of RNA-seq samples', ['Christopher Wilks', 'Phani Gaddipati', 'Abhinav Nellore', 'Benjamin Langmead'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'As more and larger genomics studies appear, there is a growing need for comprehensive and queryable cross-study summaries. Snaptron is a search engine for summarized RNA sequencing data with a query planner that leverages R-tree, B-tree and inverted indexing strategies to rapidly execute queries over 146 million exon-exon splice junctions from over 70,000 human RNA-seq samples. Queries can be tailored by constraining which junctions and samples to consider. Snaptron can also rank and score junctions according to tissue specificity or other criteria. Further, Snaptron can rank and score samples according to the relative frequency of different splicing patterns. We outline biological questions that can be explored with Snaptron queries, including a study of novel exons in annotated genes, of exonization of repetitive element loci, and of a recently discovered alternative transcription start site for the ALK gene. Web app and documentation are at http://snaptron.cs.jhu.edu. Source code is at https://github.com/ChristopherWilks/snaptron under the MIT license.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/097881', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University']]
