[u'Information seeking and simulation: Roles of attention in guiding a goal-directed behavior', ['Rei Akaishi', 'Eiji Hoshi'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'We usually actively seek out the information we need. However, it is still debated whether information seeking in decision situation is a purposeful behavior or a random process. We investigated this issue using the decision task involving multiple goal-directed event sequences, in which a contextual cue specifies an associated target and touch to the target delivers the reward. We found that the gaze followed the sequence of contextual cue to the associated target, which was eventually chosen. This fixation sequence from contextual cue to the associated target could be observed even when there were multiple goals and when the focus was shifted from one goal to another. To causally investigate the effects of sequential simulation, we directly manipulated the processing of the contextual cues and found its influence on the final choice of target. Furthermore, past episodes of the sequences influenced both final choices of targets and initial gaze to contextual cues. We interpret the results as suggesting that the internal process of simulating goal-directed event sequence drives information-seeking behavior such as attention/gaze in decision situations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104091', [], [u'Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences and Center for Visual Science, University of Rochester;', u'Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Medical Science']]
[u'Transcriptional response to West Nile virus infection in the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata), a songbird model for immune function', ['Daniel Newhouse', 'Erik K Hofmeister', 'Christopher N Balakrishnan'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'West Nile Virus (WNV) is the one of most widespread arboviruses worldwide. WNV exists in a bird-mosquito transmission cycle where passerine birds act as the primary reservoir host. As a public health concern, the mammalian immune response to WNV has been studied in detail. Little, however, is known about the avian immune response to WNV. Avian taxa show variable susceptibility to WNV and what drives this variation is unknown. Thus, to study the immune response to WNV in birds, we experimentally infected captive zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata). Zebra finches provide a useful model, as like many natural avian hosts they are moderately susceptible to WNV and thus provide sufficient viremia to infect mosquitoes. We performed splenic RNAseq during peak viremia to provide an overview of the transcriptional response. In general, we find strong parallels with the mammalian immune response to WNV, including up-regulation of five genes in the Rig-I-like receptor signaling pathway, and offer insights into avian specific responses. Together with complementary immunological assays, we provide a model of the avian immune response to WNV and set the stage for future comparative studies among variably susceptible populations and species.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/103564', [], [u'East Carolina University;', u'USGS National Wildlife Health Center']]
[u'THiCweed: fast, sensitive motif finding by clustering big data sets', ['Ankit Agrawal', 'Leelavati Narlikar', 'Rahul Siddharthan'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'Motivation: Thousands of ChIP-seq (chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing) datasets are now publicly available that provide genome-wide binding profiles for hundreds of transcription factors in various species and various cell types, with thousands to hundreds of thousands of "peaks" per dataset.  Transcription factors commonly bind to regions of DNA that have short conserved sequence patterns, or "motifs".  Ab initio motif finding is a well-established problem in computational biology, but such large data sets are challenging for most existing tools.  Additionally, it is common for the target proteins to bind indirectly to DNA via co-factors, with the result that the ChIP-seq peaks contain a mixture of motifs.  Few tools exist to deal effectively with this problem.\n\nResults: We describe a new approach to motif finding that models the problem as one of clustering bound regions based on sequence similarity.  We take an iterative "top-down" approach of repeatedly subdividing an initial single large cluster of all input sequences into smaller and smaller clusters, while also exploring shift and reverse-strand matches of sequences to clusters.  Our implementation is significantly faster than any other ChIP-seq-oriented motif-finding program we tested, able to process 5,000 sequences of 100bp length in a few minutes, or 30,000 sequences in 1-2 hours, on a desktop computer using a single CPU core.  On synthetic data it outperforms all programs except one (MuMoD) on accuracy; compared to MuMoD it is somewhat less accurate but orders of magnitude faster.  It is designed to perform well with "window" sizes much larger than the length of a typical binding site (7-15 base pairs), and we commonly run it with window sizes of 50bp or more.  On actual genomic data it successfully recovers literature motifs, but also uncovers highly complex sequence characteristics in flanking DNA, and in many cases recovers secondary motifs (of possible, and sometimes documented, biological significance) even when they occur in less than 5% of the input sequences.  We suggest that this is a powerful new approach to the analysis of ChIP-seq data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104109', [], [u'The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, India;', u'CSIR National Chemical Laboratory, Pune, India']]
[u'Arabidopsis JASMONATE-INDUCED OXYGENASES down-regulate plant immunity by hydroxylation and inactivation of the hormone jasmonic acid', ['Lotte Caarls', 'Joyce Elberse', 'Mo Awwanah', 'Nora R. Ludwig', 'Michel de Vries', 'Tieme Zeilmaker', 'Saskia C.M. Van Wees', 'Robert C. Schuurink', 'Guido Van den Ackerveken'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'The phytohormone jasmonic acid (JA) is vital in plant defense and development. Although biosynthesis of JA and activation of JA-responsive gene expression by the bioactive form JA-isoleucine (JA-Ile) have been well-studied, knowledge on JA metabolism is incomplete. In particular, the enzyme that hydroxylates JA to 12-OH-JA, an inactive form of JA that accumulates after wounding and pathogen attack, is unknown. Here, we report the identification of four paralogous 2-oxoglutarate/Fe(II)-dependent oxygenases in Arabidopsis thaliana as JA hydroxylases and show that they down-regulate JA-dependent responses. As they are induced by JA we named them JASMONATE-INDUCED OXYGENASEs (JOXs). Concurrent mutation of the four genes in a quadruple Arabidopsis mutant resulted in increased defense gene expression and increased resistance to the necrotrophic fungus Botrytis cinerea and the caterpillar Mamestra brassicae. In addition, root and shoot growth of the plants was inhibited. Metabolite analysis of leaves showed that loss of function of the four JOX enzymes resulted in over-accumulation of JA and in reduced turnover of JA into 12-OH-JA. Transformation of the quadruple mutant with each JOX gene strongly reduced JA levels, demonstrating that all four JOXs inactivate JA in plants. The in vitro catalysis of 12-OH-JA from JA by recombinant enzyme could be confirmed for three JOXs. The identification of the enzymes responsible for hydroxylation of JA reveals a missing step in JA metabolism, which is important for the inactivation of the hormone and subsequent down-regulation of JA-dependent defenses.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/102103', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Utrecht University;', u'University of Amsterdam']]
[u'Improving the performance of minimizers and winnowing schemes', ['Guillaume Marcais', 'David Pellow', 'Daniel Bork', 'Yaron Orenstein', 'Ron Shamir', 'Carl Kingsford'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'The minimizers scheme is a method for selecting k-mers from sequences. It is used in many bioinformatics software tools to bin comparable sequences or to sample a sequence in a deterministic fashion at approximately regular intervals, in order to reduce memory consumption and processing time. Although very useful, the minimizers selection procedure has undesirable behaviors (e.g., too many k-mers are selected when processing certain sequences). Some of these problems were already known to the authors of the minimizers technique, and the natural lexicographic ordering of k-mers used by minimizers was recognized as their origin. Many software tools using minimizers employ ad hoc variations of the lexicographic order to alleviate those issues.  We provide an in-depth analysis of the effect of k-mer ordering on the performance of the minimizers technique. By using small universal hitting sets (a recently defined concept), we show how to significantly improve the performance of minimizers and avoid some of its worse behaviors. Based on these results, we encourage bioinformatics software developers to use an ordering based on a universal hitting set or, if not possible, a randomized ordering, rather than the lexicographic order. This analysis also settles negatively a conjecture (by Schleimer et al.) on the expected density of minimizers in a random sequence.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104075', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Blavatnik School of Computer Science, Tel-Aviv University;', u'Computational Biology Department, Carnegie Mellon University;', u'Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, MIT']]
[u'Semiparametric methods for estimation of a non-linear exposure-outcome relationship using instrumental variables with application to Mendelian randomization', ['James R Staley', 'Stephen Burgess'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'Mendelian randomization, the use of genetic variants as instrumental variables (IV), can test for and estimate the causal effect of an exposure on an outcome. Most IV methods assume that the function relating the exposure to the expected value of the outcome (the exposure-outcome relationship) is linear. However, in practice this assumption may not hold. Indeed, often the primary question of interest is to assess the shape of this relationship. We present two novel IV methods for investigating the shape of the exposure-outcome relationship: a fractional polynomial method and a piecewise linear method. We divide the population into strata using the exposure distribution, and estimate a causal effect, referred to as a localized average causal effect (LACE), in each stratum of population. The fractional polynomial method performs meta-regression on these LACE estimates. The piecewise linear method estimates a continuous piecewise linear function, the gradient of which is the LACE estimate in each stratum. Both methods were demonstrated in a simulation study to estimate the true exposure-outcome relationship well, particularly when the relationship was a fractional polynomial (for the fractional polynomial method) or was piecewise linear (for the piecewise linear method). The methods were used to investigate the shape of relationship of body mass index with systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/103986', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Outlier detection for improved differential splicing quantification from RNA-Seq experiments with replicates', ['Scott Norton', 'Jorge Vaquero-Garcia', 'Yoseph Barash'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'A key component in many RNA-Seq based studies is the production of multiple replicates for varying experimental conditions. Such replicates allow to capture underlying biological variability and control for experimental ones. However, during data production researchers often lack clear definitions to what constitutes a "bad" replicate which should be discarded and if data from failed replicates is published downstream analysis by groups using this data can be hampered. Here we develop a probability model to weigh a given RNA-Seq experiment as a representative of an experimental condition when performing alternative splicing analysis. Using both synthetic and real-life data we demonstrate that this model detects outlier samples which are consistently and significantly different compared to samples from the same condition. Using both synthetic and real-life data we perform extensive evaluation of the algorithm in different scenarios involving perturbed samples, mislabeled samples, no-signal groups, and different levels of coverage, and show it compares favorably with current state of the art tools.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104059', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University  of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Genome-wide Search for Zelda-like Chromatin Signatures Identifies GAF as a Pioneer Factor in Early Fly Development', ['Arbel Moshe', 'Tommy Kaplan'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'The protein Zelda was shown to play a key role in early Drosophila development, binding thousands of promoters and enhancers prior to maternal-to-zygotic transition (MZT), and marking them for transcriptional activation. Recently, we showed that Zelda acts through specific chromatin patterns of histone modifications to mark developmental enhancers and active promoters. Intriguingly, some Zelda sites still maintain these chromatin patterns in Drosophila embryos lacking maternal Zelda protein. This suggests that additional Zelda-like pioneer factors may act in early fly embryos. We developed a computational method to analyze and refine the chromatin landscape surrounding early Zelda peaks, using a multi-channel spectral clustering. This allowed us to characterize their chromatin patterns through MZT (mitotic cycles 8-14). Specifically, we focused on H3K4me1, H3K4me3, H3K18ac, H3K27ac, and H3K27me3 and identified three different classes of chromatin signatures, matching "promoters", "enhancers" and "transiently bound" Zelda peaks. We then further scanned the genome using these chromatin patterns and identified additional loci - with no Zelda binding - that show similar chromatin patterns, resulting with hundreds of Zelda- independent putative enhancers. These regions were found to be enriched with GAGA factor (GAF, Trl), and are typically located near early developmental zygotic genes. Overall our analysis suggests that GAF, together with Zelda, plays an important role in activating the zygotic genome. As we show, our computational approach offers an efficient algorithm for characterizing chromatin signatures around some loci of interest, and allows a genome-wide identification of additional loci with similar chromatin patterns.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104067', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Linclust: clustering protein sequences in linear time', ['Martin Steinegger', 'Johannes Soding'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'Metagenomic datasets contain billions of protein sequences that could greatly enhance large-scale prediction of protein functions and structures. Linclust can cluster sequences down to 50% pairwise sequence similarity and its runtime scales linearly with the input set size, not nearly quadratically as in conventional algorithms. We cluster 1.7 billion sequences from 2200 metagenomic and metatranscriptomic datasets in 30 hours on 28 cores. Free software and data available at https://mmseqs.com/.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104034', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Max-Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry']]
[u'DNA topology in chromatin is defined by nucleosome spacing', ['Tatiana Nikitina', 'Davood Norouzi', 'Sergei A. Grigoryev', 'Victor B. Zhurkin'], u'January 29, 2017.', u'In eukaryotic chromatin, DNA makes about 1.7 left superhelical turns around an octamer of core histones implying that formation of nucleosomes would alter the overall topology of DNA by a comparable difference of the DNA linking number (dLk) per nucleosome. However, earlier experiments have documented a significantly (about 50%) lower absolute value |dLk| than expected from the nucleosome geometry. Recently, using computer modeling, we have predicted two families of energetically stable conformations of the arrays with precisely positioned nucleosomes, one with an integer number of DNA turns in the linker DNA {L = 10n} and the other with extra five base pairs in the linker {L = 10n + 5}, to be topologically different. Here, using arrays of precisely positioned clone 601 nucleosomes, topological electrophoretic assays, and electron microscopy we experimentally tested these predictions. First, for small 12-mer nucleosome circular arrays we observed that dLk per nucleosome changes from -1.4 to -0.9 for the linkers {L = 10n} and {L = 10n + 5}, respectively. Second, for larger hybrid arrays containing a mixture of positioned and non positioned nucleosomes we found that changing the DNA linker length within the positioned arrays was sufficient to significantly alter the overall DNA topology fully consistent with our prediction. The observed topological polymorphism of the circular nucleosome arrays provides a simple explanation for the DNA topology in native chromatin with variable DNA linker length. Furthermore, our results may reflect a more general tendency of chromosomal domains containing active or repressed genes to acquire different nucleosome spacing to retain topologically distinct higher-order structures.', u'/content/early/2017/01/29/104083', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Laboratory of Cell Biology, CCR, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA;', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine,']]
