[u'Detecting polygenic adaptation in admixture graphs', ['Fernando Racimo', 'Jeremy J. Berg', 'Joseph K. Pickrell'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'An open question in human evolution is the importance of polygenic adaptation: adaptive changes in the mean of a multifactorial trait due to shifts in allele frequencies across many loci. In recent years, several methods have been developed to detect polygenic adaptation using loci identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Though powerful, these methods suffer from limited interpretability: they can detect which sets of populations have evidence for polygenic adaptation, but are unable to reveal where in the history of multiple populations these processes occurred. To address this, we created a method to detect polygenic adaptation in an admixture graph, which is a representation of the historical divergences and admixture events relating different populations through time. We developed a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm to infer branch-specific parameters reflecting the strength of selection in each branch of a graph. Additionally, we developed a set of summary statistics that are fast to compute and can indicate which branches are most likely to have experienced polygenic adaptation. We show via simulations that this method - which we call PhenoGraph - has good power to detect polygenic adaptation, and applied it to human population genomic data from around the world. We also provide evidence that variants associated with several traits, including height, educational attainment, and self-reported unibrow, have been influenced by polygenic adaptation in different human populations.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/146043', [], [u'New York Genome Center;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Evidence for a role of calcium in STING signaling', ['Sujeong Kim', 'Peter Koch', 'Lingyin Li', 'Leonid Peshkin', 'Timothy J. Mitchison'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'STING, an ER resident cyclic dinucleotide (CDN) receptor, plays an important role in innate immune response signaling. Upon binding to CDNs, it activates the TBK1-IRF3 signaling axis, which stimulates gene expression including interferon beta. We hypothesized that the ER localization of STING reflects a role for calcium mobilization in its signaling. To test this hypothesis, we treated mouse cells with two STING agonists, the synthetic drug DMXAA and a natural ligand, cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP), and measured intracellular calcium. Both triggered a rapid rise in intracellular calcium that was partially inhibited by STING depletion. Intracellular calcium chelation blocked DMXAA induced signaling downstream of STING activation, but had no effect on cGAMP induced signaling. We propose that intracellular calcium plays an important role in the response of the STING pathway. In response to DMXAA, calcium is mobilized form the ER and required for signaling. In the case of cGAMP calcium is mobilized but not required. This difference could be explained by alternative modes of STING activation for the two ligands, or a combination of STING-dependent and -independent actions of extracellular cGAMP.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145854', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'GFF3sort: An efficient tool to sort GFF3 files for tabix indexing', ['Tao Zhu', 'Chengzhen Liang', 'Zhigang Meng', 'Sandui Guo', 'Rui Zhang'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Motivation: The traditional method of visualizing gene annotation data in JBrowse is converting GFF3 files to JSON format, which is time-consuming. The latest version of JBrowse supports rendering sorted GFF3 files indexed by tabix, a novel strategy that is more convenient than the original conversion process. However, current tools available for GFF3 file sorting have bugs that would lead to erroneous rendering in JBrowse.  Results: We developed GFF3sort, a script to sort GFF3 files for tabix indexing. GFF3sort can properly deal with the order of features that have the same chromosome and start position. Based on our test datasets from multiple species, GFF3sort produced accurate sorting results while taking significantly less running time compared with currently available tools. We anticipate that GFF3sort will be a useful tool to help with genome annotation data processing and visualization.  Availability: https://github.com/billzt/gff3sort', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145938', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Biotechnology Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Metabolic changes of the host-pathogen environment in a Cryptosporidium infection', ['Christopher N. Miller', 'Charalampos G. Panagos', 'Martin Kvac', 'Mark J. Howard', 'Anastasios D. Tsaousis'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Cryptosporidium is an important gut microbe whose contributions towards infant and immunocompromise patient mortality rates are steadily increasing. Current techniques for diagnosing, curing or simply understanding the biology of the parasite are few and far between, relying on a combination of in-silico predictions modelled on a varied and unique group of organisms and medical reports. The development of an in-vitro culture system, using COLO-680N cells, has provided the Cryptosporidium community with the opportunity to expand its toolkit for investigating this disease. One area in particular that is sorely overlooked is the metabolic alterations upon infection. Existing research is extremely limited and has already shown that significant variation can be found between the metabolome of different infected host species. Using a 1H Nuclear Magnetic Resonance approach to metabolomics, we have explored the nature of the mouse gut metabolome as well as providing the first insight into the metabolome of an infected cell line. Through a combination of Partial Least Squares Discriminant Analysis and predictive modelling, we exhibit new and potentially game changing insights into the effects of a Cryptosporidium parvum infection, while verifying the presence of known metabolic changes. Of particular note is the potential contribution of host derived taurine to the diuretic aspects of the disease previously attributed to a solely parasite based alteration of the gut environment. This practical and informative approach can spearhead our understanding of the Cryptosporidium-host metabolic exchange and thus provide novel targets for tackling this deadly parasite.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145979', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Kent;', u'University of Georgia;', u'University of South Bohemia;', u'University of Western Australia']]
[u'Molecular Recognition of Dopamine with Dual Near Infrared Excitation-Emission Two-Photon Microscopy', ["Jackson Travis Del Bonis-O'Donnell", 'Ralph H. Page', 'Abraham G. Beyene', 'Eric G. Tindall', 'Ian R. McFarlane', 'Markita P. Landry'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'A key limitation for achieving deep imaging in biological structures lies in photon attenuation of fluorescence. In particular, neurotransmitter imaging is challenging in the biologically-relevant context of the intact brain, for which photons must traverse the cranium, skin, and bone. Thus, fluorescence imaging is limited to the surface cortical layers of the brain, only achievable with a craniotomy. Herein, we describe optimal excitation and emission wavelengths for through-cranium imaging, and demonstrate that near-infrared emissive nanosensors can be photoexcited using a two-photon 1550 nm excitation source. Dopamine-sensitive nanosensors can undergo 2-photon excitation, and provide chirality-dependent responses selective for dopamine with fluorescent turn-on responses varying between 20% and 350%. We further calculate the 2-photon absorption cross-section and quantum yield of dopamine nanosensors, and confirm a 2-photon power law relationship for the nanosensor excitation process. Finally, we show improved image quality of nanosensors imbedded 2 mm deep into a brain-mimetic tissue phantom, whereby 1-photon excitation yields 42% scattering, in contrast to 4% scattering when the same object is imaged under 2-photon excitation. Our approach overcomes traditional limitations in deep-tissue fluorescence microscopy, and can enable neurotransmitter imaging in the biologically-relevant milieu of the intact and living brain.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145912', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California Berkeley']]
[u'Generic assembly patterns in large ecological communities', ['Matthieu Barbier', 'Jean-Francois Arnoldi', 'Guy Bunin', 'Michel Loreau'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Ecological communities have mainly been investigated theoretically in two ways: piecewise, a few species at a time; or as complex networks, simulated in exhaustive detail. But our empirical knowledge of networks is limited, and the space of simulation models and parameters is mindbogglingly vast. We show that a large fraction of that space of possibilities exhibits generic dynamics, which can be predicted from a single minimal model. To demonstrate this, we consider a wide array of ecological models, from resource competition to predation and mutualism, known to display very different behaviors for a few species. We simulate large communities, and show that equilibrium diversity, functioning and stability can often be predicted analytically from only four broad statistical properties of the community. Our approach provides a convenient framework for exploring generic patterns in ecosystem assembly and quantifying the added value of more detailed models and measurements.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145862', [u'Ecology'], [u'Centre for Biodiversity Theory and Modelling, CNRS and Paul Sabatier University;', u'Technion-Israel Institute of Technology']]
[u'Sugar metabolism changes in response to the ultraviolet B irradiation of peach (Prunus persica L.)', ['Xuxu Wang', 'Xiling Fu', 'Min Chen', 'Lei Huan', 'Wenhai Liu', 'Yangang Gao', 'Wei Xiao', 'Xiude Chen', 'Ling Li', 'Dongsheng Gao'], u'June 4, 2017.', u"The protected cultivation of peach (Prunus persica L.) trees is more economical and efficient than traditional cultivation, resulting in increased farmers' incomes, but the peach sugar contents are lower than in open planting. In the greenhouse, a high-sugar variety of peach \u2018Lumi 1\u2019 was irradiated with 1.44 KJ\u22c5m-2\u22c5d-1 intensity ultraviolet B radiation. The soluble sugar contents in fruit, peel and leaf were quantified using liquid chromatography. Overall, sucrose and sorbitol increased before the second fruit-expansion period. To further understand the mechanisms regulating sucrose and sorbitol accumulation in peach fruit, expression profiles of genes involved in sugar metabolism and transport were measured. The activity and translocation protein contents of these enzymes were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The increased sucrose synthase activity and sucrose transporter level in the pericarp promoted the synthesis of sucrose and intake of sucrose into fruit. Sorbitol transport into fruit was promoted by the increased sorbitol transporter protein levels in leaves. In summary, greenhouse the sucrose and sorbitol contents were increased when supplemented with 1.44 kJ\u22c5m-2\u22c5d-1 ultraviolet B radiation before the second fruit-expansion period of peach.", u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145870', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Shandong Agricultural University;', u'Weifang Engineering Vocational College']]
[u'Construction of an exome-wide risk score for schizophrenia based on a weighted burden test', ['David Curtis'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Polygenic risk scores obtained as a weighted sum of associated variants can be used to explore association in additional data sets and to assign risk scores to individuals. The methods used to derive polygenic risk scores from common SNPs are not suitable for variants detected in whole exome sequencing studies. Rare variants which may have major effects are seen too infrequently to judge whether they are associated and may not be shared between training and test subjects. A method is proposed whereby variants are weighted according to their frequency, their annotations and to the genes they affect. A weighted sum across all variants provides an individual risk score. Scores constructed in this way are used in a weighted burden test and are shown to be significantly different between schizophrenia cases and controls using a five-way cross validation procedure. This approach represents a first attempt to summarise exome sequence variation into a summary risk score, which could be combined with risk scores from common variants and from environmental factors. It is hoped that the method could be developed further.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145961', [u'Genetics'], [u'University College London']]
[u"The importance of Chargaff's second parity rule for genomic signatures in metagenomics", ['Fabio Gori', 'Dimitrios Mavroeidis', 'Mike S. M. Jetten', 'Elena Marchiori'], u'June 4, 2017.', u"An important problem in metagenomic data analysis is to identify the source organism, or at least taxon, of each sequence. Most methods tackle this problem in two steps by using an alignment-free approach: first the DNA sequences are represented as points of a real n-dimensional space via a mapping function then either clustering or classification algorithms are applied. Those mapping functions require to be genomic signatures: the dissimilarity between the mapped points must reflect the degree of phylogenetic similarity of the source species. Designing good signatures for metagenomics can be challenging due to the special characteristics of metagenomic sequences; most of the existing signatures were not designed accordingly and they were tested only on error-free sequences sampled from a few dozens of species. In this work we analyze comparatively the goodness of existing and novel signatures based on tetranucleotide frequencies via statistical models and computational experiments; we also study how they are affected by the generalized Chargaff's second parity rule (GCSPR), which states that in a given sequence longer than 50 kbp, inverse oligonucleotides are approximately equally frequent. We analyze 38 million sequences of 150 bp-1,000 bp with 1% base-calling error, sampled from 1,284 microbes. Our models indicate that GCSPR reduces strand-dependence of signatures, that is, their values are less affected by the source strand; GCSPR is further exploited by some signatures to reduce the intra-species dispersion. Two novel signatures stand out both in the models and in the experiments: the combination signature and the operation signature. The former achieves strand-independence without grouping oligonucleotides; this could be valuable for alignment-free sequence comparison methods when distinguishing inverse oligonucleotides matters. Operation signature sums the frequencies of reverse, complement, and inverse tetranucleotides; having 72 features it reduces the computational intensity of the analysis.", u'/content/early/2017/06/04/146001', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Radboud University Nijmegen']]
[u'Persistent one-way walking in a circular arena in Drosophila melanogaster Canton-S strain', ['Chengfeng Xiao', 'Shuang Qiu', 'R. Meldrum Robertson'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'We describe persistent one-way walking of Drosophila melanogaster in a circular arena. Wild-type Canton-S adult flies walked in one direction, counter-clockwise or clockwise, for minutes, whereas white-eyed mutant w1118 changed directions frequently. Computational analysis of locomotor behavior showed that counter-clockwise walking and clockwise walking were the two main components of locomotion, and that pausing was more frequently associated with directional persistence but not directional change. Genetic analysis revealed that while wild-type genetic background primarily controlled the number of counter-clockwise walking and clockwise walking during five minutes of locomotion, the white (w+) gene promoted persistent one-way walking by increasing the number of pauses, increasing the maximal duration of one-way walking, and reducing the path length in five minutes. These results support a pleiotropic function of w+ in promoting persistent one-way walking in addition to eye pigmentation.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145888', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u"Queen's University"]]
[u'Isolation and semi quantitative PCR of Na+/H+ antiporter (SOS1 & NHX) genes under salinity stress in Kochia scoparia', ['Leila Fahmideh', 'Ziba Fooladvand'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Kochia scoparia is a dicotyledonous annual herb and belongs to the Amaranthaceae family. Genetic diversity and resistance to drought stress of this plant has made it widely scattered in different regions which contains highly genetic diversity and great potential as fodder and can grow on salty, drought affected areas. Since the soil salinity has become widely spread, environmental concern has sparked so many debates. An important limiting factor in agricultural production worldwide is the sensitivity of most of the crop to salinity caused by high concentration of salts soil. Plants use three different strategies to prevent and adapt to high Na+ concentrations. Antiporters are important category of genes that play a pivotal role in ion homeostasis in plants. Na+/H+ antiporters (NHX1 and SOS1) are located in tonoplasts and reduce cytosolic Na+ concentration by pumping in the vacuole whereas SOS1 is localized at the plasma membrane and extrudes Na+ in apoplasts. Coding sequence of plasma membrane Na+/H+ antiporter (SOS1) and vacuole membrane Na+/H+ antiporter (NHX) in Kochia scoparia were isolated using conserved sequences of SOS1 and NHX. Also, expression profile under salinity stress was studied in this study. The amino acid sequences (aa) of the isolated region of K.SSOS1 and K.SNHX showed the maximum identity up to 84% and 90% to its orthologue in Salicornia brachiata and Suadea maritima, respectively. The results of semi-quantitative RT-PCR revealed that salinization has affected positively on SOS1 transcription level. The expression of K.SSOS1 and K.SNHX in leaves and roots of Kochia scoparia were progressively increased under all salinity levels compared to control. The results suggest that K.SSOS1 and K.SNHX  play an essential role in salt tolerance of K. scoparia and they can be useful to improve salt tolerance in other crops.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145953', [u'Genomics'], [u'university of Zabol Iran']]
[u'Global Cancer Transcriptome Quantifies Repeat Element Polarization Between Immunotherapy Responsive and T cell Suppressive Classes', ['Alexander Solovyov', 'Nicolas Vabret', 'Kshitij S. Arora', 'Alexandra Snyder', 'Samuel A. Funt', 'Dean F. Bajorin', 'Jonathan E. Rosenberg', 'Nina Bhardwaj', 'David T. Ting', 'Benjamin D. Greenbaum'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Growing evidence indicates that innate immune pathway activation is critical for responses to immunotherapy and overall cancer prognosis. It has been posited that innate immunity in the tumor microenvironment can be driven by derepression of endogenous repetitive element RNA. The ability to characterize these species can potentially provide novel predictive biomarkers for tumor immune responses and a mechanistic basis for elements of innate activation by tumors. We first compared total RNA and poly(A)-capture protocols applied to tumor RNA-sequencing to detect non-RNA coding transcriptomes in the TCGA. While the poly(A) protocol efficiently detects coding, most non-coding genes, and much of the LINE/SINE/ERV repeat repertoire, we found that it fails to capture overall repeat expression and co-expression. The probing of total RNA expression reveals distinct repetitive co-expression subgroups. Secondly, we found that total repeat element expression delivers the most dynamic changes in samples, which may serve as more robust biomarkers of clinical outcomes. Finally, we show that while expression of ERVs, but not other immunostimulatory repeats such as HSATII, is associated with response to immunotherapy in a cohort of patients with urothelial cancer treated with anti-PD-L1 therapy, global repeat derepression strongly correlates with an immunosuppressive phenotype in the microenvironment of colorectal and pancreatic tumors. We validate in situ in human primary tumors, associating the immunosuppressive phenotype with HSATII expression. In conclusion, we demonstrate the importance of analyzing repetitive element RNAs as potential biomarkers of response to immunotherapy and the need to better  characterize these features in next generation sequencing protocols.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145946', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Harvard Medical School;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY']]
[u'Proteomics of phosphorylation and protein dynamics during fertilization and meiotic exit in the Xenopus egg', ['Marc Stuart Presler', 'Elizabeth Van Itallie', 'Allon M. Klein', 'Ryan Kunz', 'Peg Coughlin', 'Leonid Peshkin', 'Steven Gygi', 'Martin Wuhr', 'Marc Kirschner'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Fertilization triggers release from meiotic arrest and initiates events that prepare for the ensuing developmental program. Protein degradation and phosphorylation are known to regulate protein activity during this process. However, the full extent of protein loss and phospho-regulation is still unknown. We examined absolute protein and phospho-site dynamics after fertilization by mass spectrometry-based proteomics. To do this, we developed a new approach for calculating the stoichiometry of phospho-sites from multiplexed proteomics that is compatible with dynamic, stable and multi-site phosphorylation. Overall, the data suggest that degradation is limited to a few low abundance proteins. However, this degradation promotes extensive dephosphorylation that occurs over a wide range of abundances during meiotic exit. We also show that eggs release a large amount of protein into the medium just after fertilization, most likely related to the blocks to polyspermy. Concomitantly, there is a substantial increase in phosphorylation likely tied to calcium activated kinases. We identify putative degradation targets as well as new components of the block to polyspermy. The analytical approaches demonstrated here are broadly applicable to studies of dynamic biological systems.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145086', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'Proteolytically Coordinated Activation of Toxin-Antitoxin Modules', ['Curtis Ogle', 'William Mather'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Chronic bacterial infections present a serious threat to the health of humans by decreasing life expectancy and quality. Resilience of these populations is closely linked to a small fraction of persister cells that are capable of surviving a wide range of environmental stressors that include starvation, DNA damage, heat shock, and antibiotics. In contrast to inherited resistance, persistence arises from a rare and reversible phenotypic change that protects the cell for one or a few generations. The frequency and character of persistence is controlled in part by the dynamics of numerous toxin-antitoxin (TA) modules, operons with an evolutionarily conserved motif including a toxin that slows cell growth and an antitoxin that can neutralize the toxin. While many such modules have been identified and studied in a wide range of organisms, relatively little consideration of the interactions between multiple TA modules within a single host has been made. Particularly, a multitude of different protein-based antitoxin species are known to be actively degraded by a limited number of shared proteolytic pathways, strongly suggesting interaction via competition between antitoxins for degradation machinery. Here we present a theoretical understanding of the dynamics of multiple TA modules whose activity is coupled through either proteolytic activity, a toxic effect on cell growth rate, or both. We also present a generalizable theoretical mechanism by which a toxic state is tunable by regulation of proteolysis. Such regulation or indirect coordination between multiple TA modules may be at the heart of the flexibility and robustness observed for bacterial persistence.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/146027', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Virginia Tech']]
[u'The Effects of Central Nervous System Stimulants on Drosophila melanogaster Reproduction', ['Blake D. McMahon', 'Julia Willsie'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Stimulant drugs are used every day by people around the world. The effect stimulants have on developing human fetuses is widely unknown. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has become a valuable system to model the complex effects and properties of drugs in mammals. In this study, Drosophila is used to analyze the effects of stimulant exposure on reproduction to determine if stimulants cause a significant decrease in the number of offspring produced by parent generations. Caffeine, nicotine, and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride were found to significantly decrease the number of offspring in experimental populations. Further experimentation is necessary to understand the mechanisms underlying these results.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145896', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Diablo Valley College']]
[u'Targeted Enrichment of Large Gene Families for Phylogenetic Inference: Phylogeny and Molecular Evolution of Photosynthesis Genes in the Portullugo (Caryophyllales)', ['Abigail Moore', 'Jurriaan M. de Vos', 'Lillian P. Hancock', 'Eric Goolsby', 'Erika J. Edwards'], u'June 4, 2017.', u'Hybrid enrichment is an increasingly popular approach for obtaining hundreds of loci for phylogenetic analysis across many taxa quickly and cheaply. The genes targeted for sequencing are typically single-copy loci, which facilitate a more straightforward sequence assembly and homology assignment process. However, single copy loci are relatively uncommon elements of most genomes, and as such may provide a biased evolutionary history. Furthermore, this approach limits the inclusion of most genes of functional interest, which often belong to multi-gene families. Here we demonstrate the feasibility of including large gene families in hybrid enrichment protocols for phylogeny reconstruction and subsequent analyses of molecular evolution, using a new set of bait sequences designed for the portullugo (Caryophyllales), a moderately sized lineage of flowering plants (ca. 2200 species) that includes the cacti and harbors many evolutionary transitions to C4 and CAM photosynthesis. Including multi-gene families allowed us to simultaneously infer a robust phylogeny and construct a dense sampling of sequences for a major enzyme of C4 and CAM photosynthesis, which revealed the accumulation of adaptive amino acid substitutions associated with C4 and CAM origins in particular paralogs. Our final set of matrices for phylogenetic analyses included 75-218 loci across 74 taxa, with ca. 50% matrix completeness across datasets. Phylogenetic resolution was greatly improved across the tree, at both shallow and deep levels. Concatenation and coalescent-based approaches both resolve with strong support the sister lineage of the cacti: Anacampserotaceae and Portulacaceae, two lineages of mostly diminutive succulent herbs of warm, arid regions. In spite of this congruence, BUCKy concordance analyses demonstrated strong and conflicting signals across gene trees for the resolution of the sister group of the cacti. Our results add to the growing number of examples illustrating the complexity of phylogenetic signals in genomic-scale data.', u'/content/early/2017/06/04/145995', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oklahoma;', u'Royal Botanic Gardens Kew;', u'Brown University']]
