[u'TeachEnG: a Teaching Engine for Genomics', ['Minji Kim', 'Yeonsung Kim', 'Lei Qian', 'Jun Song'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Bioinformatics is a rapidly growing field that has emerged from the synergy of computer science, statistics, and biology.  Given the interdisciplinary nature of bioinformatics, many students from diverse fields struggle with grasping bioinformatic concepts only from classroom lectures. Interactive tools for helping students reinforce their learning would be thus desirable. Here, we present an interactive online educational tool called TeachEnG (acronym for Teaching Engine for Genomics) for reinforcing key concepts in sequence alignment and phylogenetic tree reconstruction.  Our instructional games allow students to align sequences by hand, fill out the dynamic programming matrix in the Needleman-Wunsch global sequence alignment algorithm, and reconstruct phylogenetic trees via the maximum parsimony and Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic mean (UPGMA) algorithms.  With an easily accessible interface and instant visual feedback, TeachEnG will help promote active learning in bioinformatics.\n\nTeachEnG is freely available at http://song.igb.illinois.edu/TeachEnG/.  It is written in JavaScript and compatible with Firefox, Safari, Chrome, and Microsoft Edge.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111054', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign;', u'Fisk University']]
[u'Sensitivity of Neurons in the Middle Temporal Area of Marmoset Monkeys to Random Dot Motion', ['Tristan A. Chaplin', 'Benjamin J. Allitt', 'Maureen A. Hagan', 'Nicholas S.C. Price', 'Ramesh Rajan', 'Marcello G.P. Rosa', 'Leo L. Lui'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Neurons in the Middle Temporal area (MT) of the primate cerebral cortex respond to moving stimuli. Their sensitivity to noisy motion signals is often characterized by using random-dot stimuli, where the coherence of the motion signal is manipulated. In macaques, this has allowed the calculation of "neurometric" thresholds, which can be compared to the animal\'s behavioral performance. There has been growing interest in the marmoset monkey, a species in which area MT is fully exposed on the surface of the brain, but responses of MT neurons to random-dot stimuli with noise have not been characterized. In sufentanil/nitrous oxide anesthetized marmosets, we found that MT neurons show a wide range of neurometric thresholds, similar to observations in macaques, and that the thresholds of the most sensitive neurons can account for the behavioral performance of macaques and humans. We also investigated factors that contributed to the wide range of observed thresholds. The difference in firing rate between responses to motion in the preferred and null directions was the most effective predictor of neurometric threshold, whereas the direction tuning bandwidth had no correlation with the threshold. We also showed that it is possible to obtain good neurometric thresholds using stimuli that were not highly optimized for each neuron, as is often necessary when recording from large populations of neurons. These results demonstrate that marmoset MT shows an essential similarity to macaque MT, and suggests that it is capable of representing motion signals that would allow for comparable motion-in-noise judgments.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/104117', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University']]
[u'Do maternal antibodies facilitate hemagglutinin imprinting to influenza A viruses encountered early in childhood?', ['Katelyn M Gostic', 'Monique Ambrose', 'Michael Worobey', 'James O Lloyd-Smith'], u'February 22, 2017.', u"In a recent study, we showed evidence for childhood HA imprinting, a phenomenon in which children develop preferential, lifelong immune memory against zoonotic influenza viruses with hemagglutinin (HA) antigens in the same phylogenetic group as the first influenza virus encountered in childhood (Gostic et al., Science, 2016). Although our original study showed strong, population-level HA imprinting effects, it did not resolve the underlying immunological mechanisms.\n\tSimilar immune imprinting phenomena, where individuals preferentially recall immune responses primed early in life, also influence seasonal influenza epidemiology via antigenic seniority and original antigenic sin, yet the mechanisms underlying all these childhood immune imprinting phenomena remain poorly understood. A recent letter from Dr. H. Lemke (Lemke, Science, 2017) suggested that these childhood imprinting effects might be mediated by the combined action of maternal antibodies (mAbs) and influenza antigen. In other words, that imprinting may require that children are exposed to influenza A virus in the first year of life, while maternal antibodies are still present.\n\tOur response (Gostic et al. Science, 2017) argued that this hypothesis seems qualitatively inconsistent with epidemiological and virological data on influenza. However to be thorough, we performed model comparison to test formally whether epidemiological data better supported our originally published models (where primary exposure at any age from 0 to 12 years could induce HA imprinting) or two alternative models that include maternal effects. In maternal effects model 1, we assumed that imprinting could only occur in the first year of life. In maternal effects model 2, we assumed that primary influenza exposures throughout childhood could induce HA imprinting (as in the original study), but primary exposures in the presence of maternal antibodies might enhance imprinting protection. Here, we report the results of these quantitative analyses, and our methods, and show that the addition of maternal effects does not improve our existing models' predictions of birth year-specific pandemic influenza risk.", u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110981', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'The University of Arizona']]
[u'Evaluating the clinical validity of gene-disease associations: an evidence-based framework developed by the Clinical Genome Resource', ['Natasha T Strande', 'Erin Rooney Riggs', 'Adam H. Buchanan', 'Ozge Ceyhan-Birsoy', 'Selina T. Dwight', 'Selina S. Dwight', 'Jennifer L. Goldstein', 'Rajarshi Ghosh', 'Bryce A. Seifert', 'Tam P Sneddon', 'Matt W. Wright', 'Laura V. Milko', 'Monica A. Giovanni', 'Michael F. Murray', "Julianne M. O'Daniel", 'Erin M. Ramos', 'Avni B. Santani', 'Alan F. Scott', 'J. Michael Cherry', 'Sharon E. Plon', 'Heidi L. Rehm', 'Christa Lese Martin', 'Jonathan S. Berg'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'With advances in genomic sequencing technology, the number of reported gene-disease relationships has rapidly expanded. However, the evidence supporting these claims varies widely, confounding accurate evaluation of genomic variation in a clinical setting. Despite the critical need to differentiate clinically valid relationships from less well-substantiated relationships, currently no standard guidelines for such evaluation exist. Thus the NIH-funded Clinical Genome Resource (ClinGen) has developed a framework to define and evaluate the clinical validity of gene-disease pairs across a variety of Mendelian disorders. Relevant genetic and experimental evidence supporting or contradicting a gene-disease relationship is evaluated semi-quantitatively and assigned a preliminary classification: \u201cDefinitive\u201d, \u201cStrong\u201d, \u201cModerate\u201d, \u201cLimited\u201d, \u201cNo Reported Evidence\u201d or \u201cConflicting Evidence.\u201d Classifications are reviewed and confirmed or adjusted based on clinical expertise of appropriate disease experts. This evidence-based, systematic method to assess the strength of gene-disease relationships will facilitate more knowledgeable utilization of genomic variants in clinical and research settings.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/111039', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'Geisinger Health System;', u'Partners Healthcare Personalized Medicine;', u'Stanford University, School of Medicine;', u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u"The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and University of Pennsylvania;", u'Johns Hopkins University;', u"Brigham & Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School"]]
[u'W2RAP: a pipeline for high quality, robust assemblies of large complex genomes from short read data', ['Bernardo Clavijo', 'Gonzalo Garcia Accinelli', 'Jonathan Wright', 'Darren Heavens', 'Katie Barr', 'Luis Yanes', 'Federica Di Palma'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Producing high-quality whole-genome shotgun de novo assemblies from plant and animal species with large and complex genomes using low-cost short read sequencing technologies remains a challenge. But when the right sequencing data, with appropriate quality control, is assembled using approaches focused on robustness of the process rather than maximization of a single metric such as the usual contiguity estimators, good quality assemblies with informative value for comparative analyses can be produced. Here we present a complete method described from data generation and qc all the way up to scaffold of complex genomes using Illumina short reads and its application to data from plants and human datasets. We show how to use the w2rap pipeline following a metric-guided approach to produce cost-effective assemblies. The assemblies are highly accurate, provide good coverage of the genome and show good short range contiguity. Our pipeline has already enabled the rapid, cost-effective generation of de novo genome assemblies from large, polyploid crop species with a focus on comparative genomics.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110999', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Earlham Institute']]
[u'Genetic Architecture and Molecular Networks Underlying Leaf Thickness in Desert-Adapted Tomato Solanum pennellii', ['Viktoriya Coneva', 'Margaret H. Frank', 'Maria A. de Luis Balaguer', 'Mao Li', 'Rosangela Sozzani', 'Daniel H. Chitwood'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'The molecular networks that pattern leaf complexity, lobes, and serrations, have been studied in detail. Our understanding of the genetic underpinnings of leaf thickness, a highly functional quantitative trait, however, is poor. We used a custom-built confocal profilometer to directly measure leaf thickness in a near-isogenic line (IL) population derived from the desert tomato species Solanum pennellii, and identified quantitative trait loci (QTL). Significant correlations of leaf thickness with a suite of traits suggest that thickness is patterned in concert with other aspects of leaf morphology. Thicker tomato leaves have dramatically elongated palisade parenchyma cells - a common feature of many thick leaves. To dissect the molecular networks that pattern thickness during leaf development we inferred Dynamic Bayesian Networks of gene expression across early leaf ontogeny (plastochron stages P1-P4) in two ILs with thicker leaves. We identified regulators of S. pennellii-like leaf shape and present molecular evidence for alterations in the relative pace of the cellular events underlying leaf development, which may lead to the patterning of thicker leaves. Collectively, these data suggest genetic, anatomical, and molecular mechanisms that pattern leaf thickness in desert-adapted tomato.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/111005', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center;', u'North Carolina State University']]
[u'Correspondence of Resting State and Task Brain Networks: Reproducibility and New Insights', ['Lisa D Nickerson'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Replication of neuroimaging studies is challenging for many reasons beyond the obvious pressure to publish novel findings. Specialized training is required to analyze neuroimaging data, which contributes to errors in data manipulation and false findings and limits the ability of scientists to reproduce findings. The cost and effort involved with conducting neuroimaging studies places even greater pressure on discovery rather than replication. Fortunately, there is a growing movement to share neuroimaging data for both purposes. Using a different dataset and different methods, a high-value replication of a highly influential neuroimaging study that showed correspondence between the brain networks that are active during idle rest and the networks that are engaged during the performance of tasks was conducted. Furthermore, the brain networks that are most strongly activated during task performance are shown for each task studied in the present work, providing new insights into task network function.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/111021', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'McLean Hospital/Harvard Medical School']]
