[u'An index of the quality of evidence in meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials', ['Devon D. Brewer'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'The quality of evidence in meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials is the degree to which the estimated effect represents the "truth."  Current approaches to assessing the quality of evidence focus on trial design and methods.  I describe a new quality of evidence index composed of four sub-indexes that measure pre-registration, independent replication, data availability, and trial design and methods, respectively.  This index is systematic, objective, and quantitative.  I illustrate the index with an empirical example and provide a spreadsheet for easy calculation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100081', [], [u'Interdisciplinary Scientific Research']]
[u'Estrogen and Soy Isoflavonoids Decrease Sensitivity of Medulloblastoma and Central Nervous System Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor Cells to Chemotherapeutic Cytotoxicity', ['Scott M Belcher', 'Caleb C Burton', 'Clifford J. Cookman', 'Michelle Kirby', 'Gabriel L. L. Miranda', 'Fatima Saeed', 'Kathleen E. Wray'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Background: Our previous studies demonstrated that growth and migration of medulloblastoma (MB), the most common malignant brain tumor in children, are stimulated by 17\u03b2-estradiol. The growth stimulating effects of estrogens are mediated through ER\u03b2 and insulin-like growth factor 1 signaling to inhibit caspase 3 activity and reduce tumor cell apoptosis. The objective of this study was to determine whether estrogens decreased sensitivity of MB cells to cytotoxic actions of chemotherapeutic drugs. \nMethods: Using in vitro cell viability and clonogenic survival assays, concentration response analysis was used to determine whether the cytoprotective effects of estradiol protected human D283 Med MB cells from the cytotoxic actions of the MB chemotherapeutic drugs cisplatin, vincristine, or lomustine. Additional experiments were done to determine whether the ER antagonist fulvestrant or the selective ER modulator tamoxifen blocked the cytoprotective actions of estradiol. ER-selective agonists and antagonists were used to define receptor specificity, and the impacts of the soy-derived phytoestrogens genistein, daidzein, and s-equol on chemosensitivity were evaluated.\nResults: In D283 Med cells the presence of 10 nM estradiol increased the IC50 for cisplatin induced inhibition of viability 2-fold from ~5 \u03bcM to >10 \u03bcM. In clonogenic survival assays estradiol decreased the chemosensitivity of D283 Med exposed to cisplatin, lomustine and vincristine. The ER\u03b2 selective agonist DPN and low physiological concentrations of the soy derived phytoestrogens genistein, daidzein, and s-equol also decreased sensitivity of D283 Med cells to cisplatin. The protective effects of estradiol were blocked by the antiestrogens 4 hydroxytamoxifen, fulvestrant (ICI 182,780) and the ER\u03b2 selective antagonist PPHTP. Whereas estradiol also decreased chemosensitivity of PFSK1 cells, estradiol increased sensitivity of Daoy cell to cisplatin, suggesting that ER\u03b2 mediated effects may vary in different subtypes of MB.  \nConclusions: These findings demonstrate that E2 and environmental estrogens decrease sensitivity of MB to cytotoxic chemotherapeutics, and that ER\u03b2 selective and non-selective inhibition of estrogen receptor activity blocks these cytoprotective actions. These findings support the therapeutic potential of antiestrogen adjuvant therapies for MB, and findings that soy phytoestrogens also decrease sensitivity of MB cells to cytotoxic chemotherapeutics suggest that decreased exposure to environmental estrogens may benefit MB patient responses to chemotherapy.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100107', [], [u'North Carolina State University & University of Cincinnati;', u'University of Cincinnati, Department of Pharmacology and Cell Biophysics, SURF Program;', u'University of Cincinnati, Molecular, Cellular and Biochemical Pharmacology PhD Graduate Program;', u'University of Cincinnati, Department of Pharmacology and Cell Biophysics;', u'University of Cincinnati, Safety Pharmacology Training Program']]
[u'Leveraging biological insight and environmental variation to improve phenotypic prediction: Integrating crop growth models (CGM) with whole genome prediction (WGP)', ['Charlie D Messina', 'Frank Technow', 'Tom Tang', 'Radu Livio Totir', 'Carla Gho', 'Mark Cooper'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'A successful strategy for prediction of crop yield that accounts for the effects of genotype and environment will open up many opportunities for enhancing the productivity of agricultural systems. Crop growth models (CGMs) have a history of application for crop management decision support. Recently whole genome prediction (WGP) methodologies have been developed and applied in breeding to enable prediction of crop traits for new genotypes and thus increase the size of plant breeding programs without the need to expand expensive field testing. The presence of Genotype-by-Environment-by-Management (G\xd7E\xd7M) interactions for yield presents a  significant challenge for the development of prediction technologies for both product development by breeding and product placement within agricultural production systems. The integration of a CGM into the algorithm for whole genome prediction WGP, referred to as CGM-WGP, has opened up the potential for prediction of G\xd7E\xd7M interactions for breeding and product placement applications. Here a combination of simulation and empirical studies are used to explain how the CGM-WGP methodology works and to demonstrate successful reduction to practice for applications to maize breeding and product placement recommendation in the US corn belt.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100057', [], [u'DuPont Pioneer']]
[u'Interactions between ecological, evolutionary, and environmental processes unveil complex dynamics of island biodiversity', ['Juliano Sarmento Cabral', 'Kerstin Wiegand', 'Holger Kreft'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Aims: Understanding how biodiversity emerges and varies in space and time is central to ecology and biogeography. Multiple processes affect biodiversity at different scales and organizational levels, hence progress in understanding biodiversity dynamics requires the integration of these underlying processes. Here we present BioGEEM (BioGeographical Eco-Evolutionary Model), a spatially-explicit, process-based model that integrates all processes hypothesized to be relevant for biodiversity dynamics and that can be used to evaluate their relative roles.  \nLocation: Hypothetical oceanic islands\nMethods: The model is stochastic, grid-based, and integrates ecological (metabolic constraints, demography, dispersal, and competition), evolutionary (mutation and speciation), and environmental (geo-climatic dynamics) processes. Plants on oceanic islands served as model system. We used the full model to test hypotheses about emergent patterns at different spatio-temporal scales and organizational levels (populations, species, communities, and assemblages), switching off processes to assess the importance 1) of competition for realistic population and range dynamics; 2) metabolic constraints for endemism and community composition; 3) environmental dynamics and 4) speciation for biogeographical patterns. \nResults: The full model generated multiple patterns matching empirical and theoretical expectations. For example, populations were largest on young, species-poor islands. Species, particularly endemics, were better able to fill their potential range on small, species-poor islands. Richness gradients peaked at mid-elevations. The proportion of endemics was highest on old, large, and isolated environments within the islands. Species and trait richness showed unimodal temporal trends. Switching off selected processes affected these patterns, and we found most of our hypotheses supported.\nMain conclusions: Integrating ecological, evolutionary, and environmental processes is essential to simultaneously generate realistic spatio-temporal dynamics at population, species, community, and assemblage level. Finally, large-scale biodiversity dynamics emerged directly from biological processes which make this mechanistic model a valuable virtual long-term field station to study the linkages between biogeography and ecology.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/099978', [], [u'University of Wuerzburg;', u'University of Goettingen']]
[u'Specific T cell factors exist', ['Geoffrey William Hoffmann', 'Reginald Gorczynski'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'The symmetrical immune network theory has been developed since 1975 and is based on the existence of specific T cell factors. The existence of specific T cell factors is controversial. We confirm the existence of these specific immune system components by demonstrating that a rigorous 1975 experiment by Takemori and Tada can be reproduced. We also briefly review how specific T cell factors play a role in the induction of specific tolerance and in the induction of immunity according to the symmetrical immune network theory.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100024', [], [u'University British Columbia;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Mechanical interactions in bacterial colonies and the surfing probability of beneficial mutations', ['Fred F Farrell', 'Matti Gralka', 'Oskar Hallatschek', 'Bartlomiej Waclaw'], u'January 13, 2017.', u"Bacterial conglomerates such as biofilms and microcolonies are ubiquitous in nature and play an important role in industry and medicine. \nIn contrast to well-mixed, diluted cultures routinely used in microbial research, bacteria in a microcolony interact mechanically with one another and with the substrate to which they are attached. Despite their ubiquity, little is known about the role of such mechanical interactions on growth and biological evolution of microbial populations.\nHere we use a computer model of a microbial colony of rod-shaped cells to investigate how physical interactions between cells determine their motion in the colony, this affects biological evolution. We show that the probability that a faster-growing mutant ``surfs'' at the colony's frontier and creates a macroscopic sector depends on physical properties of cells (shape, elasticity, friction). Although all these factors contribute to the surfing probability in seemingly different ways, they all ultimately exhibit their effects by altering the roughness of the expanding frontier of the colony and the orientation of cells. Our predictions are confirmed by experiments in which we measure the surfing probability for colonies of different front roughness. Our results show that physical interactions between bacterial cells play an important role in biological evolution of new traits, and suggest that these interaction may be relevant to processes such as de novo evolution of antibiotic resistance.", u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100099', [], [u'University of Warwick;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'The University of Edinburgh']]
[u'It\u2032s okay to be green: Draft genome of the North American Bullfrog (Rana [Lithobates] catesbeiana)', ['S Austin Hammond', 'Rene L Warren', 'Benjamin P Vandervalk', 'Erdi Kucuk', 'Hamza Khan', 'Ewan A Gibb', 'Pawan Pandoh', 'Heather Kirk', 'Yongjun Zhao', 'Martin Jones', 'Andrew J Mungall', 'Robin Coope', 'Stephen Pleasance', 'Richard A Moore', 'Robert A Holt', 'Jessica M Round', 'Sara Ohora', 'Nik Veldhoen', 'Caren C Helbing', 'Inanc Birol'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Frogs play important ecological roles as sentinels, insect control and food sources. Several species are important model organisms for scientific research to study embryogenesis, development, immune function, and endocrine signaling. The globally-distributed Ranidae (true frogs) are the largest frog family, and have substantial evolutionary distance from the model laboratory frogs Xenopus tropicalis and Xenopus laevis. Consequently, the extensive Xenopus genomic resources are of limited utility for Ranids and related frog species. More widely-applicable amphibian genomic data is urgently needed as more than two-thirds of known species are currently threatened or are undergoing population declines. \nHerein, we report on the first genome sequence of a Ranid species, an adult male North American bullfrog (Rana [Lithobates] catesbeiana). We assembled high-depth Illumina reads (88-fold coverage), into a 5.8 Gbp (NG50 = 57.7 kbp) draft genome using ABySS v1.9.0. The assembly was scaffolded with LINKS and RAILS using pseudo-long-reads from targeted de novo assembler Kollector and Illumina TruSeq, as well as reads from long fragment (MPET) libraries. We predicted over 22,000 protein-coding genes using the MAKER2 pipeline and identified the genomic loci of more than 6,000 candidate long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) from a composite reference bullfrog transcriptome. Mitochondrial sequence analysis supports the phylogenetic positioning of the bullfrog within the genus Rana rather than Lithobates. Our draft bullfrog genome will serve as a useful resource for the amphibian research community and we demonstrate its utility in RNA-seq experiments to identify differential gene expression in the back skin of premetamorphic tadpoles subjected to thyroid hormone treatment.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100149', [], [u"Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency;", u'Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Victoria']]
[u'FEMALE CHEMICAL WARFARE DRIVES FITNESS EFFECTS OF GROUP SEX RATIO', ['Imroze Khan', 'Arun Prakash', 'Swastika Issar', 'Mihir Umarani', 'Rohit Sasidharan', 'Jagadeesh N M', 'Prakash Lama', 'Radhika Venkatesan', 'Deepa Agashe'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'In animals, skewed sex ratios can affect individual fitness either via sexual interactions (e.g. intersexual conflict or intrasexual mate competition) or non-sexual interactions (e.g. sex-specific resource competition). Because most analyses of sex ratio focus on sexual interactions, the relative importance of these mechanisms remains unclear. We addressed this problem using the flour beetle Tribolium castaneum, where male-biased sex ratios increase female fitness relative to unbiased or female-biased groups. Although flour beetles show both sexual and non-sexual (resource) competition, we found that sexual interactions did not explain female fitness. Instead, female fecundity was dramatically reduced even after a brief exposure to flour conditioned by other females. Earlier studies suggested that quinones (secreted toxins) might mediate density-dependent population growth in flour beetles. We identified ethyl- and methyl- benzoquinone (EBQ and MBQ) as the primary components of adult stink glands that regulate female fecundity. In female-biased groups (i.e. at high female density), females upregulated quinones and suppressed each others reproduction. In male-biased groups, low female density lead to low quinone levels, allowing higher fecundity. Thus, quinones serve both as indicators and mediators of female competition, resulting in the observed fitness decline in female-biased groups. Our results underscore the importance of non-sexual interference competition that may often underlie the fitness consequences of skewed sex ratios.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100354', [], [u'National Centre for Biological Sciences;', u'Stony Brook University;', u'Dongguk University']]
[u'Non-annual seasonality of influenza-like illness in a tropical urban setting', ['Ha Minh Lam', 'Amy Wesolowski', 'Ngyuyen Thanh Hung', 'Tran Dang Nguyen', 'Nguyen Thi Duy Nhat', 'Stacy Todd', 'Dao Nguyen Vinh', 'Nguyen Ha Thao Vy', 'Tran Thi Nhu Thao', 'Nguyen Thi Le Thanh', 'Phan Tri Tin', 'Ngo Ngoc Quang Minh', 'Juliet E Bryant', 'Caroline O Buckee', 'Tran Van Ngoc', 'Nguyen Van Vinh Chau', 'Guy E Thwaites', 'Jeremy Farrar', 'Dong Thi Hoai Tam', 'Ha Vinh', 'Maciej F Boni'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'In temperate countries, influenza and other viral respiratory diseases often have distinct seasonal peaks occurring during colder, wintertime months. However, little is known about the dynamics of influenza and viral respiratory disease dynamics in the tropics, despite high morbidity and a clear epidemiological link between tropical and temperate countries.  In temperate countries, the dynamics of influenza and other respiratory diseases are often analyzed using syndromic surveillance data describing influenza-like illness (ILI) as ILI is highly correlated with virological surveillance for influenza.  To obtain a detailed picture of respiratory disease incidence patterns in a large tropical city, we established an mHealth study in community outpatient clinics in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam (11N latitude).  From August 2009 through December 2015, clinics reported daily case numbers of ILI using standard mobile-phone SMS messaging. A subset of these clinics performed molecular diagnostics for influenza A and B viruses.  Unlike the annual patterns seen in temperate countries, ILI activity in Ho Chi Minh City exhibited strong non-annual periodicity and was not correlated with PCR-confirmed influenza.  The dominant periodicity in the data was approximately 200 days.  This was confirmed by a time series decomposition, a step-wise regression analysis on annual and non-annual covariates, and a forecasting exercise showing that forecasting was 30% to 40% more accurate when a 200-day non-annual cycle was included in the forecast.  This suggests, for the first-time, that a non-annual cycle may be an essential driver of ILI dynamics in the tropics.  This raises new questions about the seasonality and drivers of respiratory disease transmission in tropical countries.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100222', [], [u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit;', u'Harvard T H Chan School of Public Health;', u'Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine;', u'Viet My Clinics;', u'Hospital for Tropical Diseases, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam;', u'The Wellcome Trust;', u'Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics, Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'The expected neutral frequency spectrum of linked sites', ['Luca Ferretti', 'Alex Klassmann', 'Emanuele Raineri', 'Thomas Wiehe', 'Sebastian E. Ramos-Onsins', 'Guillaume Achaz'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'We present an exact, closed expression for the expected neutral Site Frequency Spectrum for two neutral sites, 2-SFS, without recombination. This spectrum is the immediate extension of the well known single site \u03b8/f neutral SFS. Similar formulae are also provided for the case of the expected SFS of sites that are linked to a focal neutral mutation of known frequency. Formulae for finite samples are obtained by coalescent methods and remarkably simple expressions are derived for the SFS of a large population, which are also solutions of the multi-allelic Kolmogorov equations. Besides the general interest of these new spectra, they relate to interesting biological cases such as structural variants and introgressions. As an example, we present the expected neutral frequency spectrum of regions with a chromosomal inversion.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100123', [], [u'The Pirbright Institute;', u'Universitaet zu Koeln;', u'CNAG-CRG;', u'Center for Research in AgroGenomics (CRAG);', u'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie']]
[u'Estimating genetic kin relationships in prehistoric populations', ['Jose Manuel Monroy Kuhn', 'Mattias Jakobsson', 'Torsten Gunther'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Archaeogenomic research has proven to be a valuable tool to trace migrations of historic and prehistoric individuals and groups, whereas relationships within a group or burial site have been more challenging to investigate. Knowing the genetic kinship of historic and prehistoric individuals would give important insights into social structures of ancient and historic cultures. Most archaeogenetic research concerning kinship has been restricted to uniparental markers, while studies using genome-wide information were mainly focused on comparisons between populations. Applications which infer the degree of relationship based on modern-day DNA information typically require diploid SNP data. Low concentration of endogenous DNA, fragmentation and other post-mortem damage to ancient DNA (aDNA) makes the application of such tools unfeasible for most archaeological samples. To infer family relationships for degraded samples, we developed the software READ (Relationship Estimation from Ancient DNA). We show that our heuristic approach can successfully infer up to second degree of relationship with as little as 0.1x shotgun coverage per genome for pairs of individuals. We uncover previously unknown relationships by applying READ to published aDNA datasets from different cultures. In particular we find a group of five closely related males from the same Corded Ware culture site in Germany suggesting patrilocality, which highlights the possibility to uncover social structures of ancient populations by applying READ to genome-wide aDNA data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100297', [], [u'Uppsala University;', u'Uppsala Universitet']]
[u'Activation of NF-\u03baB by a novel, CDK4-regulated, nucleolar stress response pathway', ['Jingyu Chen', 'Ian Lobb', 'Pierre Morin', 'Sonia Novo', 'James Simpson', 'Kathrin Kennerknecht', 'Fiona Oakley', 'Lesley Stark'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'The nucleolus is a multifunctional organelle that plays a critical role in maintaining cellular homeostasis under stress. However, how nucleoli sense stress and coordinate specific phenotypic outcomes, remains poorly understood. Here, we identify a novel nucleolar stress response pathway that culminates in activation of NF-\u03baB. Using multiple approaches, we show that specific disruption of the PolI complex stimulates NF-\u03baB signalling. Unlike the paradigm of nucleolar stress, this stimulation is not caused by inhibition of rRNA transcription. We\nidentify a novel mechanism by which specific stresses disrupt nucleoli involving CDK4 inhibition and consequently, UBF-p14ARF-dependent degradation of the PolI complex\ncomponent, TIF-IA. We show this atypical nucleolar stress response is associated with a\ndistinctive nucleolar architecture. Furthermore, we show it lies upstream of NF-\u03baB signalling. Finally, we explore the relevance of this pathway in response to aspirin in human clinical samples and demonstrate a correlation between TIF-IA degradation and NF-\u03baB pathway activation. Together, these data provide a conceptual advance in understanding of nucleolar stress response with therapeutic implications.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100255', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Newcastle']]
[u'A high-density linkage map reveals sexually-dimorphic recombination landscapes in red deer (Cervus elaphus)', ['Susan E Johnston', 'Jisca Huisman', 'Philip A Ellis', 'Josephine M Pemberton'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'High density linkage maps are an important tool to gain insight into the genetic architecture of traits of evolutionary and economic interest.  Here, we used information from the cattle genome to inform and refine a high density linkage map in a wild population of red deer (Cervus elaphus). We constructed a predicted linkage map of 38,038 SNPs and a skeleton map of 10,835 SNPs across 34 linkage groups. We identified several chromosomal rearrangements in the deer lineage, including six fissions, one fusion and two large inversion events. Our findings also showed strong concordance with map orders in the cattle genome. The sex-average linkage map length was 2739.7cM; the female autosomal map length was 1.21 longer than that of males (2767.4cM vs 2280.8cM, respectively). Differences in map lengths between the sexes was driven by markedly increased female recombination in centromeric regions and reduced male and female recombination at sub-telomeric regions. This observed pattern is unusual relative to other mammal species, where centromeric recombination is suppressed and telomeric recombination rates are higher in males. Overall, these maps provide an insight into recombination landscapes in mammals, and will provide a valuable resource for studies of evolution, genetic improvement and population management in red deer and related species.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100131', [], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Histone 4 acetylation regulates behavioral individuality in zebrafish', ['Angel Carlos Roman', 'Julian Vicente-Page', 'Alfonso Perez-Escudero', 'Jose Maria Carvajal-Gonzalez', 'Pedro Maria Fernandez-Salguero', 'Gonzalo Garcia de Polavieja'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Behavioral individuality arises even in isogenic populations under identical environments, but its underlying mechanisms remain elusive. We found that inbred and isogenic zebrafish (Danio rerio) larvae showed consistent behavioral individuality when swimming freely in identical wells or in reaction to stimuli. We also found that behavioral individuality depends on the histone acetylation levels. Individuals with high levels of histone 4 acetylation behaved similar to the average of the population, but those with low levels deviated and showed behavioral individuality. More precisely, we found behavioral individuality to be related to individuality in histone 4 acetylation of a set of genomic regions related to neurodevelopment. We found evidence that this modulation depends on a complex of Yin Yang 1 (YY1) and histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1). We suggest, using stochastic modelling, that this complex is part of the molecular machinery giving individuality in histone acetylation in neurodevelopmental genes ultimately responsible for behavioral individuality.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100230', [], [u'Champalimaud Research;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'University of Extremadura']]
[u'Repression of YdaS Toxin is Mediated by Transcriptional Repressor RacR in the cryptic rac prophage of Escherichia coli K12', ['Revathy Krishnamurthi', 'Swagatha Ghosh', 'Supriya Khedkar', 'Aswin Sai Narain Seshasayee'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Horizontal gene transfer is a major driving force behind the genomic diversity seen in\nprokaryotes. The rac prophage in E.coli K12 encodes a putative transcription factor RacR,\nwhose deletion is lethal. We have shown that the essentiality of racR in E.coli K12 is attributed to its role in transcriptionally repressing a toxin gene called ydaS, which is coded adjacent and divergently to racR.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100248', [], [u'NCBS;', u'www.ncbs.res.in']]
[u'A Network Integration Approach for Drug-Target Interaction Prediction and Computational Drug Repositioning from Heterogeneous Information', ['Yunan Luo', 'Xinbin Zhao', 'Jingtian Zhou', 'Jinling Yang', 'Yanqing Zhang', 'Wenhua Kuang', 'Jian Peng', 'Ligong Chen', 'Jianyang Zeng'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'The emergence of large-scale genomic, chemical and pharmacological data provides new opportunities for drug discovery and repositioning. Systematic integration of these heterogeneous data not only serves as a promising tool for identifying new drug-target interactions (DTIs), which is an important step in drug development, but also provides a more complete understanding of the molecular mechanisms of drug action. In this work, we integrate diverse drug-related information, including drugs, proteins, diseases and side-effects, together with their interactions, associations or similarities, to construct a heterogeneous network with 12,015 nodes and 1,895,445 edges. We then develop a new computational pipeline, called DTINet, to predict novel drug-target interactions from the constructed heterogeneous network. Specifically, DTINet focuses on learning a low-dimensional vector representation of features for each node, which accurately explains the topological properties of individual nodes in the heterogeneous network, and then predicts the likelihood of a new DTI based on these representations via a vector space projection scheme. DTINet achieves substantial performance improvement over other state-of-the-art methods for DTI prediction. Moreover, we have experimentally validated the novel interactions between three drugs and the cyclooxygenase (COX) protein family predicted by DTINet, and demonstrated the new potential applications of these identified COX inhibitors in preventing inflammatory diseases. These results inculcate that DTINet can provide a practically useful tool for integrating heterogeneous information to predict new drug-target interactions and repurpose existing drugs. The source code of DTINet and the input heterogeneous network data can be downloaded from http://github.com/luoyunan/DTINet.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100305', [], [u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;', u'Tsinghua University']]
[u'Computations underlying peoples risk-preferences in social interactions', ['Erdem Pulcu', 'Masahiko Haruno'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Interacting with other individuals to negotiate how we want distribution of resources (e.g. money, time) to be made is an important part of our social life. Considering that not all of our requests from others are always granted, the outcomes of such social interactions are, by their nature, probabilistic and therefore, risky. While risk-perception has been well studied in non-social contexts, its computational mechanisms in social interactions remains unknown. Here, we investigated value computations underlying how people make unfair, fair or hyper-fair Ultimatum offers to others who accepted or rejected these offers probabilistically in relation to how they valued them. We showed that people adjust their risk-preferences dynamically in social interactions, and these can be predicted from a weighted linear combination of ones degree of prosociality (i.e. Social Value Orientation (SVO)), inference about the opponents SVO\u2500including ones uncertainty in it; and relative prosociality ( SVO) interacting with ones risk attitude in the value-based domain. In tandem, our results provide the first evidence to suggest that dynamic risk taking is a cardinal element of social interactions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100313', [], [u'Center for Information and Neural Networks']]
[u'An Improved Crystal Violet Assay for Biofilm Quantification in 96-Well Microtitre Plate', ['Sudhir K Shukla', 'Toleti Subba Rao'], u'January 13, 2017.', u"Microplates are essential tools for biofilm research since it allows high throughput screening of biofilm forming strains or in the assay of anti-biofilm drugs. However, 96 well microtitre plate based assays share the issue of 'edge effect'. The primary cause of the 'edge effect' phenomenon is evaporation. As edge effect causes a significant increase in plate rejection rate by introducing experimental error, we improvised the classical crystal violet assay to reduce water loss from the peripheral wells. The improvised method showed a significant reduction in edge effect and minimised error in crystal violet assay", u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100214', [], [u'Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Kalpakkam']]
[u'Effects of time and isolation on plant diversity: testing island biogeography theory with an eco-evolutionary model', ['Juliano Sarmento Cabral', 'Robert J. Whittaker', 'Kerstin Wiegand', 'Holger Kreft'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Aims: The General Dynamic Model of oceanic island biogeography (GDM) predicts how biogeographical rates, species richness, and endemism vary depending on island age, area, and isolation, based on the interplay of colonization, extinction, and speciation. Here, we used a simulation model to test whether GDM predictions may arise from individual- and population-level processes. \nLocation: Hypothetical hotspot islands.\nMethods: Our model (i) considers an idealized island ontogeny, (ii) metabolic constraints, and (iii) stochastic, spatially-explicit, and niche-based processes at the level of individuals and populations (plant demography, dispersal, competition, mutation, and speciation). Isolation scenarios involved varying dispersal ability and distances to mainland. \nResults: Humped temporal trends were obtained for species richness, endemic richness, proportion of cladogenetic endemic species, number of radiating lineages, number of species per radiating lineage, and biogeographical rates. The proportion of anagenetic endemics and of all endemics steadily increased over time. Extinction rates of endemic species peaked later than for non-endemic species. Species richness and the number of anagenetic endemics decreased with isolation as did rates of colonization, anagenesis, and extinction. The proportion of all endemics and of cladogenetic endemics, the number of cladogenetic endemics, of radiating lineages, and of species per radiating lineage, and the cladogenesis rate all increased with isolation. \nMain conclusions: The results confirm most GDM predictions related to island ontogeny and isolation, but predict an increasing proportion of endemics throughout the experiment: a difference attributable to diverging assumptions on late island ontogeny. New insights regarding the extinction trends of endemics further demonstrate how simulation models focusing on low ecological levels provide tools to test biogeographical-scale predictions and to develop more detailed predictions for further empirical tests.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100289', [], [u'University of Wuerzburg;', u'University of Oxford;', u'University of Goettingen']]
[u'Large-scale rewiring in a yeast hybrid', ['Rebecca Herbst', 'Dana Bar-Zvi', 'Sharon Reikhav', 'Ilya Soifer', 'Michal Breker', 'Ghil Jona', 'Eyal Shimoni', 'Maya Schuldiner', 'Avraham Levy', 'Naama Barkai'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'The merging of genomes in inter-specific hybrids can result in novel phenotypes, including increased growth rate and biomass yield, a phenomenon known as heterosis. We describe a budding yeast hybrid that grows faster than its parents under different environments. Phenotypically, the hybrid progresses more rapidly through cell cycle checkpoints, relieves the repression of respiration in fast growing conditions, does not slow down its growth when presented with ethanol stress, and shows increasing signs of DNA damage. A systematic genetic screen identified hundreds of alleles affecting hybrid growth whose identity vastly differed between the hybrid and its parent and between growth conditions. This large-scale rewiring of allele effects suggests that despite showing clear heterosis, the hybrid is perturbed in multiple regulatory processes. We discuss the possibility that incompatibilities contribute to hybrid vigor by perturbing safeguard mechanisms that limit growth in the parental background.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100263', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science']]
[u'The impact of visual gaze direction on auditory object tracking', ['Ulrich Pomper', 'Maria Chait'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Subjective experience suggests that we are able to direct our auditory attention independent of our visual gaze, e.g when shadowing a nearby conversation at a cocktail party. But what are the consequences at the behavioural and neural level? While numerous studies have investigated both auditory attention and visual gaze independently, little is known about their interaction during selective listening. In the present EEG study, we manipulated visual gaze independently of auditory attention while participants detected targets presented from one of three loudspeakers. We observed increased response times when gaze was directed away from the locus of auditory attention. Further, we found an increase in occipital alpha-band power contralateral to the direction of gaze, indicative of a suppression of distracting input. Finally, this condition also led to stronger central theta-band power, which correlated with the observed effect in response times, indicative of differences in top-down processing. Our data suggest that a misalignment between gaze and auditory attention both reduce behavioural performance and modulate underlying neural processes. The involvement of central theta-band and occipital alpha-band effects are in line with compensatory neural mechanisms such as increased cognitive control and the suppression of task irrelevant inputs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100065', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCL Ear Institute']]
[u'Molecular pathway underlying bouton stabilization by Semaphorin4D during inhibitory synapse formation', ['Catia P. Frias', 'Tom Bresser', 'Lisa Scheefhals', 'Paul M.P. van Bergen en Henegouwen', 'Casper C. Hoogenraad', 'Corette J. Wierenga'], u'January 13, 2017.', u'Changes in inhibitory connections are essential for experience-dependent circuit adaptations, and inhibitory defects may underlie neurodevelopmental diseases such as autism. Inhibitory axons and their presynaptic boutons can undergo rapid changes, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these dynamics and their role in inhibitory synapse formation are currently unclear. By monitoring inhibitory axons over time in organotypic hippocampal slices, we show that stabilization of presynaptic boutons is the first step in inhibitory synapse formation and that this process is regulated by the guidance protein Semaphorin4D (Sema4D). Sema4D signaling induces inhibitory bouton stabilization within tens of minutes without affecting bouton disassembly. We show that this signaling pathway requires ongoing neuronal activity, and involves activation of receptor tyrosine kinase MET and actin remodeling. Our data indicate that actin plays an important role during synapse formation and demonstrate a novel link between MET, a known autism risk factor, and inhibitory presynaptic dynamics.', u'/content/early/2017/01/13/100271', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Utrecht University']]
[u'Distributed Biotin-Streptavidin Transcription Roadblocks for Mapping Cotranscriptional RNA Folding', ['Eric J Strobel', 'Kyle E Watters', 'Julius Lucks'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'RNA molecules fold cotranscriptionally as they emerge from RNA polymerase. Cotranscriptional folding is an important process for proper RNA structure formation as the order of folding can determine an RNA molecules structure, and thus its functional properties. Despite its fundamental importance, the experimental study of RNA cotranscriptional folding has been limited by the lack of easily approachable methods that can interrogate nascent RNA structures at nucleotide resolution during transcription. We previously developed cotranscriptional selective 2 prime -hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension sequencing (SHAPE-seq) to simultaneously probe all of the intermediate structures an RNA molecule transitions through during transcription elongation. Here, we improve the broad applicability of cotranscriptional SHAPE-Seq by developing a sequence-independent streptavidin roadblocking strategy to simplify the preparation of roadblocking transcription templates. We determine the fundamental properties of streptavidin roadblocks and show that randomly distributed streptavidin roadblocks can be used in cotranscriptional SHAPE-Seq experiments to measure the Bacillus cereus crcB fluoride riboswitch folding pathway. Comparison of EcoRIE111Q and streptavidin roadblocks in cotranscriptional SHAPE-Seq data shows that both strategies identify the same RNA structural transitions related to the riboswitch decision-making process. Finally, we propose guidelines to leverage the complementary strengths of each transcription roadblock for use in studying cotranscriptional folding.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/100073', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Northwestern Universty;', u'University at California, Berkeley;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Limits of noise for autoregulated gene expression', ['Peter Czuppon', 'Peter Pfaffelhuber'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Gene expression is influenced by extrinsic noise (involving a fluctuating environment of cellular processes) and intrinsic noise (referring to fluctuations within a cell under constant environment). We study the standard model of gene expression including an (in-)active gene, mRNA and protein. Gene expression is regulated in the sense that the protein feeds back and either represses (negative feedback) or enhances (positive feedback) its production at the stage\nof transcription. While it is well-known that negative (positive) feedback reduces (increases)\nintrinsic noise, we give a precise result on the resulting fluctuations in protein numbers. The\ntechnique we use is an extension of the Langevin approximation and is an application of a central limit theorem under stochastic averaging for Markov jump processes (Kang, Kurtz and Popovic, 2014). We find that (under our scaling and in equilibrium), negative feedback leads to a reduction in the Fano factor of at most 2, while the noise under positive feedback is potentially unbounded. The fit with simulations is very good and improves on known approximations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/100115', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Freiburg']]
