[u'Intracellular Sodium Regulates Opioid Signalling in Peripheral Sensory Neurons', ['Alexandros H Kannelopoulos', 'Jing Zhao', 'Edward C Emery', 'John N Wood'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Opioid receptors signal more effectively in sensory neurons from pain free mice lacking the voltage gated sodium channel Nav1.7. Type A GPCRs are known to be regulated through a specific sodium binding site, the occupancy of which diminishes agonist binding. We have used an electrophysiological assay of Protein Kinase A activity to examine the role of intracellular sodium on opioid signalling. Phosphorylation of sodium channel Nav1.8 by activation of Protein Kinase A with dbcAMP is unaffected by altered intracellular sodium. By contrast, there is a dose dependent inhibition of fentanyl action on Nav1.8 currents when intracellular sodium is increased from 0 mM to 20 mM.  Fentanyl shows a 50% loss of activity and 80 fold increase in EC50 with 20 mM intracellular sodium. These data demonstrate that altered intracellular sodium levels modulate opioid receptor signalling.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117952', [], [u'UCL']]
[u'The Maternal Environment Interacts With Genetic Variation In Regulating Seed Dormancy In Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Envel Kerdaffrec', 'Magnus Nordborg'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Seed dormancy is a complex adaptive trait that controls the timing of seed germination, one of the major fitness components in many plant species. Despite being highly heritable, seed dormancy is extremely plastic and influenced by a wide range of environmental cues. Here, using a set of 92 Arabidopsis thaliana lines from Sweden, we investigate the effect of seed maturation temperature on dormancy variation at the population level. The response to temperature differs dramatically between lines, demonstrating that genotype and the maternal environment interact in controlling the trait. By performing a genome-wide association study (GWAS), we identified several candidate genes that could account for this plasticity, two of which are involved in the photoinduction of germination. Altogether, our results provide insight into both the molecular mechanisms and the evolution of dormancy plasticity, and can serve to improve our understanding of environmentally dependent life-history transitions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117879.1', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Gregor Mendel Institute']]
[u'A Theta Rhythm In Awake Macaque V1 And V4 And Its Attentional Modulation', ['Georgios Spyropoulos', 'Conrado Arturo Bosman', 'Pascal Fries'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Theta-rhythmic neuronal synchronization has been described in hippocampus and high-level visual areas. Recent studies suggest that theta in visual areas might originate in V1. We analyzed simultaneous electrocorticographic (ECoG) grid recordings of local field potentials from areas V1 and V4 of two macaque monkeys performing a selective visual attention task. We found a \u22484 Hz theta rhythm, which was strongest at sites showing visually induced gamma band activity. This theta rhythm was coherent between V1 and V4, with a predominant V1-to-V4 Granger causal influence. Locally, theta phase was correlated with power in a narrow gamma-frequency band. These theta-rhythmic processes were reduced by selective attention to a visual stimulus contralateral to the recorded visual areas. This attentional effect was substantial, particularly compared to other reported effects of attention in area V1. We also investigated, whether microsaccades (MSs) play a role in the generation or attentional modulation of theta. Stratification of MS rate between attention conditions, or elimination of MS-affected data epochs left the main results essentially unchanged. Thus, we find an MS-independent theta rhythm in the visually driven part of V1, which rhythmically modulates local gamma and entrains V4, and which is strongly reduced by attention.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117804', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ernst Struengmann Institute in Cooperation with Max Plack Society;', u'University of Amsterdam']]
[u'mRNA And Long Non-Coding RNA Expression Profiles In Rats Reveal Inflammatory Features In Sepsis-Associated Encephalopathy', ['WenChong Sun', 'Ling Pei', 'Zuodi Liang'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Background: Sepsis-associated encephalopathy (SAE) is related to cognitive sequelae in patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) and can have serious impacts on quality of life after recovery. Although various pathogenic pathways are involved in SAE development, little is known concerning the global role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in SAE.  Methods: Herein, we employed transcriptome sequencing approaches to characterize the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on lncRNA expression patterns in brain tissue isolated from Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats with and without SAE. We performed high-throughput transcriptome sequencing after LPS was intraperitoneally injected and predicted targets and functions using bioinformatics tools. Subsequently, we explored the results in detail according to Gene Ontology\n(GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses.  Results: LncRNAs were differentially expressed in brain tissue after LPS treatment. After 6 h of LPS exposure, expression of 400 lncRNAs were significantly changed, including an increase in 316 lncRNAs and a decrease in 84 lncRNAs. In addition, 155 mRNAs were differentially expressed, with 84 up-regulated and 71 down-regulated. At 24 h post-treatment, expression of 117 lncRNAs and 57 mRNAs was consistently elevated, while expression of 79 lncRNAs and 21 mRNAs was decreased (change > 1.5-fold; p < 0.05). We demonstrated for the first time that differentially expressed lncRNAs were predicted to be enriched in a post-chaperonin tubulin folding pathway (GO : 007023), which is closely related to the key step in the tubulin folding process. Interestingly, the predicted pathway (KEGG 04360: axon guidance) was significantly changed under the same conditions. These results reveal that LPS might influence the construction and polarization of microtubules, which exert predominant roles in synaptogenesis and related biofunctions in the rodent central nervous system (CNS).  Conclusions: An inventory of LPS-modulated expression profiles from the rodent CNS is an important step toward understanding the function of mRNAs, including lncRNAs, and suggests that microtubule malformation and dysfunction may be involved in SAE pathogenesis.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117903', [u'Genomics'], [u'The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University']]
[u'Simultaneous Enumeration Of Cancer And Immune Cell Types From Bulk Tumor Gene Expression Data', ['Julien Racle', 'Kaat de Jonge', 'Petra Baumgaertner', 'Daniel E Speiser', 'David Gfeller'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Immune cells infiltrating tumors can have important impact on tumor progression and response to therapy. We present an efficient algorithm to simultaneously estimate the fraction of cancer and immune cell types from bulk tumor gene expression data. Our method integrates novel gene expression profiles from circulating and tumor infiltrating cells for each major immune cell type, cell-type specific mRNA content and the ability to model uncharacterized, and possibly highly variable, cell types. Feasibility is demonstrated by validation with flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry and single-cell RNA-Seq analyses of human melanoma and colorectal tumor specimens. Altogether, our work not only improves accuracy but also broadens the scope of absolute cell fraction predictions from tumor gene expression data, and provides a unique novel experimental benchmark for immunogenomics analyses in cancer research.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117788', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Lausanne;', u'Lausanne University Hospital']]
[u'Deciphering the combinatorial influence of diet and the microbiota on experimental colitis', ['Sean R Llewellyn', 'Graham J Britton', 'Eduardo J Contijoch', 'Arthur Mortha', 'Jean-Frederic Colombel', 'Ari Grinspan', 'Jose C Clemente', 'Miriam Merad', 'Jeremiah J Faith'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Background & Aims: The complex interactions between diet and the microbiota that influence mucosal inflammation and inflammatory bowel disease are poorly understood. Experimental colitis models provide the opportunity to control and systematically perturb diet and the microbiota in parallel to quantify the contributions between multiple dietary ingredients and the microbiota on host physiology and colitis.  Methods: To examine the interplay of diet and the gut microbiota on host health and colitis, we fed over 40 different diets with varied macronutrient sources and concentrations to specific pathogen free or germ free mice either in the context of healthy, unchallenged animals or colitis models (dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) and T cell transfer).  Results: Diet influenced physiology in both health and colitis across all models, with the concentration of protein and psyllium fiber having the most profound effects. Increasing dietary protein elevated gut microbial density and worsened DSS colitis severity. Depleting gut microbial density by using germ-free animals or antibiotics negated the effect of a high protein diet. Psyllium fiber influenced host physiology and attenuated colitis severity through microbiota-dependent and microbiota-independent mechanisms. Combinatorial perturbations to dietary protein and psyllium fiber in parallel explain most variation in gut microbial density, intestinal permeability, and DSS colitis severity, and changes in one ingredient can be offset by changes in the other.  Conclusions: Our results demonstrate the importance of examining complex mixtures of nutrients to understand the role of diet in intestinal inflammation.\nKeywords \nIBD, Diet, Microbiota, Mouse Models, Systems biology', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117929', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Trait specificity\xa0mediated by alternative DNA-binding preferences of a single transcription factor in yeast.', ['Michael W Dorrity', 'Josh T Cuperus', 'Jolie A Carlisle', 'Stanley Fields', 'Christine Queitsch'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'In the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the decision to mate or invade relies on a shared transcription factor, Ste12. Specificity toward invasion is attributed to Ste12 binding cooperatively with the co-factor Tec1. Here, we show that single mutations in the DNA-binding domain of Ste12 suffice to shift the preference of yeast cells toward either mating or invasion, independent of Tec1. Mutations that result in a shift toward each trait define two regions of this domain, implying an alternative DNA-binding mode for each trait. Binding site selections show that Ste12 variants with shifted trait preference indeed favor alternative DNA-binding sites. We identify temperature-responsive Ste12 variants that promote increased invasion of S. cerevisiae only at high temperature, behavior typical of fungal pathogens. Lastly, we show rare Ste12 mutations confer Hsp90-dependent mating, though wild-type Ste12 is not an Hsp90 client. In summary, flexibility in Ste12 DNA-binding mediates an environmentally-sensitive control of two complex traits.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117911', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington, United States']]
[u'Variation Of The Meiotic Recombination Landscape And Properties Over A Broad Evolutionary Distance In Yeasts', ['Christian Brion', 'Sylvain Legrand', 'Jackson Peter', 'Claudia Caradec', 'David Pflieger', 'Jing Hou', 'Anne Friedrich', 'Bertrand Llorente', 'Joseph Schacherer'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Meiotic recombination is a major factor of genome evolution, deeply characterized in only a few model species, notably the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Consequently, little is known about variations of its properties across species. In this respect, we explored the recombination landscape of Lachancea kluyveri, a protoploid yeast species that diverged from the Saccharomyces genus more than 100 million years ago and we found striking differences with S. cerevisiae. These variations include a lower recombination rate, a higher frequency of chromosomes segregating without any crossover and the absence of recombination on the chromosome arm containing the sex locus. In addition, although well conserved within the Saccharomyces clade, the S. cerevisiae recombination hotspots are not conserved over a broader evolutionary distance. Finally and strikingly, we found evidence of frequent reversion of meiotic commitment to mitotic growth allowing allele shuffling without meiosis completion. Identification of this major but underestimated evolutionary phenomenon illustrates the relevance of exploring non-model species.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117895', [u'Genomics'], [u'Universite de Strasbourg, CNRS, GMGM UMR 7156, F-67000, Strasbourg;', u'CNRS UMR7258, INSERM U1068, Aix Marseille Universite, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille;', u'CNRS UMR7258, INSERM U1068, Aix Marseille Universite Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille']]
[u'Communicability Systematically Explains Transmission Speed In A Cortical Macro-Connectome', ['Masanori Shimono', 'Naomichi Hatano'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Global dynamics in the brain can be captured using fMRI, MEG, or electrocorticography (ECoG), but models are often restricted by anatomical constraints. Complementary single/multi unit recordings have described local fast temporal dynamics. However, because of anatomical constraints, global fast temporal dynamics remain incompletely understood. Therefore, we compared temporal aspects of cross-area propagations of single-unit recordings and ECoG, and investigated their anatomical bases. First, we demonstrated how both evoked and spontaneous ECoGs can accurately predict latencies of single-unit recordings. Next, we estimated the propagation velocity (1.0-1.5 m/s) from brain-wide data and found that it was fairly stable among different conscious levels. We also found that the anatomical topology strongly predicted the latencies. Finally, Communicability, a novel graph-theoretic measure, could systematically capture the balance between shorter or longer pathways. These results demonstrate that macro-connectomic perspective is essential for evaluating detailed temporal dynamics in the brain.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117713', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Osaka University / Riken BSI;', u'The University of Tokyo']]
[u'A Novel And Efficient Algorithm For De Novo Discovery Of Mutated Driver Pathways In Cancer', ['Binghui Liu', 'Chong Wu', 'Xiaotong Shen', 'Wei Pan'], u'March 17, 2017.', u"Next-generation sequencing studies on cancer somatic mutations have discovered that driver mutations tend to appear in most tumor samples, but they barely overlap in any single tumor sample, presumably because a single driver mutation can perturb the whole pathway. Based on the corresponding new concepts of coverage and mutual exclusivity, new methods can be designed for de novo discovery of mutated driver pathways in cancer. Since the computational problem is a combinatorial optimization with an objective function involving a discontinuous indicator function in high dimension, many existing optimization algorithms, such as a brute force enumeration, gradient descent and Newton's methods, are practically infeasible or directly inapplicable. We develop a new algorithm based on a novel formulation of the problem as non-convex programming and non-convex regularization. The method is computationally more efficient, effective and scalable than existing Monte Carlo searching and several other algorithms, which have been applied to The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project. We also extend the new method for integrative analysis of both mutation and gene expression data. We demonstrate the promising performance of the new methods with applications to three cancer datasets to discover de novo mutated driver pathways.", u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117473', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Northeast Normal University;', u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Increased pericarp cell length underlies a major QTL for grain weight in hexaploid wheat', ['Jemima Brinton', 'James Simmonds', 'Francesca Minter', 'Michelle Leverington-Waite', 'John Snape', 'Cristobal Uauy'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Crop yields must increase to address food insecurity. Grain weight, determined by grain length and width, is an important yield component, but our understanding of the underlying genes and mechanisms is limited. We used genetic mapping and near isogenic lines (NILs) to identify, validate and fine map a major quantitative trait loci (QTL) on wheat chromosome 5A associated with grain weight. Detailed phenotypic characterisation of developing and mature grains from the NILs was performed. \n\nWe identified a stable and robust QTL associated with a 6.9 % increase in grain weight. The positive interval leads to 4.0 % longer grains, with differences first visible twelve days post fertilization. This grain length effect was fine-mapped to a 4.3 cM interval. The locus also has a pleiotropic effect on grain width (1.5 %) during late grain development that determines the relative magnitude of the grain weight increase. Positive NILs have increased maternal pericarp cell length, an effect which is independent of absolute grain length. These results provide direct genetic evidence that pericarp cell length affects final grain size and weight in polyploid wheat. We propose that combining genes which control distinct biological mechanisms, such as cell expansion and proliferation, will enhance crop yields.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117937', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'John Innes Centre, Norwich Research Park, Norwich NR4 7UH, United Kingdom']]
[u'Validation Of A Novel Molecular Host Response Assay To Diagnose Infection In Hospitalized Patients Admitted To The ICU With Acute Respiratory Failure', ['Maria Koster-Brouwer', 'Diana Verboom', 'Brendon Scicluna', 'Kirsten van de Groep', 'Jos Frencken', 'Davy Janssen', 'Rob Schuurman', 'Marcus Schultz', 'Tom van der Poll', 'Marc Bonten', 'Olaf Cremer'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Purpose: The discrimination between infectious and non-infectious causes of acute respiratory failure (ARF) in hospitalized patients admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) is difficult. Using a novel diagnostic test measuring the expression of four RNA biomarkers in blood (SeptiCyte LAB) we aimed to distinguish between infection and inflammation in this setting.  Methods: We enrolled hospitalized patients with ARF requiring prompt intubation in the ICU from 2011 to 2013. We excluded patients having an established infection diagnosis or an evidently non-infectious reason for intubation. Blood samples were collected upon ICU admission. Test results were categorized into four probability bands (with higher bands indicating a higher probability of infection) and compared with the plausibility of infection as rated by post-hoc assessment using predefined definitions.  Results: Of 467 included patients, 373 (80%) were treated for a suspected infection at admission. Plausibility of infection was classified as ruled-out, undetermined, or confirmed in 41 (11%), 135 (36%), and 197 (53%) of these, respectively. Overall, the pre-test probability of infection was 42%. Test results correlated with the plausibility of infection (Spearman\u2032s rho 0.332; p<0.001). After exclusion of undetermined cases, positive predictive values were 29%, 54%, and 76% for probability bands 2, 3, and 4, respectively, whereas the negative predictive value for band 1 was 76%. However, SeptiCyte LAB did not outperform CRP when comparing diagnostic discrimination (AUC 0.731; 95%CI 0.677-0.786 vs. 0.727; 95%CI 0.666-0.788).  Conclusion: In a setting of hospitalized patients admitted to the ICU with ARF, the diagnostic value of SeptiCyte LAB seems limited.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117853', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Academic Medical Center Amsterdam']]
[u'Comprehensive Pathway Analyses Of Schizophrenia Risk Loci Point To Dysfunctional Postsynaptic Signaling', ['Dick Schijven', 'Daniel Kofink', 'Vinicius Tragante', 'Marloes Verkerke', 'Sara L. Pulit', 'Rene S. Kahn', 'Jan H. Veldink', 'Christiaan H. Vinkers', 'Marco P. Boks', 'Jurjen J. Luykx'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have implicated many low-penetrance loci in schizophrenia, but have yielded limited insight into disease pathophysiology. This limited understanding of the etiology of schizophrenia hampers the development of novel pharmacological treatments. Pathway and gene set analyses may provide biological context to genome-wide data and carry the potential to generate hypotheses about disease mechanisms and leads for novel drug discovery. We aimed to examine which neurobiological processes are likely candidates to underlie schizophrenia by integrating genetic data with existing pathway analysis tools in a comprehensive bioinformatics pipeline. Using unbiased pathway analysis methods to weigh the role of biological processes in schizophrenia, we demonstrate enrichment of schizophrenia-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in pathways and gene sets associated with synaptic functioning. We subsequently performed targeted analyses of neurotransmitter gene sets, through which we detected enrichment of gene sets representing the dopaminergic synapse, cholinergic synapse and long-term potentiation. We furthermore highlight that enrichment is mostly located in postsynaptic membrane and postsynaptic signaling components. We thus provide the strongest genetics-informed evidence to date that dysfunctional postsynaptic pathways are implicated in schizophrenia. Future studies in both preclinical and clinical settings may further disentangle these systems to allow the development of new treatment options to target core symptoms in schizophrenia.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117481', [u'Genetics'], [u'Brain Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands;', u'University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA']]
[u'Probabilistic Recovery Of Cryptic Haplotypes From Metagenomic Data', ['Samuel M Nicholls', 'Wayne Aubrey', 'Kurt de Grave', 'Leander Schietgat', 'Christopher J Creevey', 'Amanda Clare'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'The cryptic diversity of microbial communities represent an untapped biotechnological resource for biomining, biorefining and synthetic biology. Revealing this information requires the recovery of the exact sequence of DNA bases (or \u201chaplotype\u201d) that constitutes the genes and genomes of every individual present. This is a computationally difficult problem complicated by the requirement for environmental sequencing approaches (metagenomics) due to the resistance of the constituent organisms to culturing in vitro. Haplotypes are identified by their unique combination of DNA variants. However, standard approaches for working with metagenomic data require simplifications that violate assumptions in the process of identifying such variation. Furthermore, current haplotyping methods lack objective mechanisms for choosing between alternative haplotype reconstructions from microbial communities. To address this, we have developed a novel probabilistic approach for reconstructing haplotypes from complex microbial communities and propose the \u201cmetahaplome\u201d as a definition for the set of haplotypes for any particular genomic region of interest within a metagenomic dataset. Implemented in the twin software tools Hansel and Gretel, the algorithm performs incremental probabilistic haplotype recovery using Naive Bayes - an efficient and effective technique. Our approach is capable of reconstructing the haplotypes with the highest likelihoods from metagenomic datasets without a priori knowledge or making assumptions of the distribution or number of variants. Additionally, the algorithm is robust to sequencing and alignment error without altering or discarding observed variation and uses all available evidence from aligned reads. We validate our approach using synthetic metahaplomes constructed from sets of real genes, and demonstrate its capability using metagenomic data from a complex HIV-1 strain mix. The results show that the likelihood framework can allow recovery from microbial communities of cryptic functional isoforms of genes with 100% accuracy.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117838', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Aberystwyth University;', u'Katholieke Universiteit Leuven']]
[u'Comparison Of Multi-locus Sequence Typing Software For Next Generation Sequencing Data', ['Andrew J Page', 'Nabil-Fareed Alikhan', 'Heather A. Carleton', 'Torsten Seemann', 'Jacqueline A. Keane', 'Lee S. Katz'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Multi-locus sequence typing (MLST) is a widely used method for categorising bacteria. Increasingly MLST is being performed using next generation sequencing data by reference labs and for clinical diagnostics. Many software applications have been developed to calculate sequence types from NGS data; however, there has been no comprehensive review to date on these methods. We have compared six of these applications against real and simulated data and present results on: 1. the accuracy of each method against traditional typing methods, 2. the performance on real outbreak datasets, 3. in the impact of contamination and varying depth of coverage, and 4. the computational resource requirements.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117770', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of Warwick;', u'Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;', u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'Genome-Wide Analysis Of 113,968 Individuals In UK Biobank Identifies Four Loci Associated With Mood Instability.', ['Joey Ward', 'Rona Strawbridge', 'Nicholas Graham', 'Mark Bailey', 'Amy Freguson', 'Donald Lyall', 'Breda Cullen', 'Laura Pidegon', 'Jonathan Cavanagh', 'Daniel Mackay', 'Jill Pell', "Michael O'Donovan", 'Valentina Escott-Price', 'Daniel J Smith'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Mood instability is a core clinical feature of affective disorders, particularly major depressive disorder (MDD) and bipolar disorder (BD).  It may be a useful construct in line with the Research Domain Criteria (RDoC) approach, which proposes studying dimensional psychopathological traits that cut across diagnostic categories as a more effective strategy for identifying the underlying biology of psychiatric disorders.  Here we report a genome-wide association study (GWAS) of mood instability in a very large study of 53,525 cases and 60,443 controls from the UK Biobank cohort, the only such GWAS reported to date.  We identified four independent loci (on chromosomes eight, nine, 14 and 18) significantly associated with mood instability, with a common SNP-based heritability estimate for mood instability of approximately 8%.  We also found a strong genetic correlation between mood instability and MDD (0.60, SE=0.07, p=8.95x10-17), a small but statistically significant genetic correlation with schizophrenia (0.11, SE=0.04, p=0.01), but no genetic correlation with BD.  Several candidate genes harbouring variants in linkage disequilibrium with the associated loci may have a role in the pathophysiology of mood disorders, including the DCC netrin 1 receptor (DCC), eukaryotic initiation factor 2B (EIF2B2), placental growth factor (PGF) and protein tyrosine phosphatase, receptor type D (PTPRD) genes.  Strengths of this study include the large sample size; however, our measure of mood instability may be limited by the use of a single self-reported question.  Overall, this work suggests a polygenic basis for mood instability and opens up the field for the further biological investigation of this important cross-diagnostic psychopathological trait.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117796', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Glasgow;', u'Cardiff University']]
[u'Methods to Reduce Sea Turtle Interactions in the Atlantic Canadian Pelagic Long Line Fleet', ['Zachary Thomas Sherker'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'This project investigates the role of fisheries management in the conservation of loggerhead (Caretta caretta) and leatherback sea turtles (Dermochelys coriacea), both of which are currently listed as vulnerable by the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature). These species migrate from nesting grounds in South America to feed on gelatinous zooplankton (jellyfish) in the North Atlantic off the coast of the United States and Canada. The seasonal foraging grounds of sea turtles heavily overlap with areas of high fishing effort for the longline tuna and swordfish fleet, a fishery that has significantly high rates of sea turtle incidents. The dynamic nature of sea turtle foraging patterns renders static spatio-temporal fishing area closures ineffective. Rather, turtle by-catch mitigation requires small-scale, event-triggered closures and decentralized management to reduce incidents while minimizing the negative socio-economic impact of area closures on fishermen. A number of methods that increase fishing selectivity have been implemented in other commercial fisheries around the globe and are suggested for the Atlantic Canadian fleet moving forward.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117556', [u'Ecology'], [u'St. Francis Xavier University']]
[u'Force-Dependent Binding Of Vinculin To \u03b1-Catenin Regulates Cell-Cell Contacts Stability And Collective Cell Behavior', ['Rima Seddiki', 'Pierre-Olivier Strale', 'Gregoire Peyret', 'Mingxi Yao', 'Jie Yan', 'Benoit Ladoux', 'Rene-Marc Mege'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'The shaping of a multicellular body and repair of adult tissues require fine-tuning of cell adhesion, cell mechanics and intercellular transmission of mechanical load. Adherens junctions (AJs) are the major intercellular junctions by which cells sense and exert mechanical force on each other. However, how AJs adapt to mechanical stress and how this adaptation contributes to cell-cell cohesion and eventually to tissue-scale dynamics and mechanics remains largely unknown. Here, by analyzing the tension-dependent recruitment of vinculin, \u03b1-catenin and F-actin in function of stiffness, as well as the dynamics of GFP-tagged wt and mutated \u03b1-catenins, altered for their binding capability to vinculin, we demonstrate that the force-dependent binding of vinculin stabilizes \u03b1-catenin and is responsible for AJ adaptation to force. Challenging cadherin complexes mechanical coupling with magnetic tweezers, and cell-cell cohesion during collective cell movements, further highlight that tension-dependent adaptation of AJs regulates cell-cell contact dynamics and coordinated collective cell migration. Altogether, these data demonstrate that the force-dependent \u03b1-catenin/vinculin interaction, manipulated here by mutagenesis and mechanical control, is a core regulator of AJ mechanics and long-range cell-cell interactions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117762', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Institut Jacques Monod;', u'National University of Singapore']]
[u'Autonomous Bird Sound Recording Outperforms Direct Human Observation: Synthesis And New Evidence', ['Kevin Felix Arno Darras', 'Peter Batary', 'Brett Furnas', 'Irfan Fitriawan', 'Yeni Mulyani', 'Teja Tscharntke'], u'March 17, 2017.', u"Autonomous sound recording techniques have gained considerable traction in the last decade, but the question still remains whether they can replace human observation surveys to sample some animal taxa. Especially bird survey methods have been tested using classical point counts and autonomous sound recording techniques. We review the latest information by comparing both survey methods' standardization, verifiability, sampling completeness, data types, compatibility, and practicality by means of a systematic review and a meta-analysis of alpha and gamma species richness levels sampled by both methods across 20 separate studies. Although sound recording surveys have hitherto not enjoyed the most effective setups, they yield very similar results in terms of alpha and gamma species richness. We also reveal the crucial importance of the microphone (high signal-to-noise ratio) as the sensor that replaces human senses. We discuss key differences between both methods, while richness estimates are closely related and 81% of all species were detected by both methods. Sound recording techniques provide a more powerful and promising tool to monitor birds in a standardized, verifiable, and exhaustive way against the golden standard of point counts. Advantages include the capability of sampling continuously through day or season and of difficult-to-reach regions in an autonomous way, avoidance of observer bias and human disturbance effects and higher detection probability of rare species due to extensive recordings.", u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117119', [u'Ecology'], [u'Georg-August University Goettingen;', u'California Department of Fish and Wildlife;', u'PT Henrison Inti Persada;', u'Bogor Agricultural University']]
[u'Demographic compensation does not rescue populations at a trailing range edge', ['Seema Nayan Sheth', 'Amy Lauren Angert'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'As climate change shifts species climatic envelopes across the landscape, equilibrium between geographic ranges and niches is likely diminishing due to time lags in demography and dispersal. If a species range and niche are out of equilibrium, then population performance should decrease from cool, leading range edges, where populations are expanding into recently ameliorated habitats, to warm, trailing range edges, where populations are contracting from newly unsuitable areas. Population contraction signals that compensatory changes in vital rates are insufficient to buffer population growth from deteriorating environments. Life history theory predicts tradeoffs between fast development, high reproduction, and short longevity at low latitudes and slow development, less frequent but multiple bouts of reproduction, and long lifespan at high latitudes. If demographic compensation is driven by life history evolution, compensatory negative correlations in vital rates may be associated with this fast-slow continuum. An outstanding question is whether range limits and range contractions reflect inadequate compensatory life history shifts along environmental gradients, causing population growth rates to fall below replacement levels at range edges. We surveyed demography of 32 populations of the scarlet monkeyflower (Erythranthe cardinalis) spanning 11 degrees latitude in western North America and used integral projection models to infer population dynamics and assess demographic compensation. Population growth rates decreased from north to south, consistent with leading-trailing dynamics. Southern populations are declining due to reduced survival, growth, and recruitment, despite compensatory increases in reproduction and faster life history characteristics, suggesting that demographic compensation will not rescue populations at the trailing range edge.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117606', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'University of British Columbia']]
[u'The Drosophila Embryo at Single Cell Transcriptome Resolution', ['Nikos Karaiskos', 'Philipp Wahle', 'Jonathan Alles', 'Anastasiya Boltengagen', 'Salah Ayoub', 'Claudia Kipar', 'Christine Kocks', 'Nikolaus Rajewsky', 'Robert P Zinzen'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Drosophila is a premier model system for understanding the molecular mechanisms of development. By the onset of morphogenesis, ~6000 cells express distinct gene combinations according to embryonic position. Despite extensive mRNA in situ screens, combinatorial gene expression within individual cells is largely unknown. Therefore, it is difficult to comprehensively identify the coding and non-coding transcripts that drive patterning and to decipher the molecular basis of cellular identity. Here, we single-cell sequence precisely staged embryos, measuring >3100 genes per cell. We produce a \u2018transcriptomic blueprint\u2019 of development - a virtual embryo where 3D locations of sequenced cells are confidently identified. Our Drosophila-Virtual-Expression-eXplorer performs virtual in situ hybridizations and computes expression gradients (http://dvex.org). Using DVEX, we predict spatial expression and discover patterned lncRNAs. DEVX is sensitive enough to detect subtle evolutionary changes in expression patterns between Drosophila species. We believe DVEX is a prototype for powerful single cell studies in complex tissues.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117382', [u'Genomics'], [u'Max Delbrueck Center for Molecular Medicine in the Helmholtz Association (MDC)']]
[u'Cysteine Proteases Of Hookworm Necator Americanus As Virulence Factors And Implications For Future Drug Design: A Bioinformatics-Based Study', ['Arpita Banerjee'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Human hookworm Necator Americanus causes iron deficiency anemia, as the parasite ingests blood from the gastrointestinal tract of its human host. The virulence factors of this blood feeding nematode have not been researched extensively. This bioinformatics based study focuses on the cathepsin B like cysteine proteases (CPs) of the worm, which could have immense pathogenic potential. The role of the individual CPs remain vaguely determined except for CP3 which has been shown to act as globinase in the hemoglobin degradation pathway. In this study, the cysteine proteases were subjected to predictive molecular characterizations viz:  probability of extracellular secretion to the interface between pathogen and host, ability for hemoglobin degradation, and/or interaction with host plasma proteins. CP1- CP6, which harbored the active site cysteine were also observed to have N terminal signal peptide for extracellular localization, and were relevantly predicted to be secretory. Amongst these, CP2 and CP3 showed the presence of hemoglobinase motif derived in this study that could be a prerequisite for globin or hemoglobin degradation. Active site correlation of the secretory CPs with human pKal that cleaves high molecular weight kininogen (HMWK) to prevent platelet activation is suggestive of the involvement of hookworm CPs in preventing the formation of blood clots via this pathway. NA CP1, CP2, CP3, CP5 and CP6 were predicted to bind heparin, which is the glycosaminoglycan molecule that has been demonstrated to aid the functionality of other cysteine proteases like human cathepsin B and cruzain. Heparin docked onto the NA CPs at the C terminal domain, away from the active site, similar to what has been shown for heparin binding to cathepsin B, and cruzain that cleaves HMWK. These observations therefore lead to the hypothesis that the functions of the hookworm CPs, which would probably include blood clot prevention, could be assisted by heparin. This study underscores the potential of synthetic heparin analogs as molecular treatment for hookworm infection, which could have implications for future drug design.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/116921', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'A Neural Network Framework For The Orbitofrontal Cortex During Model-Based Reinforcement Learning', ['Zhewei Zhang', 'Zhenbo Cheng', 'Zhongqiao Lin', 'Chechang Nie', 'Tianming Yang'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Model-based reinforcement learning (mbRL) has been widely used in explaining animal behavior. In mbRL, the model, or the structure of the task, is used to evaluate the associations between actions and outcomes. It has been proposed that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) encodes the model during mbRL. However, it is not well understood how the OFC acquires and stores model information. Here, we propose a neural network framework based on reservoir computing. Reservoir networks exhibit heterogeneous and dynamic activity patterns that are suitable to encode task states. The information can be extracted by a linear readout trained with reinforcement learning. We demonstrate how our framework acquires and stores the task state space. The framework exhibits mbRL behavior and its aspects resemble experimental findings of the OFC. Our study provides a theoretical explanation of how the OFC may contribute to mbRL and a new approach to understanding the neural mechanism underlying mbRL.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/116608', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Neuroscience;', u'Zhejiang University of Technology']]
[u'Efficacy of land use designation in protecting habitat in the miombo woodlands: Insights from Tanzania', ['Alex L Lobora', 'Cuthbert L Nahonyo', 'Linus K Munishi', 'Tim Caro', 'Charles Foley', 'Colin Beale'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Loss of natural landscapes surrounding major conservation areas compromise their future and threaten long-term conservation. We evaluate the effectiveness of fully and lesser protected areas within Katavi-Rukwa and Ruaha-Rungwa ecosystems in south-western Tanzania to protecting natural landscapes within their boundaries over the past four decades. Using a time series of Landsat satellite imageries of September 1972, July 1990 and September 2015, we assess the extent to which natural habitat has been lost within and around these areas mainly through anthropogenic activities. We also test the viability of the remaining natural habitat to provide connectivity between the two ecosystems. Our analysis reveals that while fully protected areas remained intact over the past four decades, lesser protected areas lost a combined total area of about 5,984 km2 during that period which is about 17.5% of habitat available in 1972. We also find that about 3,380 km2 of natural habitat is still available for connectivity between the two ecosystems through Piti East and Rungwa South Open Areas. We recommend relevant authorities to establish conservation friendly village land use plans in all villages surrounding and between the two ecosystems to ensure long-term conservation of these ecosystems.\n\nKeywords: landcover, landuse, habitat conversion, miombo, anthropogenic', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117622', [u'Ecology'], [u'TAWIRI;', u'University of Dar es salaam;', u'Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology (NM-AIST), Tanzania;', u'University of California, Davis, USA;', u'WCS;', u'University of York, United Kingdom']]
[u'Complex Coding And Regulatory Polymorphisms In A Restriction Factor Determine The Susceptibility Of Drosophila To Viral Infection', ['Chuan Cao', 'Rodrigo Cogni', 'Vincent Barbier', 'Francis M Jiggins'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'It is common to find that major-effect genes are an important cause of variation in susceptibility to infection. Here we have characterised natural variation in a gene called pastrel that explains over half of the genetic variance in susceptibility to the virus DCV in populations of Drosophila melanogaster. We found extensive allelic heterogeneity, with a sample of seven alleles of pastrel from around the world conferring four phenotypically distinct levels of resistance. By modifying candidate SNPs in transgenic flies, we show that the largest effect is caused by an amino acid polymorphism that arose when an ancestral threonine was mutated to alanine, greatly increasing resistance to DCV. Overexpression of the ancestral susceptible allele provides strong protection against DCV, indicating that this mutation acted to improve an existing restriction factor. The pastrel locus also contains complex structural variation and cis-regulatory polymorphisms altering gene expression. We find that higher expression of pastrel is associated with increased survival after DCV infection. To understand why this variation is maintained in populations, we investigated genetic variation surrounding the amino acid variant that is causing flies to be resistant. We found no evidence of natural selection causing either recent changes in allele frequency or geographical variation in frequency, suggesting that this is an old polymorphism that has been maintained at a stable frequency. Overall, our data demonstrate how complex genetic variation at a single locus can control susceptibility to a virulent natural pathogen.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117846', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'University of S\xe3o Paulo;', u'Institute for Immunology and Informatics;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Bridging Computational Neuroscience and Machine Learning on Non-Stationary Multi-Armed Bandits', ['George Velentzas', 'Costas Tzafestas', 'Mehdi Khamassi'], u'March 17, 2017.', u'Fast adaptation to changes in the environment requires both natural and artificial agents to be able to dynamically tune an exploration-exploitation trade-off during learning. This trade-off usually determines a fixed proportion of exploitative choices (i.e. choice of the action that subjectively appears as best at a given moment) relative to exploratory choices (i.e. testing other actions that now appear worst but may turn out promising later). The problem of finding an efficient exploration-exploitation trade-off has been well studied both in the Machine Learning and Computational Neuroscience fields. Rather than using a fixed proportion, non-stationary multi-armed bandit methods in the former have proven that principles such as exploring actions that have not been tested for a long time can lead to performance closer to optimal - bounded regret. In parallel, researches in the latter have investigated solutions such as progressively increasing exploita- tion in response to improvements of performance, transiently increasing exploration in response to drops in average performance, or attributing exploration bonuses specifically to actions associated with high uncertainty in order to gain information when performing these actions. In this work, we first try to bridge some of these different methods from the two research fields by rewriting their decision process with a common formalism. We then show numerical simulations of a hybrid algorithm combining bio-inspired meta-learning, kalman filter and exploration bonuses compared to several state-of-the-art alternatives on a set of non-stationary stochastic multi-armed bandit tasks. While we find that different methods are appropriate in different scenarios, the hybrid algorithm displays a good combination of advantages from different methods and outperforms these methods in the studied scenarios.', u'/content/early/2017/03/17/117598', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'School of Electerical and Computer Engineering, National Technical University of Athens, Greece;', u'School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, National Technical University of Athens, Greece;', u'Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique / Universite Pierre et Marie Curie']]
