[u'Saccadic suppression as a perceptual consequence of efficient sensorimotor estimation', ['Frederic Crevecoeur', 'Konrad Paul Kording'], u'January 8, 2017.', u'Humans perform saccadic eye movements two to three times per second. When doing so, the nervous system strongly suppresses sensory feedback for extended periods of time in comparison with the movement time. Why does the brain discard so much visual information? Here we suggest that perceptual suppression may arise from efficient sensorimotor computations, assuming that perception and control are fundamentally linked. More precisely, we show that a Bayesian estimator should reduce the weight of sensory information around the time of saccades, as a result of signal dependent noise and of sensorimotor delays. Such reduction parallels the behavioral suppression occurring prior to and during saccades, and the reduction in neural responses to visual stimuli observed across the visual hierarchy. We suggest that saccadic suppression originates from efficient sensorimotor processing, indicating that the brain shares neural resources for perception and control.', u'/content/early/2017/01/08/099051', [], [u'Universite catholique de Louvain;', u'Northwestern University']]
[u'Novel insights into karyotype evolution and whole genome duplications in legumes', ['Melissa M.L. Wong', 'Rene E. Vaillancourt', 'Jules S. Freeman', 'Corey J. Hudson', 'Freek T. Bakker', 'Charles H. Cannon', 'Wickneswari Ratnam'], u'January 8, 2017.', u'Legumes (family Fabaceae) are globally important crops due to their nitrogen fixing ability. Papilionoideae, the best-studied subfamily, have undergone a Whole Genome Duplication (WGD) around 59 million years ago. Recent study found varying WGD ages in subfamilies Mimosoideae and Caesalpinioideae and proposed multiple occurrences of WGD across the family based on gene duplication patterns. Despite that, the genome evolution of legume ancestor into modern legumes after the WGD is not well-understood. We aimed to study genome evolution at the subfamily level using gene-based linkage maps for Acacia auriculiformis and A. mangium (Mimosoideae) and we  discovered evidence for a WGD event in Acacia.  In additional to synonymous substitution rate (Ks) analysis, we used ancestral karyotype prediction to further corroborate this WGD and elucidate underlying mechanisms of karyotype evolution in Fabaceae. Using publicly available transcriptome resources from 25 species across the family Fabaceae and 2 species from order Fabales, we found that the variations in WGD ages highly correlate (R=0.8606, p-value<0.00001) with the divergence age of Vitis vinifera as an outgroup. If the variation of Ks is corrected, the age of WGDs of the family Fabaceae should be the same and therefore, parsimony would favour a single WGD near the base of Fabaceae over multiple independent WGDs across Fabaceae.  We revised the dating of WGDs in Fabaceae and demonstrated that genome comparison of Papilionoideae with other subfamily provide important insights in understanding genome evolution in legumes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/08/099044', [], [u'National University of Malaysia;', u'University of Tasmania;', u'Tasmanian Alkaloids;', u'Wageningen University;', u'The Morton Arboretum']]
[u'Whole genome sequencing and assembly of a Caenorhabditis elegans genome with complex genomic rearrangements using the MinION sequencing device', ['John R Tyson', "Nigel J O'Neil", 'Miten Jain', 'Hugh E Olsen', 'Philip Hieter', 'Terrance P Snutch'], u'January 8, 2017.', u'Advances in 3rd generation sequencing have opened new possibilities for benchtop whole genome sequencing. The MinION is a portable device that uses nanopore technology and can sequence long DNA molecules. MinION long reads are well suited for sequencing and de novo assembly of complex genomes with large repetitive elements. Long reads also facilitate the identification of complex genomic rearrangements such as those observed in tumor genomes. To assess the feasibility of the de novo assembly of large complex genomes using both MinION and Illumina platforms, we sequenced the genome of a Caenorhabditis elegans strain that contains a complex acetaldehyde-induced rearrangement and a biolistic bombardment-mediated insertion of a GFP containing plasmid. Using ~5.8 gigabases of MinION sequence data, we were able to assemble a C. elegans genome containing 145 contigs (N50 contig length = 1.22 Mb) that covered >99% of the 100,286,401 bp reference genome. In contrast, using ~8.04 gigabases of Illumina sequence data, we were able to assemble a C. elegans genome in 38,645 contigs (N50 contig length = ~26 kb) containing 117 Mb. From the MinION genome assembly we identified the complex structures of both the acetaldehyde-induced mutation and the biolistic-mediated insertion. To date, this is the largest genome to be assembled exclusively from MinION data and is the first demonstration that the long reads of MinION sequencing can be used for whole genome assembly of large (100 Mb) genomes and the elucidation of complex genomic rearrangements.', u'/content/early/2017/01/08/099143', [], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of California Santa Cruz']]
