[u'An integrated genomic analysis of anaplastic meningioma identifies prognostic molecular signatures', ['Grace Collord', 'Patrick Tarpey', 'Natalja Kurbatova', 'Inigo Martincorena', 'Sebastian Moran', 'Manuel Castro', 'Tibor Nagy', 'Graham Bignell', 'Francesco Maura', 'Jorge Berna', 'Jose M. Tubio', 'Chris E. McMurran', 'Adam M. H. Young', 'Matthew D. Young', 'Imran Noorani', 'Stephen J. Price', 'Colin Watts', 'Elke Leipnitz', 'Matthias Kirsch', 'Gabriele Schackert', 'Danita Pearson', 'Abel Devadass', 'Zvi Ram', 'V. Peter Collins', 'Kieren Allinson', 'Michael Jenkinson', 'Rasheed Zakaria', 'Khaja Syed', 'C. Oliver Hanemann', 'Jemma Dunn', 'Michael McDermott', 'Ramez Kirollos', 'George S. Vassiliou', 'Manel Esteller', 'Sam Behjati', 'Alvis Brazma', 'Thomas Santarius', 'Ultan McDermott'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Anaplastic meningioma is a rare and aggressive brain tumor characterised by intractable recurrences and dismal outcomes. Here, we present an integrated analysis of the whole genome, transcriptome and methylation profiles of primary and recurrent anaplastic meningioma. A key finding was the delineation of two distinct molecular subgroups that were associated with diametrically opposed survival outcomes. Relative to lower grade meningiomas, anaplastic tumors harbored frequent driver mutations in SWI/SNF complex genes, which were confined to the poor prognosis subgroup. Our analyses discern two biologically distinct variants of anaplastic meningioma with potential prognostic and therapeutic significance.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146811', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Cancer Epigenetics & Biology Program, Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL);', u'Phylogenomics Lab, Edificio Torre CACTI, Campus Universitario;', u'Dept. of Neurosurgery, Dept. of Clinical Neuroscience, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS;', u'Klinik und Poliklinik fur Neurochirurgie, \u201cCarl Gustav Carus\u201d Universitatsklinikum;', u'Department of Pathology, Cambridge University Hospital;', u'Department of Neurosurgery, Tel-Aviv Medical Center;', u'Department of Neurosurgery, The Walton Centre, Liverpool;', u'Institute of Translational & Stratified Medicine, Plymouth Univ. Peninsula Schools of Medicine;', u'Department of Neurosurgery, UCSF Medical Center, San Francisco;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'Combining 16S rRNA gene variable regions enables high-resolution microbial community profiling', ['Garold Fuks', 'Michael Elgart', 'Amnon Amir', 'Amit Zeisel', 'Peter J. Turnbaugh', 'Yoav Soen', 'Noam Shental'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Background: Most of our knowledge about the remarkable microbial diversity on Earth comes from sequencing the 16S rRNA gene. The use of next-generation sequencing methods has increased sample number and sequencing depth, but the read length of the most widely used sequencing platforms today is quite short, requiring the researcher to choose a subset of the gene to sequence (typically 16-33% of the total length). Thus, many bacteria may share the same amplified region and the resolution of profiling is inherently limited. Platforms that offer ultra long read lengths, whole genome shotgun sequencing approaches, and computational frameworks formerly suggested by us and by others, all allow different ways to circumvent this problem yet suffer various shortcomings. There is need for a simple and low cost 16S rRNA gene based profiling approach that harnesses the short read length to provide a much larger coverage of the gene to allow for high resolution, even in harsh conditions of low bacterial biomass and fragmented DNA.  Results: This manuscript suggests Short MUltiple Regions Framework (SMURF), a method to combine sequencing results from different PCR-amplified regions to provide one coherent profiling. The de facto amplicon length is the total length of all amplified regions, thus providing much higher resolution compared to current techniques. Computationally, the method solves a convex optimization problem that allows extremely fast reconstruction and requires only moderate memory. We demonstrate the increase in resolution by in silico simulations and by profiling two mock mixtures and real-world biological samples. Reanalyzing a mock mixture from the Human Microbiome Project achieved about two-fold improvement in resolution when combing two independent regions. Using a custom set of six primer pairs spanning about 1200bp (80%) of the 16S rRNA gene we were able to achieve ~100 fold improvement in resolution compared to a single region, over a mock mixture of common human gut bacterial isolates. Finally, profiling of a Drosophila melanogaster microbiome using the set of six primer pairs provided a ~100 fold increase in resolution, and thus enabling efficient downstream analysis.  Conclusions: SMURF enables identification of near full-length 16S rRNA gene sequences in microbial communities, having resolution superior compared to current techniques. It may be applied to standard sample preparation protocols with very little modifications. SMURF also paves the way to high-resolution profiling of low-biomass and fragmented DNA, e.g., in the case of Formalin-fixed and Paraffin-embedded samples, fossil-derived DNA or DNA exposed to other degrading conditions. The approach is not restricted to combining amplicons of the 16S rRNA gene and may be applied to any set of amplicons, e.g., in Multilocus Sequence Typing (MLST).', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146738', [], [u'Weizmann Institute of Science;', u'University of California San Diego;', u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'University of California San Francisco;', u'The Open University Of Israel']]
[u'Mcm10 functions to isomerize CMG-DNA for replisome bypass of DNA blocks', ['Lance D. Langston', 'Ryan Mayle', 'Grant D. Schauer', 'Olga Yurieva', 'Dan Zhang', 'Nina Y. Yao', 'Roxana E. Georgescu', "Mike E. O'Donnell"], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Replicative helicases of all cell types are rings that unwind DNA by steric exclusion in which the helicase ring only encircles the tracking strand, excluding the other strand outside the ring. Steric exclusion mediated unwinding enables helicase rings to bypass blocks on the strand that is excluded from the central channel. Unlike other replicative helicases, eukaryotic CMG encircles duplex DNA at a forked junction and is stopped by a block on the non-tracking (lagging) strand. This report demonstrates that Mcm10, an essential replication protein unique to eukaryotes, binds CMG and enables the replisome to bypass blocks on the non-tracking strand, implying that Mcm10 isomerizes the CMG-DNA complex to position only one strand through the central channel. A similar CMG-DNA isomerization is needed at the origin for head-to-head CMGs to bypass one another during formation of bidirectional replication forks.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146837', [], [u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Rockefeller University']]
[u'The ash dieback invasion of Europe was founded by two individuals from a native population with huge adaptive potential', ['Mark McMullan', 'Maryam Rafiqi', 'Gemy Kaithakottil', 'Bernardo J. Clavijo', 'Lorelei Bilham', 'Elizabeth Orton', 'Lawrence Percival-Alwyn', 'Ben J. Ward', 'Anne Edwards', 'Diane G. O. Saunders', 'Gonzalo Garcia', 'Jon Wright', 'Walter Verweij', 'Georgios Koutsovoulos', 'Kentaro Yoshida', 'Tsuyoshi Hosoya', 'Louisa Williamson', 'Philip Jennings', 'Renaud Ioos', 'Claude Husson', 'Ari M. Hietala', 'Adam Vivian-Smith', 'Halvor Solheim', 'Dan MacLean', 'Christine Fosker', 'Neil Hall', 'James K. M. Brown', 'David Swarbreck', 'Mark Blaxter', 'Allan Downie', 'Matthew D. Clark'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Accelerating international trade and climate change make pathogen spread an increasing concern. Hymenoscyphus fraxineus, the causal agent of ash dieback is one such pathogen, moving across continents and hosts from Asian to European ash. Most European common ash (Fraxinus excelsior) trees are highly susceptible to H. fraxineus although a small minority (~5%) evidently have partial resistance to dieback. We have assembled and annotated a draft of the H. fraxineus genome which approaches chromosome scale. Pathogen genetic diversity across Europe, and in Japan, reveals a tight bottleneck into Europe, though a signal of adaptive diversity remains in key host interaction genes (effectors). We find that the European population was founded by two divergent haploid individuals. Divergence between these haplotypes represents the shadow of a large source population and subsequent introduction would greatly increase adaptive potential and the pathogens threat. Thus, EU wide biological security measures remain an important part of the strategy to manage this disease.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146746', [], [u'Earlham Institute;', u'Royal Botanic Gardens;', u'John Innes Centre;', u'University of Edinburgh;', u'Kobe University;', u'National Museum of Nature and Science;', u'Fera Science Limited;', u'ANSES Laboratoire de la Sante des Vegetaux;', u'Universite de Lorraine;', u'Norwegian Institute of Bioeconomy Research;', u'The Sainsbury Laboratory']]
[u'Genetic contribution to two factors of neuroticism is associated with affluence, better health, and longer life', ['William David Hill', 'Alexander Weiss', 'Andrew M. McIntosh', 'Catharine R. Gale', 'Ian J. Deary'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Neuroticism is a personality trait that describes the tendency to experience negative emotions. Individual differences in neuroticism are moderately stable across much of the life course; the trait is heritable, and higher levels are associated with psychiatric disorders, and have been estimated to have an economic burden to society greater than that of substance abuse, mood, or anxiety disorders. Understanding the genetic architecture of neuroticism therefore has the potential to offer insight into the causes of psychiatric disorders, general wellbeing, and longevity. The broad trait of neuroticism is composed of narrower traits, or factors. It was recently discovered that, whereas higher scores on the broad trait of neuroticism are associated with earlier death, higher scores on a worry/vulnerability factor are associated with living longer. Here, we examine the genetic architectures of two neuroticism factors, worry/vulnerability and anxiety/tension, and how they contrast with the architecture of the general factor of neuroticism. We show that, whereas the polygenic load for general factor of neuroticism is associated with an increased risk of coronary artery disease (CAD), major depressive disorder, and poorer self-rated health, the genetic variants associated with high levels of the anxiety/tension and worry/vulnerability factors are associated with affluence, higher cognitive ability, better self-rated health, and longer life. We also identify the first genes associated with factors of neuroticism that are linked with these positive outcomes that show no relationship with the general factor of neuroticism.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146787', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Edinbrugh']]
[u'Simultaneous GCaMP6-based Fiber Photometry and fMRI in Rats', ['Zhifeng Liang', 'Yuncong Ma', 'Glenn D. R. Watson', 'Nanyin Zhang'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Understanding the relationship between neural and vascular signals is essential for interpretation of functional MRI (fMRI) results with respect to underlying neuronal activity. Simultaneously measuring neural activity using electrophysiology with fMRI has been highly valuable in elucidating the neural basis of the blood oxygenation-level dependent (BOLD) signal. However, this approach is also technically challenging due to the electromagnetic interference that is observed in electrophysiological recordings during MRI scanning. Recording optical correlates of neural activity, such as calcium signals, avoids this issue, and has opened a new avenue to simultaneously acquire neural and BOLD signals. The present study is the first to demonstrate the feasibility of simultaneously and repeatedly acquiring calcium and BOLD signals in animals using a genetically encoded calcium indicator, GCaMP6. This approach was validated with a visual stimulation experiment, during which robust increases of both calcium and BOLD signals in the superior colliculus were observed. In addition, repeated measurement in the same animal demonstrated reproducible calcium and BOLD responses to the same stimuli. Taken together, simultaneous GCaMP6-based fiber photometry and fMRI recording presents a novel, artifact-free approach to simultaneously measuring neural and fMRI signals. Furthermore, given the cell-type specificity of GCaMP6, this approach has the potential to mechanistically dissect the contributions of individual neuron populations with respect to BOLD signal, and ultimately reveal its underlying neural mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146779', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Non-classical estrogen signaling inhibits melanoma and improves response to PD-1 blockade', ['Christopher A. Natale', 'Jinyang Li', 'Junqian Zhang', 'Ankit Dahal', 'Ben Z. Stanger', 'Todd W. Ridky'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Female sex and pregnancy are associated with reduced risk of melanoma and improved stage specific survival; however, the mechanism underlying this apparent clinical benefit is unknown. We previously discovered that pregnancy-associated 17\u03b2-estradiol drives melanocyte differentiation by activating the nonclassical G-protein coupled estrogen receptor (GPER). Here, we show that pregnancy inhibits melanoma, and that transient GPER activation induces long-term changes in melanocytes, which are associated with increased cellular differentiation and resistance to melanoma. A selective GPER agonist induced c-Myc protein degradation, slowed tumor growth, and inhibited expression of immune suppressive proteins including PD-L1, suggesting that GPER signaling may render melanoma cells more vulnerable to immunotherapy. Systemically delivered GPER agonist was well tolerated, and cooperated synergistically with PD-1 blockade in melanoma-bearing mice to dramatically extend survival. These results thus define GPER as a target for differentiation-based melanoma therapy.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146498', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Epigenetic resetting of human pluripotency', ['Ge Guo', 'Ferdinand von Meyenn', 'Maria Rostovskaya', 'James Clarke', 'Sabine Dietmann', 'Duncan Baker', 'Anna Sahakyan', 'Samuel Myers', 'Paul Bertone', 'Wolf Reik', 'Kathrin Plath', 'Austin Smith'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Much attention has focussed on conversion of human pluripotent stem cells (PSC) to a more naive developmental status. Here we provide a method for resetting via transient histone deacetylase inhibition. The protocol is effective across multiple PSC lines and can proceed without karyotype change. Reset cells can be expanded without feeders with a doubling time of around 24 hours. Tankyrase inhibition stabilises the resetting process. The transcriptome of reset cells diverges markedly from primed PSC and shares features with human inner cell mass (ICM). Reset cells activate expression of primate-specific transposable elements. DNA methylation is globally reduced to the level in the ICM but is non-random, with gain of methylation at specific loci. Methylation imprints are mostly lost, however. Reset cells can be re-primed to undergo tri-lineage differentiation and germline specification. In female reset cells, appearance of bi-allelic X-linked gene transcription indicates re-activation of the silenced X chromosome. On re-conversion to primed status, XIST-induced silencing restores monoallelic gene expression. The facile and robust conversion routine with accompanying data resources will enable widespread utilisation, interrogation, and refinement of candidate naive cells.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146712', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'The Wellcome Trust MRC Stem Cell Institute;', u'Babraham Institute;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'The consequences of polyandry for sibship structures, distributions of relationships and relatedness, and potential for inbreeding in a wild population', ['Ryan R. Germain', 'Peter Arcese', 'Jane M. Reid'], u'June 6, 2017.', u"The evolutionary benefits of simultaneous polyandry, defined as female multiple mating within a single reproductive event, remain elusive. One potential benefit could arise if polyandry alters sibship structures and consequent relationships and relatedness among females' descendants, and thereby intrinsically reduces future inbreeding risk (the \u2018indirect inbreeding avoidance hypothesis\u2019). However such effects have not been quantified in naturally complex reproductive systems that also encompass iteroparity, overlapping generations, sequential polyandry, and polygyny. We used long-term social and genetic pedigree data from song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) to quantify cross-generational consequences of simultaneous polyandry for offspring sibship structures and distributions of relationships and relatedness among possible mates. Simultaneous polyandry decreased full-sibships and increased half-sibships on average, but such effects varied among females and were smaller than would occur in the absence of sequential polyandry or polygyny. Further, while simultaneous polyandry decreased the overall frequencies of possible matings among close relatives, it increased the frequencies of possible matings among distant relatives. These results imply that the intrinsic consequences of simultaneous polyandry for inbreeding risk could cause weak indirect selection on polyandry, but the magnitude and direction of such effects will depend on complex interactions with other mating system components and the form of inbreeding depression.", u'/content/early/2017/06/06/145987', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Aberdeen;', u'University of British Columbia']]
