[u'High-throughput annotation of full-length long noncoding RNAs with Capture Long-Read Sequencing (CLS)', ['Julien Lagarde', 'Barbara Uszczynska-Ratajczak', 'Silvia Carbonell', 'Carrie Davis', 'Thomas R Gingeras', 'Adam Frankish', 'Jennifer Harrow', 'Roderic Guigo', 'Rory Johnson'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Accurate annotations of genes and their transcripts is a foundation of genomics, but no annotation technique presently combines throughput and accuracy. As a result, current reference gene collections remain far from complete: many genes models are fragmentary, while thousands more remain uncatalogued, particularly for long non coding RNAs (lncRNAs). To accelerate lncRNA annotation, the GENCODE consortium has developed RNA Capture Long Seq (CLS), combining targeted RNA capture with third generation long-read sequencing. We present an experimental re-annotation of the entire GENCODE intergenic lncRNA population in matched human and mouse tissues. CLS approximately doubles the annotated complexity of targeted loci, in terms of validated splice junctions and transcript models. The full-length transcript models produced by CLS enable us to definitively characterize the genomic features of lncRNAs, including promoter- and gene-structure, and protein-coding potential. Thus CLS removes a longstanding bottleneck of transcriptome annotation, generating manual-quality full-length transcript models at high-throughput scales.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/105064', [], [u'Center for Genomic Regulation, Spain;', u'qGenomics, Spain;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, USA;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK']]
[u'Effects of Historical Coinfection on Host Shift Abilities of Exploitative and Competitive Viruses', ['Sonia Singhal', 'Paul Turner'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Rapid evolution contributes to frequent emergence of RNA viral pathogens on novel hosts. However, accurately predicting which viral genotypes will emerge has been elusive. Prior work with lytic RNA bacteriophage \u03c66 (family Cystoviridae) suggested that evolution under low multiplicity of infection (MOI; proportion of viruses to susceptible cells) selected for greater host exploitation, while evolution under high MOI selected for better intracellular competition against co-infecting viruses. We predicted that phage genotypes that experienced 300 generations of low MOI ecological history would be relatively advantaged in growth on two novel hosts. We inferred viral growth through changes in host population density, specifically by analyzing five attributes of growth curves of infected bacteria. Despite equivalent growth of evolved viruses on the original host, low MOI evolved clones were generally advantaged relative to high MOI clones in exploiting novel hosts. We also observed genotype-specific differences in clone infectivity: High fitness genotypes on the original host also performed better on novel hosts. Our results indicated that traits allowing greater exploitation of the original host correlated positively with performance on novel hosts. Based on infectivity differences of viruses from high versus low MOI histories, we suggest that prior MOI selection can later affect emergence potential.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/105114', [], [u'University of Washington, Seattle;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Cerebellar volume in autism: Meta-analysis and analysis of the ABIDE cohort', ['Nicolas Traut', 'Anita Beggiato', 'Thomas Bourgeron', 'Richard Delorme', 'Laure Rondi-Reig', 'Anne-Lise Paradis', 'Roberto Toro'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Cerebellar volume abnormalities have been often suggested as a possible endophenotype for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). We aimed at objectifying this possible alteration by performing a systematic meta-analysis of the literature, and an analysis of the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE) cohort. Our meta-analysis sought to determine a combined effect size of ASD diagnosis on different measures of the cerebellar anatomy, as well as the effect of possible factors of variability across studies. We then analysed the cerebellar volume of 328 patients and 353 controls from the ABIDE project. The meta-analysis of the literature suggested a weak but significant association between ASD diagnosis and increased cerebellar volume (p=0.049, uncorrected), but the analysis of ABIDE did not show any relationship. The studies in the literature were generally underpowered, however, the number of statistically significant findings was larger than expected. Although we could not provide a conclusive explanation for this excess of significant findings, our analyses would suggest publication bias as a possible reason. Finally, age, sex and IQ were important sources of cerebellar volume variability, however, independent of autism diagnosis.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104984', [], [u'Institut Pasteur;', u'H\xf4pital Robert Debr\xe9;', u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s']]
[u'Bayesian analysis of genetic association across tree-structured routine healthcare data in the UK Biobank', ['Adrian Cortes', 'Calliope Dendrou', 'Allan Motyer', 'Luke Jostins', 'Damjan Vukcevic', 'Alexander Dilthey', 'Peter Donnelly', 'Stephen Leslie', 'Lars Fugger', 'Gil McVean'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Genetic discovery from the multitude of phenotypes extractable from routine healthcare data has the ability to radically transform our understanding of the human phenome, thereby accelerating progress towards precision medicine. However, a critical question when analysing high-dimensional and heterogeneous data is how to interrogate increasingly specific subphenotypes whilst retaining statistical power to detect genetic associations. Here we develop and employ a novel Bayesian analysis framework that exploits the hierarchical structure of diagnosis classifications to jointly analyse genetic variants against UK Biobank healthcare phenotypes. Our method displays a more than 20% increase in power to detect genetic effects over other approaches, such that we uncover the broader burden of genetic variation: we identify associations with over 2,000 diagnostic terms. We find novel associations with common immune-mediated diseases (IMD), we reveal the extent of genetic sharing between specific IMDs, and we expose differences in disease perception or diagnosis with potential clinical implications.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/105122', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford;', u'Oxford Centre for Neuroinflammation, University of Oxford;', u'Centre for Systems Genomics, University of Melbourne']]
[u'Compaction of Duplex Nucleic Acids upon Native Electrospray Mass Spectrometry', ['Massimiliano Porrini', 'Frederic Rosu', 'Clemence Rabin', 'Leonardo Darre', 'Hansel Gomez', 'Modesto Orozco', 'Valerie Gabelica'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Native mass spectrometry coupled to ion mobility spectrometry is a promising tool for structural biology. Intact complexes can be transferred to the mass spectrometer and, if native conformations survive, collision cross sections give precious information on the structure of each species in solution. Based on several successful reports for proteins and their complexes, the conformation survival becomes more and more taken for granted. Here we report on the fate of nucleic acids conformation in the gas phase. Disturbingly, we found that DNA and RNA duplexes, at the electrospray charge states naturally obtained from native solution conditions (\u2265 100 mM aqueous NH4OAc), are significantly more compact in the gas phase compared to the canonical solution structures. The compaction is observed for short (12-bp) and long (36-bp) duplexes, and for DNA and RNA alike. Molecular modeling (density functional calculations on small helices, semi-empirical calculations on up to 12-bp, and molecular dynamics on up to 36-bp duplexes) demonstrates that the compaction is due to phosphate group self-solvation prevailing over Coulomb-driven expansion. Molecular dynamics simulations starting from solution structures do not reproduce the experimental compaction. To be experimentally relevant, molecular dynamics sampling should reflect the progressive structural rearrangements occurring during desolvation. For nucleic acid duplexes, the compaction observed for low charge states results from novel phosphate-phosphate hydrogen bonds formed across both grooves at the very late stages of electrospray.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/105049', [], [u'Inserm;', u'CNRS;', u'Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB) Barcelona']]
[u'Insights into the genetic determinism and evolution of recombination rates from combining multiple genome-wide datasets in Sheep', ['Morgane Petit', 'Jean-Michel Astruc', 'Julien Sarry', 'Laurence Drouilhet', 'Stephane Fabre', 'Carole Moreno', 'Bertrand Servin'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Recombination is a complex biological process that results from a cascade of multiple events during\nmeiosis. Understanding the genetic determinism of recombination can help to understand if and\nhow these events are interacting. To tackle this question, we studied the patterns of recombination\nin sheep, using multiple approaches and datasets. We constructed genetic maps in the Lacaune\nbreed at a fine scale by combining meiotic recombination rates from a large pedigree genotyped\nwith a 50K SNP array and historical recombination rates from a sample of unrelated individuals\ngenotyped with a 600K SNP array. This analysis revealed recombination patterns in sheep similar\nto other mammals but also genome regions that have likely been affected by directional and\ndiversifying selection. We estimated the average recombination rate of Lacaune sheep at 1.5\ncM/Mb, identified about 50,000 crossover hotspots on the genome and found a high correlation\nbetween population- and pedigree-based recombination rate estimates. A genome-wide association\nstudy revealed three major loci affecting inter-individual variation in recombination rate, including\nthe RNF212, HEI10 and KCNJ15 genes. Finally, we compared our results to those obtained\npreviously in a distantly related population of domestic sheep, the Soay. This comparison revealed\non one hand that Soay and Lacaune sheep have similar genetic determinant of total recombination\nrate while confirming that Soay sheep have experienced strong selection greatly increasing their\nrecombination rate. Taken together these observations highlight that multiple genetically\nindependent pathways affect recombination rate.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104976', [], [u'INRA GenPhySE;', u"Institut de l'Elevage"]]
[u'SkinnerTrax: high-throughput behavior-dependent optogenetic stimulation of Drosophila', ['Ulrich Stern', 'Chung-Hui Yang'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'While red-shifted channelrhodopsin has been shown to be highly effective in activating CNS neurons in freely moving Drosophila, there were no existing high-throughput tools for closed-loop, behavior-dependent optogenetic stimulation of Drosophila.  Here, we present SkinnerTrax to fill this void.  SkinnerTrax stimulates individual flies promptly in response to their being at specific positions or performing specific actions.  Importantly, SkinnerTrax was designed for and achieves significant throughput with simple and inexpensive components.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/080614', [], [u'Independent Researcher;', u'Dept. of Neurobiology, Duke University']]
[u'Genome-wide detection of structural variants and indels by local assembly', ['Jeremiah Wala', 'Pratiti Bandopadhayay', 'Noah Greenwald', "Ryan O'Rourke", 'Ted Sharpe', 'Chip Stewart', 'Steven E Schumacher', 'Yilong Li', 'Joachim Weischenfeldt', 'Xiaotong Yao', 'Chad Nusbaum', 'Peter Campbell', 'Matthew Meyerson', 'Cheng-Zhong Zhang', 'Marcin Imielinski', 'Rameen Beroukhim'], u'February 1, 2017.', u"Structural variants (SVs), including small insertion and deletion variants (indels), are challenging to detect through standard alignment-based variant calling methods. Sequence assembly offers a powerful approach to identifying SVs, but is difficult to apply at-scale genome-wide for SV detection due to its computational complexity and the difficulty of extracting SVs from assembly contigs. We describe SvABA, an efficient and accurate method for detecting SVs from short-read sequencing data using genome-wide local assembly with low memory and computing requirements. We evaluated SvABA's performance on the NA12878 human genome and in simulated and real cancer genomes. SvABA demonstrates superior sensitivity and specificity across a large spectrum of SVs, and substantially improved detection performance for variants in the 20-300 bp range, compared with existing methods. SvABA also identifies complex somatic rearrangements with chains of short (< 1,000 bp) templated-sequence insertions copied from distant genomic regions. We applied SvABA to 344 cancer genomes from 11 cancer types, and found that templated-sequence insertions occur in ~4% of all somatic rearrangements. Finally, we demonstrate that SvABA can identify sites of viral integration and cancer driver alterations containing medium-sized SVs.", u'/content/early/2017/02/01/105080', [], [u'Broad Institute;', u'Dana Farber Cancer Institute;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'University of Cambridge;', u'Rigshospitalet;', u'Cornell University;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'NY Genome Center']]
[u'Partitioning the effects of eco-evolutionary feedbacks on community stability', ['Swati Patel', 'Michael H Cortez', 'Sebastian J Schreiber'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'A fundamental challenge in ecology continues to be identifying mechanisms that stabilize community dynamics. In recent years, there has been growing empirical evidence highlighting that eco-evolutionary feedbacks can dramatically impact community-level properties, including stability.  Moreover, there is evidence that evolution happens at rates ranging from slower than to commensurate to ecological rates, and this affects the impact of feedbacks. Theoretical work to mechanistically understand how eco-evolutionary feedbacks impact stability has focused on specific ecological modules with just one or two evolving species.  Here, we provide a general framework for determining the effects of eco-evolutionary feedbacks on stability in communities with an arbitrary number of interacting species and evolving traits for when evolution is slow and fast.  We characterize  how these feedbacks lead to stable communities that would be unstable in the absence of the feedbacks, and vice versa. In addition, we show how this characterization provides a partitioning of the roles of direct and indirect feedbacks between ecological and evolutionary processes on community stability, and how this partitioning depends on the rate of evolution relative to ecology. Applying our methods to models of competing species and food chains, we demonstrate how the functional form of trade-offs, genetic correlations between traits, and the rate of evolution determine whether eco-evolutionary feedbacks stabilize or destabilize community dynamics.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104505', [], [u'University of California Davis;', u'Utah State University']]
[u'Antibiotic resistance genes in agriculture and urban influenced watersheds in southwestern British Columbia', ['Miguel Ignacio Uyaguari', 'Matthew A Croxen', 'Zhiyao Luo', 'Kirby Cronin', 'Michael Chan', 'Waren N Baticados', 'Matthew J Nesbitt', 'Shaorong Li', 'Kristi Miller', 'Damion Dooley', 'William Hsiao', 'Judith L Isaac-Renton', 'Patrick Tang', 'Natalie Prystajecky'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Background:\nThe dissemination of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) from anthropogenic activities into the environment poses an emerging public health threat. Water constitutes a major vehicle for transport of both biological material and chemical substances. The present study focused on putative antibiotic resistance and integrase genes present in the microbiome of agricultural, urban influenced and protected watersheds in southwestern British Columbia, Canada. A metagenomics approach and high throughput quantitative PCR (HT qPCR) were used to screen for elements of resistance including ARGs and integron-associated integrase genes (intI). Sequencing of bacterial genomic DNA was used to characterize the resistome of microbial communities present in watersheds over a one-year period.\nResults:\nData mining using CARD and Integrall databases enabled the identification of putative antibiotic resistance genes present in watershed samples. Antibiotic resistance genes presence in samples from various watershed locations was low relative to the microbial population (<1 %). Analysis of the metagenomic sequences detected a total of 78 ARGs and intI1 across all watershed locations. The relative abundance and richness of antibiotic resistance genes was found to be highest in agriculture impacted watersheds compared to protected and urban watersheds. Gene copy numbers (GCNs) from a subset of 21 different elements of antibiotic resistance were further estimated using HT qPCR. Most GCNs of ARGs were found to be variable over time. A downstream transport pattern was observed in the impacted watersheds (urban and agricultural) during dry months. Urban and agriculture impacted sites had a higher GCNs of ARGs compared to protected sites. Similar to other reports, this study found a strong association between intI1 and ARGs (e.g., sul1), an association which may be used as a proxy for anthropogenic activities. Chemical analysis of water samples for three major groups of antibiotics was negative. However, the high richness and GCNs of ARGs in impacted sites suggest effects of effluents on microbial communities are occurring even at low concentrations of antimicrobials in the water column.  \nConclusion:\nAntibiotic resistance and integrase genes in a year-long metagenomic study showed that ARGs were driven mainly by environmental factors from anthropogenized sites in agriculture and urban watersheds. Environmental factors accounted for almost 40% of the variability observed in watershed locations.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104851', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, The University of British Columbia;', u'British Columbia Centre for Disease Control Public Health Laboratory;', u'Public Health Ontario Laboratories;', u'Coastal Genomics;', u'Pacific Biological Station;', u'Department of Pathology, Sidra Medical and Research Center']]
[u'propr: An R-package for Identifying Proportionally Abundant Features Using Compositional Data Analysis', ['Thomas Quinn', 'Mark F Richardson', 'David Lovell', 'Tamsyn Crowley'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'In the life sciences, many assays measure only the relative abundances of components for each sample. These data, called compositional data, require special handling in order to avoid misleading conclusions. For example, in the case of correlation, treating relative data like absolute data can lead to the discovery of falsely positive associations. Recently, researchers have proposed proportionality as a valid alternative to correlation for calculating pairwise association in relative data. Although the question of how to best measure proportionality remains open, we present here a computationally efficient R package that implements two proposed measures of proportionality. In an effort to advance the understanding and application of proportionality analysis, we review the mathematics behind proportionality, demonstrate its application to genomic data, and discuss some ongoing challenges in the analysis of relative abundance data.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104935', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Bioinformatics Core Research Group, Deakin University, Geelong, Victoria, Australia;', u'Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia']]
[u'CRISPR-Cas9 targeted disruption of the yellow ortholog in the housefly identifies the brown body locus', ['Svenia D Heinze', 'Tea Kohlbrenner', 'Domenica Ippolito', 'Angela Meccariello', 'Alexa Burger', 'Christian Mosimann', 'Giuseppe Saccone', 'Daniel Bopp'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'The classic brown body (bwb) mutation in the housefly Musca domestica impairs normal melanization of the adult cuticle. In Drosophila melanogaster, a reminiscent pigmentation defect results from mutations in the yellow gene encoding dopachrome conversion enzyme (DCE). Here, we demonstrate that the bwb locus structurally and functionally represents the yellow ortholog of Musca domestica, MdY. In bwb Musca strains, we identified two mutant MdY alleles that contain lesions predicted to result in premature truncation of the MdY open reading frame. We targeted wildtype MdY by CRISPR-Cas9 RNPs and generated new mutant alleles that fail to complement existing MdY alleles, genetically confirming that MdY is the bwb locus. We further found evidence for Cas9-mediated interchromosomal recombination between wildtype and mutant bwb alleles. Our work resolves the molecular identity of the classic bwb mutation in Musca domestica and establishes the feasibility of Cas9-mediated genome editing in the Musca model.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/105023', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University of Fribourg;', u'University of Naples Federico II']]
[u'Conserved properties of Drosophila Insomniac link sleep regulation and synaptic function', ['Qiuling Li', 'David A Kellner', 'Hayden A M Hatch', 'Tomohiro Yumita', 'Sandrine Sanchez', 'Robert P Machold', 'C Andrew Frank', 'Nicholas Stavropoulos'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Sleep is an ancient animal behavior that is regulated similarly in species ranging from flies to mammals. Various genes that regulate sleep have been identified in invertebrates, but whether the functions of these genes are conserved in mammals remains poorly explored. Drosophila insomniac (inc) mutants exhibit severely shortened and fragmented sleep. Inc protein physically associates with the Cullin-3 (Cul3) ubiquitin ligase, and neuronal depletion of Inc or Cul3 strongly curtails sleep, suggesting that Inc is a Cul3 adaptor that directs the ubiquitination of neuronal substrates that regulate sleep. Three proteins similar to Inc exist in vertebrates - KCTD2, KCTD5, and KCTD17 - but are uncharacterized within the nervous system and their functional conservation with Inc has not been addressed. Here we show that Inc and its mouse orthologs exhibit striking biochemical and functional interchangeability within Cul3 complexes. Remarkably, KCTD2 and KCTD5 restore sleep to inc mutants, indicating that they can substitute for Inc in vivo and engage its neuronal targets that impact sleep. Inc and its orthologs traffic similarly within fly and mammalian neurons and are present at synapses, suggesting that their substrates include synaptic proteins. Consistent with such a mechanism, inc mutants exhibit defects in synaptic structure and physiology, indicating that Inc is vital for both synaptic function and sleep. Our findings reveal that molecular functions of Inc are conserved through ~600 million years of evolution and support the hypothesis that Inc and its orthologs participate in an evolutionarily conserved ubiquitination pathway that links synaptic function and sleep regulation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104893', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University School of Medicine;', u'University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine']]
[u'Polysome-profiling in small tissue samples', ['Shuo Liang', 'Hermano Bellato', 'Julie Lorent', 'Fernanda Lupinacci', 'Vincent Van Hoef', 'Laia Masvidal', 'Glaucia Hajj', 'Ola Larsson'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Polysome-profiling is commonly used to study genome wide patterns of translational efficiency, i.e. the translatome. The standard approach for collecting efficiently translated polysome-associated RNA results in laborious extraction of RNA from a large volume spread across multiple fractions. This property makes polysome-profiling inconvenient for larger experimental designs or samples with low RNA amounts such as primary cells or frozen tissues. To address this we optimized a non-linear sucrose gradient which reproducibly enriches for mRNAs associated with >3 ribosomes in only one or two fractions, thereby reducing sample handling 5-10 fold. The technique can be applied to cells and frozen tissue samples from biobanks, and generates RNA with a quality reflecting the starting material. When coupled with smart-seq2, a single-cell RNA sequencing technique, translatomes from small tissue samples can be obtained. Translatomes acquired using optimized non-linear gradients are very similar to those obtained when applying linear gradients. Polysome-profiling using optimized non-linear gradients in HCT-116 cells with or without p53 identified a translatome associated with p53 status under serum starvation. Thus, here we present a polysome-profiling technique applicable to larger studies, primary cells where RNA amount is low and frozen tissue samples.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104596', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Karolinska Institutet;', u'A.C. Camargo Cancer Center']]
[u'Rapid Automated Large Structural Variation Detection in a Diploid Genome by NanoChannel Based Next-Generation Mapping', ['Alex R Hastie', 'Ernest T Lam', 'Andy Wing Chun Pang', 'Luna Xinyue Zhang', 'Warren Andrews', 'Joyce Lee', 'Tiffany Y Liang', 'Jian Wang', 'Xiang Zhou', 'Zhanyang Zhu', 'Thomas Anantharaman', 'Zeljko Zdzakula', 'Sven Bocklandt', 'Urvashi Surti', 'Michael Saghbini', 'Mike Austin', 'Mark Borodkin', 'R. Erik Holmlin', 'Han Cao'], u'February 1, 2017.', u"The human genome is diploid with one haploid genome inherited from the maternal and one from the paternal lineage. Within each haploid genome, large structural variants such as deletions, duplications, inversions, and translocations are extensively present and many are known to affect biological functions and cause disease. The ultimate goal is to resolve these large complex structural variants (SVs) and place them in the correct haploid genome with correct location, orientation, and copy number. Current methods such as karyotyping, chromosomal microarray (CMA), PCR-based tests, and next-generation sequencing fail to reach this goal either due to limited resolution, low throughput, or short read length. \n\nBionano Genomics' next-generation mapping (NGM) offers a high-throughput, genome-wide method able to detect SVs of one kilobase pairs (kbp) and up. By imaging extremely long genomic molecules of up to megabases in size, the structure and copy number of complex regions of the genome including interspersed and long tandem repeats can be elucidated in their native form without inference. \n\nHere we tested Bionano's SV high sensitivity discovery algorithm, Bionano Solve 3.0, on in silico generated diploid genomes with artificially incorporated SVs based on the reference genome, hg19, achieving over 90% overall detection sensitivity for heterozygous SVs larger than 1 kbp. Next, in order to benchmark large SV detection sensitivity and accuracy on real biological data, we used Bionano NGM to map two naturally occurring hydatidiform mole cell lines, CHM1 and CHM13, each containing a different duplicated haploid genome. By de novo assembling each of two mole's genome separately followed by assembling a mixture of CHM1 and CHM13 data, we were able to call 2156 unique SVs (> 1.5 kbp) in each haploid mole and a simulated diploid. By comparing the simulated diploid SV calls against the SV calls in each single haploid mole assembly we established 87.4% sensitivity for detection of heterozygous SVs and 99.2% sensitivity for homozygous SVs. In comparison, a recent SV study on the same CHM1/CHM13 samples using long read NGS alone showed 54% sensitivity for detection of heterozygous SVs and 77.9% for homozygous SVs larger than 1.5 kbp. We also compared an SV call set of the diploid cell line NA12878 with the results of an earlier mapping study (Mak AC, 2016) and found concordance with 89% of the detected SVs found in the previous study and, in addition, 2599 novel SVs were detected. Finally, two pathogenic SVs were found in cell lines from individuals with developmental disorders. De novo comprehensive SV discovery by Bionano NGM is shown to be a fast, inexpensive and robust method, now with an automated informatics workflow.", u'/content/early/2017/02/01/102764', [u'Genomics'], [u'Bionano Genomics;', u'University of Pittsburg;', u'Bionanogenomics.com;', u'Bionanogenomics']]
[u'BMP signaling orchestrates a transcriptional network to control the fate of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs)', ['Jifan Feng', 'Junjun Jing', 'Jingyuan Li', 'Hu Zhao', 'Vasu Punj', 'Tingwei Zhang', 'Jian Xu', 'Yang Chai'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Signaling pathways are used reiteratively in different developmental processes yet produce distinct cell fates through activating specific downstream transcription factors. In this study, we used tooth root development as a model to investigate how the BMP signaling pathway regulates specific downstream transcriptional complexes to direct the fate determination of multipotent mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). We first identified the MSC population supporting mouse molar root growth as Gli1+ cells. Using a Gli1-mediated transgenic animal model, our results provide the first in vivo evidence that BMP signaling activity is required for the odontogenic differentiation of MSCs. Specifically, we identified transcription factors that are downstream of BMP signaling and are expressed in a spatially restricted pattern consistent with their potential involvement in determining distinct cellular identities within the dental mesenchyme. Finally, we found that overactivation of one key transcription factor, Klf4, associated with the odontogenic region, promotes odontogenic differentiation of MSCs. Collectively, our results demonstrate the functional significance of BMP signaling in regulating the fate of MSCs during root development and shed light on how BMP signaling can achieve functional specificity in regulating diverse organ development.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104927', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Southern California']]
[u'Morphogen signalling patterns calcium waves in the Drosophila wing disc', ['Qinfeng Wu', 'Pavel Brodskiy', 'Cody Narciso', 'Megan Levis', 'Ninfamaria Arredondo-Walsh', 'Jeremiah James Zartman'], u'February 1, 2017.', u'Intercellular Ca2+ waves (ICWs) are multicellular, coordinated oscillations of Ca2+ that transverse tissues and are functionally implicated in development, regeneration, and diseases such as cancer. However, the extent that spontaneous ICWs are a regulated phenomenon controlled by cell-cell communication networks is unclear. Here we report that ICWs exhibit spatiotemporal patterns at the organ-level using a new image analysis algorithm to quantify ICW dynamics. ICWs in the Drosophila wing disc require a specific phospholipase C, Plc21C. Further, we demonstrate that the morphogen signalling pathway, Hedgehog, modulates ICW frequency uniformly in the tissue through two distinct routes and is required for non-uniform spatial patterning of ICW amplitudes. Thus, the dynamics of spontaneous ICWs are regulated by morphogenetic signalling through two orthogonal mechanisms - frequency and amplitude - and provide an organ-scale communication system for the developing wing disc.', u'/content/early/2017/02/01/104745', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Notre Dame']]
