[u'Epidemiological and ecological determinants of Zika virus transmission in an urban setting.', ['Jose Lourenco', 'Maricela Maia de Lima', 'Nuno Rodrigues Faria', 'Andrew Walker', 'Mortiz UG Kraemer', 'Christian J Villabona-Arenas', 'Ben Lambert', 'Erenilde Marques de Cerqueira', 'Oliver G Pybus', 'Luiz CJ Alcantara', 'Mario Recker'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Zika has emerged as a global public health concern. Although its rapid geographic expansion can be attributed to the success of its Aedes mosquito vectors, local epidemiological drivers are still poorly understood. The city of Feira de Santana played a pivotal role in the early\nphases of the Chikungunya and Zika epidemics in Brazil. Here, using a climate-driven transmission model, we show that low Zika observation rates and a high vectorial capacity in this region were responsible for a high attack rate during the 2015 outbreak and the subsequent decline in cases in 2016, when the epidemic was peaking in the rest of the country. Our projections indicate that the balance between the loss of herd-immunity and the frequency of viral re-importation will dictate the transmission potential of Zika in this region in the near future. Sporadic outbreaks are expected but unlikely to be detected under current surveillance systems.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101972', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3PS, UK;', u'FIOCRUZ, Laboratory of Haematology, Genetics and Computational Biology, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil;', u'Institut de Recherche pour le Developpement (IRD), Universite de Montpellier, Montpellier, France;', u'Centre for Mathematics and the Environment, University of Exeter, Penryn Campus, Penryn TR10 9FE, UK']]
[u'The high burden of dengue and chikungunya in southern coastal Ecuador: Epidemiology, clinical presentation, and phylogenetics from a prospective study in Machala in 2014 and 2015', ['Anna M. Stewart-Ibarra', 'Aileen Kenneson', 'Christine A King', 'Mark Abbott', 'Arturo Barbachano-Guerrero', 'Efrain Beltran-Ayala', 'Mercy J. Borbor-Cordova', 'Washington B. Cardenas', 'Cinthya Cueva', 'Julia L. Finkelstein', 'Christina D. Lupone', 'Richard G. Jarman', 'Irina Maljkovic Berry', 'Saurabh Mehta', 'Mark Polhemus', 'Mercy Silva', 'Sadie J. Ryan', 'Timothy P. Endy'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Background: Dengue (DENV), chikugunya (CHIKV) and zika (ZIKV) viruses are arboviruses transmitted by the Ae. aegypti mosquito, that cause febrile illness and present a major public health challenge in tropical low- and middle-income countries such as Ecuador. Here we report the methods and findings from the first two years (January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2015) of an active and passive surveillance study conducted in the southern coastal city of Machala, Ecuador. Methods: Individuals whom presented at one of four sentinel clinics or the central hospital of the Ministry of Health with suspected DENV (index cases) were recruited into the study (n = 324). Index cases with confirmed acute DENV infection triggered a cluster investigation (n = 44) of DENV infections in the index household and four neighboring households (associates) within 200 meters, (n = 397). We conducted genomic sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of select DENV positive samples from 2014. Results: In 2014, 72.5% of index patients and 35.6% of associates had evidence of acute or recent DENV infections. In 2015, 28.3% and 12.85% of index patients and associates, respectively, had acute or recent infections. The first cases of CHIKV were detected in an associate on epidemiological week 12 in 2015. There were a total of 54 cases of acute CHIKV infections, including seven DENV/CHIKV co-infections. No cases of ZIKV were detected. DENV symptoms varied significantly by age and by primary versus secondary infections. Symptoms that were associated with DENV and CHIKV infections are presented. Phylogenetic analyses of isolates revealed genetic relatedness and shared ancestry of DENV1, DENV2 and DENV4 genomes from Ecuador with those from Venezuela and Colombia, as well as more than one introduction of the same serotype into Ecuador, indicating presence of viral flow between Ecuador and the surrounding countries. Discussion: Findings from this study highlight the importance of (1) implementing rapid active surveillance protocols and (2) strengthening local molecular diagnostic capacities in resource-limited settings where DENV, CHIKV, and ZIKV co-circulate.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/102004', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'SUNY  Upstate Medical University;', u'SUNY Upstate Medical University;', u'Universidad Tecnica de Machala;', u'Escuela Superior Politecnica del Littoral;', u'Cornell University;', u'Walter Reed Army Institute of Research;', u'Ministry of Health of Ecuadodr;', u'University of Florida']]
[u'Designing the database for microarray experiments metadata', ['Oleksandr Lykhenko', 'Alina Frolova', 'Maria Obolenska'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Advancements in both computer science and biotechnology opened way to unprecedented amount and variety of gene expression studies raw data in the open access. It is sometimes worth to rearrange and unite data from several similar gene expression studies into new case-control groups to test new hypothesis using available data. Unfortunately, most popular gene expression databases such as GEO and ArrayExpress were not designed to allow such cross-study procedures. In order to locate comparable  samples in different studies numerous steps are required including gathering additional sample metadata and its standardization. Specialized databases are developed by investigators in their own fields of interest to reuse the processed data and create different case-control groups and test multiple hypothesis.\n\nHere we present detailed description of the specialized database creation along with its use case which is 32 gene expression cDNA microarray datasets on human placenta under conditions of pre-eclampsia containing expression data on more than 1000 biological samples. Samples contain sufficient metadata for them to be merged into relevant cross-experiment case-control groups for further integrative analysis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101956', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics']]
[u'Unraveling the population history of Indian Siddis', ['Ranajit Das', 'Priyanka Upadhyai'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'The Siddis are a unique Indian tribe of African, South Asian and European ancestry. While their ancestral origins have been traced to the Bantu populations from sub-Saharan Africa, the geographic localization of their ancestry has remained elusive. Here, we have mapped the geographical locations corresponding to the ancestral origin of the Siddis employing an admixture based algorithm, Geographical Population Structure (GPS). We evaluated 14 Siddi genomes in reference to 5 African populations from the 1000 Genomes project and 7 Bantu groups from the Human Genome Diversity project. GPS assigned the geographic origin of the ancestral Siddis to west Zambia and the present-day border between Zimbabwe and northeastern Botswana, overlapping with one of the principal areas of secondary Bantu settlement in Africa, ~1700 years before present (YBP). This is concordant with the secondary Bantu dispersal route from their east African center that likely brought the ancestors of the Siddis to settlement sites in southeast Africa, from where they were disseminated to India, by the Portuguese. Our results further indicate that while the Siddi genomes are significantly diverged from that of the Bantus, they manifest the highest genomic proximity to the Luhyas and North-East Bantus from Kenya, and that ancestral Siddis are likely to have split from the Luhyas, ~2700 YBP, in congruence with known Bantu expansion and population migration routes. Together with historical and anthropological evidences our findings shine light on the genetic relatedness between populations, fine-scale population structure and recapitulate the population history of the Siddis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101857', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Manipal University;', u'Kasturba Medical College, Manipal']]
[u'Rapid de novo assembly of the European eel genome from nanopore sequencing reads', ['Hans J. Jansen', 'Michael Liem', 'Suzanne A. Jong-Raadsen', 'Sylvie Dufour', 'Finn-Arne Weltzien', 'William Swinkels', 'Alex Koelewijn', 'Arjan P. Palstra', 'Bernd Pelster', 'Herman P. Spaink', 'Guido E. Van den Thillart', 'Ron P. Dirks', 'Christiaan V. Henkel'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'We have sequenced the genome of the endangered European eel using the MinION by Oxford Nanopore, and assembled these data using a novel algorithm specifically designed for large eukaryotic genomes. For this 860 Mbp genome, the entire computational process takes two days on a single CPU. The resulting genome assembly significantly improves on a previous draft based on short reads only, both in terms of contiguity (N50 1.2 Mbp) and structural quality. This combination of affordable nanopore sequencing and light-weight assembly promises to make high-quality genomic resources accessible for many non-model plants and animals.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101907', [u'Genomics'], [u'ZF-screens B.V.;', u'Leiden University;', u'Museum National de Histoire Naturelle;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences;', u'DUPAN Foundation;', u'Wageningen University & Research;', u'University of Innsbruck']]
[u'Immune receptors with exogenous domain fusions form evolutionary hotspots in grass genomes', ['Paul C Bailey', 'Gulay Dagdas', 'Erin Baggs', 'Wilfried Haerty', 'Ksenia V Krasileva'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Understanding evolution of plant immunity is necessary to inform rational approaches for genetic control of plant diseases. The plant immune system is innate, encoded in the germline, yet plants are capable of recognizing diverse rapidly evolving pathogens. Plant immune receptors (NLRs) can gain pathogen recognition through point mutation, recombination of recognition domains with other receptors, and through acquisition of novel integrated protein domains. The exact molecular pathways that shape immune repertoire including new domain integration remain unknown. Here, we describe a non-uniform distribution of integrated domains among NLR subfamilies in grasses and identify genomic hotspots that demonstrate rapid expansion of NLR gene fusions. We show that just one clade in the Poaceae is responsible for the majority of unique integration events. Based on these observations we propose a model for the expansion of integrated domain repertoires that involves a flexible NLR acceptor that is capable of fusion to diverse domains derived across the genome. The identification of a subclass of NLRs that is naturally adapted to new domain integration can inform biotechnological approaches for generating synthetic receptors with novel pathogen traps.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/100834', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Earlham Institute;', u'The Sainsbury Laboratory;', u'Earlham Institute and The Sainsbury Laboratory']]
[u'Revisiting suppression of interspecies hybrid male lethality in Caenorhabditis nematodes', ['Lauren E Ryan', 'Eric S Haag'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Within the nematode genus Caenorhabditis, C. briggsae and C. nigoni are among the most closely related species known.  They differ in sexual mode, with C. nigoni retaining the ancestral XO male-XX female outcrossing system, while C. briggsae females recently evolved self-fertility and an XX-biased sex ratio.  Wild-type C. briggsae and C. nigoni can produce fertile hybrid XX female progeny, but XO progeny are either 100% inviable (when C. briggsae is the mother) or viable but sterile (when C. nigoni is the mother). A recent study provided evidence suggesting that loss of the Cbr-him-8 meiotic regulator in C. briggsae hermaphrodites allowed them to produce viable and fertile hybrid XO male progeny when mated to C. nigoni. Because such males would be useful for a variety of genetic experiments, we sought to verify this result. Preliminary crosses with wild-type C. briggsae hermaphrodites occasionally produced fertile males, but they could not be confirmed to be interspecies hybrids.  Using an RNA interference protocol that eliminates any possibility of self-progeny in Cbr-him-8 hermaphrodites, we find sterile males bearing the C. nigoni X chromosome, but no fertile males bearing the C. briggsae X, as in wild-type crosses. Our results suggest that the apparent rescue of XO hybrid viability and fertility is due to incomplete purging of self-sperm prior to mating.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/102053', [u'Genetics'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Maryland, United States;', u'University of Maryland, College Park, United States']]
[u'A portable system for metagenomic analyses using nanopore-based sequencer and laptop computers can realize rapid on-site determination of bacterial compositions', ['Satomi Mitsuhashi', 'Kirill Kryukov', 'So Nakagawa', 'Junko S Takeuchi', 'Yoshiki Shiraishi', 'Koichiro Asano', 'Tadashi Imanishi'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'We developed a portable system for metagenomic analyses consisting of nanopore technology-based sequencer, MinION, and laptop computers, and assessed its potential ability to determine bacterial compositions rapidly. We tested our protocols using mock bacterial community that contained equimolar 16S rDNA and a pleural effusion from a patient with empyema for time effectiveness and accuracy. MinION sequencing targeting 16S rDNA detected all of 20 bacteria present in the mock bacterial community. Time course analysis indicated that sequence data obtained during the first 5-minute sequencing were enough to detect all 20 bacteria species in the mock sample and determine their compositions with sufficient accuracy. Additionally, using a clinical sample extracted from the pleural effusion of a patient with empyema, we could identify major bacteria in a pleural effusion by rapid sequencing and analysis. All of these results are comparable to or even better than the conventional 16S rDNA sequencing results using IonPGM sequencer. Our results suggest that rapid sequencing and bacterial composition determination is possible within 2 hours. Our integrative system is applicable to rapid diagnostic tests for infectious diseases in near future.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101865', [u'Genomics'], [u'Tokai University School of Medicine']]
[u'Preserving microsatellites? Conservation genetics of the giant Gal\xe1pagos tortoise.', ['Etienne Loire', 'Nicolas Galtier'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Conservation policy in the giant Gal\xe1pagos tortoise, an iconic endangered animal, has been assisted by genetic markers for ~15 years: mitochondrial DNA and microsatellite loci have been used to delineate thirteen (sub)species, between which hybridization is prevented. Here, comparative reanalysis of a previously published NGS data set reveals a conflict with traditional markers. Genetic diversity and population substructure in the giant Gal\xe1pagos tortoise are found to be particularly low, questioning the genetic relevance of current conservation practices.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101980', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CIRAD;', u'CNRS']]
[u'DNA-dependent RNA cleavage by the Natronobacterium gregoryi Argonaute', ['Ye Sunghyeok', 'Bae Taegeun', 'Kim Kyoungmi', 'Habib Omer', 'Lee Seung Hwan', 'Kim Yoon Young', 'Lee Kang-In', 'Kim Seokjoong', 'Kim Jin-Soo'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'We show here that, unlike most other prokaryotic Argonaute (Ago) proteins, which are DNA-guided endonucleases, the Natronobacterium gregoryi-derived Ago (NgAgo) can function as a DNA-guided endoribonuclease, cleaving RNA, rather than DNA, in a targeted manner. The NgAgo protein, in complex with 5\u2032-hydroxylated or 5\u2032-phosphrylated oligodeoxyribonucleotides (ODNs) of variable lengths, split RNA targets into two or more fragments in vitro, suggesting its physiological role in bacteria and demonstrating a potential for degrading RNA molecules such as mRNA or lncRNA in eukaryotic cells for study of their functions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101923', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Center for Genome Engineering, Institute for Basic Science, Seoul 08826, South Korea;', u'ToolGen, Inc., Seoul 08501, South Korea']]
