[u'MELODI - Mining Enriched Literature Objects to Derive Intermediates', ['Benjamin L Elsworth', 'Karen Dawe', 'Emma E Vincent', 'Ryan Langdon', 'Brigid M Lynch', 'Richard M Martin', 'Caroline Relton', 'Julian P T Higgins', 'Tom R Gaunt'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Motivation: The scientific literature contains a wealth of information from different fields on potential disease mechanisms. However, prioritising mechanisms for further analytical evaluation presents enormous challenges in terms of the quantity and diversity of published research. The application of data mining approaches to the literature offers the potential to identify and prioritise mechanisms for more focused and detailed analysis.  Results: Here we present MELODI, a literature mining platform that can identify mechanistic pathways between any two biomedical concepts. Two case studies demonstrate the potential uses of MELODI and how it can generate hypotheses for further investigation. Firstly, an analysis of ERG and prostate cancer derives the intermediate transcription factor SP1, recently confirmed to be physically interacting with ERG. Secondly, examining the relationship between a new potential risk factor for pancreatic cancer identifies possible mechanistic insights which can be studied in vitro.  Availability: MELODI has been implemented as a Python/Django web application, and is freely available to use at www.melodi.biocompute.org.uk', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118513.1', [], [u'University of Bristol;', u'Cancer Council Victoria']]
[u'Neuronal Patterning Of The Tubular Collar Cord Is Highly Conserved Among Enteropneusts But Dissimilar To The Chordate Neural Tube', ['Sabrina Kaul', 'Makoto Urata', 'Daniela Praher', 'Andreas Wanninger'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The dorsal neural tube of chordates and the ventral nerve cord of annelids exhibit a similar molecular mediolateral architecture. Accordingly, the presence of such a complex nervous system (CNS) has been proposed for their last common ancestor. Members of Enteropneusta, a group of non-chordate deuterostomes, possess a less complex CNS including a hollow neural tube, whereby homology to its chordate counterpart remains elusive. Since the majority of data on enteropneusts stem from Saccoglossus kowalevskii, a derived direct-developer, we investigated expression of key neuronal patterning genes in the indirect-developer Balanoglossus misakiensis.\nThe collar cord of B. misakiensis shows anterior Six3/6 and posterior Otx + engrailed expression, in a region corresponding to the chordate brain. Neuronal Nk2.1/Nk2.2 expression is absent. Interestingly, we found median Dlx and lateral Pax6 expression domains, i.e., a condition that is reversed compared to chordates. Comparative analyses reveal that CNS patterning is highly conserved among enteropneusts. BmiDlx and BmiPax6 have no corresponding expression domains in the chordate brain, which may be indicative of independent acquisition of a tubular CNS in Enteropneusta and Chordata. Moreover, mediolateral architecture varies considerably among chordates and enteropneusts, questioning the presence of a vertebrate-like patterned nervous system in the last common deuterostome ancestor.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118612', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Vienna;', u'Kanazawa University']]
[u'On The Structure Of Cortical Micro-Circuits Inferred From Small Sample Sizes', ['Marina Vegue', 'Rodrigo Perin', 'Alex Roxin'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The structure in cortical micro-circuits deviates from what would be expected in a purely random network, which has been seen as evidence of clustering. To address this issue we sought to reproduce the non-random features of cortical circuits by considering several distinct classes of network topology, including clustered networks, networks with distance-dependent connectivity and those with broad degree distributions. To our surprise we found that all these qualitatively distinct topologies could account equally well for all reported non-random features, despite being easily distinguishable from one another at the network level. This apparent paradox was a consequence of estimating network properties given only small sample sizes. In other words, networks which differ markedly in their global structure can look quite similar locally. This makes inferring network structure from small sample sizes, a necessity given the technical difficulty inherent in simultaneous intracellular recordings, problematic. We found that a network statistic called the sample degree correlation (SDC) overcomes this difficulty. The SDC depends only on parameters which can be reliably estimated given small sample sizes, and is an accurate fingerprint of every topological family. We applied the SDC criterion to data from rat visual and somatosensory cortex and discovered that the connectivity was not consistent with any of these main topological classes. However, we were able to fit the experimental data with a more general network class, of which all previous topologies were special cases. The resulting network topology could be interpreted as a combination of physical spatial dependence and non-spatial, hierarchical clustering.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118471', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Centre de Recerca Matematica;', u'Laboratory of Neural Microcircuitry, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne']]
[u'Functional Asymmetry In The Central Brain Regions In Boys With Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Detected By Event Related Potentials During Performance Of The Attentional Network Test', ['Dimitri M. Abramov', 'Carla Q. C. Rodrigues', 'Monique C. Pontes', 'Paulo R. Galhanone', 'Leonardo C. deAzevedo', 'Vladimir V. Lazarev'], u'March 20, 2017.', u"Background: Various functional asymmetries detected by different neurophysiological and neuroimaging methods have been reported in the literature on the Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD), some of them pointing to the right hemisphere activity. In our attempt to discriminate the ADHD patients from normal subjects by hierarchical clustering of behavioural, psychological and event related potential (ERP) variables, the late P3 component of potentials from the right central region (C4) proved to be one of the most informative parameters (in preparation for publication). Here, we have studied the differences in ERPs between the left (C3) and right (C4) central leads and relation of this asymmetry to ADHD diagnosed using DSM.  Methods: 16 typically developing (TD) boys and 16 boys diagnosed with ADHD according to DSM-IV-TR, aged 10-13 years, were examined by the Attentional Network Test (ANT), with simultaneous recording of the respective ERPs. The intergroup differences in the ERP amplitude parameters in the left (C3) and right (C4) central channels and in the difference in these parameters between the two channels (C3 minus C4) were accessed. These characteristics were compared to the subjects' DSM scores and ANT performance.  Results: The target-related potentials late characteristics from the C4 showed significant difference between the groups, while no difference was observed for the C3. Only in the ADHD patients, both the left and right late target ERP characteristics correlated with the reaction time, while the DSM scores did not show any correlations in both groups. The difference between ERPs of the C3 and C4 channels inside the interval of 40-290 ms after target onset was negative in the ADHD group (C3 < C4) and positive in the control group (C3 > C4). This asymmetry correlated with DSM scores, mainly to hyperactive (ADHD > control) and impulsive (control > ADHD) criteria.  Conclusion: In ADHD patients, the results suggest ERP pattern of right-side functional predominance in the motor control, which correlates to DSM scores, mainly to hyperactive and impulsive criteria.", u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118380', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National Institute of Women, Children and Adolescents Health Fernandes Figueira']]
[u'Trabecular Meshwork Failure In A Model Of Pigmentary Glaucoma', ['Yalong Dang', 'Susannah Waxman', 'Chao Wang', 'Ralista T Loewen', 'Ming Sun', 'Nils Loewen'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Pigment dispersion syndrome can lead to pigmentary glaucoma (PG), a poorly understood condition of younger, myopic eyes with fluctuating, high intraocular pressure (IOP). The absence of a model similar in size and behavior to human eyes has made it difficult to investigate the pathophysiology of IOP, pigment and phagocytosis. Here, we present a porcine ex vivo model that recreates the features of PG consisting of intraocular hypertension, pigment accumulation in the trabecular meshwork and failure of phagocytosis. In in vitro and ex vivo eye perfusion cultures we found that the trabecular meshwork (TM) cells that regulate outflow form of actin stress fibers, have a decreased phagocytosis and increased migration. Gene microarray and pathway analysis suggested key roles of RhoA and tight junctions in regulating the TM cytoskeleton, motility, and phagocytosis thereby providing new targets for future PG therapy.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118448', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh;', u'Department of Cell Biology, School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'A Model Of Plasticity-Dependent Network Activity In Rodent Hippocampus During Exploration Of Novel Environments', ['Panagiota Theodoni', 'Bernat Rovira', 'Alex Roxin'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Place cells of the rodent hippocampus fire action potentials when the animal traverses a particular spatial location in a given environment. Therefore, for any given trajectory one will observe a repeatable sequence of place cell activations as the animal explores. Interestingly, when the animal is quiescent or sleeping, one can observe similar sequences of activation, although at a highly compressed rate, known as \u201creplays\u201d. It is hypothesized that this replay underlies the process of memory consolidation whereby memories are \u201ctransferred\u201d from hippocampus to cortex. However, it remains unclear how the memory of a particular environment is actually encoded in the place cell activity and what the mechanism for replay is. Here we study how plasticity during spatial exploration shapes the patterns of synaptic connectivity in model networks of place cells. Specifically, we show how plasticity leads to the formation of attracting manifolds: patterns of activity which represent the spatial environment learned. These states become spontaneously active when the animal is quiescent, reproducing the phenomenology of replays. Interestingly, the attractors are formed most rapidly when place cell activity is modulated by an ongoing oscillation. The optimal oscillation frequency can be calculated analytically, is directly related to the plasticity rule, and for experimentally determined values of the plasticity window in rodent slices gives values in the theta range. A major prediction of these model is that the pairwise correlation of place cells which encode for neighboring locations should increase during initial exploration, leading up to the critical transition. We find such an increase in a population of simultaneously recorded CA1 pyramidal cells from a rat exploring a novel track. Furthermore, in a rat in which hippocampal theta is reduced through inactivition of the medial septum we find no such increase. This is consistent with the model, which predicts orders of magnitude lower learning rates when theta is absent.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118489', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'New York University, NY and Shanghai;', u'Centre de Recerca Matematica']]
[u'Decision-Related Signals In The Presence Of Nonzero Signal Stimuli, Internal Bias, And Feedback', ['Daniel Chicharro', 'Stefano Panzeri', 'Ralf M Haefner'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Understanding the nature of decision-related signals in sensory neurons promises to give insights into their role in perceptual decision-making. Those signals, traditionally quantified as choice probabilities (CP), are well-understood in a feedforward framework assuming zero-signal trials with no choice bias. Here, we extend this understanding by analytically solving models of choice-related signals that account for informative stimuli, choice bias, and importantly, feedback signals reflecting either internal states, such as attention or belief, or the outcome of the decision process. First, we relate CPs to Choice Triggered Averages (CTAs), which quantify choice-related average changes in neural responses, and show that both have general expressions valid for activity-choice covariations of both feedforward or feedback origin. These expressions allow a meaningful calculation of CPs across all trials, including non-zero signal trials. Second, we derive how CPs and CTAs depend on feedforward and feedback weights and on noise correlations under several plausible model architectures. Third, we examine different types of feedback signals, related to predictive coding, probabilistic inference, and attention, and we predict how CPs and CTAs depend in each case on the stimulus signal level and on the neural tuning properties. Finally, we show that measuring both CPs and CTAs offers complementary information about the origin of choice-related signals, especially when studying temporal changes of activity-choice covariations across the trial time. Overall, our work provides new analytical tools to better understand the link between sensory representations and perceptual decisions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118398', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Harvard Medical School, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia;', u'Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia;', u'University of Rochester']]
[u'Rapid Sequential In Situ Multiplexing With DNA-Exchange-Imaging', ['Yu Wang', 'Johannes B Woehrstein', 'Noah Donoghue', 'Mingjie Dai', 'Maier S Avendano', 'Ron C.J. Schackmann', 'Shan Shan Wang', 'Paul W Tillberg', 'Demian Park', 'Sylvain W Lapan', 'Edward S Boyden', 'Joan S Brugge', 'Pascal S Kaeser', 'George M Church', 'Sarit S Agasti', 'Ralf Jungmann', 'Peng Yin'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'To decipher the molecular mechanism of biological function, it is critical to map the molecular composition of individual cells in the context of their biological environment in situ. Immunofluorescence (IF) provides specific labeling for molecular profiling. However, conventional IF methods have finite multiplexing capabilities due to spectral overlap of the fluorophores. Various sequential imaging methods have been developed to circumvent this spectral limit, but are not widely adopted due to the common limitation of requiring multi-rounds of slow (hours to overnight in practice) immunostaining. To overcome this speed restriction and develop a practical platform for rapid in situ multiplexing, we describe here DNA-Exchange-Imaging, which allows single-step immunostaining with DNA-barcoded antibodies, followed by rapid (minutes) buffer exchange of fluorophore-bearing DNA imager strands. By eliminating the need for multiple rounds of immunostaining, DEI enables rapid spectrally unlimited sequential imaging. The programmability of DNA-Exchange-Imaging further allows us to adapt it to diverse microscopy platforms (with Exchange-Confocal, Exchange-SIM, Exchange-STED, and Exchange-PAINT demonstrated here), achieving highly multiplexed in situ protein visualization in diverse samples (including neuronal and tumor cells as well as fresh-frozen or paraffin-embedded tissue sections) and at multiple desired resolution scales (from ~300 nm down to sub-20-nm). Validation highlights include 8-target imaging using single-channel Exchange-Confocal in tens of micron thick retina tissue sections in 2-3 hours (as compared to days required in principle by previous methods using comparable equipment), and 8-target super-resolution imaging with ~20 nm resolution using Exchange-PAINT in primary neurons. These results collectively suggest DNA-Exchange as a versatile, practical platform for rapid, highly multiplexed in situ imaging, potentially enabling new applications ranging from basic science, to drug discovery, and to clinical pathology.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/112227', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Harvard Wyss Institute;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'MIT']]
[u'A Transformation From Latency To Ensemble Coding In A Model Of Piriform Cortex', ['Merav Stern', 'Kevin Bolding', 'LF Abbott', 'Kevin Franks'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'We present a spiking network model that transforms odor-dependent variable-latency olfactory bulb responses into a cortical ensemble code. In the model, which captures basic circuit properties of piriform cortex, the impact of the earliest-activated bulb inputs on the cortical response is amplified by diffuse recurrent collateral excitation which then recruits strong feedback inhibition that stabilizes cortical activity and decreases the impact of later-responding glomeruli. Because the sequence of olfactory bulb activity for a particular odor is preserved across concentration, the ensemble of activated cortical neurons is robust to concentration changes. Nevertheless, odor concentration is represented by the latency and synchrony of the ensemble response.  Using decoding techniques, we show that the ensemble-based coding scheme that arises in the cortical model supports concentration-invariant odor recognition.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118364', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Hebrew University of Jerusalem;', u'Duke University;', u'Columbia University']]
[u'Mean-Field Equations For Neuronal Networks With Arbitrary Degree Distributions', ['Duane Nykamp', 'Daniel Friedman', 'Sammy Shaker', 'Maxwell Shinn', 'Michael Vella', 'Albert Compte', 'Alex Roxin'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'The emergent dynamics in networks of recurrently coupled spiking neurons depends on the interplay between single-cell dynamics and network topology. Most theoretical studies on network dynamics have assumed simple topologies, such as connections which are made randomly and independently with a fixed probability (Erdos-Renyi network) (ER), or all-to-all connected networks. However, recent findings from slice experiments suggest that the actual patterns of connectivity between cortical neurons are more structured than in the ER random network. Here we explore how introducing additional higher-order statistical structure into the connectivity can affect the dynamics in neuronal networks. Specifically, we consider networks in which the number of pre-synaptic and post-synaptic contacts for each neuron, the degrees, are drawn from a joint degree distribution. We derive mean-field equations for a single population of homogeneous neurons and for a network of excitatory and inhibitory neurons, where the neurons can have arbitrary degree distributions. Through analysis of the mean-field equations and simulation of networks of integrate-and-fire neurons, we show that such networks have potentially much richer dynamics than an equivalent ER network. Finally, we relate the degree distributions to so-called cortical motifs.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118463', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u"Institut d'Investigacions Biomediques August Pi i Sunyer;", u'Centre de Recerca Matematica']]
[u'Adaptive Evolution Of Transcription Factor Binding Affinities', ['Jungeui Hong', 'Nathan Brandt', 'Ally Yang', 'Tim Hughes', 'David Gresham'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Understanding the molecular basis of gene expression evolution is a central problem in evolutionary biology. However, connecting changes in gene expression to increased fitness, and identifying the functional basis of those changes, remains challenging. To study adaptive evolution of gene expression in real time, we performed long term experimental evolution (LTEE) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast) in ammonium-limited chemostats. Following several hundred generations of continuous selection we found significant divergence of nitrogen-responsive gene expression in lineages with increased fitness. In multiple independent lineages we found repeated selection for non-synonymous mutations in the zinc finger DNA binding domain of the activating transcription factor (TF), GAT1, that operates within incoherent feedforward loops to control expression of the nitrogen catabolite repression (NCR) regulon. Missense mutations in the DNA binding domain of GAT1 reduce its binding affinity for the GATAA consensus sequence in a promoter-specific manner, resulting in increased expression of ammonium permease genes via both direct and indirect effects, thereby conferring increased fitness. We find that altered transcriptional output of the NCR regulon results in antagonistic pleiotropy in alternate environments and that the DNA binding domain of GAT1 is subject to purifying selection in natural populations. Our study shows that adaptive evolution of gene expression can entail tuning expression output by quantitative changes in TF binding affinities while maintaining the overall topology of a gene regulatory network.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118455', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'NYU;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Cross-Platform Normalization Enables Machine Learning Model Training On Microarray And RNA-Seq Data Simultaneously', ['Jaclyn N Taroni', 'Casey S Greene'], u'March 20, 2017.', u'Motivation: Large compendia of gene expression data have proven valuable for the discovery of novel biological relationships. The majority of available RNA assays are run on microarray, while RNA-seq is becoming the platform of choice for new experiments. The data structure and distributions between the platforms differ, making it challenging to combine them. We performed supervised and unsupervised machine learning evaluations, as well as differential expression analyses, to assess which normalization methods are best suited for combining microarray and RNA-seq data.  Results: We find that quantile and Training Distribution Matching normalization allow for supervised and unsupervised model training on microarray and RNA-seq data simultaneously. Nonparanormal normalization and z-scores are also appropriate for some applications, including differential expression analysis.  Availability and Implementation: These analyses were performed in R and are available at https://www.github.com/greenelab/RNAseq_titration_results under a BSD-3 clause license.', u'/content/early/2017/03/20/118349', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
