[u'No evidence for avoidance of black rat scent by the presumably less competitive Natal multimammate mouse in a choice experiment', ['Laura N Cuypers', 'Wim L Cuypers', 'Amelie Gildemyn-Blomme', 'Laura Abraham', 'Senne Aertbelien', 'Apia Massawe', 'Benny Borremans', 'Sophie Gryseels', 'Herwig Leirs'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'In Africa, indigenous multimammate mice (Mastomys natalensis) only appear to live commensally in houses when invasive black rats (Rattus rattus) are absent, yet little is known about the underlying mechanism. Avoidance through smell may cause the absence of M. natalensis from areas occupied by R. rattus, but this hypothesis has not yet been tested. We conducted a Y-maze choice experiment where 15 M. natalensis were offered a choice between corridors containing conspecific scent, R. rattus scent, and a control scent. Residence time in the R. rattus corridor was greater than that in the control corridor but equal to that in the M. natalensis corridor, suggesting that multimammate mice do not actively avoid the scent of their invasive competitor.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103853', [], [u'University of Antwerp;', u'Sokoine University of Angriculture;', u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'University of Antwerp / University of Arizona, Tucson']]
[u'Longitudinal samples of bacterial genomes potentially bias evolutionary analyses', ['Brian John Arnold', 'William P Hanage'], u'January 28, 2017.', u"Samples of bacteria collected over a period of time are attractive for several reasons, including the ability to estimate the molecular clock rate and to detect fluctuations in allele frequencies over time. However, longitudinal datasets are occasionally used in analyses that assume samples were collected contemporaneously. Using both simulations and genomic data from Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Streptococcus mutans, Campylobacter jejuni, and Helicobacter pylori, we show that longitudinal samples (spanning more than a decade in real data) may suffer from considerable bias that inflates estimates of recombination and the number of rare mutations in a sample of genomic sequences. While longitudinal data are frequently accounted for using the serial coalescent, many studies use other programs or metrics, such as Tajima's D, that are sensitive to these sampling biases and contain genomic data collected across many years. Notably, longitudinal samples from a population of constant size may exhibit evidence of exponential growth. We suggest that population genomic studies of bacteria should routinely account for temporal diversity in samples or provide evidence that longitudinal sampling bias does not affect conclusions.", u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103465', [], [u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health']]
[u'Deep Recurrent Neural Network for Protein Function Prediction from Sequence', ['Xueliang (Leon) Liu'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'As high-throughput biological sequencing becomes faster and cheaper, the need to extract useful information from sequencing becomes ever more paramount, often limited by low-throughput experimental characterizations. For proteins, accurate prediction of their functions directly from their primary amino-acid sequences has been a long standing challenge. Here, machine learning using artificial recurrent neural networks (RNN) was applied towards classification of protein function directly from primary sequence without sequence alignment, heuristic scoring or feature engineering. The RNN models containing long-short-term-memory (LSTM) units trained on public, annotated datasets from UniProt achieved high performance for in-class prediction of four important protein functions tested, particularly compared to other machine learning algorithms using sequence-derived protein features. RNN models were used also for out-of-class predictions of phylogenetically distinct protein families with similar functions, including proteins of the CRISPR-associated nuclease, ferritin-like iron storage and cytochrome P450 families. Applying the trained RNN models on the partially unannotated UniRef100 database predicted not only candidates validated by existing annotations but also currently unannotated sequences. Some RNN predictions for the ferritin-like iron sequestering function were experimentally validated, even though their sequences differ significantly from known, characterized proteins and from each other and cannot be easily predicted using popular bioinformatics methods. As sequencing and experimental characterization data increases rapidly, the machine-learning approach based on RNN could be useful for discovery and prediction of homologues for a wide range of protein functions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103994', [], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'A novel Word2vec based tool to estimate semantic similarity of genes by using Gene Ontology terms', ['Dat Duong', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Jessica Li'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'The Gene Ontology (GO) contains GO terms that describe biological functions of genes and\nproteins in the cell. A GO term contains one or two sentences describing a biological aspect. GO is\nused in many applications. One application is the comparison of two genes or two proteins by first\ncomparing semantic similarity of the GO terms that annotate them. Previous methods for this task\nhave relied on the fact that GO terms are organized into a tree structure. In this old paradigm, the\nlocations of two GO terms in the tree dictate their similarity score. In this paper, we introduce a new\nsolution to the problem of comparing two GO terms. Our method uses natural language processing\n(NLP) and does not need the GO tree. We use the Word2vec model to compare two words. Using\nthis model as the key building-block, we compare two sentences, and definitions of two GO terms.\nBecause a gene or protein is annotated by a set of GO terms, we can apply our method to compare\ntwo genes or two proteins. We test the ability of our method in two ways. In the first experiment,\nwe measure how similar are genes in the same regulatory pathways. In the second experiment, we\ntest the model ability to differentiate a true protein-protein network from a randomly generated\nnetwork. Our results are equivalent to those of previous methods which depend on the GO tree.\nThis gives promise to the development of NLP methods in comparing GO terms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103648', [], [u'UCLA']]
[u'Is Democracy the Right System? Collaborative Approaches to Building an Engaged RDM Community', ['Marta Teperek', 'Rosie Higman', 'Danny Kingsley'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'When developing new products, tools or services, one always need to think about the end users to ensure a wide-spread adoption. While this applies equally to services developed at higher education institutions, sometimes these services are driven by policies and not by needs of end users. This policy-driven approach can prove challenging for building effective community engagement. The initial development of Research Data Management support services at the University of Cambridge was policy-driven and subsequently failed in the first instance to engage the community of researchers for whom these services were created. \nIn this practice paper we will describe the initial approach undertaken at Cambridge when developing RDM services, the results of this approach and lessons learnt. We will then provide an overview of alternative, democratic strategies employed and their positive effects on community engagement. We will summarise by performing a cost-benefit analysis of the two approaches. This paper might be a useful case study for any institutions aiming to develop central support services for researchers, with conclusions applicable to the wide sector, and extending beyond Research Data Management services.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103895', [], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Joint estimation of relatedness coefficients and allele frequencies from ancient samples', ['Christoph Theunert', 'Fernando Racimo', 'Montgomery Slatkin'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'We develop and test a method to address whether DNA samples sequenced from a group of fossil hominin bone or teeth fragments originate from the same individual or from closely related individuals. Our method assumes low amounts of retrievable DNA, significant levels of sequencing error and contamination from one or more present-day humans. We develop and implement a maximum likelihood method that estimates levels of contamination, sequencing error rates and pairwise relatedness coefficients in a set of individuals. We assume there is no reference panel for the ancient population to provide allele and haplotype frequencies. Our approach makes use of single nucleotide polymorphisms and does not make assumptions about the underlying demographic model. By artificially mating individual genomes from the  1000 Genomes Project, we determine the numbers of individuals at a given genomic coverage that are required to detect different levels of genetic relatedness with confidence.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103903', [], [u'University of California, United States;', u'New York Genome Center, United States']]
[u'Model communities hint to promiscuous metabolic linkages between ubiquitous free-living freshwater bacteria', ['Sarahi L Garcia', 'Moritz Buck', 'Joshua J Hamilton', 'Christian Wurzbacher', 'Magnus Alm Alm Rosenblad', 'Katherine D. D McMahon', 'Hans-Peter Grossart', 'Falk Warnecke', 'Alexander Eiler'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'Free-living microorganisms with streamlined genomes are very abundant in the environment. Genome streamlining results in losses in the cells biosynthetic potential generating physiological dependencies between microorganisms. However, there exists no consensus on the specificity of these microbial associations. To verify specificity and extent of these associations, mixed cultures were established from three different freshwater environments. These cultures contained free-living streamlined organisms lacking multiple biosynthetic pathways. Among the co-occurring members of the mixed cultures, there was no clear recurring pattern of metabolic complementarity and dependencies. This, together with weak temporal co-occurrence patterns observed using time-series metagenomics, suggests that free-living freshwater bacteria form loose and unspecific cooperative loops. Comparative genomics suggests that the proportion of accessory genes in populations of streamlined bacteria allows for flexibility in interaction partners. Altogether this renders these free-living bacterial lineages functionally versatile despite their streamlining tendencies.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103838', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Uppsala University;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'University of Gothenburg;', u'Potsdam University;', u'Friedrich Schiller University Jena']]
[u'Understanding sequence conservation with deep learning', ['Yi Li', 'Daniel Quang', 'Xiaohui Xie'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'Motivation: Comparing the human genome to the genomes of closely related mammalian species has been a powerful tool for discovering functional elements in the human genome. Millions of conserved elements have been discovered. However, understanding the functional roles of these elements still remain a challenge, especially in noncoding regions. In particular, it is still unclear why these elements are evolutionarily conserved and what kind of functional elements are encoded within these sequences.  Results: We present a deep learning framework, called DeepCons, to uncover potential functional elements within conserved sequences. DeepCons is a convolutional neural net (CNN) that receives a short segment of DNA sequence as input and outputs the probability of the sequence of being evolutionary conserved. DeepCons utilizes hundreds of convolution kernels to detect features within DNA sequences, and automatically learns these kernels after training the CNN model using 887,577 conserved elements and a similar number of nonconserved elements in the human genome. On a balanced test dataset, DeepCons can achieve an accuracy of 75% in determining whether a sequence element is conserved or not, and the area under the ROC curve of 0.83, based on information from the human genome alone. We further investigate the properties of the learned kernels. Some kernels are directly related to well-known regulatory motifs corresponding to transcription factors. Many kernels show positional biases relative to transcriptional start sites or transcription end sites. But most of discovered kernels do not correspond to any known functional element, suggesting that they might represent unknown categories of functional elements. We also utilize DeepCons to annotate how changes at each individual nucleotide might impact the conservation properties of the surrounding sequences.  Availability: The source code of DeepCons and all the learned convolution kernels in motif format is publicly available online at https://github.com/uci-cbcl/DeepCons.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103929', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California, Irvine;', u'UC Irvine']]
[u'Marchantia liverworts as a proxy to plants basal microbiomes.', ['Luis David Alcaraz', 'Mariana Peimbert', 'Ana E. Dorantes-Acosta', 'John L. Bowman', 'Mario A. Arteaga-Vazquez'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'Microbiomes influence plant development, establishment, nutrient acquisition, pathogen defense, and the myriad of roles that ultimately impacts plant health. Plants microbiome are shaped through interactions between the microbes (ranging from cooperative functions to chemical warfare) and a selection process entailed by the host plants that distinguishes between pathogens, commensals, symbionts and transient bacteria. The soil is a primary source for microbes colonizing plants, along with other environmental sources including rain and interactions with other organisms. In this work, we explore the microbiomes through massive sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene in the eldest terrestrial plants: Marchantia liverworts. We compared microbiomes from M. polymorpha, and M. paleacea plants collected in the wild and their soils, all together luckily in the same geographical location (sympatric) thus reducing geographic effects; and also from plants grown in vitro and established from gemmae obtained from the same population of wild plants. Qualitative and quantitative microbiome analysis allowed us to identify microbes conserved in both native and in vitro Marchantia species. While M. polymorpha native plants microbiomes richness is reduced about M. paleacea, containing almost half of the Operative Taxonomic Units (OTUs) observed in M. paleacea, M. polymorpha grown in vitro exhibits larger OTUs. This diversity differences might be the result of impairment to recognize their microbial partners and being an open niche for opportunistic bacteria. The main OTUs in Marchantia microbiomes were assigned to the genera: Methylobacterium, Rhizobium, Paenibacillus, Lysobacter, Pirellula, Steroidobacter, and Bryobacter. The assigned genera correspond to bacteria capable of plant-growth promotion, complex exudates degradation, nitrogen fixation, methylotrophs, and disease-suppressive bacteria, all hosted in the relatively simple anatomy of the plant that provides refuge on their surfaces, rhizoids, and multiple gas chambers that work as specialized niches for different bacterial groups. Marchantia is a promising model to study not only long-term relationships between plants and their microbes but also the transgenerational impact of microbiomes because of Marchantia long 450 million years under climate change conditions testing microbiome configurations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103861', [u'Microbiology'], [u'LANCIS, Instituto de Ecologia, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico;', u'Departamento de Ciencias Naturales. Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana, Unidad Cuajimalpa;', u'University of Veracruz, Institute for Biotechnology and Applied Ecology (INBIOTECA);', u'Monash University']]
[u'De Novo PacBio long-read and phased avian genome assemblies correct and add to genes important in neuroscience research', ['Jonas Korlach', 'Gregory Gedman', 'Sarah King', 'Jason Chin', 'Jason Howard', 'Lindsey Cantin', 'Erich D. Jarvis'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'Reference quality genomes are expected to provide a resource for studying gene structure and function. However, often genes of interest are not completely or accurately assembled, leading to unknown errors in analyses or additional cloning efforts for the correct sequences. A promising solution to this problem is long-read sequencing. Here we tested PacBio-based long-read sequencing and diploid assembly for potential improvements to the Sanger-based intermediate-read zebra finch reference and Illumina-based short-read Anna??s hummingbird reference, two vocal learning avian species widely studied in neuroscience and genomics. With DNA of the same individuals used to generate the reference genomes, we generated diploid assemblies with the FALCON-Unzip assembler, resulting in contigs with no gaps in the megabase range (N50s of 5.4 and 7.7 Mb, respectively), and representing 150-fold and 200-fold improvements over the current zebra finch and hummingbird references, respectively. These long-read assemblies corrected and resolved what we discovered to be misassemblies, including due to erroneous sequences flanking gaps, complex repeat structure errors in the references, base call errors in difficult to sequence regions, and inaccurate resolution of allelic differences between the two haplotypes. We analyzed protein-coding genes widely studied in neuroscience and specialized in vocal learning species, and found numerous assembly and sequence errors in the reference genes that the PacBio-based assemblies resolved completely, validated by single long genomic reads and transcriptome reads. These findings demonstrate, for the first time in non-human vocal learning species, the impact of higher quality, phased and gap-less assemblies for understanding gene structure and function.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103911', [u'Genomics'], [u'Pacific Biosciences;', u'Rockefeller University;', u'Duke University']]
[u'Astral microtubule dynamics regulate anaphase oscillation onset and set a robust final position of the C. elegans zygote spindle.', ['Helene Bouvrais', 'Laurent Chesneau', 'Sylvain Pastezeur', 'Marie Delattre', 'Jacques Pecreaux'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'Background: The correct positioning of the mitotic spindle during the asymmetric division of the nematode C. elegans zygote relies on the combination of centering and cortical-pulling forces. These forces, revealed by centrosome anaphase oscillations, are regulated through the dynamics of force generators, related to mitosis progression. Recently, we have presented the control of oscillation onset by the posterior spindle pole position in related species C. briggsae, necessitating a re-evaluation of the role of astral microtubules dynamics. Results: After exhibiting such a positional switch in C. elegans, we mapped the microtubule ends at the cortex and observed a correlation between the proximity of the centrosomes and the density of microtubule contacts. To explore the functional consequences, we extended the "tug-of-war" model and successfully accounted for the positional switch. We predicted and experimentally validated that the control of oscillation onset was robust to changes in cell geometry or maximum number of attached force generators. We also predicted that the final position of the posterior centrosome and thus the spindle has a reduced dependence upon the force generator dynamics or number. Conclusion: The outburst of forces responsible of spindle anaphase oscillations and positioning is regulated by the spindle position through the spatial modulation of microtubule contacts at the cortex. This regulation superimposes that of force generator processivity putatively linked to the cell cycle. This novel control provides robustness to variations in zygote geometry or detailed properties of cortical force generators.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103937', [u'Biophysics'], [u'UMR 6290 CNRS / Univ. Rennes 1;', u'LMBC ENS Lyon / CNRS;', u'IGDR UMR 6290 CNRS / Univ. Rennes 1']]
[u'The ultrastructure of Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 nanowires revealed by electron cryo-tomography', ['Poorna Subramanian', 'Sahand Pirbadian', 'Mohamed Y El-Naggar', 'Grant J Jensen'], u'January 28, 2017.', u'Bacterial nanowires have garnered recent interest as a proposed Extracellular Electron Transfer (EET) pathway that links the bacterial electron transport chain to solid-phase electron acceptors away from the cell. In vivo fluorescence Light Microscopy (fLM) imaging recently showed that Shewanella oneidensis MR-1 nanowires are extensions of the outer membrane that contain EET components. However, their fine structure and distribution of cytochrome electron carriers remained unclear, making it difficult to evaluate the electron transport mechanism along the nanowires. Here, we report high-resolution images of nanowires using Electron Cryo-Tomography (ECT). We developed a robust method for fLM imaging of nanowire growth on electron microscopy grids and used correlative light and electron microscopy to identify and image the same nanowires by ECT. Our results confirm that S. oneidensis nanowires are outer membrane extensions, and further reveal that nanowires are dynamic chains of interconnected Outer Membrane Vesicles (OMVs) with variable dimensions, curvature, and extent of tubulation. Junction densities that potentially stabilize OMV chains are seen between neighboring vesicles in cryotomograms. Our ECT results also provide the first hints of the positions and packing of periplasmic and outer membrane proteins consistent with cytochromes. We observe tight packing of putative cytochromes along lateral patches that extend tens of nanometers, but not across the micrometer scale of whole nanowires. We therefore propose that electron transfer along nanowires involves a combination of direct hopping and diffusive events that link neighboring redox proteins.', u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103242', [u'Microbiology'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'University of Southern California']]
[u'A computational toolbox and step-by-step tutorial for the analysis of neuronal population dynamics in calcium imaging data', ['Sebastian A. Romano', 'Veronica Perez-Schuster', 'Adrien Jouary', 'Alessia Candeo', 'Jonathan Boulanger-Weill', 'German Sumbre'], u'January 28, 2017.', u"The development of new imaging and optogenetics techniques to study the dynamics of large neuronal circuits is generating datasets of unprecedented volume and complexity, demanding the development of appropriate analysis tools. We present a tutorial for the use of a comprehensive computational toolbox for the analysis of neuronal population activity imaging. It consists of tools for image pre-processing and segmentation, estimation of significant single-neuron single-trial signals, mapping event-related neuronal responses, detection of activity-correlated neuronal clusters, exploration of population dynamics, and analysis of clusters' features against surrogate control datasets. They are integrated in a modular and versatile processing pipeline, adaptable to different needs. The clustering module is capable of detecting flexible, dynamically activated neuronal assemblies, consistent with the distributed population coding of the brain. We demonstrate the suitability of the toolbox for a variety of calcium imaging datasets, and provide a case study to explain its implementation.", u'/content/early/2017/01/28/103879', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'IBIOBA - CONICET - Partner Institute of the Max Planck Society, Buenos Aires, Argentina.;', u'Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, UBA, IFIBYNE-CONICET, Buenos Aires, Argentina.;', u'IBENS, 75005 Paris, France']]
