[u'PEAPOD limits developmental plasticity in Arabidopsis.', ['Derek W. R. White'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'Higher plants utilise developmental plasticity to adapt to changes in the environment, especially to variations in light. Much of this change in growth and development involves the light-mediated regulation of multiple hormone pathways. However, despite considerable progress towards understanding the molecular processes controlling light signalling and hormone activity, regulatory mechanisms preventing exaggerated plant developmental responses are not well understood. Here I report that the PPD regulatory complex has a crucial role in limiting developmental plasticity in Arabidopsis. Reductions in PPD or KIX8/9 gene expression resulted in; tolerance to ABA inhibition of seed germination, hypocotyl elongation, increases in stomata on hypocotyls, cambial cell proliferation and seed weight, and delayed flowering. Transcript profiling and analyses of hormone responses and genetic interactions established PPD modulates developmental plasticity, mainly by a combination of transcriptional activation and repression of genes controlling CRY/PHY light signalling and ABA, auxin, brassinosteroid, cytokinin and gibberellin homeostasis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102707', [], [u'Massey University']]
[u'Literature Consistency of Bioinformatics Sequence Databases is Effective for Assessing Record Quality', ['Mohamed Reda Bouadjenek', 'Karin Verspoor', 'Justin Zobel'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'Bioinformatics sequence databases such as Genbank or UniProt contain hundreds of millions of records of genomic data. These records are derived from direct submissions from individual laboratories, as well as from bulk submissions from large-scale sequencing centres; their diversity and scale means that they suffer from a range of data quality issues including errors, discrepancies, redundancies, ambiguities, incompleteness, and inconsistencies with the published literature. In this work, we seek to investigate and analyze the data quality of sequence databases from the perspective of a curator, who must detect anomalous and suspicious records.\nSpecifically, we emphasize the detection of inconsistent records with respect to the literature. Focusing on GenBank, we propose a set of 24 quality indicators, which are based on treating a record as a query into the published literature, and then use query quality predictors. We then carry out an analysis that shows that the proposed quality indicators and the quality of the records have a mutual relationship, in which one depends on the other. We propose to represent record-literature consistency as a vector of these quality indicators. By reducing the dimensionality of this representation for visualization purposes using Principal Component Analysis, we show that records which have been reported as inconsistent with the literature fall roughly in the same area, and therefore share similar characteristics. By manually analyzing records not previously known to be erroneous that fall in the same area than records know to be inconsistent, we show that 1 record out of 4 is inconsistent with respect to the literature. This high density of inconsistent record opens the way towards the development of automatic methods for the detection of faulty records. We conclude that literature inconsistency is a meaningful strategy for identifying suspicious records.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/101873', [], [u'The University of Melbourne']]
[u'The circadian dynamics of small nucleolar RNA', ['Stuart Aitken', 'Colin A.M. Semple'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'The circadian regulation of gene expression allows plants and animals to anticipate predictable environmental changes. While the influence of the circadian clock has recently been shown to extend to ribosome biogenesis, the dynamics and regulation of the many small nucleolar RNA that are required in pre-ribosomal RNA folding and modification are unknown. Using a novel computational method, we show that 18S and 28S pre-rRNA are subject to circadian regulation in a nuclear RNA sequencing time course. A population of snoRNA with circadian expression is identified that is functionally associated with rRNA modification. More generally, we find the abundance of snoRNA known to modify 18S and 28S to be inversely correlated with the abundance of their target. Cyclic patterns in the expression of a number of snoRNA indicate a coordination with rRNA maturation, potentially through an upregulation in their biogenesis, or their release from mature rRNA at the end of the previous cycle of rRNA maturation, in antiphase with the diurnal peak in pre-rRNA. Few cyclic snoRNA have cyclic host genes, indicating the action of regulatory mechanisms in addition to transcriptional activation of the host gene. For highly-expressed independently transcribed snoRNA, we find a characteristic RNA polymerase II and H3K4me3 signature that correlates with mean snoRNA expression over the day.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102533', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University Of Edinburgh;', u'MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine']]
[u'Staphylococcus aureus Biofilm Removal by Targeting Biofilm-Associated Extracellular Proteins', ['Sudhir K Shukla', 'Toleti Subba Rao'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'Aim: Among cell surface proteins, biofilm-associated protein  promotes biofilm development in Staphylococcus aureus strains. Aim of this study was to investigate proteinase-mediated biofilm dispersion in different isolates of S. aureus.\nMethods and Results: Microtitre plate based biofilm assay showed that 2 7 \u03bcg/mL proteinase K significantly inhibited biofilm development in bap-positive S. aureus V329 as well as other S. aureus strains, i.e. SA7, SA10, SA33, SA352 and but not in bap-mutant M556 and SA392 (a weak biofilm producing strain). However, proteinase K treatment on S. aureus planktonic cells showed that there was no inhibition of planktonic growth at any concentration of proteinase K when tested up to 32 \u03bcg/mL. This observation ruled out the possibility of S. aureus biofilm inhibition by altering the cell viability. Proteinase K treatment upon 24 h old preformed biofilms showed an enhanced dispersion of bap-positive V329 and SA7, SA10, SA33 and SA352 biofilms, however, proteinase K did not affect the bap-mutant S. aureus M556 and SA392 biofilms. Biofilm compositions study before and after proteinase K treatment indicated that Bap might also be involved in eDNA retention in the biofilm matrix that aid in biofilm stability. When proteinase K was used in combination with antibiotics, a synergistic effect in antibiotic efficacy was observed against all biofilm forming S. aureus strains. \nConclusion: Proteinase K inhibited biofilms growth in S. aureus bovine mastitis isolates but did not affect their planktonic growth. An enhanced dispersion of preformed S. aureus biofilms was observed upon proteinase K treatment. Proteinase K treatment with antibiotics showed a synergistic effect against S. aureus biofilms. \nSignificance of the study: The study suggests that dispersing S. aureus by protease can be of use while devising strategies against S. aureus biofilms. Proteinase K treatment has a wider scope for control of S. aureus biofilms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102384', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Bhabha Atomic Research Centre;', u'Bhabha Atomic Reserch Centre, Kalpakkam']]
[u'Chemotaxis microsimulation: On the gain in nutrient uptake and bacterial cell division with chemotaxis mechanism', ['Soutick Saha', 'C. K. Sruthi', 'Meher Prakash'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'Bacterial swimming alternates between straight runs for several seconds and tumbles into random directions. Chemotactic bacteria remember nutrient sensing history, change tumble frequency to move toward nutrients. A question that has not been addressed is the significance of the nutrition gain and multiplication of bacterial population with chemotaxis mechanism. To quantify these effects, we introduce a microsimulation model, which seamlessly integrates detailed observations and assumptions about single bacterial tumbles, noisy sensing and nutrient uptake for studying up to a few millions of them in a population. We use the model to simulate absorption of nutrients from lysis and agar plates. Contrary to an intuitive feeling that chemotaxis could be useful under nutrient starvation, we see a significant effect only under nutrient rich conditions where bacteria with chemotaxis outgrow their non-chemotactic counterparts by hundreds of times. The model offers the flexibility to study the consequences of newer assumptions, and experimental conditions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102400', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research']]
[u'RNA Gelation in Repeat Expansion Disorders', ['Ankur Jain', 'Ronald D Vale'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'Expansions of short nucleotide repeats in the protein coding and non-coding regions of >30 genes produce a variety of neurological and neuromuscular disorders including Huntington\u2032s disease (CAG repeats), muscular dystrophy (CTG repeats) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (GGGGCC repeats). Expression of expanded repeats alone is sufficient to recapitulate disease pathology in animal models. Repeat-containing transcripts accumulate in the nucleus as aberrant RNA foci and sequester numerous RNA binding proteins, leading to a disruption of cellular homeostasis. Interestingly, RNA foci, as well as the disease symptoms, only manifest at a critical threshold of nucleotide repeats: >30 for CAG/CTG expansions and >7 for the GGGGCC expansion. However, the reason for this characteristic threshold, as well as the molecular mechanism of foci formation, remain unresolved. Here, we show that nucleotide repeat expansions in RNA create templates for multivalent Watson-Crick (CAG/CUG expansions) or Hoogsteen (GGGGCC expansion) base-pairing. These multivalent interactions cause purified RNAs containing repeat expansions to undergo a sol-gel transition and form micron-sized clusters. Reflecting an increase in the valency for intermolecular hybridization, the gelation of purified RNA only occurs above a critical number of trinucleotide or hexanucleotide repeats. These thresholds for in vitro RNA gelation are similar to those associated with manifestation of disease. By visualizing RNA in live cells, we show that nuclear foci form as a result of phase separation of the repeat-containing RNA and that these foci can be dissolved by agents that disrupt RNA gelation in vitro. Analogous to protein aggregation disorders, our results suggest that the sequence-specific gelation of RNAs could be a contributing factor to neurological disease.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/100719', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of California San Francisco']]
[u'A previously established divergent lineage of the hybrid fungal pathogen Verticillium longisporum emerges as stem striping pathogen in British oilseed rape', ['Jasper Depotter', 'Michael Seidl', 'Grardy van den berg', 'Bart Thomma', 'Tom Wood'], u'January 23, 2017.', u'Population genetic structures illustrate evolutionary trajectories of organisms adapting to differential environmental conditions. Pathogen populations are typically shaped by co-evolution with their hosts through genetic co-structuring. Verticillium stem striping was mainly observed in continental Europe, but has recently emerged in other countries including the United Kingdom. The disease is caused by the hybrid fungal species Verticillium longisporum that originates from at least three separate hybridization events, yet strains from the hybridization event between Verticillium progenitor species A1 and D1 are mainly responsible for Verticillium stem striping. By using multi-locus genotype analysis, we reveal a hitherto un-described dichotomy within V. longisporum lineage A1/D1 that correlates with the geographic distribution of the isolates with an A1/D1 West and an A1/D1 East cluster according to their relative location in Europe. Genome comparison between representatives of the A1/D1 West and East clusters confirmed mutual common origin, excluding distinctiveness through separate hybridization events. The A1/D1 West population is responsible for the sudden emergence of Verticillium stem striping in the UK. Remarkably, this emergence is caused by a British V. longisporum population that is genetically more diverse than the entire A1/D1 East cluster. Conceivably, V. longisporum has previously established in the UK, but remained latent or undiagnosed as an oilseed rape pathogen until recently. This finding illustrates that a recent introduction is not a prerequisite for a pathogen to emerge, as environmental factors and cultural practices can also play a pivotal role in outbreaks of novel diseases.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102541', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Wageningen University;', u'NIAB']]
