[u'Cognitive task information is transferred between brain regions via resting-state network topology', ['Takuya Ito', 'Kaustubh R Kulkarni', 'Douglas H Schultz', 'Ravi D Mill', 'Richard H Chen', 'Levi I Solomyak', 'Michael W Cole'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'The brain is thought to process cognitive task information in a widespread distributed manner, yet little is known about how such information is coordinated on a global scale. We built on recent advances in decoding cognitive task information and characterizing the flow of activity through large-scale brain networks to investigate region-to-region information transfer during complex cognitive tasks. We hypothesized that resting-state functional network topology - revealed via correlations among brain activity time series during task-free rest - describes the fine-grained mappings between brain regions that carry cognitive task information. Confirming this, we found that diverse task-rule information could be predicted in held-out brain regions based on estimated activity flow through resting-state network connections. Activity flow over fine-grained resting-state connections thus provides a large-scale network mechanism for cognitive task information transfer in the human brain.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101782.1', [], [u'Rutgers University']]
[u'A comparison of reference-based algorithms for correcting cell-type heterogeneity in Epigenome-Wide Association Studies', ['Andrew E Teschendorff', 'Charles E Breeze', 'Shijie C Zheng', 'Stephan Beck'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Background: Intra-sample cellular heterogeneity presents numerous challenges to the identification of biomarkers in large Epigenome-Wide Association Studies (EWAS). While a number of reference-based deconvolution algorithms have emerged, their potential remains underexplored and a comparative evaluation of these algorithms beyond tissues such as blood is still lacking. \nResults: Here we present a novel framework for reference-based inference, which leverages cell-type specific DNAse Hypersensitive Site (DHS) information from the NIH Epigenomics Roadmap to construct an improved reference DNA methylation database. We show that this leads to a marginal but statistically significant improvement of cell-count estimates in whole blood as well as in mixtures involving epithelial cell-types. Using this framework we compare a widely used state-of-the-art reference-based algorithm (called constrained projection) to two non-constrained approaches including CIBERSORT and a method based on robust partial correlations. We conclude that the widely-used constrained projection technique may not always be optimal. Instead, we find that the method based on robust partial correlations is generally more robust across a range of different tissue types and for realistic noise levels. We call the combined algorithm which uses DHS data and robust partial correlations for inference, EpiDISH (Epigenetic Dissection of Intra-Sample Heterogeneity). Finally, we demonstrate the added value of EpiDISH in an EWAS of smoking.\nConclusions: Estimating cell-type fractions and subsequent inference in EWAS may benefit from the use of non-constrained reference-based cell-type deconvolution methods.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101709', [], [u'University College London and Chinese Academy of Sciences;', u'University College London;', u'Partner Institute of Computational Biology/Shanghai Institute of Biological Sciences']]
[u'Modeling Hormonal Control of Cambium Proliferation', ['Vladyslav Oles', 'Alexander Panchenko', 'Andrei Smertenko'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Rise of atmospheric CO2 is one of the main causes of global warming. Catastrophic\nclimate change can be avoided by reducing emissions and increasing sequestration of\nCO2. Trees are known to sequester CO2 during photosynthesis, and then store it as\nwood biomass. Thus, breeding of trees with higher wood yield would mitigate global\nwarming as well as augment production of renewable construction materials, energy, and\nindustrial feedstock. Wood is made of cellulose-rich xylem cells produced through\nproliferation of a specialized stem cell niche called cambium. Importance of cambium in\nxylem cells production makes it an ideal target for the tree breeding programs; however\nour knowledge about control of cambium proliferation remains limited. The morphology\nand regulation of cambium differs from stem cell niches that control axial growth. For\nthis reason, translating the knowledge about axial growth to radial growth has limited\nuse. Furthermore, genetic approaches cannot be easily applied because overlaying\ntissues conceal cambium from direct observation and complicate identification of\nmutants. To overcome the paucity of experimental tools in cambium biology, we\nconstructed a Boolean network CARENET (CAmbium Regulation gene NETwork) for\nmodelling cambium activity, which includes the key transcription factors WOX4 and\nHD-ZIP III as well as their potential regulators. Our simulations revealed that: (1)\nauxin, cytokinin, gibberellin, and brassinosteroids act cooperatively in promoting\ntranscription of WOX4 and HD-ZIP III; (2) auxin and cytokinin pathways negatively\nregulate each other; (3) hormonal pathways act redundantly in sustaining cambium\nactivity; (4) individual cells in the stem cell niches can have diverse molecular identities.\nCARENET can be extended to include components of other signalling pathways and be\nintegrated with models of xylem and phloem differentiation. Such extended models\nwould facilitate breeding trees with higher wood yield.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101550', [], [u'Washington State University']]
[u'Transmission Bottleneck Size Estimation from Pathogen Deep-Sequencing Data, with an Application to Human Influenza A Virus', ['Ashley Sobel Leonard', 'Daniel Weissman', 'Benjamin Greenbaum', 'Elodie Ghedin', 'Katia Koelle'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'The bottleneck governing infectious disease transmission describes the size of the pathogen population transferred from a donor to a recipient host. Accurate quantification of the bottleneck size is of particular importance for rapidly evolving pathogens such as influenza virus, as narrow bottlenecks would limit the extent of transferred viral genetic diversity and, thus, have the potential to slow the rate of viral adaptation. Previous studies have estimated the transmission bottleneck size governing viral transmission through statistical analyses of variants identified in pathogen sequencing data. The methods used by these studies, however, did not account for variant calling thresholds and stochastic dynamics of the viral population within recipient hosts. Because these factors can skew bottleneck size estimates, we here introduce a new method for inferring transmission bottleneck sizes that explicitly takes these factors into account. We compare our method, based on beta-binomial sampling, with existing methods in the literature for their ability to recover the transmission bottleneck size of a simulated dataset. This comparison demonstrates that the beta-binomial sampling method is best able to accurately infer the simulated bottleneck size. We then apply our method to a recently published dataset of influenza A H1N1p and H3N2 infections, for which viral deep sequencing data from inferred donor-recipient transmission pairs are available. Our results indicate that transmission bottleneck sizes across transmission pairs are variable, yet that there is no significant difference in the overall bottleneck sizes inferred for H1N1p and H3N2. The mean bottleneck size for influenza virus in this study, considering all transmission pairs, was Nb = 196 (95% confidence interval 66-392) virions. While this estimate is consistent with previous bottleneck size estimates for this dataset, it is considerably higher than the bottleneck sizes estimated for influenza from other datasets.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101790', [], [u'Duke University;', u'Emory University;', u'Mount Sinai;', u'New York University']]
[u'Mutation of a palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC18-like gene is responsible for the minute wing mutation in the silkworm (Bombyx mori)', ['Ye Yu', 'Xiaojing Liu', 'Xiao Ma', 'Zhongjie Zhang', 'Na Liu', 'Chengxiang Hou', 'Muwang Li'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Pulpal- and adult-stage minute wing (mw) mutants of the silkworm Bombyx mori have much smaller wings than those of the wild type. Herein, we report the genetic and molecular mechanisms underling the formation of the minute wing. Fine mapping and positional cloning revealed that a palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC18-like gene \uff08BmAPP\uff09was responsible for the mw mutation. CRISPR/Cas9 screening of the BmAPP gene in wild-type embryos revealed that a significant proportion of adults had the mw mutation. In an mw mutant strain, u11, a 10-bp insertion in the promoter of a novel gene resulted in low-level translation of a protein belonging to the DHHC family. A PiggyBac-based transgenic analysis showed that the promoter induced the expression of aBmAPP gene promoter in the wild type but not the mw mutant. These findings indicate that functional deletion of this gene promoter accounts for the mw mutation in silkworm. The possibility that BmAPP gene is involved in Hippo signaling pathway, an evolutionarily conserved signaling pathway that controls organ size, is discussed.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101618', [], [u'School of Biotechology, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, China;', u'School of Biotechology, Jiangsu University of Science and Technology, Zhenjiang  , Jiangsu, China;', u'Sericultural Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Zhenjiang  Jiangsu, China;', u'Jiangsu University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Modern-Day SIV viral diversity generated by extensive recombination and cross-species transmission', ['Sidney M Bell', 'Trevor Bedford'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Cross-species transmission (CST) has led to many devastating epidemics, but is still a poorly understood phenomenon. HIV-1 and HIV-2 (human immunodeficiency virus 1 and 2), which have collectively caused over 35 million deaths, are the result of multiple CSTs from chimpanzees, gorillas, and sooty mangabeys. While the immediate history of HIV is known, there are over 45 lentiviruses that infect specific species of primates, and patterns of host switching are not well characterized. We thus took a phylogenetic approach to better understand the natural history of SIV recombination and CST. We modeled host species as a discrete character trait on the viral phylogeny and inferred historical host switches and the pairwise transmission rates between each pair of 24 primate hosts. We identify 14 novel, well-supported, ancient cross-species transmission events. We also find that lentiviral lineages vary widely in their ability to infect new host species: SIVcol (from colobus monkeys) is evolutionarily isolated, while SIVagms (from African green monkeys) frequently move between host subspecies. We also examine the origins of SIVcpz (the predecessor of HIV-1) in greater detail than previous studies, and find that there are still large portions of the genome with unknown origins. Observed patterns of CST are likely driven by a combination of ecological circumstance and innate immune factors.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101725', [], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'A scalable Bayesian method for integrating functional information in genome-wide association studies', ['Jingjing Yang', 'Lars G. Fritsche', 'Xiang Zhou', 'Goncalo Abecasis'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified many complex trait loci. To understand the biological mechanisms underlying these, we pair a flexible Bayesian method with efficient computational techniques to model functional information in GWASs. We model the effect-size distribution and probability of causality for variants with different annotation, explicitly allowing for multiple causal-variants per locus. In simulations, our method shows higher power to identify true causal-variants than competing methods. In a GWAS of age-related macular degeneration with 33,976 individuals and 9,857,286 variants, we find the strongest enrichment for causality among non-synonymous variants (54x more likely to be causal, 1.4x larger effect-sizes) and among variants in active promoters (7.8x more likely, 1.4x larger effect-sizes). Importantly, when multiple causal-variants reside in the same locus, our approach improves upon the list of candidate variants produced by sequential forward selection or methods only allowing for a single causal-variant per locus. In conclusion, our method is shown to efficiently integrate functional information in GWASs, helping identify causal-variants and underlying biology.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101691', [], [u'University of Michigan;', u'Norwegian University of Science and Technology']]
[u'Spike-based phylogenetically defined clades within the Alphacoronavirus 1 species', ['Gary R. Whittaker', 'Nicole M. Andre', 'Jean Kaoru Millet'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Taxonomic classification for the Coronaviridae can be challenging, due to the wide host tropism and highly variable genome of the viruses in this Family. Within the Alphacoronavirus genus, there is a single species Alphacoronavirus 1 that encompasses several biologically distinct viruses of distinct animal species. Here, we carried out phylogenetic analysis of members of the Alphacoronavirus genus, focusing on the viral spike gene, which is a primary driver of viral tropism and pathogenesis. We identify two distinct clades (A and B) within the Alphacoronavirus 1 species. Alphacoronavirus 1 clade A encompasses serotype I FCoV and CCoV, and Alphacoronavirus 1 clade B, encompasses serotype II FCoV and CCoV and TGEV-like viruses. We propose this clade designation, along with the newly proposed Alphacoronavirus 2 species, as an improved way to classify the diverse Alphacoronavirus genus.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101774', [], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Novel insights into the molecular heterogeneity of hepatocellular carcinoma', ['Juan Jovel', 'Zhen Lin', "Sandra O'keefe", 'Steven Willows', 'Weiwei Wang', 'Guangzhi Zhang', 'Jordan Patterson', 'David J Kelvin', 'Gane K Wong', 'Andrew L Mason'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is influenced by numerous factors, which results in diverse\ngenetic, epigenetic and transcriptional scenarios, thus posing obvious challenges for disease\nmanagement. We scrutinized the molecular heterogeneity of HCC with a multi-omics\napproach in two small cohorts of resected and explanted livers. Whole-genome\ntranscriptomics was conducted, including polyadenylated transcripts and micro (mi)-RNAs.\nCopy number variants (CNV) were inferred from whole genome low-pass sequencing data.\nFifty-six cancer-related genes were screened using an oncology panel assay. HCC was\nassociated with a dramatic transcriptional deregulation of hundreds of protein-coding genes\nsuggesting downregulation of drugs catabolism, induction of inflammatory responses, and\nincreased cell proliferation in resected livers. Moreover, several long non-coding RNAs and\nmiRNAs not reported previously in the context of HCC were found deregulated. In explanted\nlivers, downregulation of genes involved in energy-producing processes and upregulation of\ngenes aiding in glycolysis were detected. Numerous CNV events were observed, with\nconspicuous hotspots on chromosomes 1 and 17. Amplifications were more common than\ndeletions, and spanned regions containing genes potentially involved in tumorigenesis.\nCSF1R, FGFR3, FLT3, NPM1, PDGFRA, PTEN, SMO and TP53 were mutated in all tumors, while\nother 26 cancer-related genes were mutated with variable penetrance. Our results highlight\na remarkable molecular heterogeneity between HCC tumors and reinforce the notion that\nprecision medicine approaches are urgently needed for cancer treatment. We expect that our\nresults will serve as a valuable dataset that will generate hypotheses for us or other\nresearchers to evaluate to ultimately improve our understanding of HCC biology.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101766', [], [u'University of Alberta;', u'University Health Network Toronto']]
[u'Differential hemispheric and visual stream involvement in ensemble coding of emotion in facial crowds', ['Hee Yeon Im', 'Daniel N Albohn', 'Troy G Steiner', 'Cody Cushing', 'Reginald B Adams', 'Kestas Kveraga'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'The visual system takes advantage of redundancies in the scene by extracting summary statistics from groups of similar items. Similary, in social situations, we routinely make snap judgments of crowds of people. Reading "crowd emotion" is critical for guiding us away from danger (e.g., mass panic or violent mobs) and towards help from friendly groups. Scrutinizing each individual\'s expression would be too slow and inefficient. How the brain accomplishes this feat, however, remains unaddressed. Here we report a set of behavioral and fMRI studies in which participants made avoidance or approach decisions by choosing between two facial crowds presented in the left and right visual fields (LVF/RVF). Behaviorally, participants were most accurate for crowds containing task-relevant cues-avoiding angry crowds/approaching happy crowds. This effect was amplified by sex-linked facial cues (angry male/happy female crowds), and highly lateralized with greater recognition of task-congruent stimuli presented in LVF. In a related fMRI study, the processing of facial crowds evoked right-lateralized activations in the dorsal visual stream, whereas similar processing of single faces preferentially activated the ventral stream bilaterally. Our results shed new light on our understand of ensemble face coding, revealing qualitatively different mechanisms involved in reading crowd vs. individual emotion.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101527', [], [u'Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Medical School;', u'Department of Psychology, The Pennsylvania State University;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Moving Beyond Clinical Risk Scores with a Mobile App for the Genomic Risk of Coronary Artery Disease', ['Evan D Muse', 'Nathan E Wineinger', 'Brian Schrader', 'Bhuvan Molparia', 'Emily G Spencer', 'Dale L Bodian', 'Ali Torkamani', 'Eric J Topol'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Primary prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD) is important for individuals at increased risk, and largely consists of healthy lifestyle modifications and initiation of medications when appropriate - including statins. Defining the inherent risk for any given individual typically relies on traditional risk factors established decades ago by the Framingham Heart Study. Unfortunately, recent studies have indicated that these traditional clinical risk factors systematically overestimate the risk of CAD across all major ancestries. This has increased the number of patients that would be eligible for statin therapy for the primary prevention of CAD but would likely receive little benefit and potentially incur negative consequences. On the other hand, researchers have demonstrated that genetic factors can effectively identify a subset of high risk individuals, and that the benefit from statin therapy is greatest among individuals with the highest genetic risk score (GRS). These individuals also receive the greatest absolute benefit from healthy lifestyle choices, being able to titrate their risk to normal levels despite high genetic predisposition. However, it is not yet possible for the average individual to discover their genetic risk because no tools are currently available to make such a determination. Here, we present a free mobile app - MyGeneRank - that can provide this information. Individuals may choose to use this knowledge to complement traditional risk assessments, and make critical decisions regarding lifelong statin therapy and lifestyle changes. As of 1/25/2017, MyGeneRank is currently in closed beta and will soon be available to the public.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101519', [], [u'Scripps Translational Science Institute;', u'bhuvan@scripps.edu;', u'Inova Translational Medicine Institute;', u'The Scripps Translational Sciences Institute;', u'Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'Real-time spike sorting platform for high-density extracellular probes with ground-truth validation and drift correction', ['James Jaeyoon Jun', 'Catalin Mitelut', 'Chongxi Lai', 'Sergey Gratiy', 'Costas Anastassiou', 'Timothy D Harris'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Electrical recordings from a large array of electrodes give us access to neural population activity with single-cell, single-spike resolution. These recordings contain extracellular spikes which must be correctly detected and assigned to individual neurons. Despite numerous spike-sorting techniques developed in the past, a lack of high-quality ground-truth datasets hinders the validation of spike-sorting approaches. Furthermore, existing approaches requiring manual corrections are not scalable for hours of recordings exceeding 100 channels. To address these issues, we  built a comprehensive spike-sorting pipeline that performs reliably under noise and probe drift by incorporating a channel-covariance feature and a clustering based on fast density-peak finding. We validated performance of our workflow using multiple ground-truth datasets that recently became available. Our software scales linearly and processes a 1000-channel recording in real-time using a single workstation. Accurate, real-time spike sorting from large recording arrays will enable more precise control of  closed-loop feedback experiments and brain-computer interfaces.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101030', [], [u'HHMI-Janelia Research Campus;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'Allen Institute for Brain Science']]
[u'Prevailing homozygous deletion of interferon and defensin genes in human cancers', ['Zhenqing Ye', 'Haidong Dong', 'Ying Li', 'Haojie Huang', 'Han Liang', 'Jean-Pierre A Kocher', 'Liguo Wang'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'Interferons and defensins are antimicrobial peptides that can also induce anti-tumor immunity. By analyzing the copy number profiles of 10759 patients across 31 cancer types, we found the homozygous deletions of interferon and defensin genes are prevailing in most human cancers, and that patients with these homozygous deletions exhibited significant reduced overall survival or disease-free survival. We further demonstrated that the homozygous deletion of interferon and defensin genes significantly impacted the expression of genes regulated by tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and IFN\u03b3;. Our findings suggested a novel immune escape mechanism that disrupts the tumor cells\u2032 ability to be recognized, and have implications for personalized immunotherapy.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101741', [], [u'Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota;', u'Department of Immunology, College of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota;', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota;', u'The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas']]
[u'Long-term genomic coevolution of host-parasite interaction in natural environment', ['Elina Laanto', 'Ville Hoikkala', 'Janne Ravantti', 'Lotta-Riina Sundberg'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'The antagonistic coevolution of parasite infectivity and host resistance alters the biological functionality of species, with effects spanning to communities and ecosystems. Still, studies describing long-term host-parasite coevolutionary dynamics in nature are largely missing. Furthermore, the role of host resistance mechanisms for parasite evolution is poorly understood, necessitating for molecular and phenotypic characterization of both coevolving parasites and their hosts. We combined long-term field sampling (2007-2014), in vitro cross-infections and time-shift experiments with bacteriophage whole genome sequencing and bacterial (Flavobacterium columnare) CRISPR (Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats) profiling to show the molecular details of the phage-bacterium arms race in the environment. Bacteria were generally resistant to phages from the past and susceptible to phages from the future. The bacterial resistance selected for increased phage infectivity and host range, correlating directly with expansion of phage genome size by 2656 bp. In the bacterial host, two CRISPR loci were identified; a type II-C locus, and an RNA-targeting type VI-B locus. While maintaining a core set of conserved spacers, phage-matching spacers appeared in the variable end of both CRISPR loci over time. Appearance of these CRISPR spacers in the bacterial host often corresponded with arms race-manner molecular changes in the protospacers of the coevolving phage population. However, the phenotypic data indicated, that the relative role of constitutive defense, may be more important in high phage pressure, highlighting the importance of our findings for understanding microbial community ecology, and in development of phage therapy applications.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101576', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Jyvaskyla;', u'University of Helsinki']]
[u'The Drosophila Dosage Compensation Complex activates target genes by chromosome looping within the active compartment', ['Tamas Schauer', 'Yad Ghavi-Helm', 'Tom Sexton', 'Christian Albig', 'Catherine Regnard', 'Giacomo Cavalli', 'Eileen E M Furlong', 'Peter B Becker'], u'January 19, 2017.', u'X chromosome dosage compensation in Drosophila requires chromosome-wide coordination of gene activation. The male-specific-lethal dosage compensation complex (DCC) identifies X chromosomal High Affinity Sites (HAS) from which it boosts transcription. A sub-class of HAS, PionX sites, represent first contacts on the X. Here, we explored the chromosomal interactions of representative PionX sites by high-resolution 4C and determined the global chromosome conformation by Hi-C in sex-sorted embryos. Male and female X chromosomes display similar nuclear architecture, concordant with clustered, constitutively active genes. PionX sites, like HAS, are evenly distributed in the active compartment and engage in short- and long-range interactions beyond compartment boundaries. By de novo induction of DCC in female cells, we monitored the extent of activation surrounding PionX sites. This revealed a remarkable range of DCC action not only in linear proximity, but also at megabase distance if close in space, suggesting that DCC profits from pre-existing chromosome folding to activate genes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101634', [u'Genomics'], [u'Biomedical Center and Center for integrated Protein Science Ludwig- Maximilians-University;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Genome Biology Unit, Heidelberg, Germany;', u'Institute of Genetics and Molecular and Cellular Biology, Illkirch, France;', u'Institute of Human Genetics, CNRS, Montpellier, France']]
[u'Myosin II activity is required for structural plasticity at the axon initial segment', ['Mark D Evans', 'Candida Tufo', 'Adna S Dumitrescu', 'Matthew S Grubb'], u'January 19, 2017.', u"In neurons, axons possess a molecularly defined and highly organised proximal region - the axon initial segment (AIS) - that is a key regulator of both electrical excitability and cellular polarity.  Despite existing as a large, dense structure with specialised cytoskeletal architecture, the AIS is surprisingly plastic, with sustained alterations in neuronal activity bringing about significant alterations to its position, length or molecular composition.  However, although the upstream activity-dependent signalling pathways that lead to such plasticity have begun to be elucidated, the downstream mechanisms that produce structural changes at the AIS are completely unknown.  Here, we use dissociated cultures of rat hippocampus to show that two forms of AIS plasticity in dentate granule cells - long-term relocation, and more rapid shortening - are completely blocked by treatment with blebbistatin, a potent and selective myosin II ATPase inhibitor.  These data establish a link between myosin II and AIS function, and suggest that myosin II's primary role at the structure may be to effect activity-dependent morphological alterations.", u'/content/early/2017/01/19/101584', [u'Neuroscience'], [u"King's College London"]]
[u'A Data Citation Roadmap for Scientific Publishers', ['Helena Cousijn', 'Amye Kenall', 'Emma Ganley', 'Melissa Harrison', 'David Kernohan', 'Fiona Murphy', 'Patrick Polischuk', 'Maryann Martone', 'Timothy Clark'], u'January 19, 2017.', u"This article presents a practical roadmap for scholarly publishers to implement data citation in accordance with the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles (JDDCP), a synopsis and harmonization of the recommendations of major science policy bodies. It was developed by the Publishers Early Adopters Expert Group as part of the Data Citation Implementation Pilot (DCIP) project, an initiative of FORCE11.org and the NIH BioCADDIE program. The structure of the roadmap presented here follows the 'life of a paper' workflow and includes the categories Pre-submission, Submission, Production, and Publication. The roadmap is intended to be publisher-agnostic so that all publishers can use this as a starting point when implementing JDDCP-compliant data citation.", u'/content/early/2017/01/19/100784', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Elsevier;', u'Springer Nature;', u'Public Library of Science;', u'eLife Science Publications;', u'JISC;', u'University of Reading;', u'University of California;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
