[u'Assessing The Reliability Of Spike-In Normalization For Analyses Of Single-Cell RNA Sequencing Data', ['Aaron TL Lun', 'Fernando J Calero-Nieto', 'Liora Haim-Vilmovsky', 'Berthold Gottgens', 'John C Marioni'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'By profiling the transcriptomes of individual cells, single-cell RNA sequencing provides unparalleled resolution to study cellular heterogeneity. However, this comes at the cost of high technical noise, including cell-specific biases in capture efficiency and library generation. One strategy for removing these biases is to add a constant amount of spike-in RNA to each cell, and to scale the observed expression values so that the coverage of spike-in RNA is constant across cells. This approach has previously been criticized as its accuracy depends on the precise addition of spike-in RNA to each sample, and on similarities in behaviour (e.g., capture efficiency) between the spike-in and endogenous transcripts. Here, we perform mixture experiments using two different sets of spike-in RNA to quantify the variance in the amount of spike-in RNA added to each well in a plate-based protocol. We also obtain an upper bound on the variance due to differences in behaviour between the two spike-in sets. We demonstrate that both factors are small contributors to the total technical variance and have only minor effects on downstream analyses such as detection of highly variable genes and clustering. Our results suggest that spike-in normalization is reliable enough for routine use in single-cell RNA sequencing data analyses.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119784', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CRUK Cambridge Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust and MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute;', u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory - European Bioinformatics Institute']]
[u'On The Relationship Between Epistasis And Genetic Variance-Heterogeneity', ['Simon K G Forsberg', 'Orjan Carlborg'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Epistasis and genetic variance heterogeneity are two non-additive genetic inheritance patterns that are often, but not always, related. Here we use theoretical examples and empirical results from analyses of experimental data to illustrate the connection between the two. This includes an introduction to the relationship between epistatic gene-action, statistical epistasis and genetic variance heterogeneity and a brief discussion about how other genetic processes than epistasis can also give rise to genetic variance heterogeneity.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119727', [u'Genetics'], [u'Uppsala University']]
[u'Vegetally Localized Vrtn Functions As A Novel Repressor To Modulate bmp2b Transcription During Dorsoventral Patterning In Zebrafish', ['Ming Shao', 'Min Wang', 'Yi-Wen Ge', 'Yan-Jun Zhang', 'De-Li Shi'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'The vegetal pole cytoplasm represents a critical source of maternal signals for patterning the primary dorsoventral axis of the early embryo. Vegetally localized dorsal determinants are essential for the formation of the Spemann organizer, which expresses both bone morphogenetic proteins and their antagonists. The extracellular regulation of BMP signalling activity has been well characterized, however, transcriptional regulation of bmp genes along the dorsoventral axis remains largely unknown. Here, we report a novel mode of maternal regulation of BMP signalling in the lateral and ventral regions by analyzing the unexpected dorsalizing effect following vegetal yolk ablation experiment. We identified Vrtn as a novel vegetally localized maternal factor displaying dorsalizing activity. It functions as a novel transcriptional repressor to regulate bmp2b expression in the marginal region. Mechanistically, Vrtn binds bmp2b upstream sequence and inhibits its transcription independently of maternal Wnt/beta-catenin signalling. By creating vrtn loss-of-function mutation and analyzing maternal-zygotic mutant embryos, we further showed that Vrtn is required for the formation of dorsoventral axis. Our work thus unveils a novel maternal mechanism regulating BMP gradient during dorsoventral specification.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119776', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'School of Life Science, Shandong University;', u'University Pierre et Marie Curie']]
[u'Sorting & Sequencing Flies By Size: Identification Of Novel TOR Regulators And Parameters For Successful Sorting', ['Katrin Strassburger', 'Tanja Zoeller', 'Thomas Sandmann', 'Svenja Leible', 'Grainne Kerr', 'Michael Boutros', 'Aurelio Teleman'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'As DNA sequencing throughput increases, novel strategies for discovering genes that affect traits of interest become available. One strategy starts with a population of animals and selects individuals over multiple generations for a particular trait. Subsequent whole genome sequencing should identify loci affecting this trait. We apply this strategy by sorting flies for wing length over 18 generations, obtaining two populations that differ in wing length by 20%. Flies with longer wings had increased overall body sizes and elevated TOR activity, suggesting that genetic variation targets TOR signaling to influence body size. High-throughput sequencing of big and small flies identified thousands of single nucleotide polymorphisms that differed between the two populations, leading us to identify five novel regulators of TOR signaling. Surprisingly, stochastic simulations of the process show that large fractions of the genetic differences between the big and small flies are probably biological false positives, selected by chance by random drift. We employ these computer simulations to identify experimental setup parameters to improve the signal-to-noise ratio for successfully running sort-and-sequence experiments - a resource which will hopefully be useful for the community.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119719', [u'Genetics'], [u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ);', u'Uni Freiburg;', u'Denali Therapeutics;', u'Novartis']]
[u'Identification And Characterization Of Domesticated Bacterial Transposases', ['Frederic Bertels', 'Jenna Gallie', 'Paul B Rainey'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Selfish genetic elements (SGEs), such as insertion sequences (ISs) and transposons are found in most genomes. Transposons are identifiable by their high copy number and capacity for horizontal transfer. In contrast REP associated tyrosine transposases (RAYTs), a recently described class of bacterial transposases, are typically present at just one copy per genome. This suggests that RAYTs no longer copy themselves. Motivated by this possibility we interrogated thousands of fully sequenced bacterial genomes in order to determine patterns of RAYT diversity, their distribution across chromosomes and accessory elements, and rate of duplication. RAYTs encompass exceptional diversity and are divisible into at least five distinct groups. They possess features more similar to housekeeping genes than insertion sequences, are vertically transmitted and have persisted through evolutionary time to the point where they are now found in ~19% of all fully sequenced bacterial genomes. Overall, the evolutionary dynamics of RAYTs suggest that they have been co-opted by host genomes to perform an important but currently unknown function.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119735', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Pathogenic Amino Acid Variants In Mitochondrial Proteins More Frequently Arise In Lineages Closely Related To Human Than In Distantly Related Lineages', ['Galya V. Klink', 'Georgii A. Bazykin'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'Propensities for different amino acids within a protein site change in the course of evolution, so that an amino acid deleterious in a particular species may be acceptable at the same site in a different species. Here, we study the amino acid-changing variants in human mitochondrial genes, and analyze their occurrence in non-human species. By reconstructing the phylogeny of mitochondrial proteins from several thousand opisthokonts, we study the changes in the rate at which either the human or the non-human allele originated, and thus determine how the fitness conferred by different human alleles changes with evolutionary distance from the human. Substitutions giving rise to the amino acid that is fixed at this site in humans, and to the non-reference allele at human polymorphic sites, tend to occur in lineages closely related to human more frequently than in more distantly related lineages, indicating that a human variant is more likely to be deleterious in more distant species. Unexpectedly, amino acids corresponding to pathogenic alleles in humans also more frequently originate at more closely related lineages, indicating that they, too, become even more deleterious with increased phylogenetic distance from human. The pathogenic variants are more similar to the human reference variant in their physico-chemical properties than a random amino acid occurring at the site in other species. Therefore, a pathogenic variant still tends to be more acceptable in human mitochondria than a variant that may only be observed after a substantial perturbation of the protein structure that occurs over long evolutionary times.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119792', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'IITP RAS']]
[u'Can Human Embryonic Stem Cell-Derived Stromal Cells Serve A Starting Material For Myoblasts?', ['Yu Ando', 'Marie Saito', 'Masakazu Machida', 'Chikako Noro', 'Masataka Takahashi', 'Masashi Toyoda', 'Akihiro Umezawa'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'A large number of myocytes is necessary to treat intractable muscular disorders such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy with cell-based therapies. However, starting materials for cellular therapy products such as myoblasts, marrow stromal cells, menstrual blood-derived cells and placenta-derived cells have a limited lifespan and cease to proliferate in vitro. From the viewpoints of manufacturing and quality control, cells with a long lifespan are more suitable as a starting material. In this study, we generated stromal cells for future myoblast therapy from a working cell bank of human embryonic stem cells (ESCs). The ESC-derived CD105+ cells with extensive in vitro proliferation capability exhibited myogenesis and genetic stability in vitro. These results imply that ESC-derived CD105+ cells are another cell source for myoblasts in cell-based therapy for patients with genetic muscular disorders. Since ESCs are immortal, mesenchymal stromal cells generated from ESCs can be manufactured at a large scale in one lot for pharmaceutical purposes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119693', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Research Institute for Child Health and Development;', u'Nihon University;', u'Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology']]
[u'A Microfluidic Module For Real-Time Generation Of Complex Multi-Molecule Temporal Concentration Profiles', ['Kristina Woodruff', 'Sebastian Josef Maerkl'], u'March 23, 2017.', u'We designed a microfluidic module that generates complex, dynamic concentration profiles of multiple molecules over a large concentration range using pulse-width modulation (PWM). Our PWM device can arbitrarily combine up to 6 different inputs and select between three downstream mixing channels as required by the application. The module can produce arbitrary concentrations with a dynamic range of up to 3-5 decades. We created complex concentration profiles of 2 molecules, with each concentration independently controllable, and show that the PWM module can execute rapid concentration changes as well as long-timescale pharmacokinetic profiles. Concentration profiles were generated for molecules with molecular weights ranging from 560 Da to 150 kDa. Our PWM module produces robust and precise concentration profiles under a variety of operating conditions, making it ideal for integration with existing microfluidic devices for advanced cell and pharmacokinetic studies.', u'/content/early/2017/03/23/119701', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL)']]
