[u'LRSim: a Linked Reads Simulator generating insights for better genome partitioning', ['Ruibang Luo', 'Fritz J Sedlazeck', 'Charlotte A Darby', 'Stephen M Kelly', 'Michael C Schatz'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Motivation: Linked reads are a form of DNA sequencing commercialized by 10X Genomics that uses highly multiplexed barcoding within microdroplets to tag short reads to progenitor molecules. The linked reads, spanning tens to hundreds of kilobases, offer an alternative to long-read sequencing for de novo assembly, haplotype phasing and other applications. However, there is no available simulator, making it difficult to measure their capability or develop new informatics tools.  Results: Our analysis of 13 real linked read datasets revealed their characteristics of barcodes, molecules and partitions. Based on this, we introduce LRSim that simulates linked reads by emulating the library preparation and sequencing process with fine control of 1) the number of simulated variants; 2) the linked-read characteristics; and 3) the Illumina reads profile. We conclude from the phasing and genome assembly of multiple datasets, recommendations on coverage, fragment length, and partitioning when sequencing human and non-human genome.  Availability: LRSIM is under MIT license and is freely available at https://github.com/aquaskyline/LRSIM', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103549', [], [u'The Johns Hopkins University;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'New York University School of Medicine']]
[u'Heterogeneity of hypothalamic Pro-opiomelanocortin-expressing neurons revealed by single-cell RNA sequencing', ['Brian Y. H. Lam', 'Irene Cimino', 'Joseph Polex-Wolf', 'Sara N. Kohnke', 'Debra Rimmington', 'Valentine Iyemere', 'Nicholas Heeley', 'Chiara Cossetti', 'Reiner Schulte', 'Luis R. Saraiva', 'Darren W Logan', 'Clemence Blouet', "Stephen O'Rahilly", 'Anthony Coll', 'Giles S. H. Yeo'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'The leptin-melanocortin pathway plays a key role in the control of food intake and body weight, with genetic disruption of multiple components of the pathway resulting in severe, early-onset obesity in both humans and mice (reviewed by (Yeo and Heisler, 2012)). In the brain, POMC expression is localized to neurons in the arcuate nucleus (ARC) of the hypothalamus and in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) (Cone, 2005).  POMC is a pro-peptide that is processed to a range of bioactive peptide products including \u03b1 and \u03b2-MSH (Bertagna, 1994; Castro and Morrison, 1997), both of which act on melanocortin receptors 3 and 4, which are widely expressed in the central nervous system. The role of MC4R in mediating the effects of POMC on energy balance is well established, whereas the role of MC3R is less clear (Cone, 2005).  In the ARC, anorexigenic POMC neurons exist alongside orexigenic neurons that express the endogenous melanocortin antagonist agouti-related peptide (AgRP) (Fan et al., 1997; Ollmann et al., 1997). The canonical view of the melanocortin pathway is one where leptin, which is produced from white adipose tissue to reflect fat mass, signals to leptin receptors on the POMC and AgRP neurons, increasing the activity of POMC neurons and reducing the activity of AgRP expressing neurons (Cone, 2005; Yeo and Heisler, 2012). However, there is a body of evidence that indicate this view of the leptin melanocortin pathway to be an over-simplistic representation of the relevant circuitry. Woods and Stock, using FOS immunoreactivity of the immediate early gene c-fos as a marker of neuronal activation, reported that while neurons in the arcuate nucleus of leptin deficient ob/ob mice were activated by peripheral leptin administration, the area of the hypothalamus most strongly activated was the paraventricular nucleus (Woods and Stock, 1996). Later, it became clear that not all POMC neurons express the receptors for leptin or insulin, with whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology indicating that a subpopulation are depolarized by leptin, while a separate and distinct population is hyperpolarized by insulin (Williams et al., 2010).  POMC neurons also vary in their expression of the neurotransmitters glutamate, \u01b3-aminobutyric acid (GABA) (Hentges et al., 2009; Jarvie and Hentges, 2012), and acetylcholine (Meister et al., 2006) and their downstream projections. For instance, 40% of POMC neurons appear to be GABAergic and hence inhibitory (Hentges et al., 2009).  In addition, only about 40% of POMC neurons express the serotonin 2C receptor (5HT2C-R), the target for the weight-loss drug Lorcaserin, through which it is thought to mediate much of its actions on satiety (Burke et al., 2016; Heisler et al., 2002). Finally, mice with a targeted deletion of the leptin receptor specifically from POMC neurons display a surprisingly mild phenotype (Balthasar et al., 2004), as compared to complete Pomc null mice (Challis et al., 2004; Yaswen et al., 1999) and db/db mice homozygous for a Lepr mutation (Chen et al., 1996). A recent paper by Henry et al reported the gene expression profiles of pooled AGRP and POMC neurons from fed and food deprived mice, and found that the global pattern of gene expression in response to an acute energy deficit are far more dramatic in AGRP expressing than POMC expressing neurons (Henry et al., 2015). However, because of its use of pooled cells, the transcriptomic profiles of individual neurons, and hence their variability in gene expression, was not examined. We now report the results of single cell RNA sequencing in isolated POMC expressing neurons of the arcuate nucleus which has revealed a previously unappreciated degree of heterogeneity within this anatomically highly localised population.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103408', [], [u'MRC Metabolic Diseases Unit, University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories;', u'MRC Metabolic Diseases Unit, University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Wellcome Trust;', u'Flow Cytometry Core, Cambridge Institute of Medical Research, University of Cambridge;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge CB10 1SA, UK']]
[u'PGS: a dynamic and automated population-based genome structure software', ['Nan Hua', 'Harianto Tjong', 'Hanjun Shin', 'Ke Gong', 'Xianghong Jasmine Zhou', 'Frank Alber'], u'January 26, 2017.', u"Hi-C technologies are widely used to investigate the spatial organization of genomes. However, the structural variability of the genome is a great challenge to interpreting ensemble-averaged Hi-C data, particularly for long-range/interchromosomal interactions. We pioneered a probabilistic approach for generating a population of distinct diploid 3D genome structures consistent with all the chromatin-chromatin interaction probabilities from Hi-C experiments. Each structure in the population is a physical model of the genome in 3D. Analysis of these models yields new insights into the causes and the functional properties of the genome's organization in space and time. We provide a user-friendly software package, called PGS, that runs on local machines and high-performance computing platforms. PGS takes a genome-wide Hi-C contact frequency matrix and produces an ensemble of 3D genome structures entirely consistent with the input. The software automatically generates an analysis report, and also provides tools to extract and analyze the 3D coordinates of specific domains.", u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103358', [], [u'University of Southern California']]
[u'TIDE: predicting translation initiation sites by deep learning', ['Sai Zhang', 'Hailin Hu', 'Tao Jiang', 'Lei Zhang', 'Jianyang Zeng'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Translation initiation is a key step in the regulation of gene expression. In addition to the annotated translation initiation sites (TISs), the translation process may also start at multiple alternative TISs (including both AUG and non-AUG codons), which makes it challenging to predict and study the underlying regulatory mechanisms. Meanwhile, the advent of several high-throughput sequencing techniques for profiling initiating ribosomes at single-nucleotide resolution, e.g., GTI-seq and QTI-seq, provides abundant data for systematically studying the general principles of translation initiation and the development of computational method for TIS identification. We have developed a deep learning based framework, named TIDE, for accurately predicting TISs on a genome-wide scale based on QTI-seq data. TIDE extracts the sequence features of translation initiation from the surrounding sequence contexts of TISs using a hybrid neural network and further integrates the prior preference of TIS codon composition into a unified prediction framework. Extensive tests demonstrated that TIDE can greatly outperform the state-of-the-art prediction methods in identifying TISs. In addition, TIDE was able to identify important sequence signatures for individual types of TIS codons, including a Kozak-sequence-like motif for AUG start codon. Furthermore, the TIDE prediction score can be related to the strength of translation initiation in various biological scenarios, including the repressive effect of the upstream open reading frames (uORFs) on gene expression and the mutational effects influencing translation initiation efficiency.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103374', [], [u'Institute for Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, Tsinghua University;', u'School of Medicine, Tsinghua University;', u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, Riverside']]
[u'Mapping load-bearing in the mammalian spindle reveals local kinetochore-fiber anchorage that provides mechanical isolation and redundancy', ['Mary Williard Elting', 'Manu Prakash', 'Dylan B. Udy', 'Sophie Dumont'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Active forces generated at kinetochores move chromosomes, and the dynamic spindle must robustly anchor kinetochore-fibers (k-fibers) to bear this load. We know that the mammalian spindle body can bear the load of chromosome movement far from poles, but do not know where and how - physically and molecularly - this load is distributed across the spindle. In part, this is because perturbing and reading out spindle mechanics in live cells is difficult. Yet, answering this question is key to understanding how the spindle generates and responds to force, and performs its diverse mechanical functions. Here, we map load-bearing across the mammalian spindle in space-time, and dissect local anchorage mechanics and mechanism. To do so, we laser ablate single k-fibers at different spindle locations, and in different molecular backgrounds, and quantify at high time resolution the immediate relaxation of chromosomes, k-fibers, and microtubule speckles. We find that load redistribution is locally confined in all directions: along the first 3-4 \u03bcm from kinetochores, scaling with k-fiber length, and laterally within ~2 \u03bcm of k-fiber sides, without neighboring k-fibers sharing load. A phenomenological model constrains the mechanistic underpinnings of these data: it suggests that dense, transient crosslinks to the spindle along k-fibers bear the load of chromosome movement, but that these connections do not limit the timescale of spindle reorganization. The microtubule crosslinker NuMA is needed for the local load-bearing observed, while Eg5 and PRC1 are not, suggesting specialization in mechanical function and a novel function for NuMA throughout the spindle body. Together, the data and model suggest that widespread NuMA-mediated crosslinks locally bear load, providing mechanical isolation and redundancy while allowing spindle fluidity. These features are well-suited to support robust chromosome segregation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103572', [], [u'UCSF;', u'Stanford']]
[u'Sexual reproduction as bet-hedging', ['Xiang-Yi Li', 'Jussi Lehtonen', 'Hanna Kokko'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'In evolutionary biology, bet-hedging refers to a strategy that reduces the variance of reproductive success at the cost of reduced mean reproductive success. In unpredictably fluctuating environments, bet-hedgers benefit from higher geometric mean fitness despite having lower arithmetic mean fitness than their specialist competitors. We examine the extent to which sexual reproduction can be considered a type of bet-hedging, by clarifying past arguments, examining parallels and differences to evolutionary games, and by presenting a simple model examining geometric and arithmetic mean payoffs of sexual and asexual reproduction. Sex typically has lower arithmetic mean fitness than asex, while the geometric mean fitness can be higher if sexually produced offspring are not identical. However, asexual individuals that are heterozygotes can gain conservative bet-hedging benefits of similar magnitude while avoiding the costs of sex. This highlights that bet-hedging always has to be specified relative to the payoff structure of relevant competitors. It also makes it unlikely that sex, at least when associated with significant male production, evolves solely based on bet-hedging in the context of frequently and repeatedly occupied environmental states. Future work could usefully consider bet-hedging in open-ended evolutionary scenarios with de novo mutations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103390', [], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University of New South Wales']]
[u'Array-based sequencing of filaggrin gene for comprehensive detection of disease-associated variants', ['X. F. Colin C Wong', 'Simon L. I. J. Denil', 'Jia Nee Foo', 'Huijia Chen', 'Angeline S. L. Tay', 'Rebecca L. Haines', 'Mark B. Y. Tang', 'W. H. Irwin McLean', 'E. Birgitte Lane', 'Jianjun Liu', 'John E. Common'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'The filaggrin gene (FLG) is essential for skin differentiation and epidermal barrier formation with links to skin diseases, however it has a highly repetitive nucleotide sequence containing very limited stretches of unique nucleotides for precise mapping to reference genomes. Sequencing strategies using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and conventional Sanger sequencing have been successful for complete FLG coding DNA sequence amplification to identify pathogenic mutations but this time-consuming, labour intensive method has restricted utility. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) offers obvious benefits to accelerate FLG analysis but standard re-sequencing techniques such as oligoprobe-based exome or customized targeted-capture can be expensive, especially for a single target gene of interest. We therefore designed a protocol to improve FLG sequencing throughput using a set of FLG-specific PCR primer assays compatible with microfluidic amplification, multiplexing and current NGS protocols. Using DNA reference samples with known FLG genotypes for benchmarking, this protocol is shown to be concordant for variant detection across different sequencing methodologies. We applied this methodology to analyze cohorts from ethnicities previously not studied for FLG variants and demonstrate usefulness for discovery projects. This comprehensive coverage sequencing protocol is labour-efficient and offers an affordable solution to scale up FLG sequencing for larger cohorts. Robust and rapid FLG sequencing can improve patient stratification for research projects and provide a framework for gene specific diagnosis in the future.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103416', [], [u'Institute of Medical Biology;', u'Nanyang Technological University;', u'National Skin Centre;', u'University of Dundee;', u'Genome Institute of Singapore;', u'Institute of Medical Biology, A*STAR']]
[u'Genetic effects on chromatin accessibility foreshadow gene expression changes in macrophage immune response', ['Kaur Alasoo', 'Julia Rodrigues', 'Subhankar Mukhopadhyay', 'Andrew J. Knights', 'Alice L. Mann', 'Kousik Kundu', 'HIPSCI Consortium', 'Christine Hale', 'Gordon Dougan', 'Daniel J. Gaffney'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Noncoding regulatory variants play an important role in the genetics of complex traits. Although quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping is a powerful approach to identify these variants, many genetic effects may remain unobserved when cells are sampled in only one of a large number of possible environments. Using a novel induced pluripotent stem cell-derived system, we mapped QTLs regulating chromatin accessibility and gene expression in macrophages in four conditions mimicking the interplay between interferon-gamma response and Salmonella infection. We found that approximately 50% of condition-specific effects on gene expression altered chromatin accessibility prior to stimulation. Furthermore, 6% of the chromatin accessibility QTLs regulated multiple neighbouring regions and these interactions were modulated by stimulation, occasionally producing condition-specific changes in gene expression. Profiling additional states also doubled the number of expression QTLs that could be confidently colocalised with disease associations. Thus, a substantial fraction of disease-associated variants may affect "primed" regulatory elements in naive cells.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/102392', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'The mitochondrial genomes of the acoelomorph worms Paratomella rubra and Isodiametra pulchra', ['Helen Robertson', 'Francois Lapraz', 'Maximilian Telford', 'Philipp H. Schiffer'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Acoels are small, ubiquitous, but understudied, marine worms with a very simple body plan. Their internal phylogeny is still in parts unresolved, and the position of their proposed phylum Xenacoelomorpha (Xenoturbella+Acoela) is still debated. Here we describe mitochondrial genome sequences from two acoel species: Paratomella rubra and Isodiametra pulchra. The 14,954 nucleotide-long P. rubra sequence is typical for metazoans in size and gene content. The larger I. pulchra mitochondrial genome contains both ribosomal genes, 21 tRNAs, but only 11 protein-coding genes. We find evidence suggesting a duplicated sequence in the I. pulchra mitochondrial genome. Mitochondrial sequences for both P. rubra and I. pulchra have a unique genome organisation in comparison to other published metazoan mitochondrial genomes. We found a large degree of protein-coding gene and tRNA overlap in P. rubra, with little non-coding sequence making the genome compact. Conversely, the I. pulchra mitochondrial genome has many long non-coding sequences between genes, likely driving the genome size expansion. Phylogenetic trees inferred from concatenated alignments of mitochondrial genes grouped the fast-evolving Acoela and Tunicata, almost certainly due to the systematic error of long branch attraction: a reconstruction artefact that is probably compounded by the fast substitution rate of mitochondrial genes in this taxon.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103556', [], [u'Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, University College London;', u'CNRS/UMR 7277, Institut de Biologie Valrose, iBV, Universite de Nice Sophia Antipolis']]
[u'The evolution of central dogma of molecular biology: a logic-based dynamic approach', ['Mohieddin Jafari', 'Mehdi Mirzaie'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'The age of the central dogma of molecular biology exceeded a half of a century. This biological axiom is grown up and now is more complicated. In this review, we renewed and re-expressed the central dogma as a mathematical model. It showed that the enhancement of the complexity kept pace with the gaining robustness.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103127', [], [u'Pasteur Institute of Iran;', u'Tarbiat Modares University']]
[u'Contemporary evolution of a Lepidopteran species, Heliothis virescens, in response to modern agricultural practices', ['Megan L Fritz', 'Alexandra M Deyonke', 'Alexie Papanicolaou', 'Stephen Micinski', 'John Westbrook', 'Fred Gould'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Adaptation to human-induced environmental change has the potential to profoundly influence the genomic architecture of affected species. This is particularly true in agricultural ecosystems, where anthropogenic selection pressure is strong.  Heliothis virescens feeds on cotton in its larval stages and populations in the Southern United States have been declining since the widespread planting of transgenic cotton in the late 1990s. These cotton cultivars endogenously express proteins derived from the bacterium Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), which are lethal to H. virescens.  No physiological adaptation to Bt toxin has been found, so adaptation to this altered environment could involve: 1) shifts in host plant selection mechanisms to avoid cotton, or 2) changes in detoxification mechanisms required for cotton-feeding versus feeding on other host plants.  A decline in pyrethroid use in Bt cotton landscapes likely also led to reversion to susceptible alleles at loci involved in expression of pyrethroid resistance.  Here we begin to address the question of whether such changes occurred in H. virescens populations between the years 1997 and 2012.  In a proof of concept experiment, we confirmed that allele frequency changes at the voltage-gated sodium channel gene, a pyrethroid resistance locus, could be detected through a genomic scanning technique that depends on linkage disequilibrium between molecular markers and gene targets of selection.  A direct PCR approach first confirmed a decline in frequency of the pyrethroid resistance allele in H. virescens populations over time. We then tested the hypothesis that this known genetic change could be detected via a ddRAD-seq enabled genome scan in concert with our new H. virescens genome assembly.  One ddRAD-seq marker was physically linked to the sodium channel gene, and the rate of allele frequency change at that marker was similar to that of the sodium channel resistance allele. We then identified additional ddRAD-seq loci with significant allele frequency changes over the 15 year study period. Genes near these ddRAD-seq loci were identified and their potential contributions to adaptive phenotypes are discussed.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103382', [], [u'University of Maryland;', u'North Carolina State University;', u'Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment;', u'LSU AgCenter;', u'USDA Agricultural Research Service']]
[u'Unifying Population and Landscape Ecology with Spatial Capture-recapture', ['J. Andrew Royle', 'Angela K Fuller', 'Chris Sutherland'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Spatial heterogeneity in the environment induces variation in population demographic rates and dispersal patterns, which result in spatio-temporal variation in density and gene flow. Unfortunately, applying theory to learn about the role of spatial structure on populations has been hindered by the lack of mechanistic spatial models and inability to make precise observations of population structure. Spatial capture-recapture (SCR) represents an individual-based analytic framework for overcoming this fundamental obstacle that has limited the utility of ecological theory. SCR methods make explicit use of spatial encounter information on individuals in order to model density and other spatial aspects of animal population structure, and have been widely adopted in the last decade. We review the historical context and emerging developments in SCR models that enable the integration of explicit ecological hypotheses about landscape connectivity, movement, resource selection, and spatial variation in density, directly with individual encounter history data obtained by new technologies (e.g., camera trapping, non-invasive DNA sampling). We describe ways in which SCR methods stand to revolutionize the study of animal population ecology.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103341', [], [u'USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center;', u'USGS, Dept. of Natural Resources, Cornell University;', u'University of Massachussetts - Amherst']]
[u'Inferential Learning of Serial Order of Perceptual Categories by Rhesus Monkeys (Macaca mulatta)', ['Natalie Tanner', 'Greg Jensen', 'Vincent P Ferrera', 'Herbert S Terrace'], u'January 26, 2017.', u"Category learning in animals is typically trained explicitly, in most instances by varying the exemplars of a single category in a matching-to-sample task. Here, we show that rhesus macaques can learn categories by a transitive inference paradigm in which novel exemplars of five categories were presented throughout each training session. Instead of requiring decisions about a constant set of repetitively presented stimuli, we studied the macaque's ability to determine the relative order of multiple exemplars of particular stimuli that were rarely repeated. Ordinal decisions generalized both to novel stimuli and, as a consequence, to novel pairings. Thus, we showed that rhesus monkeys could learn to categorize on the basis of implied ordinal position, and that they could then make inferences about category order. Our results challenge the plausibility of association models of category learning and broaden the scope of the transitive inference paradigm.", u'/content/early/2017/01/26/102897', [], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Cryo-Electron Microscopy Structure of the Macrobrachium Rosenbergii Nodavirus Capsid at 7 Angstroms Resolution', ['Kok Lian Ho', 'Chare Li Kueh', 'Poay Ling Beh', 'Wen Siang Tan', 'David Bhella'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'White tail disease in the giant freshwater prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii causes significant economic losses in shrimp farms and hatcheries and poses a threat to food-security in many developing countries. Outbreaks of Macrobrachium rosenbergii nodavirus (MrNV), the causative agent of white tail disease (WTD) are associated with up to 100% mortality rates. Recombinant expression of the capsid protein of MrNV in insect cells leads to the production of VLPs closely resembling the native virus. We have investigated the structure of MrNV VLPs by cryogenic electron microscopy, determining a structure of the viral capsid at 7 angstroms resolution.  Our data show that MrNV VLPs package nucleic acids in a manner reminiscent of other known nodavirus structures. The structure of the capsid however shows striking differences from insect and fish infecting nodaviruses, which have been shown to assemble trimer-clustered T=3 icosahedral virus particles. MrNV particles have pronounced dimeric blade-shaped spikes extending up to 6 nm from the outer surface of the capsid shell. Our structural analysis supports the assertion that MrNV along with the related virus of marine shrimp Penaeus vannamei nodavirus (PvNV) may represent a new genus of the Nodaviridae.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103424', [], [u'Universiti Putra Malaysia;', u'University of Glasgow']]
[u'Neural noise in the age-varying human brain predicts perceptual decisions', ['Leonhard Waschke', 'Malte Woestmann', 'Jonas Obleser'], u'January 26, 2017.', u"Humans sometimes do perceive differences where physically there are none. It is thus tenable that perception is susceptible to seemingly random fluctuations in brain activity or 'neural noise'. Here, we demonstrate the potency of both trial-aggregated as well as trial-by-trial measures in the human electroencephalogram (EEG) to characterize neural noise as (i) a trait of individuals of varying age (n = 19; 19-74 years), and (ii) a brain state that predicts an individual's impending perceptual decision. Human participants were instructed to discriminate two identical, consecutively presented pure tones. Behaviorally, all participants reported perceiving pitch differences of first versus second tone. Neurally, decisions for the first versus the second tone were preceded by more consistently phase-locked responses to the first tone in the theta (4-9 Hz) band at central scalp electrodes. Second, a trial-wise information-theoretic measure quantifying the irregularity of broadband EEG, Weighted Permutation Entropy (WPE), prior to stimulus onset allowed to classify a listener's impending decision on this trial. Average entropy not only increased with participants' age, but correlated with previously suggested measures of an altered excitation-inhibition balance in the aging brain. Therefore, neural noise is best conceived not only as a state variable that can shape perceptual decisions but moreover can capture trait-like changes with age.", u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103432', [], [u'University of Luebeck']]
[u'Ultra-fast Identity by Descent Detection in Biobank-Scale Cohorts using Positional Burrows-Wheeler Transform', ['Ardalan Naseri', 'Xiaoming Liu', 'Shaojie Zhang', 'Degui Zhi'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'With the availability of genotyping data of very large samples, there is an increasing need for tools that can efficiently identify genetic relationships among all individuals in the sample. One fundamental measure of genetic relationship of a pair of individuals is identity by descent (IBD), chromosomal segments that are shared among two individuals due to common ancestry. However, the efficient identification of IBD segments among a large number of genotyped individuals is a challenging computational problem. Most existing methods are not feasible for even thousands of individuals because they are based on pairwise comparisons of all individuals and thus scale up quadratically with sample size. Some methods, such as GERMLINE, use fast dictionary lookup of short seed sequence matches to achieve a near-linear time efficiency. However, the number of short seed matches often scales up super-linearly in real population data. \nIn this paper we describe a new approach for IBD detection. We take advantage of an efficient population genotype index, Positional BWT (PBWT), by Richard Durbin. PBWT achieves linear time query of perfectly identical subsequences among all samples. However, the original PBWT is not tolerant to genotyping errors which often interrupt long IBD segments into short fragments. We introduce a randomized strategy by running PBWTs over random projections of the original sequences. To boost the detection power we run PBWT multiple times and merge the identified IBD segments through interval tree algorithms. Given a target IBD segment length, RaPID adjust parameters to optimize detection power and accuracy. Simulation results proved that our tool (RaPID) achieves almost linear scaling up to sample size and is orders of magnitude faster than GERMLINE. At the same time, RaPID maintains a detection power and accuracy comparable to existing mainstream algorithms, GERMLINE and IBDseq. Running multiple times with various target detection lengths over the 1000 Genomes Project data, RaPID can detect population events at different time scales. With our tool, it is feasible to identify IBDs among hundreds of thousands to millions of individuals, a sample size that will become reality in a few years.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103325', [], [u'University of Central Florida;', u'University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston']]
[u'Heterogeneity in the tumour size dynamics differentiates Vemurafenib, Dabrafenib and Trametinib in metastatic melanoma', ['Hitesh Mistry', 'David Orrell', 'Raluca Eftimie'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Molecular heterogeneity in tumours leads to variability in drug response both between patients and across lesions within a patient. These sources of variability could be explored through analysis of routinely collected clinical trial imaging data. We applied a mathematical model of tumour growth to analyse both within and between patient variability in tumour size dynamics to clinical data from three drugs, Vemurafenib, Dabrafenib and Trametinib, used in the treatment of metastatic melanoma. The analysis revealed: 1) existence of homogeneity in drug response and resistance development within a patient; 2) tumour shrinkage rate does not relate to rate of resistance development; 3) Vemurafenib and Dabrafenib, two BRAF inhibitors, have different variability in tumour shrinkage rates. Overall these results show how analysis of the dynamics of individual lesions can shed light on the within and between patient differences in tumour shrinkage and resistance rates, which could be used to gain a macroscopic understanding of tumour heterogeneity.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103366', [], [u'The University Of Manchester;', u'SystemsForecasting;', u'University of Dundee']]
[u'The 4D Nucleome Project', ['Job Dekker', 'Andrew S Belmont', 'Mitchell Guttman', 'Victor O Leshyk', 'John T Lis', 'Stavros Lomvardas', 'Leonid A Mirny', "Clodagh C O'Shea", 'Peter J Park', 'Bing Ren', 'Joan C Ritland', 'Jay Shendure', 'Sheng Zhong'], u'January 26, 2017.', u"The spatial organization of the genome and its dynamics contribute to gene expression and cellular function in normal development as well as in disease.  Although we are increasingly well equipped to determine a genome's sequence and linear chromatin composition, studying the three-dimensional organization of the genome with high spatial and temporal resolution remains challenging.  The 4D Nucleome Network aims to develop and apply approaches to map the structure and dynamics of the human and mouse genomes in space and time with the long term goal of gaining deeper mechanistic understanding of how the nucleus is organized.  The project will develop and benchmark experimental and computational approaches for measuring genome conformation and nuclear organization, and investigate how these contribute to gene regulation and other genome functions.  Further efforts will be directed at applying validated experimental approaches combined with biophysical modeling to generate integrated maps and quantitative models of spatial genome organization in different biological states, both in cell populations and in single cells.", u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103499', [], [u'University of Massachusetts;', u'University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign;', u'California Institute of Technology;', u'University of California San Diego;', u'Cornell University;', u'Columbia University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Salk Institute;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, University of California San Diego;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'In vivo translatome profiling reveals early defects in ribosome biology underlying SMA pathogenesis', ['Paola Bernabo', 'Toma Tebaldi', 'Ewout JN Groen', 'Fiona M Lane', 'Elena Perenthaler', 'Francesca Mattedi', 'Helen J Newbery', 'Haiyan Zhou', 'Paola Zuccotti', 'Valentina Potrich', 'Francesco Muntoni', 'Alessandro Quattrone', 'Thomas H Gillingwater', 'Gabriella Viero'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Genetic alterations impacting on ubiquitously expressed proteins involved in mRNA metabolism often result in neurodegenerative conditions, with increasing evidence suggesting that translational defects can contribute to disease. Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disease caused by low levels of SMN protein, whose role in disease pathogenesis remains unclear. By determining in parallel the in vivo transcriptome and translatome in SMA mice we identified a robust decrease in translational efficiency, arising during early stages of disease. Translational defects affected translation-related transcripts, were cell autonomous, and were fully rescued after treatment with antisense oligonucleotides to restore SMN levels. Defects in translation were accompanied by a decrease in the number of ribosomes in motor neurons in vivo. Our findings suggest that neuronal tissues and cells are particularly sensitive to perturbations in translation during SMA, and identify ribosome biology as an important, yet largely neglected, factor in motor neuron degeneration.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103481', [], [u'Institute of Biophysics - CNR;', u'Centre for Integrative Biology, University of Trento;', u'Euan MacDonald Centre for Motor Neurone Disease Research, University of Edinburgh;', u'Dubowitz Neuromuscular Centre, UCL Institute of Child Health']]
[u'Trait correlates of climatic niche tracking in British birds', ['Giovanni Rapacciuolo', 'Robert A Robinson', 'Simon Gillings', 'Andy Purvis'], u'January 26, 2017.', u"Growing evidence indicates that species respond idiosyncratically when exposed to the same changes in climate. As a result, understanding the potential influence of biological traits on species' distributional responses is a research priority. Yet, empirical support for hypothesised influences of traits on climate change responses remains equivocal.  In this paper, we developed a novel approach to determine whether biological traits predict the degree of climatic niche tracking of British breeding birds in response to recent climate change. First, we quantified how well predicted positive and negative changes in probability of presence from climate-based species distribution models agreed with observed local gains and losses in species' occupancy - our measure of climatic niche tracking. Second, we examined whether the degree of climatic niche tracking could be predicted by species' ecological and life-history traits, as well as phylogenetic relationships.  Overall, British breeding birds displayed a low degree of climatic niche tracking over the period of our study, though this varied substantially among species. Models incorporating traits and phylogeny explained a low proportion of the variation in climatic niche tracking. Nevertheless, we did find statistical evidence that species with lower lifespans tracked their climatic niches more closely, whilst species with a mixed diet displayed a lower degree of climatic niche tracking.  We present here a tractable approach for quantifying the degree to which observed local range gains and losses can be related to climate redistribution and apply it to British breeding birds. Although we do not find strong evidence that traits predict the degree of climatic niche tracking, we discuss why this is likely to be a consequence of the features of our study system rather than the approach itself. We believe this approach may prove to be useful as datasets of temporal changes in species distributions become increasingly available.", u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103507', [], [u'Stony Brook University;', u'British Trust for Ornithology;', u'Natural History Museum']]
[u'Remodeling Pathway Control of Oxidative Phosphorylation by Temperature in the Heart', ['Helene Lemieux', 'Pierre U. Blier', 'Erich Gnaiger'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'The capacity of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and fuel substrate supply are key determinants of cardiac muscle performance. Although temperature exerts a strong effect on energy metabolism, until recently numerous respiratory studies of mammalian mitochondria have been carried out below physiological temperature, with substrates supporting submaximal respiratory capacity. We measured mitochondrial respiration as a function of temperature in permeabilized fibers from the left ventricle of the mouse heart. At 37 oC, OXPHOS capacity with electron entry through either Complex I or Complex II into the Q-junction was about half of respiratory capacity with the corresponding physiological substrate combination reconstituting tricarboxylic acid cycle function with convergent electron flow through the NADH&succinate (NS) pathway. When separating the component core mitochondrial pathways, the relative contribution of the NADH pathway increased with a decrease of temperature from 37 to 25 oC. The additive effect of convergent electron flow has profound consequences for optimization of mitochondrial respiratory control. The apparent excess capacity of cytochrome c oxidase (CIV) was 0.7 above convergent NS-pathway capacity, but would be overestimated nearly 2-fold with respect to respiration restricted by provision of NADH-linked substrates only. The apparent excess capacity of CIV increased sharply at 4 oC, caused by a strong temperature dependence of and OXPHOS limitation by NADH-linked dehydrogenases. This mechanism of mitochondrial respiratory control in the hypothermic mammalian heart is comparable to the pattern in ectotherm species, pointing towards NADH-linked mt-matrix dehydrogenases and the phosphorylation system rather than electron transfer complexes as the primary drivers of thermal sensitivity at low temperature and likely modulators of temperature adaptation and acclimatization. Delineating the link between stress and remodeling of OXPHOS is critically important for improving our understanding of metabolic perturbations in disease evolution and cardiac protection. Temperature is not a trivial experimental parameter to consider when addressing these questions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103457', [], [u'University of Alberta, Edmonton;', u'Universite du Quebec, Rimouski;', u'Medical University Innsbruck']]
[u'Tomato immune receptor Ve1 recognizes surface-exposed co-localized N- and C-termini of Verticillium dahliae effector Ave1', ['Yin Song', 'Zhao Zhang', 'Jordi Boshoven', 'Hanna Rovenich', 'Michael Seidl', 'Jernej Jakse', 'Karunakaran Maruthachalam', 'Chun-Ming Liu', 'Krishna Subbarao', 'Branka Javornik', 'Bart Thomma'], u'January 26, 2017.', u'Effectors are secreted by plant pathogens to facilitate infection, often through deregulation of host immune responses. During host colonization, race 1 strains of the soil-borne vascular wilt fungus Verticillium dahliae secrete the effector protein Ave1 that triggers immunity in tomato genotypes that encode the Ve1 immune receptor. Homologs of V. dahliae Ave1 (VdAve1) are found in plants and in few plant pathogenic microbes, and are differentially recognized by Ve1. However, how VdAve1 is recognized by Ve1 remained unknown. Interestingly, C-terminally affinity-tagged versions of VdAve1 failed to activate Ve1-mediated immunity, suggesting that exposure of the C-terminus of VdAve1 is required for Ve1-mediated recognition. This was confirmed by subsequent analysis of C-terminal deletion mutants, and by domain swap experiments. Although required, only the C-terminus of VdAve1 is not sufficient to activate Ve1-mediated immunity. Intriguingly, a three-dimensional structural model of VdAve1 revealed that the N- and C-termini co-localize on a surface-exposed patch of the VdAve1 protein. Indeed, subsequent analyses of N-terminal deletion mutants confirmed that also the N-terminus of VdAve1 is required to activate Ve1-mediated immunity. Thus, we conclude that a surface-exposed patch of the VdAve1 protein that is composed by co-localized N- and C-termini is recognized by the tomato immune receptor Ve1.', u'/content/early/2017/01/26/103473', [], [u'Wageningen University;', u'University of Ljubljana;', u'UC Davis;', u'Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing']]
