[u'Super-resolution microscopy reveals the three-dimensional organization of meiotic chromosome axes in intact C. elegans tissue', ['Simone Kohler', 'Michal Wojcik', 'Ke Xu', 'Abby F Dernburg'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'When cells enter meiosis, their chromosomes reorganize as linear arrays of chromatin loops anchored to a central axis. Meiotic chromosome axes form a platform for the assembly of the synaptonemal complex (SC), and play central roles in other meiotic processes, including homologous pairing, recombination, and chromosome segregation. However, little is known about the three-dimensional organization of components within the axes, which consist of cohesin complexes and additional meiosis-specific proteins. Here we investigate the molecular organization of meiotic chromosome axes in C. elegans through STORM and PALM super-resolution imaging of intact germline tissue. By tagging one axis protein (HIM-3) with a photoconvertible fluorescent protein, we established a spatial reference for other components, which were localized using antibodies against epitope tags inserted by CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing. Using three-dimensional averaging, we determined the 3D-organization of all known components within synapsed chromosome axes to a precision of 2-5 nanometers. We find that meiosis-specific HORMA-domain proteins span a gap between cohesin complexes and the central region of the SC, consistent with their essential roles in SC assembly. Our data further suggest that the two different meiotic cohesin complexes are distinctly arranged within the axes: Cohesin complexes containing COH-3 or -4 kleisins form a central core in the central plane of the axes, whereas complexes containing REC-8 kleisin protrude above and below the plane defined by the SC. This splayed organization may help to explain the role of the chromosome axes in promoting inter-homolog repair of meiotic double strand breaks by inhibiting inter-sister repair.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112599', [], [u'University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Reconstruction of cell lineages and behaviors underlying arthropod limb outgrowth with multi-view light-sheet imaging and tracking', ['Carsten Wolff', 'Jean-Yves Tinevez', 'Tobias Pietzsch', 'Evangelia Stamataki', 'Benjamin Harich', 'Stephan Preibisch', 'Spencer Shorte', 'Philipp J Keller', 'Pavel Tomancak', 'Anastasios Pavlopoulos'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'During development coordinated cell behaviors orchestrate tissue and organ morphogenesis to suit the lifestyle of the organism. We have used here the crustacean Parhyale hawaiensis to study the cellular basis of limb development. Transgenic Parhyale embryos with fluorescently labeled nuclei were imaged at high spatiotemporal resolution with multi-view light-sheet fluorescence microscopy over several days of embryogenesis spanning appendage morphogenesis from early specification up to late differentiation stages. Cell tracking with a new tool called Massive Multi-view Tracker (MaMuT) enabled the reconstruction of the complete cell lineage of an outgrowing thoracic limb with single-cell resolution. In silico clonal analyses suggested that the limb primordium becomes subdivided from an early stage first into anterior-posterior and then into dorsal-ventral compartments whose boundaries intersect at the distal tip of the growing limb. Limb bud formation is associated with the spatial modulation of cell proliferation, while limb elongation is also driven by the preferential orientation of division of epidermal cells along the proximal-distal axis of growth. Cellular reconstructions were predictive of the expression patterns of limb development genes including the Decapentaplegic (Dpp) morphogen.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112623', [], [u'Institute for Biology, Humboldt-University, 10115 Berlin, Germany;', u'Imagopole, Citech, Institut Pasteur, 75015 Paris, France;', u'Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, 01307 Dresden, Germany;', u'Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, Virginia 20147, USA;', u'Berlin Institute for Medical Systems Biology, Max Delbruck Center for Molecular Medicine']]
[u'The human brain views selfish behaviour towards genetic vs. non-genetic sibling differently', ['Mareike Bacha-Trams', 'Enrico Glerean', 'Juha Lahnakoski', 'Elisa Ryyppo', 'Mikko Sams', 'Iiro Jaaskelainen'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Previous behavioural studies have shown that humans act more altruistically towards kin. Whether and how such kinship preference translates into differential neurocognitive evaluation of social interactions has remained an open question. Here, we investigated how the human brain is engaged when viewing a moral dilemma between genetic vs. non-genetic sisters. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, a movie depicting refusal of organ donation between two sisters was shown, with participants guided to believe the sisters were related either genetically or by adoption. The participants self-reported that genetic relationship was not relevant to them, yet their brain activity told a different story. When the participants believed that the sisters were genetically related, inter-subject similarity of brain activity was significantly stronger in areas supporting response-conflict resolution, emotion regulation, and self-referential social cognition. Our results show that mere knowledge of a genetic relationship between interacting persons can robustly modulate social cognition of the perceiver.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112383', [], [u'Aalto University, Espoo, Finland']]
[u'orco mutagenesis causes loss of antennal lobe glomeruli and impaired social behavior in ants', ['Waring Trible', 'Ni-Chen Chang', 'Benjamin J Matthews', 'Sean K McKenzie', 'Leonora Olivos-Cisneros', 'Peter R Oxley', 'Jonathan Saragosti', 'Daniel JC Kronauer'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Life inside ant colonies is orchestrated with a diverse set of pheromones, but it is not clear how ants perceive these social cues. It has been proposed that pheromone perception in ants evolved via expansions in the numbers of odorant receptors (ORs) and antennal lobe glomeruli. Here we generate the first mutant lines in ants by disrupting orco, a gene required for the function of all ORs. We find that orco mutants exhibit severe deficiencies in social behavior and fitness, suggesting that they are unable to perceive pheromones. Surprisingly, unlike in Drosophila melanogaster, orco mutant ants also lack most of the approximately 500 antennal lobe glomeruli found in wild-types. These results illustrate that ORs are essential for ant social organization, and raise the possibility that, similar to mammals, receptor function is required for the development and/or maintenance of the highly complex olfactory processing areas in the ant brain.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112532', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'The Rockefeller University']]
[u'Good tutors are not Dear Enemies in Song Sparrows', ['Caglar Akcay', 'S. Elizabeth Campbell', 'Michael D. Beecher'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Bird song is the most widely studied example of vocal learning outside human language and shares important parallels with it, including the importance of social factors during development. Our understanding of social factors in song learning however remains surprisingly incomplete. Here we examine the possible role of aggressive interactions in determining song "tutor" choice in song sparrows (Melospiza melodia), a songbird in which individuals display song learning strategies ranging from learning primarily from one tutor, to learning a few songs each from a number of tutors. We test two hypotheses: The Competition hypothesis suggests that young birds learn more from tutors with whom they compete especially intensely and predicts that tutees will respond with high aggression to tutor songs. In contrast the Cooperation hypothesis suggests that song learning reflects a cooperative relationship between the tutor and the tutee and predicts low aggressive response to tutors. In a playback experiment we found that birds respond more aggressively to songs of their tutors than they do to songs of strangers and strength of aggressive response correlated positively with how much they had learned from that tutor. These results provide the first field evidence that young songbirds show increased aggression to tutor songs, supporting the hypothesis that young males learn from adult males with whom they most intensely compete during the song-learning phase, and perhaps afterwards.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112516', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Virginia Tech;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Conflicting evolutionary histories of the mitochondrial and nuclear genomes in New World Myotis', ['Roy N Platt', 'Brant C Faircloth', 'Kevin A.M. Sullivan', 'Troy Kieran', 'Travis C Glenn', 'Michael W Vandewege', 'Tom E Lee', 'Robert J Baker', 'Richard D Stevens', 'David A Ray'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'The diversification of Myotis into more than 100 species in just a few million years is one of the most extensive mammalian radiations available for study. Efforts to understand relationships within Myotis have primarily utilized mitochondrial markers, and trees inferred from nuclear markers lacked resolution. Our current understanding of relationships within Myotis is therefore biased towards a set of phylogenetic markers that may not reflect the phylogenetic history of the nuclear genome. To resolve this, we sequenced the full mitochondrial genomes of 37 representative Myotis, primarily from the New World, in conjunction with targeted sequencing of 3,648 ultraconserved elements (UCEs). We inferred the phylogeny of Myotis and explored the effects of concatenation and summary phylogenetic methods, as well as combinations of markers based on informativeness or levels of missing data, on our phylogenetic results. Of the 295 phylogenies generated from the nuclear UCE data, all are significantly different from phylogenies inferred using mitochondrial genomes. Even within the nuclear genome quartet frequencies indicate that around half of all UCE loci conflict with the estimated species tree. Several factors can drive such conflict, including incomplete lineage sorting, introgressive hybridization, or even phylogenetic error. Despite the degree of discordance between nuclear UCE loci and the mitochondrial genome and among UCE loci themselves, the most common nuclear topology is recovered in one quarter of all analyses with strong nodal support. Based on these results, we re-examine the evolutionary history of Myotis to better understand the phenomena driving their unique nuclear, mitochondrial, and biogeographic histories.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112581', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Texas Tech University;', u'Louisiana State University;', u'University of Georgia;', u'Abilene Christian University']]
[u'Tbx1 represses Mef2c gene expression by inducing histone 3 deacetylation of the anterior heart field enhancer', ['Luna Simona Pane', 'Filomena Gabriella Fulcoli', 'Rosa Ferrentino', 'Marchesa Bilio', 'Antonio Baldini'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'The TBX1 gene is haploinsufficient in the 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS), and genetic evidence from human patients and mouse models points to a major role of this gene in the pathogenesis of this syndrome. Tbx1 can activate and repress transcription and previous work has shown that one of its functions is to negatively modulate cardiomyocyte differentiation. Tbx1 occupies the anterior heart field (AHF) enhancer of the Mef2c gene, which encodes a key cardiac differentiation transcription factor. Here we show that increased dosage of Tbx1 is associated with down regulation of Mef2c expression and reduced acetylation of its AHF enhancer in cultured mouse myoblasts. Consistently, 22q11.2DS-derived and in vitro differentiated induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) expressed higher levels of Mef2c and showed increased AHF acetylation, compared to hiPSCs from a healthy donor. Furthermore, we show that in mouse embryos, loss of Tbx1 enhances the expression of the Mef2c-AHF-Cre transgene in a regionally restricted and dosage-dependent manner, providing an in vivo correlate of our cell culture data. These results indicate that Tbx1 regulates the Mef2c-AHF enhancer by inducing histone deacetylation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112144', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'CNR Institute of Genetics and Biophysics']]
[u'Face inversion reveals holistic processing of peripheral faces', ['Petra Kovacs', 'Balazs Knakker', 'Petra Hermann', 'Gyula Kovacs', 'Zoltan Vidnyanszky'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Face perception is accomplished by face-selective neural processes, involving holistic processing that enables highly efficient integration of facial features into a whole face representation. It has been shown that in face-selective regions of the ventral temporal cortex, neural resources involved in holistic processing are primarily dedicated to the central portion of the visual field. These findings raise the intriguing possibility that holistic processing might be the privilege of centrally presented faces and could be strongly diminished in the case of peripheral faces. We addressed this question using the face inversion effect, a well established marker of holistic face processing. The behavioral results revealed impaired identity discrimination performance for inverted peripheral faces scaled according to the V1 magnification factor, compared to upright presented faces. The size of peripheral face inversion effect (FIE) was comparable to that found for centrally displayed faces. Face inversion affected the early ERP responses to faces in two time intervals. The earliest FIE was most pronounced in the time window between 130-140 ms following stimulus presentation, for both centrally and peripherally displayed faces and in the latter case, it was present only over the contralateral hemisphere. The timing of the next component FIE corresponded closely with the temporal interval of the N170 ERP component and showed strong right hemisphere lateralization, both when faces were displayed in the left or right visual field. Furthermore, we also showed that centrally presented face masks impaired peripheral face identity discrimination performance, but did not reduce the magnitude of the FIE. These findings revealed robust behavioral and neural inversion effects for peripheral faces and thus suggest that faces are processed holistically throughout the visual field.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112433', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Brain Imaging Centre, Research Centre for Natural Sciences, Hungarian Academy of Sciences;', u'Institute of Psychology, Friedrich-Schiller-University of Jena']]
[u'Cohesion: A method for quantifying the connectivity of microbial communities', ['Cristina Herren', 'Katherine McMahon'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'The ability to predict microbial community dynamics lags behind the quantity of data available in these systems. Most predictive models use only environmental parameters, although a long history of ecological literature suggests that community complexity should also be an informative parameter. Thus, we hypothesize that incorporating information about a community\'s complexity might improve predictive power in microbial models. Here, we present a new metric, called community "cohesion," that quantifies the degree of connectivity of a microbial community. We validate our approach using long-term (10+ year) phytoplankton datasets, where absolute abundance counts are available. As a case study of our metrics\' utility, we show that community cohesion is a strong predictor of Bray-Curtis dissimilarity (R2 = 0.47) between phytoplankton communities in Lake Mendota, WI, USA. Our cohesion metrics outperform a model built using all available environmental data collected during a long-term sampling program. The result that cohesion corresponds strongly to Bray-Curtis dissimilarity is consistent across the five lakes analyzed here. Our cohesion metrics can be used as a predictor for many community-level properties, such as phylogenetic diversity, nutrient fluxes, or ecosystem services. We explain here the calculation of our cohesion metrics and their potential uses in microbial ecology.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112391', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Wisconsin Madison']]
[u'GMPR: A novel normalization method for microbiome sequencing data', ['Jun Chen', 'Li Chen'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Normalization is the first and a critical step in microbiome sequencing (microbiome-Seq) data analysis to account for variable library sizes.  Though RNA-Seq based normalization methods have been adapted for microbiome-Seq data, they fail to consider the unique characteristics of microbiome-Seq data, which contain a vast number of zeros  due to the physical absence or undersampling of the microbes. Normalization methods that specifically address the zeroinflation remain largely undeveloped.  Here we propose GMPR - a simple but effective normalization method - for zeroinflated sequencing data such as microbiome-Seq data.  Simulation studies and analyses of 38 real gut microbiome datasets from 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing demonstrated the superior performance of the proposed method.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112565', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Mayo Clinic;', u'Emory University']]
[u'A Bayesian Framework for Estimating Cell Type Composition from DNA Methylation Without the Need for Methylation Reference', ['Elior Rahmani', 'Regev Schweiger', 'Liat Shenhav', 'Eleazar Eskin', 'Eran Halperin'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Genome-wide DNA methylation levels measured from a target tissue across a population have become ubiquitous over the last few years, as methylation status is suggested to hold great potential for better understanding the role of epigenetics. Different cell types are known to have different methylation profiles. Therefore, in the common scenario where methylation levels are collected from heterogeneous sources such as blood, convoluted signals are formed according to the cell type composition of the samples. Knowledge of the cell type proportions is important for statistical analysis, and it may provide novel biological insights and contribute to our understanding of disease biology. Since high resolution cell counting is costly and often logistically impractical to obtain in large studies, targeted methods that are inexpensive and practical for estimating cell proportions are needed. Although a supervised approach has been shown to provide reasonable estimates of cell proportions, this approach leverages scarce reference methylation data from sorted cells which are not available for most tissues and are not appropriate for any target population. Here, we introduce BayesCCE, a Bayesian semi-supervised method that leverages prior knowledge on the cell type composition distribution in the studied tissue. As we demonstrate, such prior information is substantially easier to obtain compared to appropriate reference methylation levels from sorted cells. Using real and simulated data, we show that our proposed method is able to construct a set of components, each corresponding to a single cell type, and together providing up to 50% improvement in correlation when compared with existing reference-free methods. We further make a design suggestion for future data collection efforts by showing that results can be further improved using cell count measurements for a small subset of individuals in the study sample or by incorporating external data of individuals with measured cell counts. Our approach provides a new opportunity to investigate cell compositions in genomic studies of tissues for which it was not possible before.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112417', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Tel Aviv University;', u'University of California Los Angeles']]
[u'A maternal-effect genetic incompatibility in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Eyal Ben-David', 'Alejandro Burga', 'Leonid Kruglyak'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Selfish genetic elements spread in natural populations and have an important role in genome evolution. We discovered a selfish element causing a genetic incompatibility between strains of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. The element is made up of sup-35, a maternal-effect toxin that kills developing embryos, and pha-1, its zygotically expressed antidote. pha-1 has long been considered essential for pharynx development based on its mutant phenotype, but this phenotype in fact arises from a loss of suppression of sup-35 toxicity. Inactive copies of the sup-35/pha-1 element show high sequence divergence from active copies, and phylogenetic reconstruction suggests that they represent ancestral stages in the evolution of the element. Our results suggest that other essential genes identified by genetic screens may turn out to be components of selfish elements.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112524', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UCLA']]
[u'Active and poised promoter states drive folding of the extended HoxB locus in mouse embryonic stem cells', ['Mariano Barbieri', 'Sheila Q Xie', 'Elena Torlai Triglia', 'Ines de Santiago', 'Miguel R Branco', 'David Rueda', 'Mario Nicodemi', 'Ana Pombo'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Gene expression states influence the three-dimensional conformation of the genome through poorly understood mechanisms. Here, we investigate the conformation of the murine HoxB locus, a gene-dense genomic region containing closely spaced genes with distinct activation states in mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. To predict possible folding scenarios, we performed computer simulations of polymer models informed with different chromatin occupancy features, which define promoter activation states or CTCF binding sites. Single cell imaging of the locus folding was performed to test model predictions. While CTCF occupancy alone fails to predict the in vivo folding at genomic length scale of 10 kb, we found that homotypic interactions between active and Polycomb-repressed promoters co-occurring in the same DNA fibre fully explain the HoxB folding patterns imaged in single cells. We identify state-dependent promoter interactions as major drivers of chromatin folding in gene-dense regions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/111773', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Max-Delbr\xfcck Centre for Molecular Medicine & Universit\xe0 di Napoli Federico II;', u'MRC Clinical Sciences Centre;', u'Max-Delbr\xfcck Centre for Molecular Medicine;', u'Universit\xe0 di Napoli Federico II;', u'Max Delbrueck Center for Molecular Medicine']]
[u'Functional Annotation of Chemical Libraries across Diverse Biological Processes', ['Jeff S Piotrowski', 'Sheena C Li', 'Raamesh Deshpande', 'Scott W Simpkins', 'Justin Nelson', 'Yoko Yashiroda', 'Jacqueline Barber', 'Hamid Safizadeh', 'Erin Wilson', 'Hiroki Okada', 'Abraham Gebre', 'Karen Kubo', 'Nikko Torres', 'Marissa LeBlanc', 'Kerry Andrusiak', 'Reika Okamoto', 'Mami Yoshimura', 'Eva DeRango-Adem', 'Jolanda van Leeuwen', 'Katsuhiko Shirahige', 'Anastasia Baryshnikova', 'Grant W Brown', 'Hiroyuki Hirano', 'Michael Costanzo', 'Brenda Andrews', 'Yoshikazu Ohya', 'Hiroyuki Osada', 'Minoru Yoshida', 'Chad L Myers', 'Charles Boone'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Chemical-genetic approaches offer the potential for unbiased functional annotation of chemical libraries. Mutations can alter the response of cells to a compound, revealing chemical-genetic interactions that can elucidate a compounds mode of action. We developed a highly parallel and unbiased yeast chemical-genetic screening system involving three key components. First, in a drug-sensitive genetic background, we constructed an optimized, diagnostic mutant collection that is predictive all major yeast biological processes. Second, we implemented a multiplexed (768-plex) barcode sequencing protocol, enabling assembly of thousands of chemical-genetic profiles. Finally, based on comparison of the chemical-genetic profiles with a compendium of genome-wide genetic interaction profiles, we predicted compound functionality. Applying this high-throughput approach, we screened 7 different compound libraries and annotated their functional diversity. We further validated biological process predictions, prioritized a diverse set of compounds, and identified compounds that appear to have dual modes of action.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112557', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Yumanity Theraputics;', u'RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource Science;', u'University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Department of Computer Science and Engineering;', u'University of Minnesota-Twin Cities, Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Program;', u'University of Tokyo, Department of Integrated Biosciences;', u'University of Toronto, Donnelly Centre;', u'University of Toronto, Donnelly Centre, Toronto;', u'The University of Tokyo, Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences;', u'Princeton University, Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics']]
[u'Analyzing ecological networks of species interactions', ['Eva Delmas', 'Mathilde Besson', 'Marie-Helene Brice', 'Laura Burkle', 'Giulio V Dalla Riva', 'Marie-Josee Fortin', 'Dominique Gravel', 'Paulo Guimaraes', 'David Hembry', 'Erica Newman', 'Jens M Olesen', 'Matias Pires', 'Justin D Yeakel', 'Timothee Poisot'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Networks provide one of the best representation for ecological communities, composed of many speecies with dense connections\nbetween them. Yet the methodological literature allowing one to analyse and extract meaning from ecological networks is dense,\nfragmented, and unwelcoming. We provide a general overview to the field, outlining both the intent of the different measures,\ntheir assumptions, and the contexts in which they can be used. We anchor this discussion in examples from empirical studies,\nand conclude by highlighting what we think should be the future developments in the field.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112540', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universite de Montreal;', u'Montana State University;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Toronto;', u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u'Unversidade de Sao Paulo;', u'University of Arizona;', u'Aarhus University;', u'UC Merced']]
[u'A data-driven model for the assessment of age-dependent patterns of Tuberculosis burden and impact evaluation of novel vaccines.', ['Sergio Arregui', 'Joaquin Sanz', 'Dessislava Marinova', 'Maria Jose Iglesias', 'Sofia Samper', 'Carlos Martin', 'Yamir Moreno'], u'February 28, 2017.', u"Background: Among all possible novel epidemiological interventions against tuberculosis (TB), improved preventive vaccines hold the promise of offering substantial reductions of TB burden worldwide. Accordingly, several vaccine candidates are currently under development, each of which, depending on their immunogenic properties, might show differences in protection when applied to different age groups. Methods: We present a TB epidemiological model which, capitalizing on publicly available data from different sources (World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations (UN) Population Division and published studies on contact-patterns surveys at an international scale), formalizes a data-driven description of most relevant coupling mechanisms between populations' age structure and TB dynamics. Findings: The global demographic shift projected by the UN for the next decades is to be accompanied, according to our results, by a shift in the age-distribution of TB burden in some of the regions most affected by the disease. We show that for Africa and the East Mediterranean this could lead to revert the projected global decline of TB unless novel epidemiological measures are deployed. Regarding the comparison of different vaccination strategies, an adolescent-focused global immunization campaign appears to be more impactful than newborn vaccination in the short term. Interpretation: We demonstrated that TB indicators and vaccination strategies remarkably depend on how the disease dynamics is coupled to the demographic structure of the population. Capitalizing on a data-driven approach, we identified substantial biases in epidemiological forecasts that are rooted on an inadequate description of age-dependent mechanisms, among others. Our findings provide fundamental insights if novel age-focused epidemiological interventions, such as preventive vaccines, are to be considered and established.", u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112409', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain;', u'Sainte-Justine Hospital Research Centre, Montreal, Canada.']]
