[u'Subdomains of the Pol V largest subunit CTD mediate locus-specific RNA-directed DNA methylation', ['Jered Wendte', 'Jeremy Haag', 'Jasleen Singh', 'Anastasia McKinlay', 'Olga Pontes', 'Craig Pikaard'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'RNA Polymerase V transcription recruits siRNA-Argonaute protein complexes to chromatin, thereby specifying sites of RNA-directed DNA methylation (RdDM) and transcriptional gene silencing in plants. The Pol V largest subunit, NRPE1, has an extensive carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) that is dispensable for catalytic activity in vitro, yet essential in vivo. A CTD subdomain, DeCL, named for its similarity to a chloroplast protein, DEFECTIVE CHLOROPLASTS AND LEAVES, is required for Pol V function at virtually all loci, similar to mutants defective for Pol V recruitment. Deletions removing three other CTD subdomains affect overlapping subsets of loci, similar to mutants lacking proteins that bind Pol V or its transcripts. A yeast two-hybrid screen for CTD-interactors identified the 3-prime -> 5-prime exoribonuclease, RRP6L1 as an interactor with the DeCL subdomain and the adjacent QS subdomain, named for its numerous glutamine-serine (QS) repeats. These RRP6L1-binding subdomains immediately follow the Argonaute-binding subdomain. Experimental evidence indicates that RRP6L1 trims the 3-prime ends of Pol V transcripts sliced by ARGONAUTE 4 (AGO4), suggesting a model whereby the adjacent CTD subdomains enable the spatial and temporal coordination of AGO4 and RRP6L1 RNA processing activities.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111831', [], [u'Indiana University;', u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Multiplexed confocal and super-resolution fluorescence imaging of cytoskeletal and neuronal synapse proteins', ['Syuan-Ming Guo', 'Remi Veneziano', 'Simon Gordonov', 'Li Li', 'Demian Park', 'Anthony B Kulesa', 'Paul C Blainey', 'Jeffrey R Cottrell', 'Edward S Boyden', 'Mark Bathe'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Neuronal synapses contain dozens of protein species whose expression levels and localizations are key determinants of synaptic transmission and plasticity. The spectral properties of fluorophores used in conventional microscopy limit the number of measured proteins to four species within a given sample. The ability to perform high-throughput confocal or super-resolution imaging of many proteins simultaneously without limitation in target number imposed by this spectral limit would enable large-scale characterization of synaptic protein networks in situ. Here, we introduce PRISM: Probe-based Imaging for Sequential Multiplexing, a method that sequentially utilizes either high affinity Locked Nucleic Acid (LNA) or low affinity DNA probes to enable diffraction-limited confocal and PAINT-based super-resolution imaging. High-affinity LNA probes offer high-throughput, confocal-based imaging compared with PAINT, which uses low affinity probes to realize localization-based super-resolution imaging. Simultaneous immunostaining of all targets is performed prior to imaging, followed by sequential LNA/DNA probe exchange that requires only minutes under mild wash conditions. We apply PRISM to quantify the co-expression levels and nanometer-scale organization of one dozen cytoskeletal and synaptic proteins within individual neuronal synapses. Our approach is scalable to dozens of target proteins and is compatible with high-content screening platforms commonly used to interrogate phenotypic changes associated with genetic and drug perturbations in a variety of cell types.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111625', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard']]
[u'Laminar organization of encoding and memory reactivation in the parietal cortex', ['Aaron Wilber', 'Ivan Skelin', 'Bruce L McNaughton'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Egocentric neural coding has been observed in parietal cortex (PC), but its topographical and laminar organization is not well characterized. We used multi-site recording to look for evidence of local clustering and laminar consistency of linear and angular velocity encoding in multi-neuronal spiking activity (MUA) and in the high-frequency (300-900 Hz) component of the local field potential (HF-LFP), believed to reflect local spiking activity.  Rats were trained to run many trials on a large circular platform, either to LED-cued goal locations or as a spatial sequence from memory. Tuning to specific self-motion states was observed consistently, and exhibited distinct cortical depth-invariant coding properties. These patterns of collective local and laminar activation during behavior were reactivated in compressed form during post-experience sleep, and temporally coupled to hippocampal sharp wave ripples. Thus, PC neuron motion encoding is consistent across cortical laminae, and this consistency is maintained during memory reactivation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/110684', [], [u'Florida State University;', u'University of California, Irvine; Canadian Centre for Behavioral Neuroscience']]
[u'Comparing arenavirus infection patterns in experimentally and naturally infected rodent hosts', ['Joachim Marien', 'Benny Borremans', 'Sophie Gryseels', 'Bram Vanden Broecke', 'Beate Becker-Ziaja', 'Rhodes Makundi', 'Apia Massawe', 'Jonas Reijniers', 'Herwig Leirs'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Infectious diseases of wildlife are typically studied using data on antibody and pathogen presence/level. In order to interpret these data, it is necessary to know the course of antibodies and pathogen presence/levels after infection. Such data are typically collected using experimental infection studies in which host individuals are inoculated in the laboratory and sampled over an extended period, but because laboratory conditions are controlled and much less variable than natural conditions, the immune response and pathogen dynamics may differ. Here, we compared Morogoro arenavirus infection patterns between naturally and experimentally infected multimammate mice (Mastomys natalensis). Longitudinal samples were collected during three months of bi-weekly trapping in Morogoro, Tanzania, and antibody titer and viral RNA presence were determined to assess whether the natural temporal patterns are similar to those previously observed in the laboratory. A good match with laboratory data was found for 52% of naturally infected individuals, while most of the mismatches can be explained by the presence of chronically infected individuals (35%), maternal antibodies (10%) and an antibody detection limit (25%). These results suggest that while laboratory data are useful for interpreting field samples, there can still be differences due to conditions that were not tested in the laboratory.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111732', [], [u'Universiteit Antwerpen;', u'Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine;', u'Sokoine University of Agriculture Tanzania']]
[u'Distorted Biologic Mechanisms in Evolution and Model Extrapolation', ['Juan G. Diaz Ochoa'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Explanations based on low level interacting elements are valuable and powerful since they contribute to the identification of mechanisms controlling essential biological functions and responses, if nature is complete and decidable. But this assumption often generates frustration since organisms are still far to be controllable and predictable, implying that the knowledge about mechanisms are often not enough to explain many biological processes. We argue that the accommodation and assimilation of organisms to their environment continuously challenge biological mechanisms, and consequently that systems are fundamentally incomplete and undecidable, in the same way as the halting problem in mathematics is unsolvable. This condition allows a constant creativity that drives evolution, continuously distorting these mechanisms. We introduce a measure of this distortion, which should be useful to determine if the identification of simple mechanisms for modelling in Biology is feasible or not. We test this concept in a population of predators and predated cells with uncertain chemotactic mechanisms and demonstrate how the selection of a given mechanism depends on the whole population. We finally explore this concept in different frameworks and postulate that the identification of predictive mechanisms that can be extrapolated to other organisms is only successful with low distorted mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111666', [], [u'PMQD GmbH']]
[u'Limits on prediction in language comprehension: A multi-lab failure to replicate evidence for probabilistic pre-activation of phonology', ['Mante Nieuwland', 'Stephen Politzer-Ahles', 'Evelien Heyselaar', 'Katrien Segaert', 'Emily Darley', 'Nina Kazanina', 'Sarah Von Grebmer Zu Wolfsthurn', 'Federica Bartolozzi', 'Vita Kogan', 'Aine Ito', 'Diane Meziere', 'Dale J. Barr', 'Guillaume Rousselet', 'Heather J. Ferguson', 'Simon Busch-Moreno', 'Xiao Fu', 'Jyrki Tuomainen', 'Eugenia Kulakova', 'E. Matthew Husband', 'David L. Donaldson', 'Zdenko Kohut', 'Shirley-Ann Rueschemeyer', 'Falk Huettig'], u'February 25, 2017.', u"In current theories of language comprehension, people routinely and implicitly predict upcoming words by pre-activating their meaning, morpho-syntactic features and even their specific phonological form. To date the strongest evidence for this latter form of linguistic prediction comes from a 2005 Nature Neuroscience landmark publication by DeLong, Urbach and Kutas, who observed a graded modulation of article- and noun-elicited electrical brain potentials (N400) by the pre-determined probability that people continue a sentence fragment with that word ('cloze'). In a direct replication study spanning 9 laboratories (N=334), we failed to replicate the crucial article-elicited N400 modulation by cloze, while we successfully replicated the commonly-reported noun-elicited N400 modulation. This pattern of failure and success was observed in a pre-registered replication analysis, a pre-registered single-trial analysis, and in exploratory Bayesian analyses. Our findings do not support a strong prediction view in which people routinely pre-activate the phonological form of upcoming words, and suggest a more limited role for prediction during language comprehension.", u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111807', [], [u'Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, The Netherlands;', u'Dept of Chinese and Bilingual Studies, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong;', u'School of Psychology, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom;', u'School of Experimental Psychology, University of Bristol, Bristol, United Kingdom;', u'School of Philosophy, Psychology and Language Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK;', u'Institute of Neuroscience and Psychology, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom;', u'School of Psychology, University of Kent, Canterbury, United Kingdom;', u'Division of Psychology and Language Sciences, University College London, London, United Kingdom;', u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, London, United Kingdom;', u'Faculty of Linguistics, Philology & Phonetics; University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom;', u'Department of Psychology, University of Stirling, Stirling, United Kingdom;', u'Department of Psychology, University of York, York, United Kingdom']]
[u'Thermal transients excite neurons through universal intramembrane mechano-electrical effects', ['Michael Plaksin', 'Eitan Kimmel', 'Shy Shoham'], u'February 25, 2017.', u"Modern advances in neurotechnology rely on effectively harnessing physical tools and\ninsights towards remote neural control, thereby creating major new scientific and\ntherapeutic opportunities. Specifically, rapid temperature pulses were shown to\nincrease membrane capacitance, causing capacitive currents that explain neural\nexcitation, but the underlying biophysics is not well understood. Here, we show that an\nintramembrane thermal-mechanical effect wherein the phospholipid bilayer undergoes\naxial narrowing and lateral expansion accurately predicts a potentially universal\nthermal capacitance increase rate of ~0.3%/oC. This capacitance increase and\nconcurrent changes in the surface charge related fields lead to predictable exciting\nionic displacement currents. The new theory's predictions provide an excellent\nagreement with multiple experimental results and indirect estimates of latent\nbiophysical quantities. Our results further highlight the role of electro-mechanics in\nneural excitation; they may also help illuminate sub-threshold and novel physical\ncellular effects, and could potentially lead to advanced new methods for neural control.", u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111724', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Technion - Israel Institute of Technology']]
[u'An alternative STAT signaling pathway acts in antiviral immunity in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Melanie Tanguy', 'Louise Veron', 'Przemyslaw Stempor', 'Julie Ahringer', 'Peter Sarkies', 'Eric Alexander Miska'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Across metazoans, innate immunity is vital in defending organisms against viral infection. In mammals, antiviral innate immunity is orchestrated by interferon signaling, activating the STAT transcription factors downstream of the JAK kinases to induce expression of antiviral effector genes. In the nematode C. elegans, which lacks the interferon system, the major antiviral response so far described is RNA interference but whether additional gene expression responses are employed is not known. Here we show that, despite the absence of both interferon and JAK, the C. elegans STAT homologue STA-1 orchestrates antiviral immunity. Intriguingly, mutants lacking STA-1 show increased resistance to antiviral infection. Using gene expression analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation we show that, in contrast to the mammalian pathway, STA-1 acts as a transcriptional repressor. Thus STA-1 might act to suppress a constitutive antiviral response in the absence of infection. Using a reverse genetic screen we identify the SID-3 as a kinase upstream of STA-1 in the response to infection. Together, our work identifies a novel STAT regulatory cascade controlling its activity in antiviral resistance, illustrating the complex evolutionary trajectory displayed by innate immune signaling pathways across metazoan organisms.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/110940', [u'Immunology'], [u'Gurdon Institute and Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom;', u'Ecole normale superieure de Cachan, Universite Paris-Saclay, Saclay, France;', u'MRC London Institute of Medical Sciences and Institute for Clinical Sciences, London, United Kingdom']]
[u'Constraint-based modeling identifies new putative targets to fight colistin-resistant A. baumannii infections.', ['Luana Presta', 'Emanuele Bosi', 'Leila Mansouri', 'Lenie Dijkshoorn', 'Renato Fani', 'Marco Fondi'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Acinetobacter baumannii is a clinical threat to human health, causing major infection outbreaks worldwide. As new drugs against Gram-negative bacteria do not seem to be forthcoming, and due to the microbial capability of acquiring multi-resistance, there is an urgent need for novel therapeutic targets. Here we have derived a list of new potential targets by means of metabolic reconstruction and modelling of A. baumannii ATCC 19606. By integrating constraint-based modelling with gene expression data, we simulated microbial growth in normal and stressful conditions (i.e. following antibiotic exposure). This allowed us to describe the metabolic reprogramming that occurs in this bacterium when treated with colistin (the currently adopted last-line treatment) and identify a set of genes that are primary targets for developing new drugs against A. baumannii, including colistin-resistant strains. It can be anticipated that the metabolic model presented herein will represent a solid and reliable resource for the future treatment of A. baumannii infections.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111765', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Florence;', u'Leiden University Medical Center']]
[u'Releasing potential power of terpene synthases by a robust precursor supply platform', ['Guangkai Bian', 'Yichao Han', 'Anwei Hou', 'Yujie Yuan', 'Xinhua Liu', 'Zixin Deng', 'Tiangang Liu'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Approximately 76,000 discovered makes terpenoids the largest family of natural products in nature with widespread applications. The wide-spectrum of structural diversity of the terpenoids were largely due to the variable skeletons generated by terpene synthases. The number of terpene skeletons found in nature, however, were so much more than those conceivably generated from known terpene synthases and the limited characterized terpene synthases also make no chance for some useful terpenoids overproduction in microbe. Here, we first demonstrated that the promiscuous synthases in vivo can produce more variable terpenoid products by converting precursors of different lengths (C10, C15, C20, C25). This discovery was prompted by the development of an efficient in vivo platform by combining the two promiscuous terpene synthases and three prenyltransferases to generate 50 terpenoids, at least 3 ring systems of which were completely new. Furthermore, protein engineering was further integrated to enhance product diversity. Clearly, the work is expected to dramatically reshape the terpenoid research by widening the flexibility of the terpene synthases for the fresh discovery or creation of the new terpenoid compounds by skeleton reframing.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/105247', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Ministry of Education and Wuhan University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences;', u'J1 Biotech Co., Ltd.;', u'Wuhan University']]
[u'Bacterial tail anchors can target to the mitochondrial outer membrane', ['Guleycan Lutfullahoglu Bal', 'Abdurrahman Keskin', 'Ayse Bengisu Seferoglu', 'Cory D. Dunn'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'During the generation and evolution of the eukaryotic cell, a proteobacterial endosymbiont was refashioned into the mitochondrion, an organelle that appears to have been present in the ancestor of all present-day eukaryotes. Mitochondria harbor proteomes derived from coding information located both inside and outside the organelle, and the rate-limiting step toward the formation of eukaryotic cells may have been development of an import apparatus allowing protein entry to mitochondria. Currently, a widely conserved translocon allows proteins to pass from the cytosol into mitochondria, but how proteins encoded outside of mitochondria were first directed to these organelles at the dawn of eukaryogenesis is not clear. Because several proteins targeted by a carboxyl-terminal tail anchor (TA) appear to have the ability to insert spontaneously into the mitochondrial outer membrane (OM), it is possible that self-inserting, tail-anchored polypeptides obtained from bacteria might have formed the first gate allowing proteins to access mitochondria from the cytosol. Here, we tested whether bacterial TAs are capable of targeting to mitochondria. In a survey of proteins encoded by the proteobacterium Escherichia coli, predicted TA sequences were directed to specific subcellular locations within the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Importantly, TAs obtained from DUF883 family members ElaB and YqjD were abundantly localized to and inserted at the mitochondrial OM. Our results support the notion that eukaryotic cells have the ability to utilize membrane-targeting signals present in bacterial proteins obtained by lateral gene transfer, and our findings make plausible a model in which mitochondrial protein translocation was first driven by tail-anchored proteins.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111716', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Koc University']]
[u'The reactivation of reprogramming factors within human blastocysts by using ATP contribute to human blastocyst development', ['Takashi Takemura', 'Midori Okabe'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Scientists worldwide have been unable to replicate the stimulus-triggered acquisition of pluripotency (STAP) cells and/or the STAP phenomenon. However, investigations into STAP cells and/or the STAP phenomenon by RIKEN CDB in Japan found that ATP can upregulate Oct3/4 (POU5F1: POU domain, class 5, transcription factor 1) and Nanog mRNA expression in mouse hepatocytes.\n On the other hand, no studies have investigated whether ATP can contribute to human blastocyst development. Here we show the reactivation of reprogramming factors within human blastocysts by appropriate ATP treatment (1 mM for 2 days) can contribute to human blastocyst development. \n In conclusion, although ATP treatment could not replicate STAP cells and/or the STAP phenomenon by scientists worldwide, appropriate ATP treatment (1 mM for 2 days) in cultured human blastocysts with totipotency would be helpful for infertility women.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111708', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Reproductive Medicine Institute Japan']]
[u'A unifying mechanism for the biogenesis of prokaryotic membrane proteins co-operatively integrated by the Sec and Tat pathways', ['Tracy Palmer', 'Fiona J Tooke', 'Marion Babot', 'Govind Chandra', 'Grant Buchanan'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'The vast majority of polytopic membrane proteins are inserted into the cytoplasmic membrane of prokaryotes by the general secretory (Sec) pathway. However, a subset of monotopic proteins that contain non-covalently-bound redox cofactors depend on the twin-arginine translocase (Tat) machinery for membrane integration. Recently actinobacterial Rieske iron-sulfur cluster-containing proteins were identified as an unusual class of membrane proteins that require both the Sec and Tat pathways for the insertion of their three transmembrane domains (TMDs). The Sec pathway inserts the first two TMDs of these proteins co-translationally, but releases the polypeptide prior to the integration of TMD3 to allow folding of the cofactor-containing domain and its translocation by Tat. Here we have investigated features of the Streptomyces coelicolor Rieske polypeptide that modulate its interaction with the Sec and Tat machineries. Mutagenesis of a highly conserved loop region between Sec-dependent TMD2 and Tat-dependent TMD3 shows that it plays no significant role in co-ordinating the activities of the two translocases, but that a minimum loop length of approximately eight amino acids is required for the Tat machinery to recognise TMD3. Instead we show that a combination of relatively low hydrophobicity of TMD3, coupled with the presence of C-terminal positively-charged amino acids, results in abortive insertion of TMD3 by the Sec pathway and its release at the cytoplasmic side of the membrane. Bioinformatic analysis identified two further families of polytopic membrane proteins that share features of dual Sec-Tat-targeted membrane proteins. A predicted heme-molybdenum cofactor-containing protein with five TMDs, and a polyferredoxin also with five predicted TMDs, are encoded across bacterial and archaeal genomes. We demonstrate that membrane insertion of representatives of each of these newly-identified protein families is dependent on more than one protein translocase, with the Tat machinery recognising TMD5. Importantly, the combination of low hydrophobicity of the final TMD and the presence of multiple C-terminal positive charges that serve as critical Sec-release features for the actinobacterial Rieske protein also dictate Sec release in these further protein families. Therefore we conclude that a simple unifying mechanism governs the assembly of dual targeted membrane proteins.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111781', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Dundee;', u'John Innes Centre']]
[u'Inferring individual-level processes from population-level patterns in cultural evolution', ['Anne Kandler', 'Bryan Wilder', 'Laura Fortunato'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Our species is characterized by a great degree of cultural variation, both within and between populations. Understanding how group-level patterns of culture emerge from individual-level behaviour is a long-standing question in the biological and social sciences. We develop a simulation model capturing demographic and cultural dynamics relevant to human cultural evolution, focusing on the interface between population-level patterns and individual-level processes. The model tracks the distribution of variants of cultural traits across individuals in a population over time, conditioned on different pathways for the transmission of information between individuals. From these data we obtain theoretical expectations for a range of statistics commonly used to capture population-level characteristics (e.g. the degree of cultural diversity). Consistent with previous theoretical work, our results show that the patterns observed at the level of groups are rooted in the interplay between the transmission pathways and the age structure of the population. We also explore whether, and under what conditions, the different pathways can be distinguished based on their group-level signatures, in an effort to establish theoretical limits to inference. Our results show that the temporal dynamic of cultural change over time retains a stronger signature than the cultural composition of the population at a specific point in time. Overall, the results suggest a shift in focus from identifying the one individual-level process that likely produced the observed data to excluding those that likely did not. We conclude by discussing the implications for empirical studies of human cultural evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111575', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute;', u'University of Southern California;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Community selection increases biodiversity effects', ['Sofia J. van Moorsel', 'Terhi Hahl', 'Cameron Wagg', 'Gerlinde B. De Deyn', 'Dan F.B. Flynn', 'Varuna Yadav', 'Debra Zuppinger-Dingley', 'Bernhard Schmid'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Species extinctions from local communities can negatively affect ecosystem functioning1. Statistical and ecological mechanisms underlying these impacts are well studied2-4 but the role of evolutionary mechanisms has rarely been addressed5,6. In particular, it is not known to what extent local populations are co-adapted, not only to their environment but also to each other, because such a co-adaption would suggest that species extinctions can result in a larger than expected decline in ecosystem functioning. We used a long-term field biodiversity experiment with 52 plant species to determine if natural selection at the level of entire communities intensified the effects of biodiversity on ecosystem functioning. We re-assembled communities with 8-year co-selection histories adjacent to communities with identical species composition but no history of co-selection on native soil from the experiment and on novel soil. Over four years, selected plant communities were more productive and expressed stronger biodiversity effects than na\xefve communities. Novel soil increased productivity initially but not in the longer term. Our findings suggest that plant community selection can lead to increased community-level functioning, regardless of the soil in which they were assembled. As a consequence, it may take many years to reconstruct well-functioning communities if one reassembles them with populations lacking a common selection history.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111617', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Zurich;', u'Wageningen University']]
[u'Evidence-based gene models for structural and functional annotations of the oil palm genome', ['Chan Kuang Lim', 'Tatiana V Tatarinova', 'Rozana Rosli', 'Nadzirah Amiruddin', 'Norazah Azizi', 'Mohd Amin Ab Halim', 'Nik Shazana', 'Nik Mohd Sanusi', 'Jayanth Nagappan', 'Petr Ponomarenko', 'Martin Triska', 'Victor Solovyev', 'Mohd Firdaus-Raih', 'Ravigadevi Sambanthamurthi', 'Denis Murphy', 'Leslie Low Eng Ti'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'The advent of rapid and inexpensive DNA sequencing has led to an explosion of data waiting to be transformed into knowledge about genome organization and function. Gene prediction is customarily the starting point for genome analysis. This paper presents a bioinformatics study of the oil palm genome, including comparative genomics analysis, database and tools development, and mining of biological data for genes of interest. We have annotated 26,059 oil palm genes integrated from two independent gene-prediction pipelines, Fgenesh++ and Seqping. This integrated annotation constitutes a significant improvement in comparison to the preliminary annotation published in 2013. We conducted a comprehensive analysis of intronless, resistance and fatty acid biosynthesis genes, and demonstrated that the high quality of the current genome annotation. 3,658 intronless genes were identified in the oil palm genome, an important resource for evolutionary study. Further analysis of the oil palm genes revealed 210 candidate resistance genes involved in pathogen defense. Fatty acids have diverse applications ranging from food to industrial feedstocks, and we identified 42 key genes involved in fatty acid biosynthesis in oil palm. These results provide an important resource for studies of plant genomes and a theoretical foundation for marker-assisted breeding of oil palm and related crops.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111120', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'MPOB;', u'USC;', u'Softberry;', u'University of South Wales']]
[u'MAGIC: A diffusion-based imputation method reveals gene-gene interactions in single-cell RNA-sequencing data', ['David van Dijk', 'Juozas Nainys', 'Roshan Sharma', 'Pooja Kathail', 'Ambrose J Carr', 'Kevin R Moon', 'Linas Mazutis', 'Guy Wolf', 'Smita Krishnaswamy', "Dana Pe'er"], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Single-cell RNA-sequencing is fast becoming a major technology that is revolutionizing biological discovery in fields such as development, immunology and cancer. The ability to simultaneously measure thousands of genes at single cell resolution allows, among other prospects, for the possibility of learning gene regulatory networks at large scales. However, scRNA-seq technologies suffer from many sources of significant technical noise, the most prominent of which is dropout due to inefficient mRNA capture. This results in data that has a high degree of sparsity, with typically only 10% non-zero values. To address this, we developed MAGIC (Markov Affinity-based Graph Imputation of Cells), a method for imputing missing values, and restoring the structure of the data. After MAGIC, we find that two- and three-dimensional gene interactions are restored and that MAGIC is able to impute complex and non-linear shapes of interactions. MAGIC also retains cluster structure, enhances cluster-specific gene interactions and restores trajectories, as demonstrated in mouse retinal bipolar cells, hematopoiesis, and our newly generated epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition dataset.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111591', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Vilnius University;', u'Columbia University;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Clay-induced DNA double-strand breaks underlay genetic diversity, antibiotic resistance and molecular basis of asbestosis', ['Alexandro Rodriguez-Rojas', 'Renate Radek', 'Jeronimo Rodriguez-Beltran', 'Jesus Blazquez', 'Jens Rolff'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Some natural clays and synthetic nanofibres present in the environment have a severe impact on human health. After several decades of research, the molecular mechanism of how asbestos induce cancers is not well understood. Different fibres, including asbestos, can penetrate and transform both, bacterial and eukaryotic cells. We found that sepiolite and asbestos cause double-strand breaks in bacteria when the incubation occurs under friction forces. Since antibiotics and clays are used together in animal husbandry, we propose that this mutagenic effect constitutes a pathway to antibiotic resistance due to the friction provided by peristalsis of the gut from farm animals. We also discuss the possibility that the same mechanism could generate bacteria diversity in natural scenarios with a role in the evolution of species. Finally, we provide a new model on how asbestos promotes mutagenesis and cancer based on the genotoxicity that we observe in bacteria.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111534', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Freie Universitaet Berlin;', u'Centro Nacional de Biotecnologia (CNB-CSIC)']]
[u'BECon: A tool for interpreting DNA methylation findings from blood in the context of brain', ['Rachel D Edgar', 'Meaghan J Jones', 'Michael J Meaney', 'Gustavo Turecki', 'Michael S Kobor'], u'February 25, 2017.', u'Tissue differences are one of the largest contributors to variability in the human DNA methylome. Despite the tissue specific nature of DNA methylation, the inaccessibility of human brain samples necessitates the frequent use of surrogate tissues such as blood, in studies of associations between DNA methylation and brain function and health. Results from studies of surrogate tissues in humans are difficult to interpret in this context, as the connection between blood-brain DNA methylation is tenuous and not well documented. Here we aimed to provide a resource to the community to aid interpretation of blood based DNA methylation results in the context of brain tissue. We used paired samples from 16 individuals from three brain regions and whole blood, run on the Illumina 450K Human Methylation Array to quantify the concordance of DNA methylation between tissues. From these data we have made available metrics on: the variability of CpGs in our blood and brain samples, the concordance of CpGs between blood and brain, and estimations of how strongly a CpG is affected by cell composition in both blood and brain through the web application BECon (Blood-Brain Epigenetic Concordance; https://redgar598.shinyapps.io/BECon/). We anticipate that BECon will enable biological interpretation of blood based human DNA methylation results, in the context of brain.', u'/content/early/2017/02/25/111609', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Controlling cell shape on hydrogels using lift-off patterning', ['Jens Moeller', 'Aleksandra K. Denisin', 'Joo Yong Sim', 'Robin E. Wilson', 'Alexandre J.S. Ribeiro', 'Beth L. Pruitt'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Polyacrylamide gels functionalized with extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins are commonly used as cell culture platforms to evaluate the combined effects of ECM composition, cell geometry and substrate rigidity on cell physiology. For this purpose, protein transfer onto the surface of polyacrylamide hydrogels must result in geometrically well-resolved micropatterns with homogeneous protein distribution. Yet the outcomes of micropatterning methods have not been pairwise evaluated against these criteria. We report a versatile photoresist lift-off patterning (LOP) method to pattern ECM proteins on polyacrylamide hydrogels ranging from 5 to 25 kPa. We directly compare the protein transfer efficiency and pattern geometrical accuracy of this protocol to the widely used microcontact printing (\u03bcCP) method. LOP achieves higher protein transfer efficiency, increases pattern accuracy, and reduces variability of these factors within arrays of patterns as it bypasses the drying and transfer steps of microcontact printing. We demonstrate that lift-off patterned hydrogels successfully control cell size and shape when we culture epithelial cells on these platforms. Note: Jens Moeller and Aleksandra K. Denisin contributed \nequally.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111195', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Stanford University']]
