[u'A Flow Procedure for the Linearization of Genome Sequence Graphs.', ['David Haussler', 'Maciej Smuga-Otto', 'Benedict Paten', 'Adam M Novak', 'Sergei Nikitin', 'Maria Zueva', 'Dmitrii Miagkov'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Efforts to incorporate human genetic variation into the reference human genome have converged on the idea of a graph representation of genetic variation within a species, a genome sequence graph. A sequence graph represents a set of individual haploid reference genomes as paths in a single graph. When that set of reference genomes is sufficiently diverse, the sequence graph implicitly contains all frequent human genetic variations, including translocations, inversions, deletions, and insertions.\nIn representing a set of genomes as a sequence graph one encounters certain challenges. One of the most important is the problem of graph linearization, essential both for efficiency of storage and access, as well as for natural graph visualization and compatibility with other tools. The goal of graph linearization is to order nodes of the graph in such a way that operations such as access, traversal and visualization are as efficient and effective as possible.\nA new algorithm for the linearization of sequence graphs, called the flow procedure, is proposed in this paper. Comparative experimental evaluation of the flow procedure against other algorithms shows that it outperforms its rivals in the metrics most relevant to sequence graphs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101501', [], [u'UCSC;', u'EPAM Systems, Inc.']]
[u'HiCRep: assessing the reproducibility of Hi-C data using a stratum-adjusted correlation coefficient', ['Tao Yang', 'Feipeng Zhang', 'Galip Gurkan Yardimci', 'Ross C Hardison', 'William Stafford Noble', 'Feng Yue', 'Qunhua Li'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Hi-C is a powerful technology for studying genome-wide chromatin interactions. However, current methods for assessing Hi-C data reproducibility ignore spatial features in Hi-C data, such as domain structure and distance dependence. We present the stratum-adjusted correlation coefficient (SCC), a reproducibility measure that accounts for these features. SCC can assess pairwise differences between Hi-C matrices under a wide range of settings and can be used to determine optimal sequencing depth. The measure consistently shows higher accuracy than existing approaches in distinguishing subtle differences in reproducibility and depicting interrelationships of cell lineages. The R package HiCRep implements our approach.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101386', [], [u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Experience-induced forgetting by WT1 enables learning of sequential tasks.', ['Chiara Mariottini', 'Leonardo Munari', 'Ellen Gunzel', 'Joseph Seco', 'Nikos Tzavaras', 'Jens Hansen', 'Sarah Stern', 'Virginia Gao', 'Georgia Hodes', 'Scott Russo', 'Vicki Huff', 'Marc Birtwistle', 'Cristina Alberini', 'Robert Blitzer', 'Ravi Iyengar'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Remembering and forgetting are important aspects of normal behavioral adaptation; however, the molecular basis of forgetting has been less studied. Using rat and mouse models we find that WT1, a transcriptional repressor that is activated in the hippocampus by LTP producing stimuli and behavioral memory, enables forgetting. Acute or tonic knockdown of WT1 did not affect short-term memory but enhanced long-term memory and enables a switch from circuit to cellular computation in the hippocampus. A control theory model predicts that WT1 could be a general repressor of memory or a regulator that preserves the ability to remember multiple sequential experiences. Using sequential training for two tasks, mice with non-functional WT1 have better memory for the first task, but show impaired memory for the second task. Taken together, our observations indicate that WT1 mediates an experience-activated forgetting process that preserves the capability of the animal to remember other new experiences.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101360', [], [u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mt Sinai;', u'New York University;', u'Virginia Tech;', u'MD Anderson']]
[u'Behavioral responses of household ants (Hymenoptera) to odor of different coffee species and formulations: Sustainability approach for green pest management strategies', ['Abdul Hafiz Ab Majid', 'Siti Salbiah Ellias', 'Hamady Dieng', 'Tomomitsu Satho'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Odor sensation is a sensory modality of considerable significance in the foraging behavior and interactional organization of ants. In the food bait technology, smell is the basis of attraction, which in turn, is the initial line of bait use and a key parameter for judging efficacy. Yet, baits that are currently available possess low attractiveness to many ant pests. Hence, strategies to produce ant bait with increased attractiveness are needed. Despite evidence that coffee has a diverse aroma complex that affects the behavior of honey bees, which share many social and genetic traits with ants, its attraction to formicine foragers have yet to be investigated. In a series of Y-tube olfactometer bioassays, we examined the behavioral responses of Tapinoma indicum (TI), Monomorium pharaonis (MP) and Solenopsis geminata (SG) to various coffee-induced odor stimuli, comprised of extracts from Arabica, Robusta and Liberica. All coffee species showed an influence on the behavior of TI, MP and SG workers, but the clearest effect was seen with Arabica. The workers of TI, MP and SG were more attracted to the odor of 0.01% Arabica extract (ONE), in comparison with 0.05% Arabica extract (TWO) or 0.05% Arabica extract (THREE). Arabica extract mixed with sugar (S) elicited significant attraction from workers of all three species when in balanced competition with either unsweetened Arabica extract or water. These results indicate that coffee, particularly Arabica is attractive to the foragers of TI, MP and SG, and can encourage the use of coffee in bait development. As coffee is already', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101303', [], [u'Household & Structural Urban Entomology Laboratory,Universiti Sains Malaysia;', u'Institute of Biodiversity and Environmental Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sarawak;', u'Department of Microbiology, Fukuoka University']]
[u'Predicted sensory consequences of voluntary actions modulate amplitude and temporal dynamics of preceding readiness potentials', ['Daniel Reznik', 'Shiri Simon', 'Roy Mukamel'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Self-generated, voluntary actions, are preceded by a slow negativity in the scalp electroencephalography (EEG) signal recorded from frontal regions (termed readiness potential; RP). This signal, and its lateralized subcomponent (LRP), is mainly regarded as preparatory motor activity associated with the forthcoming motor act. However, it is not clear whether this neural signature is associated with preparatory motor activity, expectation of its associated sensory consequences, or both. Here we recorded EEG data from 12 healthy subjects while they performed self-paced button presses with their right index and middle fingers. In one condition (motor+sound) these button-presses triggered a sound while in another (motor-only) they did not. Additionally, subjects passively listened to sounds delivered in expected timings (sound-only). We found that the RP amplitude (locked to time of button press) was significantly more negative in the motor+sound compared with motor-only conditions starting ~1.4 seconds prior to button press. Importantly, no signal negativity was observed prior to expected sound delivery in the sound-only condition. Thus, the differences in RP amplitude between motor+sound and motor-only conditions are beyond differences in mere expectation of a forthcoming auditory sound. No significant differences between the two conditions were obtained in the LRP component. Our results suggest that expected auditory consequences are encoded in the early phase of the RP preceding the voluntary actions that generate them.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101402', [], [u'Tel-Aviv University']]
[u'Modern human origins: multiregional evolution of autosomes and East Asia origin of Y and mtDNA', ['Dejian Yuan', 'Xiaoyun Lei', 'Yuanyuan Gui', 'Zuobin Zhu', 'Dapeng Wang', 'Jun Yu', 'Shi Huang'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Recent studies have established that genetic diversities are mostly maintained by selection, therefore rendering the present molecular model of human origins untenable. Using improved methods and public data, we have revisited human evolution and derived an age of 1.91-1.96 million years for the first split in modern human autosomes. We found evidence of modern Y and mtDNA originating in East Asia and dispersing via hybridization with archaic humans. Neanderthals and Denisovans were archaic Africans with Eurasian admixtures and ancestors of South Asia Negritos and Aboriginal Australians. Verifying our model, we found more ancestry of Southern Chinese from Hunan in Africans relative to other East Asian groups examined. These results suggest multiregional evolution of autosomes and East Asia origin of Y and mtDNA, thereby leading to a coherent account of modern human origins.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101410', [], [u'Central South University;', u'Xuzhou Medical University;', u'Beijing Institute of Genomics']]
[u'Non-viral induction of transient cell reprogramming in skeletal muscle to enhance tissue regeneration', ['Irene de Lazaro', 'Acelya Yilmazer', 'Yein Nam', 'Sarah Qubisi', 'Fazilah Maizatul Abdul Razak', 'Giulio Cossu', 'Kostas Kostarelos'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Somatic cells can be reprogrammed to pluripotency in vivo by overexpression of defined transcription factors. While their sustained expression triggers tumorigenesis, transient reprogramming induces pluripotency-like features and proliferation only temporarily, without teratoma formation. We sought to achieve transient reprogramming within mouse skeletal muscle with a localized injection of plasmid DNA (pDNA) and hypothesized that this would enhance regeneration after severe injury. Intramuscular administration of reprogramming pDNA rapidly upregulated pluripotency (Nanog, Ecat1, Rex1) and early myogenesis genes (Pax3) in the healthy gastrocnemius of various mouse strains. Mononucleated cells expressing such markers appeared promptly in clusters among myofibers, but proliferated only transiently and did not lead to the generation of teratomas. Nanog was also upregulated in the gastrocnemius when reprogramming factors were administered 7 days after laceration of its medial head. Enhanced tissue regeneration after reprogramming was manifested by the accelerated appearance of centro-nucleated myofibers and reduced fibrosis. These results suggest that in vivo transient reprogramming may constitute a novel strategy towards the acceleration of regeneration following muscle injury, based on the induction of transiently-proliferative, pluripotent-like cells in situ. Further research to achieve clinically meaningful functional regeneration is warranted.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101188', [], [u'University of Manchester;', u'University College London']]
[u'The most efficient microbial community dominates during community coalescence', ['Pawel Sierocinski', 'Kim Milferstedt', 'Florian Bayer', 'Tobias Grokopf', 'Mark Alston', 'Sarah Bastkowski', 'David Swarbreck', 'Phil J Hobbs', 'Orkun S Soyer', 'Jerome Hamelin', 'Angus Buckling'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Immigration has major impacts on both the structure and function of communities and evolutionary dynamics of populations. While most work on immigration deals with relatively low numbers and diversity of immigrants, this does not capture microbial community dynamics, which frequently involve the coalescence of entire communities. The general consequences, if any, of such community coalescence are unclear, although existing theoretical and empirical studies suggest coalescence can result in single communities dominating resulting communities. A recent extension8 of classical ecological theory may provide a simple explanation: communities that exploit niches more fully and efficiently prevent species from other communities invading. Here, we test this prediction using complex anaerobic microbial communities, for which methane production provides a measure of resource use efficiency at community scale. We found that communities producing the most methane when grown in isolation dominated in mixtures of communities. As a consequence, the total methane production increased with the number of communities used as an inoculum. In addition to providing a practical method for enhancing biogas production during anaerobic digestion, these results are likely to be relevant to many other microbial communities. As such, it may be possible to predictably manipulate microbial community function for other biotechnological processes, health and agriculture.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101436', [], [u'University of Exeter;', u'LBE INRA Narbonne;', u'University of Warwick;', u'Earlham Institute;', u'Anaerobic Analytics Ltd.']]
[u'The stress-inducible peroxidase TSA2 enables Chromosome IV duplication to be conditionally beneficial in Saccharomyces cerevisiae', ['Robert A. Linder', 'John P. Greco', 'Fabian Seidl', 'Takeshi Matsui', 'Ian M. Ehrenreich'], u'January 18, 2017.', u"Although chromosomal duplications are often deleterious, in some cases they enhance cells' abilities to tolerate specific genetic or environmental challenges. Identifying the genes that cause particular chromosomal duplications to confer these conditionally beneficial effects can improve our understanding of the genetic and molecular mechanisms that enable certain aneuploidies to persist in cell populations and contribute to disease and evolution. Here, we perform a screen for spontaneous mutations that improve the tolerance of haploid Saccharomyces cerevisiae to hydrogen peroxide. Chromosome IV duplication is the most frequent mutation, as well as the only change in chromosomal copy number, seen in the screen. Using a genetic mapping strategy that involves systematically deleting segments of a duplicated chromosome, we show that the Chromosome IV duplication's effect is largely due to the generation of a second copy of the stress-inducible cytoplasmic thioredoxin peroxidase TSA2. This finding is consistent with a growing literature indicating that the conditionally beneficial effects of chromosomal duplications tend to reflect the contributions of small numbers of genes that enhance tolerance to specific stresses when their copy number is increased.", u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101139', [], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, United States;', u'Molecular and Computational Biology, United States']]
[u'Uniform Resolution of Compact Identifiers for Biomedical Data', ['Sarala Wimalaratne', 'Nick Juty', 'John Kunze', 'Greg Janee', 'Julie A McMurry', 'Niall Beard', 'Rafael Jimenez', 'Jeffrey Grethe', 'Henning Hermjakob', 'Tim Clark'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Compact identifiers have been widely used in biomedical informatics both formally and informally. They consist of two parts: 1) a unique prefix or namespace indicating the assigning authority and 2) a locally assigned database identifier sometimes called an accession. The former are useful to avoid global identifier collisions when integrating separately managed datasets run by different communities and consortia, under a variety of autonomous data management systems and practices. This bi-partite identifier approach predates the invention of the Web.\nIn the biomedical domain, the Identifiers.org system supports machine-tractable Web resolution and redirection for names of biomedical digital entities based on a registry of namespaces and a set of resolution and redirection rules. Meanwhile, Name-to-Thing (compactly known as n2t.net) provides resolution of various types of digital entities by managing content directly in its own databases or through prefix-based redirection to the original providers, in a manner akin to Identifers.org.\nWe report here on significant further work by our team toward making compact identifiers available for long-term use in an ecosystem supporting formal citation of primary research data. This approach is intended to be robust beyond the operational and funding scope of any one organization, enabling long-term resolution of cited persistent data in archives. We demonstrate that multiple resolvers with fundamentally different underlying code bases, organizational settings and international alignments, can readily support this approach.\nAs part of this project we have deployed public, production-quality resolvers using a common registry and rules model. This harmonizes the work of n2t.net, based at the California Digital Library (CDL), University of California Office of the President, and identifiers.org, based at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory-European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI). Both resolvers, while derived from independently developed code bases, with different features and objectives, can now uniformly resolve compact identifiers according to our rule set, using a set of common procedures and redirection rules.\nWe believe these products and our approach will be of significant help to publishers and others implementing persistent, machine-resolvable citation of research data in compliance with emerging science policy body recommendations and funder requirements.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101279', [], [u'European Molecular Biology Laboratory, European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'California Digital Library, University of California;', u'Oregon Health and Science University;', u'University of Manchester;', u'ELIXIR;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital']]
[u'Superbubbles, Ultrabubbles and Cacti', ['Benedict Paten', 'Adam M Novak', 'Erik Garrison', 'Glenn Hickey'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'A superbubble is a type of directed acyclic subgraph with single distinct source and sink vertices. In genome assembly and genet- ics, the possible paths through a superbubble can be considered to rep- resent the set of possible sequences at a location in a genome. Bidirected and biedged graphs are a generalization of digraphs that are increasingly being used to more fully represent genome assembly and variation prob- lems. Here we define snarls and ultrabubbles, generalizations of super- bubbles for bidirected and biedged graphs, and give an efficient algorithm for the detection of these more general structures. Key to this algorithm is the cactus graph, which we show encodes the nested decomposition of a graph into snarls and ultrabubbles within its structure. We propose and demonstrate empirically that this decomposition on bidirected and biedged graphs solves a fundamental problem by defining genetic sites for any collection of genomic variations, including complex structural vari- ations, without need for any single reference genome coordinate system. Furthermore, the nesting of the decomposition gives a natural way to describe and model variations contained within large variations, a case not currently dealt with by existing formats, e.g. VCF.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101493', [], [u'UCSC;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Structural and functional dissection of the interplay between lipid and Notch binding by human Notch ligands', ['Richard Suckling', 'Boguslawa Korona', 'Patricia Whiteman', 'Chandramouli Chillakuri', 'Laurie Holt', 'Penny Handford', 'Susan Lea'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Recent data have expanded our understanding of Notch signaling by identifying a C2 domain at the N-terminus of Notch ligands which has both lipid- and receptor-binding properties. We present novel structures of human ligands Jagged2 and DLL4 and human Notch-2, together with functional assays, which suggest that  ligand-mediated coupling of membrane recognition and Notch binding is likely to be critical in establishing the optimal context for Notch signaling. Comparisons between the Jagged and Delta family show a huge diversity in the structures of the loops at the apex of the C2 domain implicated in membrane recognition and Jagged1 missense mutations which affect these loops and are associated with extrahepatic biliary atresia lead to a loss of membrane recognition, but do not alter Notch binding. Taken together, these data suggest that C2 domain binding to membranes is an important element in tuning ligand-dependent Notch signaling in different physiological contexts.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101394', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Visual memories are stored along a compressed timeline', ['Inder Singh', 'Aude Oliva', 'Marc Howard'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'In continuous recognition the recency effect manifests as a decrease in accuracy and a sublinear increase in response time (RT) with the lag of a repeated stimulus. The recency effect could result from the gradual weaken- ing of mnemonic traces. Alternatively, the recency effect could result from a search through a compressed timeline of recent experience. These two hypotheses make very different predictions about the shape of response time distributions. Using highly-memorable pictures to mitigate changes in accuracy enabled a detailed examination of the effect of recency on retrieval dynamics. The recency at which pictures were repeated ranged over two orders of magnitude across three experiments. Analysis of the RT distributions showed that the time at which memories became accessible changed with the recency of the probe, as predicted by a serial search model suggesting that visual memories can be accessed by sequentially scanning along a compressed representation of the past.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101295', [], [u'Boston University;', u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Targeted gene correction of FKRP by CRISPR/Cas9 restores functional glycosylation of \u03b1-dystroglycan in cortical neurons derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells', ['Beatrice Lana', 'Jihee Kim', 'David Ryan', 'Evangelos Konstantinidis', 'Sandra Louzada', 'Beiyuan Fu', 'Fengtang Yang', 'Derek L. Stemple', 'Pentao Liu', 'Francesco Muntoni', 'Yung-Yao Lin'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Mutations in genes required for functional glycosylation of \u03b1-dystroglycan cause a group of congenital muscular dystrophies associated with brain malformations, referred to as dystroglycanopathies. The lack of isogenic, physiology-relevant human cellular models has limited our understanding of the cortical abnormalities in dystroglycanopathies. Here we generate induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from a severe dystroglycanopathy patient with homozygous mutations in the ribitol-5-phosphate transferase gene, FKRP. We carry out targeted gene correction in FKRP-iPSCs using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing. We characterise the directed differentiation of FKRP- and corrected-iPSCs to neural stem cells, cortical progenitors and cortical neurons. Importantly, we show that targeted gene correction of FKRP restores functional glycosylation of \u03b1-dystroglycan in iPSC-derived cortical neurons. We independently validate this result by showing targeted gene mutation of FKRP disrupts functional glycosylation of \u03b1-dystroglycan. This work demonstrates the feasibility of using CRISPR/Cas9-engineered human iPSCs for modelling dystroglycanopathies and provides a foundation for therapeutic development.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101352', [], [u'Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of London;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'UCL Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health']]
[u'Fragile dynamics enable diverse genomic determinants to influence arrhythmia propensity', ['Tim J Kamerzell', 'Eric A Sobie', 'Kai-Chen Yang', 'Jeanne M Nerbonne', 'Calum A MacRae', 'Ravi Iyengar'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Genotype-phenotype relationships are determinants of human diseases. Often, we know little about why so many genes are involved in complex common diseases. We hypothesized that this multigene effect arises from the relationship between genes and physiological dynamics. We tested this hypothesis for arrhythmias as physiological dynamics define this disease. We integrated graph theory analysis of genomic and protein-protein interaction networks with dynamical models of ion channel function to identify the physiological dynamics of genome wide variation for five different arrhythmias. Regulatory networks for the cardiac conduction system and arrhythmias were constructed from GWAS and known disease genes. Electrophysiological models of myocyte action potentials were used to conduct extensive parameter variations to identify robust and fragile kinetic parameters that were then, using regulatory networks, associated with genomic determinants.  We find that genome-wide determinants of arrhythmias that represent many cellular processes are selectively associated with fragile physiological dynamics of ion channel kinetics. This association predicts disease propensity. Deep RNA sequencing from human left ventricular tissue of arrhythmia and control subjects confirmed the predictive relationship. Taken together these studies show that the varied multigene effects of arrhythmias arises because of associations with fragile kinetic parameters of cardiac electrophysiology.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101162', [], [u'Washington University in St Louis;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'National Taiwan University;', u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Genome Graphs', ['Adam M Novak', 'Glenn Hickey', 'Erik Garrison', 'Sean Blum', 'Abram Connelly', 'Alexander Dilthey', 'Jordan Eizenga', 'M. A. Saleh Elmohamed', 'Sally Guthrie', 'Andre Kahles', 'Stephen Keenan', 'Jerome Kelleher', 'Deniz Kural', 'Heng Li', 'Michael F Lin', 'Karen Miga', 'Nancy Ouyang', 'Goran Rakocevic', 'Maciek Smuga-Otto', 'Alexander Wait Zaranek', 'Richard Durbin', 'Gil McVean', 'David Haussler', 'Benedict Paten'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'There is increasing recognition that a single, monoploid reference genome is a poor universal reference structure for human genetics, because it represents only a tiny fraction of human variation. Adding this missing variation results in a structure that can be described as a mathematical graph: a genome graph. We demonstrate that, in comparison to the existing reference genome (GRCh38), genome graphs can substantially improve the fractions of reads that map uniquely and perfectly. Furthermore, we show that this fundamental simplification of read mapping transforms the variant calling problem from one in which many non-reference variants must be discovered de-novo to one in which the vast majority of variants are simply re-identified within the graph. Using standard benchmarks as well as a novel reference-free evaluation, we show that a simplistic variant calling procedure on a genome graph can already call variants at least as well as, and in many cases better than, a state-of-the-art method on the linear human reference genome. We anticipate that graph-based references will supplant linear references in humans and in other applications where cohorts of sequenced individuals are available.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101378', [], [u'UC Santa Cruz Genomics Institute;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Curoverse, Inc.;', u'Cornell University;', u'MSKCC;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Seven Bridges Genomics;', u'Broad Institute;', u'DNAnexus, Inc.;', u'Li Ka Shing Center fro Health Information and Discovery, University of Oxford']]
[u'Brain reorganization in anticipation of predictable words', ['Jeremy I Skipper', 'Jason D Zevin'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'How is speech understood despite the lack of a deterministic relationship between the sounds reaching auditory cortex and what we perceive? One possibility is that unheard words that are unconsciously activated in association with listening context are used to constrain interpretation. We hypothesized that a mechanism for doing so involves reusing the ability of the brain to predict the sensory effects of speaking associated words. Predictions are then compared to signals arriving in auditory cortex, resulting in reduced processing demands when accurate. Indeed, we show that sensorimotor brain regions are more active prior to words predictable from listening context. This activity resembles lexical and speech production related processes and, specifically, subsequent but still unpresented words. When those words occur, auditory cortex activity is reduced, through feedback connectivity. In less predictive contexts, activity patterns and connectivity for the same words are markedly different. Results suggest that the brain reorganizes to actively use knowledge about context to construct the speech we hear, enabling rapid and accurate comprehension despite acoustic variability.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101113', [], [u'University College London;', u'University of Southern California']]
[u'Quality Assessment of High-throughput DNA Sequencing Data via Range analysis', ['M. Oguzhan Kulekci', 'Ali Fotouhi', 'Mina Majidi'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'In the recent literature there appeared a number of studies for the quality assessment of sequencing data. These efforts, to a great extent, focused on reporting the statistical parameters regarding to the distribution of the quality scores and/or the base-calls in a FASTQ file. We investigate another dimension for the quality assessment motivated\nwith the fact that reads including long intervals having fewer errors improve the performances of the post-processing tools in the down-stream analysis. Thus, the quality assessment procedures proposed in this study aim to analyze the segments on the reads that are above a certain quality. We define an interval of a read to be of desired quality when there\nare at most k quality scores less than or equal to a threshold value v, for some v and k provided by the user. We present the algorithm to detect those ranges and introduce new metrics computed from their lengths.\nThese metrics include the mean values for the longest, shortest, average, cubic average, and average variation coefficient of the fragment lengths that are appropriate according to the v and k input parameters. We provide a new software tool QASDRA for quality assessment of sequencing data via range analysis. QASDRA, implemented in Python, and publicly available at https://github.com/ali-cp/QASDRA.git, creates the\nquality assessment report of an input FASTQ file according to the user specified k and v parameters. It also has the capabilities to filter out the\nreads according to the metrics introduced.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101469', [], [u'Istanbul Technical University;', u'University of Tehran']]
[u'Integrated time-lapse and single-cell transcription studies highlight the variable and dynamic nature of human hematopoietic cell fate commitment.', ['Alice Moussy', 'Jeremie Cosette', 'Romuald Parmentier', 'Cindy da Silva', 'Guillaume Corre', 'Angelique Richard', 'Olivier Gandrillon', 'Daniel Stockholm', 'Andras Paldi'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Individual cells take lineage commitment decisions in a way that is not necessarily uniform. We address this issue by characterizing transcriptional changes in cord blood derived CD34+ cells at the single-cell level and integrating data with cell division history and morphological changes determined by time-lapse microscopy. We show, that major transcriptional changes leading to a multilineage-primed gene expression state occur very rapidly during the first cell cycle. One of the two stable lineage-primed patterns emerges gradually in each cell with variable timing. Some cells reach a stable morphology and molecular phenotype by the end of the first cell cycle and transmit it clonally. Others fluctuate between the two phenotypes over several cell cycles. Our analysis highlights the dynamic nature and variable timing of cell fate commitment in hematopoietic cells, links the gene expression pattern to cell morphology and identifies a new category of cells with fluctuating phenotypic characteristics, demonstrating the complexity of the fate decision process, away from a simple binary switch between two options as it is usually envisioned.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101428', [], [u'Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes;', u'Genethon;', u'ENS Lyon']]
[u'Non-parametric test for connectivity detection in multivariate autoregressive networks and application to multiunit activity data', ['Matthieu Gilson', 'Adria Tauste Campo', 'Alexander Thiele', 'Gustavo Deco'], u'January 18, 2017.', u"Directed connectivity inference has become a cornerstone in neuroscience following the recent progress in imaging techniques to describe anatomical and functional networks. This paper focuses on the detection of existing connections from the observed activity in networks of 50 to 150 nodes with linear feedback in discrete time. Through the variation of multiple network parameters, our numerical results indicate that multivariate autoregressive (MVAR) estimation attains better accuracy than other standard techniques like partial correlations and Granger's causality. Based on these findings, we propose a surrogate-based significance test for connectivity detection that is shown to achieve a good control of false positive rate and to be robust to various network topology. The surrogates are generated using time rolling of the observed time series, which breaks down covariances while preserving variances: this builds a null-hypothesis distribution for each connection, from which the connectivity estimate can be compared. Our results strongly support surrogate-based MVAR estimation as a better alternative to Granger's causality test, as it properly incorporates the network feedback in the estimation model. We apply our method to multiunit activity data recorded from Utah electrode arrays in monkey to examine the detected interactions between channels for a proof of concept.", u'/content/early/2017/01/18/100669', [], [u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra;', u'Newcastle University']]
[u'Muscle transcriptome analysis reveals molecular pathways and biomarkers involved in extreme ultimate pH and meat defect occurrence in chicken', ['Stephane Beauclercq', 'Christelle Hennequet-Antier', 'Christophe Praud', 'Estelle Godet', 'Anne Collin', 'Sophie Tesseraud', 'Sonia Metayer-Coustard', 'Marie Bourin', 'Marco Moroldo', 'Frederic Martins', 'Sandrine Lagarrigue', 'Elisabeth Le Bihan-Duval', 'Cecile Berri'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'The processing ability and sensory quality of chicken breast meat are highly related to its ultimate pH (pHu), which is mainly determined by the amount of glycogen in the muscle at death. To unravel the molecular mechanisms underlying glycogen and meat pHu variations and to identify predictive biomarkers of these traits, a transcriptome profiling analysis was performed using an Agilent custom chicken 8x60K microarray. The breast muscle gene expression patterns were studied in two chicken lines experimentally selected for high (pHu+) and low (pHu-) pHu values of the breast meat. Across the 1,436 differentially expressed (DE) genes found between the two lines, many were involved in biological processes related to muscle development and remodelling and carbohydrate and energy metabolism. The functional analysis showed an intensive use of carbohydrate metabolism to produce energy in the pHu- line, while alternative catabolic pathways were solicited in the muscle of the pHu+ broilers, compromising their muscle development and integrity. After a validation step on a population of 278 broilers using microfluidic RT-qPCR, 20 genes were identified by partial least squares regression as good predictors of the pHu, opening new perspectives of screening broilers likely to present meat quality defects.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101170', [], [u'URA, INRA;', u'ITAVI;', u'GABI, INRA;', u'UMR 1048, INSERM;', u'PEGASE, INRA']]
[u'Tracking multiple genomic elements using correlative CRISPR imaging and sequential DNA FISH', ['Juan Guan', 'Harrison Liu', 'Xiaoyu Shi', 'Siyu Feng', 'Bo Huang'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Live imaging of genome has offered important insights into the dynamics of the genome organization and gene expression. The demand to image simultaneously multiple genomic loci has prompted a flurry of exciting advances in multi-color CRISPR imaging, although color-based multiplexing is limited by the need for spectrally distinct fluorophores. Here we introduce an approach to achieve highly multiplexed live recording via correlative CRISPR imaging and sequential DNA fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). This approach first performs one-color live imaging of multiple genomic loci and then uses sequential rounds of DNA FISH to determine the loci identity. We have optimized the FISH protocol so that each round is complete in 1 min, demonstrating the identification of 7 genomic elements and the capability to sustain reversible staining and washing for up to 20 rounds. We have also developed a correlation-based algorithm to faithfully register live and FISH images. Our approach keeps the rest of the color palette open to image other cellular phenomena of interest, as demonstrated by our simultaneous live imaging of genomic loci together with a cell cycle reporter. Furthermore, the algorithm to register faithfully between live and fixed imaging is directly transferrable to other systems such as multiplex RNA imaging with RNA-FISH and multiplex protein imaging with antibody-staining.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101444', [], [u'UCSF']]
[u'Warburg-like metabolism coordinates FGF and Wnt signaling in the vertebrate embryo', ['Masayuki Oginuma', 'Philippe Moncuquet', 'Fengzhu Xiong', 'Edward Karoly', 'Jerome Chal', 'Karine Guevorkian', 'Olivier Pourquie'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Mammalian embryos transiently exhibit aerobic glycolysis (Warburg effect), a metabolic adaptation also observed in cancer cells. The role of this particular type of metabolism during vertebrate organogenesis is currently unknown. Here, we provide evidence for spatio-temporal regulation of aerobic glycolysis in the posterior region of mouse and chicken embryos. We show that a posterior glycolytic gradient is established in response to graded transcription of glycolytic enzymes downstream of FGF signaling. We demonstrate that glycolysis controls posterior elongation of the embryonic axis by regulating cell motility in the presomitic mesoderm and by controling specification of the paraxial mesoderm fate in the tail bud. Our results suggest that Warburg metabolism in the tail bud coordinates Wnt and FGF signaling to promote elongation of the embryonic axis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101451', [], [u"Harvard Medical School/Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'IGBMC;', u'Metabolon;', u"IGBMC; and Harvard Medical School/Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Research on Mitochondrial DNA Mutations in Patients with SCA3/MJD', ['Junling Wang', 'Zhen Liu', 'Jie Zhou', 'Xiaomeng Yin', 'Shuying Shi', 'Weining Sun', 'Hong Jiang', 'Lu Shen', 'Beisha Tang'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3(SCA3) is a degenerative neurological disorders caused by trinucleotide repeat expansion within the ataxin-3 gene. It is characterized by multi-system involvement and diverse clinical phenotypes, which cannot be fully explained the length of the CAG repeats. One possible explanation for the phenotypic heterogeneity could be the presence of mitochondrial DNA mutations that modify disease severity. To explore the role of Mitochondrial DNA(mtDNA) variations in SCA3 pathogenesis, we analyzed polymorphisms of six mitochondrial genes, MT-LT1, MT-ND1, MT-CO2, MT-TK, MT-ATP8 and MT-ATP6, in 102 unrelated SCA3/MJD patients and 100 healthy controls. The results showed that there were 24 variations of those mtDNA genes in the SCA3 patients and only 10 in the unrelated healthy controls. There was no difference of the relative mtDNA copy number variation between the SCA3 patients and healthy controls\uff0893.20 vs. 89.66, P>0.05\uff09. In the group of SCA3 patients, the relative mtDNA copy number showed a negative correlation between the number of CAG repeats\uff08r=-0.210\uff0cP\uff1c0.05), but did not correlate with the age at diagnosis, the age of onset, disease duration, ICARS scores and SARA scores. Our research demonstrated that the frequency of mutated mtDNA in SCA3 patients was higher than that in the healthy group. The mtDNA relative copy number in SCA3 patients was not significantly different compared to the healthy group. Thus, the copy number might not be treated as a biomedical indicator when measuring the severity of illness in SCA3 patients.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101238', [], [u'Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, China']]
[u'Systematic analysis of the effects of the DNA damage response network in telomere defective budding yeast', ['Eva-Maria Holstein', 'Greg H Ngo', 'Conor Lawless', 'Andrew P Banks', 'Matthew Greetham', 'Darren J Wilkinson', 'David Lydall'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Functional telomeres are critically important to eukaryotic genetic stability.  Budding yeast is a powerful model organism for genetic analysis and yeast telomeres are maintained by very similar mechanisms to human telomeres. Scores of proteins and pathways are known to affect telomere function. Here, we report a series of related genome-wide genetic interaction screens performed on budding yeast cells with acute or chronic telomere defects.  We examined genetic interactions in cells defective in Cdc13 and Stn1, affecting two components of CST, a single stranded DNA (ssDNA) binding complex that binds telomeric DNA.  We investigated genetic interactions in cells with defects in Rfa3, affecting the major ssDNA binding protein, RPA, which has overlapping functions with CST at telomeres.  We also examined genetic interactions in cells lacking EXO1 or RAD9, affecting different aspects of the DNA damage response in a cdc13-1 background. Comparing fitness profiles across the data sets allows us build up a picture of the specific responses to different types of dysfunctional telomeres. Our results show that there is no universal response to telomere defects.  To help others engage with the large volumes of data we make the data available via two interactive web-based tools: Profilyzer and DIXY. Among numerous genetic interactions we found the chk1\u2206 mutation improved fitness of  cdc13-1 exo1\u2206 cells more than other checkpoint mutations (ddc1\u2206, rad9\u2206, rad17\u2206, rad24\u2206), whereas in cdc13-1 cells the effects of all checkpoint mutations were similar.  We find that Chk1 stimulates resection at defective telomeres, revealing a new role for Chk1 in the eukaryotic DNA damage response network.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101253', [], [u'Newcastle University, United Kingdom;', u'Cardiff University, United Kingdom;', u'University of Cambridge, United Kingdom']]
[u'Evolution of Reduced Co-Activator Dependence Led to Target Expansion of a Starvation Response Pathway', ['Bin Z He', 'Xu Zhou', "Erin O'Shea"], u'January 18, 2017.', u'In S. cerevisiae, the phosphate starvation (PHO) responsive transcription factors Pho4 and Pho2 are jointly required for induction of phosphate response genes and survival in phosphate starvation conditions. In the related human commensal and pathogen C. glabrata, Pho4 is required but Pho2 is dispensable for survival in phosphate-limited conditions and is only partially required for inducing the phosphate response genes. This reduced dependence on Pho2 evolved in C. glabrata and closely related species. Pho4 orthologs that are less dependent on Pho2 induce more genes when introduced into the S. cerevisiae background, and Pho4 in C. glabrata both binds to more sites and induces more genes with expanded functional roles compared to Pho4 in S. cerevisiae. Our work reveals an evolutionary mechanism for rapidly expanding the targets of a transcription factor by changing its dependence on a co-activator, potentially refining the physiological response it regulates.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101154', [], [u'Harvard University, HHMI;', u'Yale School of Medicine']]
[u'Automated Detection of Records in Biological Sequence Databases that are Inconsistent with the Literature', ['Mohamed Reda Bouadjenek', 'Karin Verspoor', 'Justin Zobel'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'We investigate and analyse the data quality of nucleotide sequence databases with the objective of automatic detection of data anomalies and suspicious records. Specifically, we demonstrate that the published literature associated with each data record can be used to automatically evaluate its quality, by cross-checking the consistency of the key content of the database record with the referenced publications. Focusing on GenBank, we describe a set of quality indicators based on the relevance paradigm of information retrieval (IR). Then, we use these quality indicators to train an anomaly detection algorithm to classify records as "confident" or "suspicious".\nOur experiments on the PubMed Central collection show assessing the coherence between the literature and database records, through our algorithms, is an effective mechanism for assisting curators to perform data cleansing. Although fewer than 0.25% of the records in our data set are known to be faulty, we would expect that there are many more in GenBank that have not yet been identified. By automated comparison with literature they can be identified with a precision of up to 10% and a recall of up to 30%, while strongly outperforming several baselines. While these results leave substantial room for improvement, they reflect both the very imbalanced nature of the data, and the limited explicitly labelled data that is available. Overall, the obtained results show promise for the development of a new kind of approach to detecting low-quality and suspicious sequence records based on literature analysis and consistency. From a practical point of view, this will greatly help curators in identifying inconsistent records in large-scale sequence databases by highlighting records that are likely to be inconsistent with the literature.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101246', [], [u'University of Melbourne']]
[u'New insight into plant intramembrane proteases', ['Malgorzata Adamiec', 'Lucyna Honorata Misztal', 'Robert Lucinski'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'The process of proteolysis is a factor involved in control of the proper development of the plant and its responses to a changeable environment. Recent research has shown that proteases are not only engaged in quality control and protein turnover processes but also participate in the process which is known as regulated membrane proteolysis (RIP). Four families of integral membrane proteases, belonging to three different classes, have been identified: serine intramembrane proteases known as rhomboid proteases, site-2 proteases belonging to zinc metalloproteases, and two families of aspartic proteases: presenilins and signal peptide peptidases. The studies concerning intramembrane proteases in higher plants are, however, focused on Arabidopsis thaliana. The aim of the study was to identify and retrieve protein sequences of intramembrane protease homologs from other higher plant species and perform a detailed analysis of their primary sequences as well as their phylogenetic relations. This approach allows us to indicate several previously undescribed issues which may provide important directions for further research.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101204', [], [u'Adam Mickiewicz University, Faculty of Biology, Department of Plant Physiology']]
[u'Multiplexed dynamic imaging of genomic loci in single cells by combined CRISPR imaging and DNA sequential FISH', ['Yodai Takei', 'Sheel Shah', 'Sho Harvey', 'Lei S Qi', 'Long Cai'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Visualization of chromosome dynamics allows the investigation of spatiotemporal chromatin organization and its role in gene regulation and other cellular processes. However, current approaches to label multiple genomic loci in live cells have a fundamental limitation in the number of loci that can be labelled and uniquely identified. Here we describe an approach we call \u2033track first and identify later\u2033 for multiplexed visualization of chromosome dynamics by combining two techniques: CRISPR labeling and DNA sequential fluorescence in situ hybridization (DNA seqFISH). Our approach first labels and tracks chromosomal loci in live cells with the CRISPR system, then barcodes those loci by DNA seqFISH in fixed cells and resolves their identities. We demonstrate our approach by tracking telomere dynamics, identifying 12 unique subtelomeric regions with variable detection efficiencies, and tracking back the telomere dynamics of respective chromosomes in mouse embryonic stem cells.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101477', [], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Novel Abundant Oceanic Viruses of Uncultured Marine Group II Euryarchaeota Identified by Genome-Centric Metagenomics', ['Alon Philosof', 'Natalya Yutin', 'Jose Flores-Uribe', 'Itai Sharon', 'Eugene V Koonin', 'Oded Beja'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Marine Group II Euryarchaeota (MGII) are among the most abundant microbes in the oceanic surface waters. So far, however, representatives of MGII have not been cultivated, and no viruses infecting these organisms have been described. Here we present complete genomes for 3 distinct groups of viruses assembled from metagenomic sequence datasets highly enriched for MGII. These novel viruses, which we denote Magroviruses, possess double-stranded DNA genomes of 65 to 100 kilobase in size that encode a structural module characteristic of head-tailed viruses and, unusually for archaeal and bacterial viruses, a nearly complete replication apparatus of apparent archaeal origin. The newly identified Magroviruses are widespread and abundant, and therefore are likely to be major ecological agents.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101196', [], [u'Technion - Israel Institute of Technology;', u'NCBI, NLM,NIH;', u'Migal Galilee Research Institute, Kiryat Shmona, 11016, Israel. Tel Hai College, Upper Galilee 1221;', u'Faculty of Biology, Technion - Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel']]
[u'Promoter-Enhancer Interactions Identified from Hi-C Data using Probabilistic Models and Hierarchical Topological Domains', ['Gil Ron', 'Dror Moran', 'Tommy Kaplan'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Proximity-ligation methods as Hi-C allow us to map physical DNA-DNA interactions along the genome, and reveal its organization in topologically associating domains (TADs). As Hi-C data accumulate, computational methods were developed for identifying domain borders in multiple cell types and organisms.\nHere, we present PSYCHIC, a computational approach for analyzing Hi-C data and identifying Promoter-Enhancer interactions. We use a unified probabilistic model to segment the genome into domains, which we merge hierarchically and fit the Hi-C interaction map with a local background model. This allows us to estimate the expected number of interactions for every DNA-DNA pair, thus identifying over-represented interactions across the genome.\nBy analyzing published Hi-C data in human and mouse, we identified hundreds of thousands of putative enhancers and their target genes in multiple cell types, and compiled an extensive genome-wide catalog of gene regulation in human and mouse.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101220', [], [u'School of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'The multiplex network of human diseases', ['Arda Halu', 'Manlio De Domenico', 'Alex Arenas', 'Amitabh Sharma'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Untangling the complex interplay between phenotype and genotype is crucial to the effective characterization and subtyping of diseases. Here we build and analyze the multiplex network of 779 human diseases, which consists of a genotype-based layer and a phenotype-based layer. We show that diseases with common genetic constituents tend to share symptoms, and uncover how phenotype information helps boost genotype information. Moreover, we offer a flexible classification of diseases that considers their molecular underpinnings alongside their clinical manifestations. We detect cohesive groups of diseases that have high intra-group similarity at both the molecular and the phenotypic level. Inspecting these disease classes, we demonstrate the underlying pathways that connect diseases mechanistically. We observe monogenic disorders grouped together with complex diseases for which they increase the risk factor. We propose potentially new disease associations that arise as a unique feature of the information flow within and across the two layers.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/100370', [], [u"Brigham and Women's Hospital / Harvard Medical School;", u'Universitat Rovira i Virgili']]
[u'Efficient and flexible strategies for gene cloning and vector construction using overlap PCR', ['Zhongtian Liu', 'Tingting Zhang', 'Kun Xu'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Gene cloning and vector construction are basic technologies in modern molecular biology for gene functional study. Here, we present flexible and efficient strategies for gene cloning and vector construction using overlap PCR. We firstly cloned the open reading frames (ORFs) of the porcine MSTN, chicken OVA and human \u03b1-glucosidase genes by overlap PCR-based assembling of their exons, which could be amplified with genomic DNAs as the templates without RNA extraction and RT-PCR reaction. Secondly, we generated additionally three designed functional cassettes by overlap PCR-based assembling of different DNA elements, which facilitated the construction their expression vectors greatly. Moreover, we further developed an interesting overlap-circled PCR method for fast plasmid vector construction without any cutting and ligating procedure. These advanced applications of overlap PCR provide useful alternative tools for gene cloning and vector construction.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101147', [], [u'Northwest A&F University, China;', u'Shanxi University, China']]
[u'Towards a new kind of vaccine', ['Geoffrey W Hoffmann', 'Reginald M Gorczynski'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'We present new data showing that normal IgG immune responses comprise the production of two kinds of antibodies, namely anti-foreign and anti-anti-self antibodies. For example, immunization of C3H mice by two rounds of BL/6 skin grafting results in the production of anti-BL/6 antibodies plus antiidiotypic antibodies (C3H anti-anti-C3H) with the latter being detected using antibodies produced in a BL/6 anti-C3H immune response. Similarly, the IgG immune response of C3H mice to tetanus toxoid includes the production of C3H anti-anti-C3H antibodies. Antigen-specific antibodies produced in one alloimmunization plus antiidiotypic antibodies produced in the converse immunization can be used to synergistically induce specific tolerance. We show that infusions of anti-BL/6 antibodies together with BL/6 anti-anti-BL/6 antibodies specifically suppress an immune response to BL/6 lymphocytes in C3H mice. Specific tolerance was measured as suppression of the induction of BL/6-specific cytotoxic T cells. The two kinds of antibodies with complementary specificity are believed to stimulate two populations of T lymphocytes, and co-selection (mutual selection) of these two populations leads to a new stable steady state of the system that has specifically diminished reactivity to BL/6 tissue. Stimulation with a combination of anti-C3H and C3H anti anti-C3H IgG antibodies furthermore down-regulates inflammation in a mouse model of inflammatory bowel disease. An analogous combination of C3H anti BL/6 and BL/6 anti-anti-BL/6 antibodies significantly down-regulates tumour growth and metastases in BALB/c mice in the EMT6 transplantable breast cancer model. We conclude that a combination of certain antigen-specific and antiidiotypic antibodies has potential as a new class of vaccines based on the symmetrical immune network theory. This new kind of vaccine does not involve the production of antibodies. The prevention of two important degenerative diseases makes this a potential anti-aging technology.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101345', [], [u'University British Columbia;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Functional regulatory evolution outside of the minimal even-skipped stripe 2 enhancer', ['Justin Crocker', 'David L. Stern'], u'January 18, 2017.', u'Transcriptional enhancers are regions of DNA that drive gene expression at precise times, levels, and locations. While many studies have elucidated how individual enhancers can evolve, most of this work has focused on what are called "minimal" enhancers, the smallest DNA regions that drive expression that approximates an aspect of native gene expression. Here we explore how the Drosophila erecta even-skipped (eve) locus has evolved by testing its activity in the divergent D. melanogaster genome. We found, as has been reported previously, that the minimal D. erecta eve stripe 2 enhancer (eveS2) fails to drive appreciable expression in D. melanogaster. However, we found that a large transgene carrying the entire D. erecta eve locus drives normal eve expression, including in stripe 2. We performed a functional dissection of the region upstream of the D. erecta eveS2 region and found that regulatory information outside of the minimal D. erecta eveS2 contains multiple Zelda motifs that are required for normal expression. Our results illustrate how sequences outside of minimal enhancer regions can evolve functionally through mechanisms other than changes in transcription factor binding sites that drive patterning.', u'/content/early/2017/01/18/101311', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
