[u'Pan-cancer scale landscape of simple somatic mutations', ['Nan Zhou', 'Blanca Gallego', 'Jinku Bao', 'Guy Tsafnat'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Genome is the carrier of somatic mutations during the development of cancer. The catalogue of simple somatic mutations (SSM) is a subgroup of somatic mutations. It includes single base substitutions, small deletions and insertions of <= 200 bp, and multiple base substitutions of <= 200 bp. The comprehensive landscape of SSM has not been studied. After analysed 46,692,922 SSM of 10,878 samples, we proposed a pan-cancer scale landscape of SSM for 60 cancer projects in ICGC. In addition, the whole genome sequencing (WGS) and whole exome sequencing (WXS) techniques were compared according to the landscape of SSM. The result indicates numbers of SSM vary dramatically in different cancers. WGS can detect 10 times more single base substitutions and insertions than WXS. In terms of WXS, it called 10 times more deletions than insertions. Multiple base substitutions have not been well studied so they were just observed in a few cancer projects. Cancers generally show high prevalence of C > T substitutions at NpCpG trinucleotide contexts. Skin cancer showed distinct mutational spectra. Breast cancer, bladder cancer, and cervical cancer were found to have similar mutational spectra. Acute myeloid leukemia and lung cancer from South Korea, and colorectal cancer from China show high density of single base substitutions per mega base in chromosome Y. To sum up, our study and findings will be thought provoking in studying SSM in cancer.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112367', [u'Genomics'], [u'Macquarie University;', u'Sichuan University']]
[u'Allopatric divergence, local adaptation, and multiple Quaternary refugia in a long-lived tree (Quercus spinosa) from subtropical China', ['Li Feng', 'Yan-Ping Zhang', 'Xiao-Dan Chen', 'Jia Yang', 'Tao Zhou', 'Guo-Qing Bai', 'Jiao Yang', 'Zhong-Hu Li', 'Ching-I Peng', 'Gui-Fang Zhao'], u'February 28, 2017.', u"The complex geography and climatic changes occurring in subtropical China during the Tertiary and Quaternary might have provided substantial opportunities for allopatric speciation. To gain further insight into these processes, we reconstruct the evolutionary history of Quercus spinosa, a common evergreen tree species mainly distributed in this area. \n  Forty-six populations were genotyped using four chloroplast DNA regions and 12 nuclear microsatellite loci to assess genetic structure and diversity, which was supplemented by divergence time and diversification rate analyses, environmental factor analysis, and ecological niche modeling of the species distributions in the past and at present. \n  The genetic data consistently identified two lineages: the western Eastern Himalaya-Hengduan Mountains lineage and the eastern Central-Eastern China lineage, mostly maintained by populations' environmental adaptation. These lineages diverged through climate/orogeny-induced vicariance during the Neogene and remained separated thereafter. Genetic data strongly supported the multiple refugia (per se, interglacial refugia) or refugia within refugia hypotheses to explain Q. spinosa phylogeography in subtropical China. \n  Q. spinosa population structure highlighted the importance of complex geography and climatic changes occurring in subtropical China during the Neogene in providing substantial opportunities for allopatric divergence.", u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112375', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Northwest University;', u'Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica']]
[u'High quality frozen extracts of Xenopus laevis eggs reveal size-dependent control of metaphase spindle micromechanics', ['Jun Takagi', 'Yuta Shimamoto'], u'February 28, 2017.', u'Cell-free extracts from unfertilized Xenopus laevis\t eggs offer the opportunity for a variety of biochemical assays for analyzing essential cell cycle events, such as metaphase spindle assembly. However, extracts\u2032 utility is often hampered by their short storage-stability duration and high quality variation. Here, we report a simple two-step method for preparing frozen egg extracts that retain spindle assembly activity levels that are close to those of freshly prepared extracts. Extract degradation associated with the freeze-thaw process can be substantially reduced by using centrifugal filter-based dehydration and slow sample cooling. Large amounts of frozen extract stocks from single batch preparations allowed us to collect a large number of data in micromanipulation experiments that are intrinsically low-throughput and, hence, clarify correlations between metaphase spindle size and stiffness. We anticipate that our method provides an assay platform with minimized biological heterogeneity and makes egg extracts more accessible to researchers as distributable material.', u'/content/early/2017/02/28/112334', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'National Institute of Genetics']]
[u'A global perspective on bioinformatics training needs', ['Michelle D Brazas', 'Cath Brooksbank', 'Rafael C Jimenez', 'Sarah Blackford', 'Patricia M Palagi', 'Javier De Las Rivas', 'B.F. Francis Ouellette', 'Judit Kumuthini', 'Eija Korpelainen', 'Fran Lewitter', 'Celia W.G. van Gelder', 'Nicola Mulder', 'Manuel Corpas', 'Maria Victoria Schneider', 'Tin Wee Tan', 'Dave Clements', 'Angela Davies', 'Teresa K Attwood'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'In the last decade, life-science research has become increasingly data-intensive and computational. Nevertheless, basic bioinformatics and data stewardship are still only rarely taught in life-science degree programmes, creating a widening skills gap that spans educational levels and career roles. To better understand this situation, we ran surveys to determine how the skills dearth is affecting the need for bioinformatics training worldwide. Perhaps unsurprisingly, we found that respondents wanted more short courses to help boost their expertise and confidence in data analysis and interpretation. However, it was evident that most respondents appreciated their need for training only after designing their experiments and collecting their data. This is clearly rather late in the research workflow, and suboptimal from a training perspective, as skills acquired to address a specific need at a particular time are seldom retained, engendering a cycle of low confidence in trainees. To ensure that such skill gaps do not continue to create barriers to the progress of research, we argue that universities should strive to bring their life-science curricula into the digital-data era. Meanwhile, the demand for point-of-need training in bioinformatics and data stewardship will grow. While this situation persists, international groups like GOBLET are increasing their efforts to enlarge the community of trainers and quench the global thirst for bioinformatics training.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/098996', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research;', u'EMBL-EBI;', u'University of Lancaster;', u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics;', u'Centro de Investigacion del Cancer, Universidad de Salamanca-CSIC;', u'Centre for Proteomic and Genomic Research;', u'CSC - IT Centre for Science;', u'International Society for Computational Biology;', u'Dutch Techcentre for Life Sciences;', u'Computational Biology Division, IDM, University of Cape Town;', u'The Genome Analysis Centre;', u'National University of Singapore;', u'John Hopkins University;', u'University of Manchester']]
[u'Tracing the influence of land-use change on water quality and coral reefs using a Bayesian model', ['Christopher J Brown', 'Stacy D Jupiter', 'Simon Albert', 'Carissa J Klein', 'Sangeeta Mangubhai', 'Maina Mbui', 'Peter Mumby', 'Jon Olley', 'Ben Stewart-Koster', 'Vivitskaia Tulloch', 'Amelia Wenger'], u'February 27, 2017.', u"Coastal ecosystems can be degraded by poor water quality. Tracing the causes of poor water quality back to land-use change is necessary to target catchment management for coastal zone management. However, existing models for tracing the sources of pollution require extensive data-sets which are not available for many of the world's coral reef regions that may have severe water quality issues. Here we develop a hierarchical Bayesian model that uses freely available satellite data to infer the connection between land-uses in catchments and water clarity in coastal oceans. We apply the model to estimate the influence of land-use change on water clarity in Fiji. We tested the model's predictions against underwater surveys, finding that predictions of poor water quality are consistent with observations of high siltation and low coverage of sediment-sensitive coral genera. The model thus provides a means to link land-use change to declines in coastal water quality.", u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112250', [u'Ecology'], [u'Griffith University;', u'Wildlife Conservation Society;', u'The University of Queensland;', u'Macquarie University']]
[u'The mechanism of sphingolipid processing revealed by a GALC-SapA complex structure', ['Chris H Hill', 'Georgia M Cook', 'Samantha J Spratley', 'Stephen C Graham', 'Janet E Deane'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Sphingolipids are essential components of cellular membranes and defects in their synthesis or degradation cause severe human diseases. The efficient degradation of sphingolipids in the lysosome requires lipid-binding saposin proteins and hydrolytic enzymes. The glycosphingolipid galactocerebroside is the primary lipid component of the myelin sheath and is degraded by the hydrolase \u03b2-galactocerebrosidase (GALC). This enzyme requires the saposin SapA for lipid processing and defects in either of these proteins causes a severe neurodegenerative disorder, Krabbe disease. Here we present the structure of a glycosphingolipid-processing complex, revealing how SapA and GALC form a heterotetramer with an open channel connecting the enzyme active site to the SapA hydrophobic cavity. This structure defines how a soluble hydrolase can cleave the polar glycosyl headgroups of these essential lipids from their hydrophobic ceramide tails. Furthermore, the molecular details of this interaction reveal how specificity of saposin binding to hydrolases is encoded.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112029', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Comparative genomics approaches accurately predict deleterious variants in plants', ['Thomas John Y Kono', 'Li Lei', 'Ching-Hua Shih', 'Paul J Hoffman', 'Peter L Morrell', 'Justin C. Fay'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Recent advances in genome resequencing have led to increased interest in prediction of the functional consequences of genetic variants. Variants at phylogenetically conserved sites are of particular interest, because they are more likely than variants at phylogenetically variable sites to have deleterious effects on fitness and contribute to phenotypic variation. Numerous comparative genomic approaches have been developed to predict deleterious variants, but they are nearly always judged based on their ability to identify known disease-causing mutations in humans. Determining the accuracy of deleterious variant predictions in nonhuman species is important to understanding evolution, domestication, and potentially to improving crop quality and yield. To examine our ability to predict deleterious variants in plants we generated a curated database of 2,910 Arabidopsis thaliana mutants with known phenotypes. We evaluated seven approaches and found that while all performed well, the single best-performing approach was a likelihood ratio test applied to homologs identified in 42 plant genomes. Although the approaches did not always agree, we found only slight differences in performance when comparing mutations with gross versus biochemical phenotypes, duplicated versus single copy genes, and when using a single approach versus ensemble predictions. We conclude that deleterious mutations can be reliably predicted in A. thaliana and likely other plant species, but that the relative performance of various approaches can depend on the organism to which they are applied.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112318', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'Washington University;', u'Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Particle Tracking facilitates real time Motion Compensation in 2D or 3D two-photon imaging of neuronal activity', ['Samira Aghayee', 'Zachary Bowen', 'Dan E Winkowski', 'Matthew Harrington', 'Patrick Kanold', 'Wolfgang Losert'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'The application of 2-photon laser scanning microscopy (TPLSM) techniques to measure the dynamics of cellular calcium signals in populations of neurons is an extremely powerful technique for characterizing neural activity within the central nervous system. The use of TPLSM on awake and behaving subjects promises new insights into how neural circuit elements cooperatively interact to form sensory perceptions and generate behavior. A major challenge in imaging such preparations is animal and tissue movement, which leads to shifts in the imaging location (jitter). Although there are surgical and technical approaches to minimize brain motion under these conditions, it is generally unavoidable. The presence of image motion can lead to artifacts, especially since quantification of TPLSM images involves analysis of fluctuations in fluorescence intensities for each neuron, determined from small regions of interest (ROIs). Here, we validated a new motion correction approach to compensate for motion of TPLSM images in the superficial layers of auditory cortex of awake mice. We use a nominally uniform fluorescent signal as a secondary signal to complement the dynamic signals from genetically encoded calcium indicators. We tested motion correction for single plane time lapse imaging as well as multiplane (i.e. volume) time lapse imaging of cortical tissue. Our procedure of motion compensation relies on locating the brightest neurons and tracking their positions over time using established techniques of particle finding and tracking. The performance of our technique both for 2D (single plane) and 3D (volume) image sequences is comparable to established techniques in its ability to suppress false neural signals. Object tracking based motion compensation thus offers an alternative approach for motion compensation, one that is well suited for real time feedback control and for analysis of tissue distortions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112284', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Maryland, College Park;', u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Improving data availability for brain image biobanking in healthy subjects: practice-based suggestions from an international multidisciplinary working group', ['Susan D Shenkin', 'Cyril Pernet', 'Thomas E Nichols', 'Jean-Baptiste Poline', 'Paul M Matthews', 'Aad van der Lugt', 'Clare Mackay', 'Lanyon Linda', 'Bernard Mazoyer', 'James P Boardman', 'Paul M Thompson', 'Nick Fox', 'Daniel S Marcus', 'Aziz Sheikh', 'Simon R Cox', 'Devasuda Anblagan', 'Dominic E Job', 'David Alexander Dickie', 'David Rodriguez', 'Joanna M Wardlaw'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Brain imaging is now ubiquitous in clinical practice and research. The case for bringing together large amounts of image data from well-characterised healthy subjects and those with a range of common brain diseases across the life course is now compelling. This report follows a meeting of international experts from multiple disciplines, all interested in brain image biobanking. The meeting included neuroimaging experts (clinical and non-clinical), computer scientists, epidemiologists, clinicians, ethicists, and lawyers involved in creating brain image banks. The meeting followed a structured format to discuss current and emerging brain image banks; applications such as atlases; conceptual and statistical problems (e.g. defining "normality"); legal, ethical and technological issues (e.g. consents, potential for data linkage, data security, harmonisation, data storage and enabling of research data sharing). We summarise the lessons learned from the experiences of a wide range of individual image banks, and provide practical recommendations to enhance creation, use and reuse of neuroimaging data. Our aim is to maximise the benefit of the image data, provided voluntarily by research participants and funded by many organisations, for human health. Our ultimate vision is of a federated network of brain image biobanks accessible for large studies of brain structure and function.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/110460', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University of Warwick;', u'University of California;', u'Imperial College, London;', u'University Medical Centre, Rotterdam;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Karolinska Instutet, Stockhom;', u'Universite de Bordeaux;', u'Keck USC School of Medicine;', u'University College London;', u'Washington University']]
[u'The 3D Genome Browser: a web-based browser for visualizing 3D genome organization and long-range chromatin interactions', ['Yanli Wang', 'Bo Zhang', 'Lijun Zhang', 'Lin An', 'Jie Xu', 'Daofeng Li', 'Mayank NK Choudhary', 'Yun Li', 'Ming Hu', 'Ross Hardison', 'Ting Wang', 'Feng Yue'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Recent advent of 3C-based technologies such as Hi-C and ChIA-PET provides us an opportunity to explore chromatin interactions and 3D genome organization in an unprecedented scale and resolution. However, it remains a challenge to visualize chromatin interaction data due to its size and complexity. Here, we introduce the 3D Genome Browser (http://3dgenome.org), which allows users to conveniently explore both publicly available and their own chromatin interaction data. Users can also seamlessly integrate other \u201comics\u201d data sets, such as ChIP-Seq and RNA-Seq for the same genomic region, to gain a complete view of both regulatory landscape and 3D genome structure for any given gene. Finally, our browser provides multiple methods to link distal cis-regulatory elements with their potential target genes, including virtual 4C, ChIA-PET, Capture Hi-C and cross-cell-type correlation of proximal and distal DNA hypersensitive sites, and therefore represents a valuable resource for the study of gene regulation in mammalian genomes.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112268', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'Penn State College of Medicine;', u'Washington University School of Medicine;', u'University of North Carolina;', u'Lerner Research Institute']]
[u'Concern noted: A descriptive study of editorial expressions of concern in PubMed and PubMed Central.', ['Melissa Vaught', 'Diana C Jordan', 'Hilda Bastian'], u'February 27, 2017.', u"Background: An editorial expression of concern (EEoC) is issued by editors or publishers to draw attention to potential problems in a publication, without itself constituting a retraction or correction.\n\nMethods: We searched PubMed, PubMed Central (PMC), and Google Scholar to identify EEoCs issued for publications in PubMed and PMC up to 22 August 2016. We also searched the archives of the Retraction Watch blog, some journal and publisher websites, and studies of EEoCs. In addition, we searched for retractions of EEoCs and affected articles in PubMed up to 8 December 2016. We analyzed overall historical trends, as well as reported reasons and subsequent editorial actions related to EEoCs issued between August 2014 and August 2016.\n\nResults: After screening 5,076 records, we identified 230 EEoCs that affect 300 publications indexed in PubMed, the earliest issued in 1985. Half of the primary EEoCs were issued between 2014 and 2016 (52%). We found evidence of some EEoCs that had been removed by the publisher without leaving a record and some were not submitted for PubMed or PMC indexing. A minority of publications affected by EEoCs had been retracted by early December 2016 (25%). For the subset of 92 EEoCs issued between August 2014 and August 2016, affecting 99 publications, the rate of retraction was similar (29%). The majority of EEoCs were issued because of concerns with validity of data, methods, or interpretation of the publication (68%), and 31% of cases remained open. Issues with images were raised in 40% of affected publications. Ongoing monitoring after the study identified another 17 EEoCs to year's end in 2016, increasing the number of EEoCs to 247 and publications in PubMed known to be affected by EEoCs to 320 at the end of 2016. \n\nConclusions: EEoCs have been rare publishing events in the biomedical literature, but their use has been increasing. Most have not led to retractions, and many remain unresolved. Lack of prominence and inconsistencies in management of EEoCs reduce the ability of these notices to alert the scientific community to potentially serious problems in publications. EEoCs will be made identifiable in PubMed in 2017.", u'/content/early/2017/02/27/106757', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), U.S. National Library of Medicine (NLM), NIH']]
[u'Enabling cross-study analysis of RNA-Sequencing data', ['Qingguo Wang', 'Joshua Armenia', 'Chao Zhang', 'Alexander V Penson', 'Ed Reznik', 'Liguo Zhang', 'Angelica Ochoa', 'Benjamin E Gross', 'Christine A Iacobuzio-Donahue', 'Doron Betel', 'Barry S Taylor', 'Jianjiong Gao', 'Nikolaus Schultz'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Driven by the recent advances of next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies and an urgent need to decode complex human diseases, a multitude of large-scale studies were conducted recently that have resulted in an unprecedented volume of whole transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) data. While these data offer new opportunities to identify the mechanisms underlying disease, the comparison of data from different sources poses a great challenge, due to differences in sample and data processing. Here, we present a pipeline that processes and unifies RNA-seq data from different studies, which includes uniform realignment and gene expression quantification as well as batch effect removal. We find that uniform alignment and quantification is not sufficient when combining RNA-seq data from different sources and that the removal of other batch effects is essential to facilitate data comparison. We have processed data from the Genotype Tissue Expression project (GTEx) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and have successfully corrected for study-specific biases, enabling comparative analysis across studies. The normalized data are available for download via GitHub (at https://github.com/mskcc/RNAseqDB).', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/110734', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Lipscomb University;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center;', u'Weill Cornell Medicine']]
[u'dMARCH8, a Drosophila ubiquitin ligase, regulates polymodifications of tubulin in the spermiogenic pathway', ['Ujwala Gosavi', 'Utsav Nyachhyon', 'Nabanita Chatterjee', 'Brian Pearce', 'Robert Harvey', 'Christopher W Bazinet'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Ciliary stability and function are regulated by the covalent addition of polyglutamate and polyglycine chains to axonemal tubulin subunits. The Drosophila gene CG13442 encodes a predicted ubiquitin E3 ligase involved in the regulation of tubulin glycylation and glutamylation. Homologous to mammalian MARCH8, CG13442/dMARCH8 is required for male fertility. Sperm in dMARCH8 mutant testes appear to undergo a normal individualization process but fail to be transferred to the seminal vesicle. This phenotype is very similar to that of mutants in the Ntl gene, shown here to be a glycine transporter using a [3H]glycine uptake assay. Mutations in dMARCH8 are associated with a reduction of both polyglutamylation and polyglycylation of sperm tubulin.  Polyglutamylation of tubulin is significantly increased in the Ntl- background, and recovers to wild-type levels in the Ntl--dMARCH8- double mutant background, indicating that glycine and glutamate compete for some common site(s) on tubulin molecules in this system.  By analogy to the regulation of the mammalian glycine transporter GlyT2 through ubiquitin-mediated trafficking between the plasma membrane and endosome, dMARCH8 may target Ntl and glutamate transporters, or other upstream regulators of these proteins.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112243', [u'Cell Biology'], [u"St. John's University;", u'University of London;', u'University College London']]
[u'Gene editing in rat embryonic stem cells to produce in vitro models and in vivo reporters', ['Yaoyao Chen', 'Sonia Spitzer', 'Sylvia Agathou', 'Ragnhildur Thora Karadottir', 'Austin Smith'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Rat embryonic stem (ES) cells offer the potential for sophisticated genome engineering in this valuable biomedical model species. However, germline transmission has been rare following conventional homologous recombination and clonal selection. Here we used the CRISPR/Cas9 system to target genomic mutations and insertions. We first evaluated utility for directed mutagenesis and recovered clones with biallelic deletions in Lef1. Mutant cells exhibited reduced sensitivity to glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibition during self-renewal. We then generated a non-disruptive knock-in of DsRed at the Sox10 locus. Two clones produced germline chimaeras. Comparative expression of DsRed and Sox10 validated the fidelity of the reporter. To illustrate utility, oligodendrocyte lineage cells were visualised by live imaging of DsRed in neonatal brain slices and subjected to patch clamp recording. Overall these results show that CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing technology in germline competent rat ES cells is enabling for in vitro studies and for generating genetically modified rats.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112276', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Wellcome Trust-Medical Research Council Cambridge Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge;', u'2Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Identifying tagging SNPs for African specific genetic variation from the African Diaspora Genome', ['Henry R Johnston', 'Yi-Juan Hu', 'Jingjing Gao', "Timoty D O'Connor", 'Goncalo Abecasis', 'Genevieve L Wojcik', 'Christopher R Gignoux', 'Pierre-Antoine Gourraud', 'Antoine Lizee', 'Mark Hansen', 'Rob Genuario', 'Dave Bullis', 'Cindy Lawley', 'Eimear E Kenny', 'Carlos Bustamante', 'Terri H Beaty', 'Rasika A Mathias', 'Kathleen C Barnes', 'Zhaohui S Qin'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'A primary goal of The Consortium on Asthma among African-ancestry Populations in the Americas (CAAPA) is to develop an \u201cAfrican Diaspora Power Chip\u201d (ADPC), a genotyping array consisting of tagging SNPs, useful in comprehensively identifying African specific genetic variation. This array is designed based on the novel variation identified in 642 CAAPA samples of African ancestry with high coverage whole genome sequence data (~30x depth). This novel variation extends the pattern of variation catalogued in the 1000 Genomes and Exome Sequencing Projects to a spectrum of populations representing the wide range of West African genomic diversity. These individuals from CAAPA also comprise a large swath of the African Diaspora population and incorporate historical genetic diversity covering nearly the entire Atlantic coast of the Americas. Here we show the results of designing and producing such a microchip array. This novel array covers African specific variation far better than other commercially available arrays, and will enable better GWAS analyses for researchers with individuals of African descent in their study populations. A recent study cataloging variation in continental African populations suggests this type of African-specific genotyping array is both necessary and valuable for facilitating large-scale GWAS in populations of African ancestry.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112235', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Emory University, Atlanta, GA;', u'Data and Statistical Sciences, AbbVie, North Chicago, IL;', u'Institute for Genome Sciences, University of Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD;', u'Department of Biostatistics, SPH II, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI;', u'Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA;', u'Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA;', u'Illumina, Inc., San Diego, CA;', u'Department of Genetics and Genomics, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY;', u'Department of Epidemiology, Bloomberg School of Public Health, JHU, Baltimore, MD']]
[u'BRD4 inhibitors block telomere elongation', ['Steven Wang', 'Alexandra Pike', 'Stella Lee', 'Carla Connelly', 'Carol W. Greider'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Cancer cells maintain telomere length equilibrium to avoid senescence and apoptosis induced by short telomeres, which are triggered by the DNA damage response. Limiting the potential for telomere maintenance in cancer cells has been long been proposed as a therapeutic target. Using an unbiased shRNA screen targeting known kinases, we identified bromodomain 4 (BRD4) as a telomere length regulator. Four independent BRD4 inhibitors blocked telomere elongation, in a dose dependent manner, in mouse cells overexpressing telomerase. Long-term treatment with BRD4 inhibitors caused telomere shortening in both mouse and human cells, suggesting BRD4 plays a role in telomere maintenance in vivo.  Telomerase enzymatic activity was not directly affected by BRD4 inhibition. BRD4 is in clinical trials for a number of cancers, but its effects on telomere maintenance have not been previously reported investigated.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112169', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine;', u'John Hopkins University']]
[u'Emergence and persistence of the Chikungunya virus East-Central-South-African genotype in Northeast Brazil', ['Antonio Charlys da Costa', 'Julien Theze', 'Shirley Cavalcante Vasconcelos Komninakis', 'Rodrigo Lopes Sanz-Duro', 'Marta Rejane Lemos Felinto', 'Lucia Cristina Correa Moura', 'Ivoneide Moreira de Oliveira Barroso', 'Lucineide Eliziario Correia Santos', 'Mardjane Alves de Lemos Nunes', 'Adriana Avila Moura', 'Jose Lourenco', 'Xutao Deng', 'Eric L Delwart', 'Maria Raquel dos Anjos Silva Guimaraes', 'Oliver G Pybus', 'Ester C Sabino', 'Nuno R Faria'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'We investigate an outbreak of exanthematous illness in Macei\xf3, Alagoas, using molecular surveillance. Of 273 samples, 76% tested RT-qPCR positive for Chikungunya virus. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that the outbreak was caused by the East-Central-South-African genotype, and that this lineage has likely persisted since mid-2014 in Northeast Brazil.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/111948', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'School of Medicine and Institute of Tropical Medicine, University of Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK;', u'Retrovirology Laboratory, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil;', u'Laboratorio Central de Saude Publica, Secretaria de Estado da Saude da Paraiba, Brazil;', u'Hospital Unimed Maceio, Alagoas, Brazil;', u'Hospital Escola Dr. Helvio Auto, Alagoas, Brazil;', u'Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA']]
[u'The social and spatial ecology of dengue presence and burden during an outbreak in Guayaquil, Ecuador, 2012', ['Catherine A. Lippi', 'Anna M Stewart-Ibarra', 'Angel G Munoz', 'Mercy J Borbor-Cordova', 'Raul Mejia', 'Keytia Rivero', 'Katty Castillo', 'Washington B. Cardenas', 'Sadie J. Ryan'], u'February 27, 2017.', u"Background: Dengue fever, a mosquito-borne viral disease, is an ongoing public health problem in Ecuador and throughout the tropics, yet we have a limited understanding of the disease transmission dynamics in these regions. The objective of this study was to characterize the spatial dynamics and social-ecological risk factors associated with a recent dengue outbreak in Guayaquil, Ecuador.  Methods: We examined georeferenced dengue cases (n = 4,248) and block-level census data variables to identify potential social-ecological variables associated with the presence and burden of dengue fever in Guayaquil in 2012. We applied LISA and Moran's I tests to analyze hotspots of dengue cases and used multimodel selection in R computing language to identify covariates associated with dengue incidence at the census zone level.  Results: Significant hotspots of dengue transmission were found near the North Central and Southern portions of Guayaquil. Significant risk factors for presence of dengue included poor housing conditions (e.g., poor condition of ceiling, floors, and walls), access to paved roads, and receipt of remittances. Counterintuitive positive correlations with dengue presence were observed with several municipal services such as garbage collection and access to piped water. Risk factors for increased burden of dengue included poor housing conditions, garbage collection, receipt of remittances, and sharing a property with more than one household. Social factors such as education and household demographics were negatively correlated with increased dengue burden.  Conclusions. Findings elucidate underlying differences with dengue presence and burden and indicate the potential to develop dengue vulnerability and risk maps to inform disease prevention and control, information that is also relevant for emerging epidemics of chikungunya and zika.", u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112185', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Florida;', u'SUNY Upstate Medical University;', u'Princeton University;', u'Escuela Superior Polit\xe9cnica del Litoral;', u'National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology, Guayaquil, Ecuador;', u'Institute of Biometrics and Epidemiology, Dusseldorf, Germany']]
[u'Rule-based modeling using wildcards', ['Steven S Andrews'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Many biological molecules exist in multiple variants, such as proteins with different posttranslational modifications, DNAs with different sequences, and phospholipids with different chain lengths. Representing these variants as distinct species, as most biochemical simulators do, leads to the problem that the number of species, and chemical reactions that interconvert them, typically increase combinatorially with the number of ways that the molecules can vary. This can be alleviated by "rule-based modeling methods," in which software generates the chemical reaction network from relatively simple "rules." This article presents a new approach to rule-based modeling. It is based on wildcards that match to species names, much as wildcards can match to file names in computer operating systems. It is much simpler to use than the formal rule-based modeling approaches developed previously but can also lead to unintended consequences if not used carefully. This article demonstrates rule-based modeling with wildcards through examples for: signaling systems, protein complexation, polymerization, nucleic acid sequence copying and mutation, the "SMILES" chemical notation, and others. The method is implemented in Smoldyn, a spatial and stochastic biochemical simulator, for both the generate-first and on-the-fly expansion, meaning whether the reaction network is generated before or during the simulation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112052', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Functional genomic analysis of corals from natural CO2-seeps reveal core molecular responses involved in acclimatization to ocean acidification', ['Carly Kenkel', 'Aurelie Moya', 'Julia Strahl', 'Craig Humphrey', 'Line Bay'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Little is known about the potential for acclimatization or adaptation of corals to ocean acidification and even less about the molecular mechanisms underpinning these processes. Here we examine global gene expression patterns in corals and their intracellular algal symbionts from two replicate population pairs in Papua New Guinea that have undergone long-term acclimatization to natural variation in pCO2. In the coral host, only 61 genes were differentially expressed in response to pCO2 environment, but the pattern of change was highly consistent between replicate populations, likely reflecting the core expression homeostasis response to ocean acidification. Functional annotations highlight lipid metabolism and a change in the stress response capacity of corals as a key part of this process. Specifically, constitutive downregulation of molecular chaperones was observed, which may impact response to combined climate-change related stressors. Elevated CO2 has been hypothesized to benefit photosynthetic organisms but expression changes of in hospite Symbiodinium in response to acidification were greater and less consistent among reef populations. This population-specific response suggests hosts may need to adapt not only to an acidified environment, but also to changes in their Symbiodinium populations that may not be consistent among environments. This process adds another challenging dimension to the physiological process of coping with climate change.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112045', [u'Genomics'], [u'Australian Institute of Marine Science, PMB No 3, Townsville MC, Queensland 4810, Australia;', u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reefs Studies, James Cook University, Townsville, Australia;', u'Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg, Oldenburg, Germany']]
[u'Reverse inference via connectivity fingerprinting: task sensitivity, task specificity, and task potency', ['Roselyne Chauvin', 'Maarten Mennes', 'Jan Buitelaar', 'Christian Beckmann'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'In recent years, several large-scale neuroimaging efforts have been launched in an attempt to tackle a potential lack of power in the context of small effect sizes. However, within these large-scale efforts different cognitive tasks are typically treated independently, while the availability of such large databases provides much greater potential for integration. Additionally, the field of functional connectivity seems to face redundant results involving a reproducible baseline architecture of networks connectivity and would need to go beyond that representation to understand how cognition emerge from variation of that structure. In this paper, we propose a framework that aim to provide a new feature to study the functional connectivity related to cognitive involvement in tasks by removing the common architecture of the functional connectivity, i.e. taking the resting state as a baseline functional structure. As such we can propose a feature of connectivity modulation by a task: task potency. Supplementary, our framework aims to bring all tasks connectivity to a comparative level to enable to study all tasks of a cohort together. We demonstrate the use of such a feature by comparing three tasks of the NeuroIMAGE cohort (ref) and describing the behaviour of the task potency by looking at commonality and differences between tasks. We then moved to related the task potency as a new feature for the reverse inference investigation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/111187', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands']]
[u'Revealing Age-Related Changes of Adult Hippocampal Neurogenesis', ['Frederik Ziebell', 'Sascha Dehler', 'Ana Martin-Villalba', 'Anna Marciniak-Czochra'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'In the adult hippocampus, neural stem cells (NSCs) continuously produce new neurons that integrate into the neuronal network to modulate learning and memory. The amount and quality of newly generated neurons decline with age, which can be counteracted by increasing intrinsic Wnt activity in NSCs. However, the precise cellular changes underlying this age-related decline or its rescue through Wnt remain unclear. The present study combines development of a mathematical model and experimental data to address features controlling stem cell dynamics. We show that available experimental data fit a model in which quiescent NSCs can either become activated to divide or undergo depletion events, consisting of astrocytic transformation and apoptosis. Additionally, we demonstrate that aged NSCs remain longer in quiescence and have a higher probability to become re-activated versus being depleted. Finally, our model explains that high NSC-Wnt activity leads to longer time in quiescence while augmenting  the probability of activation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112128', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'German Cancer Reseach Center;', u'DKFZ;', u'Heidelberg University']]
[u'STPGA: Selection of training populations with a genetic algorithm', ['Deniz Akdemir'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Optimal subset selection is an important task that has numerous algorithms designed for it and has many application areas. STPGA contains a special genetic algorithm supplemented with a tabu memory property (that keeps track of previously tried solutions and their fitness for a number of iterations), and with a regression of the fitness of the solutions on their coding that is used to form the ideal estimated solution (look ahead property) to search for solutions of generic optimal subset selection problems. I have initially developed the programs for the specific problem of selecting training populations for genomic prediction or association problems, therefore I give discussion of the theory behind optimal design of experiments to explain the default optimization criteria in STPGA, and illustrate the use of the programs in this endeavor.  Nevertheless, I have picked a few other areas of application: supervised and unsupervised variable selection based on kernel alignment, supervised variable selection with design criteria, influential observation identification for regression, solving mixed integer quadratic optimization problems, balancing gains and inbreeding in a breeding population. Some of these illustrations pertain new statistical approaches.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/111989', [u'Genetics'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'A microfluidic biodisplay', ['Francesca Volpetti', 'Ekaterina Petrova', 'Sebastian Josef Maerkl'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Synthetically engineered cells are powerful and potentially useful biosensors, but it remains difficult to deploy such systems due to practical difficulties and biosafety concerns. To overcome these hurdles, we developed a microfluidic device that serves as an interface between an engineered cellular system, environment, and user. We created a biodisplay consisting of 768 individually programmable biopixels and demonstrated that it can perform multiplexed, continuous environmental monitoring. The biodisplay detected 10 \u03bcg/l sodium-arsenite in tap water using a research grade fluorescent microscope, and reported arsenic contamination down to 20 \u03bcg/l with an easy to interpret "skull and crossbones" symbol detectable with a low-cost USB microscope or by eye. No chemical or biological material is released by the biodisplay preventing environmental contamination. The microfluidic biodisplay thus provides a practical solution for the deployment and application of engineered cellular systems.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112110', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Ecole polytechnique federale de Lausanne EPFL']]
[u'Understanding inhibitor resistance in Mps1 kinase through novel biophysical assays and structures', ['Yoshitaka Hiruma', 'Andre Koch', 'Nazila Hazraty', 'Robbie Joosten', 'Rene Medema', 'Anastassis Perrakis'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Monopolar spindle 1 (Mps1/TTK) is a protein kinase essential in mitotic checkpoint signalling, preventing anaphase until all chromosomes are properly attached to spindle microtubules. Mps1 has emerged as a potential target for cancer therapy, and a variety of compounds have been developed to inhibit its kinase activity. Mutations in the catalytic domain of Mps1 that give rise to inhibitor resistance, but retain catalytic activity and do not display cross-resistance to other Mps1 inhibitors, have been described. Here we characterize one such mutant, the Mps1 C604Y that raises resistance to two closely related compounds, NMS-P715 and its derivative Cpd-5, but not to the well characterised Mps1 inhibitor, reversine. We show that estimates of the IC50 (employing a novel specific and efficient assay that utilizes a fluorescently labelled substrate) and of the binding affinity (KD) confirm that the C604Y mutant is not resistant to reversine, but also indicate that Cpd-5 should be better tolerated than the closely related NMS-P715. To gain further insight, we determined the crystal structure of the Mps1 kinase bound to Cpd-5 at 2.2\xc5 resolution, and compare the binding modes of Cpd-5, NMS-P715 and reversine bound to Mps1. The difference in steric hindrance between Tyr604 and the trifluoromethoxy moiety of NMS-P715, the methoxy moiety of Cpd-5, and complete absence of such a group in reversine, account for differences we observe in vitro. Our analysis enforces the notion that inhibitors targeting Mps1 drug-resistant mutations can emerge as a feasible intervention strategy based on existing scaffolds, if the clinical need arises.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112086', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Netherlands Cancer Institute']]
[u'Signaling architectures that transmit unidirectional information despite retroactivity', ['Rushina Shah', 'Domitilla Del Vecchio'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'A signaling pathway transmits information from an upstream system to downstream systems, ideally in a unidirectional fashion. A key obstacle to unidirectional transmission is retroactivity, the additional reaction flux that affects a system once its species interact with those of downstream systems. This raises the fundamental question of whether signaling pathways have developed specialized architectures that overcome retroactivity and transmit unidirectional signals. Here, we propose a general procedure based on mathematical analysis that provides an answer to this question. Using this procedure, we analyze the ability of a variety of signaling architectures to transmit one-way (from upstream to downstream) signals, as key biological parameters are tuned. We find that single stage phosphorylation and phosphotransfer systems that transmit signals from a kinase show a stringent design trade-off that hampers their ability to overcome retroactivity. Interestingly, cascades of these architectures, which are highly represented in nature, can overcome this trade-off and thus enable unidirectional transmission. By contrast, phosphotransfer systems, and single and double phosphorylation cycles that transmit signals from a substrate are unable to mitigate retroactivity effects, even when cascaded, and hence are not well suited for unidirectional information transmission. Our results identify signaling architectures that, allowing unidirectional transmission of signals, embody modular processes that conserve their input/output behavior across multiple contexts. These findings can be used to decompose natural signal transduction networks into modules, and, at the same time, they establish a library of devices that can be used in synthetic biology to facilitate modular circuit design.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/111971', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'The recombination landscape in wild house mice inferred using population genomic data', ['Tom R Booker', 'Rob W Ness', 'Peter D. Keightley'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Characterizing variation in the rate of recombination across the genome is important for understanding many evolutionary processes. The landscape of recombination has been studied previously in the house mouse, Mus musculus, and it is known that the different subspecies exhibit different suites of recombination hotspots. However, it is not established whether broad-scale variation in the rate of recombination is conserved between the subspecies. In this study, we construct a fine-scale recombination map for the Eastern house mouse subspecies, M. m. castaneus, using 10 individuals sampled from its ancestral range. After inferring phase, we use LDhelmet to construct recombination maps for each autosome. We find that the spatial distribution of recombination rate is strongly positively between our castaneus map and a map constructed using inbred lines of mice derived predominantly from M. m. domesticus. We also find that levels of genetic diversity in M. m. castaneus are positively correlated with the rate of recombination, consistent with pervasive natural selection acting in the genome. Our study suggests that recombination rate variation is conserved at broad scales between M. musculus subspecies.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112094', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh, United Kingdom;', u'University of Toronto Mississauga, Canada']]
[u'Demographic inference through approximate-Bayesian-computation skyline plots', ['Miguel Navascues', 'Raphael Leblois', 'Concetta Burgarella'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'The skyline plot is a graphical representation of estimated past scaled effective population size as a function of time. Its inference is based on models without an a priori assumption on a mathematical function determining the shape of the demographic change, typically a constant piecewise model. Because of this, it is considered to achieve a more realistic description of the complex demographies occurring in natural populations. Currently, there are implementations of the skyline plot based on coalescent samplers and a composite likelihood approach. In the present work we provide an equivalent implementation within the Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) framework and provide an assessment of its performance for microsatellite data. The method correctly retrieves the signal of contracting, constant and expanding populations, although the graphical shape of the plot is not always an accurate representation of true demographic trajectory. Because of the flexibility of ABC, similar approaches can be extended to other type of data, to models with multiple populations, or to other parameters that could change through time, such as the migration rate.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/112060', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'INRA;', u'IRD']]
[u'Dynamics of ASC speck formation during skin inflammatory responses in vivo', ['Paola Sofia Kuri Rodriguez', 'Nicole Schieber', 'Thomas Thumberger', 'Joachim Wittbrodt', 'Yannick Schwab', 'Maria Leptin'], u'February 27, 2017.', u'Activated danger or pathogen sensors trigger assembly of the inflammasome adaptor ASC into specks, large signalling platforms considered hallmarks of inflammasome activation. Because a lack of in vivo tools has prevented the study of endogenous ASC dynamics, we generated a live ASC reporter through CRISPR/Cas9 tagging of the endogenous gene in zebrafish. We see strong ASC expression in the skin and other epithelia that act as barriers to insult. A toxic stimulus triggered speck formation and rapid pyroptosis in keratinocytes in vivo. Macrophages engulfed and digested this speck-containing pyroptotic debris. A 3D ultrastructural reconstruction based on CLEM of in vivo assembled specks revealed a compact network of highly intercrossed filaments, whereas PYD or CARD alone formed filamentous aggregates. The effector caspase is recruited through PYD, whose overexpression induced pyroptosis, but after substantial delay. Therefore, formation of a single compact speck and rapid cell death induction in vivo requires full-length ASC.', u'/content/early/2017/02/27/111542', [u'Immunology'], [u'EMBL;', u'Heidelberg University;', u'University of Cologne']]
