[u'Nitric oxide sensing by chlorophyll a', ['Abhishek Bhattacharya', 'Puranjoy Kar', 'Pranjal Biswas', 'Piya Roychoudhury', 'Sankar Basu', 'Sanjay Ghosh', 'Koustubh Panda', 'Ruma Pal', 'Anjan Kr. Dasgupta'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Nitric oxide (NO) acts as a signalling molecule that has direct and indirect regulatory roles in various functional processes in biology, though in plant kingdom its role is  relatively unexplored. One reason for this is the fact that sensing of NO is always challenging. There are very few probes that can classify the different NO species. The present paper proposes a simple but straightforward way for sensing different NO species using chlorophyll, the source of inspiration being hemoglobin that serves as a NO sink in most mamalian system. The proposed method is able to classify NO from DETA-NONOate or (Z)-1-[N-(2-aminoethyl)-N-(2-ammonioethyl) amino] diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate, nitrite, nitrate and S-nitrosothiol or SNO. This discrimination is carried out by chlorophyll a (chl a) at nanomolar (nM) order of sensitivity and at 293K to 310K. Molecular docking reveals the differential binding behaviour of NO and SNO with chlorophyll, the predicted binding affinity matching with the experimental observation. Additional experiments with diverse range of cyanobacteria reveals that apart from spectroscopic approach the proposed sensing module can be used in microscopic inspection of NO speices. Binding of NO is sensitive to temperature and static magnetic field. This provides additional support to the involvement of the porphyrin ring structure to the NO sensing process. This also broadens the scope of the sensing methods as hinted in the text.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146563', [], [u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Calcutta;', u'Department of Botany, University of Calcutta;', u'Guha Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, University of Calcutta']]
[u'Extreme conservation of miRNA complements in Opisthorchiids', ['Vladimir Ovchinnikov', 'Viatcheslav A. Mordvinov', 'Bastian Fromm'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key players in parasite-host communication and potential biomarkers for the detection of parasitic infections from host blood. Consequently, it is crucial to precisely know the miRNA complements of medically important agents such as the liver flukes of the Opisthorchiidae. Using publicly available and new datasets we curated and reannotated the surprisingly small and variable miRNA complements previously described for Opistorchis viverrini, O. felineus and Clonorchis sinesis. We find three highly similar miRNA complements with 53 identical and two miRNA genes with species specific sequences that signify a set of potential biomarkers and promising candidates for further investigations.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146654', [], [u'The Federal Research Center Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Novosibirsk;', u'Institute for Cancer Research, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo University Hospital']]
[u'Learn to Track: Deep Learning for Tractography', ['Philippe Poulin', 'Marc-Alexandre Cote', 'Jean-Christophe Houde', 'Laurent Petit', 'Peter Florian Neher', 'Klaus H. Maier-Hein', 'Hugo Larochelle', 'Maxime Descoteaux'], u'June 6, 2017.', u"We show that deep learning techniques can be applied successfully to fiber tractography. Specifically, we use feed-forward and recurrent neural networks to learn the generation process of streamlines directly from diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) data. Furthermore, we empirically study the behavior of the proposed models on a realistic white matter phantom with known ground truth. We show that their performance is competitive to that of commonly used techniques, even when the models are used on DWI data unseen at training time. We also show that our models are able to recover high spatial coverage of the ground truth white matter pathways while better controlling the number of false connections. In fact, our experiments suggest that exploiting past information within a streamline's trajectory during tracking helps predict the following direction.", u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146688', [], [u'Universite de Sherbrooke;', u"Groupe d'Imagerie Neurofonctionelle, IMN, CNRS, CEA, Universite de Bordeaux;", u'German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ);', u'German Cancer Research Center']]
[u'Isolation and functional characterization of the rat Thyroglobulin gene upstream enhancer region', ['Christiane Christophe-Hobertus', 'Daniel Christophe'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'We report here the isolation and functional characterization of the as yet undescribed rat Thyroglobulin gene upstream enhancer element.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146589', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Universite Libre de Bruxelles']]
[u'Design Principle of Lysis/Lysogeny Decision vis-a-vis Multiplicity of Infection', ['Dinkar Wadhwa'], u'June 6, 2017.', u"Bacteriophage lambda possesses dual strategy of replication. Upon infecting its host, Escherichia coli, it can either choose lytic pathway, in which the host undergoes lysis, releasing hundreds of progeny viruses, or opt for lysogeny, in which the viral genome exists as part of bacterial chromosome known as prophage. Classic and molecular studies have shown that the lysis/lysogeny decision depends upon the number of coinfecting phages, viz. the multiplicity of infection (MoI): lysis at low MoI; lysogeny at high MoI. Here, by constructing an expression for quality of the lysis/lysogeny minimalist two-protein switch which, beside another thing, demands high equilibrium concentration of Cro-like protein (Lyt) and low equilibrium concentration of CI-like protein (Lys) - that is, lytic development - at MoI of 1, and vice versa - that is, lysogeny development - at MoI of 2, I demonstrate that positive feedback loop formed by activation of cI's transcription by its own product in a cooperative manner underlies the switch's design. The minimalist two-protein model, in which Lys performs exactly the same function as CI does in lambda phage's genetic regulatory network (GRN), is justified by showing its analogy with the GRN responsible for lysis/lysogeny decision. Existence of another stable state at MoI of 1 is argued to be responsible for lysogen stability. Further, by comparing the minimalist model and its variants, possessing the positive feedback loop, with other models, without having the positive feedback loop, such as the mutual repression model, it is shown why lysis/lysogeny switch involving positive autoregulation of cI is evolved instead of one without it. A three-protein model, which is very close to the real GRN, is shown to be equivalent to a close variant of the two-protein minimalist switch. Finally, only a fraction of parameter sets that produced switch deterministically were able to do so, if at all, under stochastic simulations more than 95% of the time. Additionally, another stable state at MoI of 1 was not found during stochastic simulation.", u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146308', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Bombay']]
[u'Plasmids, Viruses, And Other Circular Elements In Rat Gut', ['Tue Sparholt Jorgensen', 'Martin Asser Hansen', 'Zhuofei Xu', 'Mickey Tabak', 'Soren J. Sorensen', 'Lars Hestbjerg Hansen'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Circular DNA such as plasmids and some viruses is the major source of genetic variation in bacteria and thus has the same important evolutionary function as sexual reproduction in eukaryotic species: It allows dissemination of advantageous traits through bacterial populations. Here, we present the largest collection of novel complete extrachromosomal genetic elements to date, and compare the diversity, distribution, and content of circular sequences from 12 rat cecum samples from the pristine Falkland Islands and Danish hospital sewers, two environments with contrasting anthropogenic impact. Using a validated pipeline, we find 1,869 complete, circular, non-redundant sequences, of which only 114 are previously described. While sequences of similar size from the two environments share general features, the size distribution of the elements between environments differs significantly, with hospital sewer samples hosting larger circular elements than Falkland Island samples, a possible consequence of the massive anthropogenic influence in the hospital sewer environment. Several antibiotic resistance genes have been identified with a notably larger diversity in hospital sewer samples than in Falkland Islands samples in concordance with expectations. Our findings suggest that even though sequences of similar length carry similar traits, the mobilome of rat gut bacteria are affected by human activities in that sewer rats have larger elements and more diverse large elements than pristine island rats. More than 1000 small, novel and not classified small sequences was identified and hint the existence of a biological unit not previously described on a community level.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/143420', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Roskilde University;', u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Huazhong Agricultural University;', u'Department of Zoology and Physiology, University of Wyoming;', u'Aarhus University']]
[u'Cooling Induced by Uphill Energy Transport in Plant Photosystems', ['Koel Sen', 'Abhishek Bhattacharya', 'Santiswarup Singha', 'Maitrayee Dasgupta', 'Anjan Dasgupta'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'The uphill energy transfer in photosystems implies input energy at higher wavelength leading to energy output at lower wavelength. Briefly, energy is uphill transported from photosystem I (PSI) to photosystem II (PSII), the latter having a lower wavelength emission. This uphill energy transport involves absorption of thermal energy from the surroundings. While such cooling effects have been reported in laser systems we report for the first time a white light driven cooling in thylakoid suspension. The cooling of the surrounding medium by appropriate illumination was illustrated using thermal measurements. Again cooling is inhibited by agents like 3-(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)-1,1-dimethylurea, that block the linear electron flow between the photocenters, implying a dependence of the cooling on interplay between such centers. Furthermore, it is possible to modulate the cooling pattern by addition of external agents like nanopaticles, some favoring further cooling (e.g., Ag nanoparticle) and some like Au  or chlorophyll nanoparticles, showing insignificant or even reverse trends. Interestingly, the cooling is invariably associated with the 77K spectra of the thylakoid suspension. With reference to the dark control, an agent causing cooling always increases PSII to PSI ratio and vice versa i.e.,the uphill energy transport. Importantly, the cooling effect, apart from its import role in plant physiology can be exploited artificially for energy saving in post-harvest or food preservation.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146548', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Calcutta;', u'University of Calcutta']]
[u'Pre-dispersal conditions and presence of opposite sex modulate density dependence and sex bias of dispersal', ['Abhishek Mishra', 'Sudipta Tung', 'V. R. Shree Sruti', 'Mohammed Aamir Sadiq', 'Sahana Srivathsa', 'Sutirth Dey'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Density-dependent dispersal (DDD) has been demonstrated in many species and has several ecological and evolutionary consequences. Yet we know little about how robust DDD is to the various conditions experienced by individuals. In this study, we use three independent experiments on laboratory populations of Drosophila melanogaster to examine the effects of pre-dispersal adult density, sex of the dispersers and presence of mates on the robustness of DDD patterns. We show that DDD can be greatly affected by both pre-dispersal density and interaction between the sexes. Moreover, the direction of sex-biased dispersal can reverse completely due to an interaction between the pre-dispersal and dispersal densities. We also show that interaction between the sexes can lead to negative DDD at the population level, even if, by themselves, neither sex exhibits DDD. Finally, we discuss potential implications of our results for processes like evolutionary rescue from extinctions and genetic divergence of populations.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146605', [u'Ecology'], [u'Indian Institute of Science Education and Research-Pune']]
[u'Local-Global Parcellation of the Human Cerebral Cortex From Intrinsic Functional Connectivity MRI', ['Alexander Schaefer', 'Ru Kong', 'Evan M. Gordon', 'Timothy O. Laumann', 'Xi-Nian Zuo', 'Avram Holmes', 'Simon B. Eickhoff', 'B. T. Thomas Yeo'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'A central goal in systems neuroscience is the parcellation of the cerebral cortex into discrete neurobiological \u201catoms\u201d. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) offers the possibility of in-vivo human cortical parcellation. Almost all previous parcellations relied on one of two approaches. The local gradient approach detects abrupt transitions in functional connectivity patterns. These transitions potentially reflect cortical areal boundaries defined by histology or visuotopic fMRI. By contrast, the global similarity approach clusters similar functional connectivity patterns regardless of spatial proximity, resulting in parcels with homogeneous (similar) rs-fMRI signals. Here we propose a gradient-weighted Markov Random Field (gwMRF) model integrating local gradient and global similarity approaches. Using task-fMRI and rs-fMRI across diverse acquisition protocols, we found gwMRF parcellations to be more homogeneous than four previously published parcellations. Furthermore, gwMRF parcellations agreed with the boundaries of certain cortical areas defined using histology and visuotopic fMRI. Some parcels captured sub-areal (somatotopic and visuotopic) features that likely reflect distinct computational units within known cortical areas. These results suggest that gwMRF parcellations reveal neurobiologically meaningful features of brain organization and are potentially useful for future applications requiring dimensionality reduction of voxel-wise fMRI data. Multi-resolution parcellations generated from 1489 participants are available at FREESURFER_WIKI LINK_TO_BE_ADDED.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/135632', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National University of Singapore;', u'VISN 17 Center of Excellence for Research on Returning War Veterans, Waco, TX, USA;', u'Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, USA;', u'University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China;', u'Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA;', u'Institute for Systems Neuroscience, Medical Faculty, Heinrich-Heine University, Dusseldorf']]
[u'A Guide To Analysis And Reconstruction Of Serial Block Face Scanning Electron Microscopy Data', ['Erin Cocks', 'Michael Taggart', 'Claire Rind', 'Kathryn White'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Serial block face scanning electron microscopy (SBF-SEM) is a relatively new technique that allows the acquisition of serially sectioned, imaged and digitally aligned ultrastructural data. There is a wealth of information that can be obtained from the resulting image stacks but this presents a new challenge for researchers - how to computationally analyse and make best use of the large data sets produced. One approach is to reconstruct structures and features of interest in 3D. However the software programs can appear overwhelming, time consuming and not intuitive for those new to image analysis. There are a limited number of published articles that provide sufficient detail on how to do this type of reconstruction. Therefore the aim of this paper is to provide a detailed step-by-step protocol, videos and explanation on the types of analysis and programs that can be used. To showcase the programs, skeletal muscle from fetal and adult guinea pigs were used. The tissue was processed using the heavy metal protocol developed specifically for SBFSEM. Trimmed resin blocks were placed into a Zeiss Sigma SEM incorporating the Gatan 3View and the resulting image stacks were analysed in 3 different programs, Fiji, Amira and MIB, using a range of tools available for segmentation. The results from the image analysis comparison show that the analysis tools are often more suited to a type of structure. For example larger structures, such as nuclei and cells, can be segmented using interpolation, which speeds up analysis; single contrast structures, such as the nucleolus, can be segmented using the contrast-based thresholding tools. Knowing the nature of the tissue and its specific structures (complexity, contrast, if there are distinct membranes, size) will help to determine the best method for reconstruction and thus maximising output from valuable tissue.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/133231', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Newcastle University']]
[u'The iPSYCH2012 case-cohort sample: New directions for unravelling genetic and environmental architectures of severe mental disorders', ['Carsten Boecker Pedersen', 'Jonas Bybjerg-Grauholm', 'Marianne Gioertz Pedersen', 'Jakob Grove', 'Esben Agerbo', 'Marie Baekvad-Hansen', 'Jesper Buchhave Poulsen', 'Christine Soeholm Hansen', 'John McGrath', 'Thomas D. Als', 'Jacqueline Goldstein', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Mark Daly', 'David Hougaard', 'Ole Mors', 'Merete Nordentoft', 'Anders Boerglum', 'Thomas Werge', 'Preben Bo Mortensen'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'The iPSYCH consortium has established a large Danish population-based Case-Cohort sample (iPSYCH2012) aimed at unravelling the genetic and environmental architecture of severe mental disorders. The iPSYCH2012 sample is nested within the entire Danish population born 1981-2005 including 1,472,762 persons. This paper introduces the iPSYCH2012 sample and outlines key future research directions. Cases were identified as persons with schizophrenia (N=3,540), autism (N=16,146), ADHD (N=18,726), and affective disorder (N=26,380), of which 1928 had bipolar affective disorder. Controls were randomly sampled individuals (N=30,000). Within the sample of 86,189 individuals, a total of 57,377 individuals had at least one major mental disorder. DNA was extracted from the neonatal dried blood spot samples obtained from the Danish Neonatal Screening Biobank and genotyped using the Illumina PsychChip. Genotyping was successful for 90% of the sample. The assessments of exome sequencing, methylation profiling, metabolome profiling, vitamin-D, inflammatory and neurotrophic factors are in progress. For each individual, the iPSYCH2012 sample also includes longitudinal information on health, prescribed medicine, social and socioeconomic information and analogous information among relatives. To the best of our knowledge, the iPSYCH2012 sample is the largest and most comprehensive data source for the combined study of genetic and environmental aetiologies of severe mental disorders.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146670', [u'Genetics'], [u'iPSYCH;', u'Broad Institute']]
[u'Non-canonical secondary structures arising from non-B DNA motifs are determinants of mutagenesis', ['Ilias Georgakopoulos-Soares', 'Sandro Morganella', 'Naman Jain', 'Martin Hemberg', 'Serena Nik-Zainal'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Somatic mutations show variation in density across cancer genomes. Previous studies have shown that chromatin organization and replication time domains are correlated with and thus predictive of this variation. Here, we analyse 1,809 whole-genome sequences from nine cancer types to show that a subset of repetitive DNA sequences called non-B motifs that predict non-canonical secondary structure formation can independently account for variation in mutation density. However, combined with epigenetic factors and replication timing, the variance explained can be improved to 43-76%. Intriguingly, ~2-fold mutation enrichment is observed directly within non-B motifs, is focused on exposed structural components, and is dependent on physical properties that are optimal for secondary structure formation. Therefore, there is mounting evidence that secondary structures arising from non-B motifs are not simply associated with increased mutation density, they are possibly causally implicated. Our results suggest that they are determinants of mutagenesis and increase the likelihood of recurrent mutations in the genome. This analysis calls for caution in the interpretation of recurrent mutations and highlights the importance of taking non-B motifs, that can simply be inferred from the reference sequence, into consideration in background models of mutability henceforth.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146621', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Five years of land surface phenology in a large-scale flooding and draining manipulation in a coastal Arctic ecosystem', ['Santonu Goswami', 'John A. Gamon', 'Sergio Vargas', 'Craig E. Tweedie'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'This study was motivated by the knowledge gap for observing the complex interplay between surface hydrology and plant phenology in arctic landscapes and was conducted as part of a large scale, multi investigator flooding and draining experiment near Barrow, Alaska during 2005-2009. Hyperspectral reflectance data were collected in the visible to near IR region of the spectrum using a robotic tram system that operated along a 300m transects during the snow free growing period between June and August, 2005-09. Interannual patterns of land-surface phenology (NDVI) unexpectedly lacked marked differences under experimental conditions. Measurement of NDVI was, however, compromised for presence of surface water. Land-surface phenology and surface water was negatively correlated, which held when scaled to a 2km by 2km MODIS subset of the study area. This result suggested that published findings of greening of the Arctic may relate to a \u2018drying of the Arctic\u2019 i.e. reduced surface water in vegetated high-latitude landscapes where surface water is close to ground level.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146662', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Texas at El Paso;', u'University of Alberta']]
[u'Visual pathways from the perspective of cost functions and multi-task deep neural networks', ['H. Steven Scholte', 'Max M. Losch', 'Kandan Ramakrishnan', 'Edward de Haan', 'Sander Bohte'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Vision research has been shaped by the seminal insight that we can understand higher-tier visual cortex from the perspective of multiple functional pathways with different goals. In this paper we try to give a computational account of the functional organization of this system by reasoning from the perspective of multi-task deep neural networks. Machine learning has shown that tasks become easier to solve when they are decomposed into subtasks with their own cost function. We hypothesise that the visual system optimizes multiple cost functions of unrelated tasks and this causes the emergence of the ventral pathway, dedicated to vision for perception and dorsal pathway, dedicated to vision for action. To evaluate the functional organization in multi-task deep neural networks we propose a method that measures the contribution of a unit towards each task and apply it to two networks that have been trained on either two related or two unrelated tasks using an identical stimulus set. Results show that the network trained on the unrelated tasks shows a decreasing degree of feature representation sharing towards higher-tier layers while the network trained on related tasks uniformly shows high degree of sharing. We conjecture that the method we propose can be used to reason about the anatomical and functional organization of the visual system and beyond as we predict that the degree to which tasks are related is a good descriptor of the degree to which they can share downstream cortical-units.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146472', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Amsterdam;', u'CWI Amsterdam']]
[u'Does circadian regulation lead to optimal gas exchange regulation?', ['Victor Resco de Dios', 'Arthur Gessler', 'Pitter Ferrio', 'Josu Alday', 'Michael Bahn', 'Jorge del Castillo', 'Sebastien Devidal', 'Sonia Garcia-Munoz', 'Zach Kayler', 'Damien Landais', 'Paula Martin-Gomez', 'Alex Milcu', 'Clement Piel', 'Karin Pirhofer-Walzl', 'Olivier Ravel', 'Serajis Salekin', 'David Tissue', 'Mark Tjoelker', 'Jordi Voltas', 'Jacques Roy'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Optimal stomatal theory is an evolutionary model proposing that leaves trade-off Carbon (C) for water to maximise C assimilation (A) and minimise transpiration (E), thereby generating a marginal water cost of carbon gain (\u03bb) that remains constant over short temporal scales. The circadian clock is a molecular timer of metabolism that controls A and stomatal conductance (gs), amongst other processes, in a broad array of plant species. Here, we test whether circadian regulation contributes towards achieving optimal stomatal behaviour. We subjected bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) and cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) canopies to fixed, continuous environmental conditions of photosynthetically active radiation, temperature and vapour pressure deficit over 48 hours. We observed a significant and self-sustained circadian oscillation in A and in stomatal conductance (gs) which also led to a circadian oscillation in \u03bb. The lack of constant marginal water cost indicates that circadian regulation does not directly lead to optimal stomatal behaviour. However, the temporal pattern in gas exchange, indicative of either maximizing A or of minimizing E, depending upon time of day, indicates that circadian regulation could contribute towards optimizing stomatal responses. More broadly, our results add to the emerging field of plant circadian ecology and show that molecular controls may partially explain leaf-level patterns observed in the field.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/121368', [u'Ecology'], [u'Universitat de Lleida;', u'WSL;', u'University of Innsbruck;', u'CNRS;', u'IMIDRA;', u'OSU;', u'ZALF;', u'Western Sydney University']]
[u'Impairment of zebrafish reproduction upon exposure to melengestrol acetate', ['Kewen Xiong', 'Chunyun Zhong', 'Xin Wang'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Synthetic progestins contamination is common in the aquatic ecosystem, which may lead to serious health problem on aquatic animals. Melengestrol acetate (MGA) has been detected in the aquatic environment; however, its potential effects on fish reproduction are largely unclear. Here, we aimed to investigate the endocrine disruption and impact of MGA on zebrafish reproduction. Six-month old reproductive zebrafish were exposed to four nominal concentrations of MGA (1, 10, 100 and 200 ng/L) for 15 days. Treatment with MGA reduced the egg production with a significant decrease at 200 ng/L. The circulating concentrations of estradiol and testosterone in female zebrafish or 11-keto testosterone in male zebrafish were significantly diminished compared to the non-exposed control fish. The early embryonic development or hatching rates were unaffected during the MGA exposure. Our results indicated that MGA was a potent endocrine disruptor in fish and the fish reproduction could be impaired even during a short-term exposure to MGA.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146506', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Third Hospital of Shanxi University']]
[u'SeqAnt 2.0: Whole-Genome Annotation and Natural-Language Searching in the Cloud', ['Alex V. Kotlar', 'Cristina E. Trevino', 'Michael E. Zwick', 'David J. Cutler', 'Thomas S. Wingo'], u'June 6, 2017.', u"Describing, prioritizing, and selecting alleles from large sequencing experiments remains technically challenging. SeqAnt 2.0 (https://seqant.emory.edu/) is the first web application that make these tasks accessible to non-programmers, even for large data sets consisting of thousands of whole-genome samples. It comprehensively describes alleles using public data (e.g., RefSeq, dbSNP, Clinvar, and others), and introduces a natural-language search engine that can locate the alleles of interest in a user's experiment in milliseconds.", u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146514', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Emory University']]
[u'Matryoshka: Ratiometric biosensors from a nested 1 cassette of green- and orange-emitting fluorescent proteins', ['Cindy Ast', 'Jessica Foret', 'Luke Oltrogge', 'Roberto De Michele', 'Thomas Kleist', 'Cheng-Hsun Ho', 'Wolf Frommer'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Sensitivity, dynamic and detection range as well as exclusion of expression and instrumental artifacts are critical for the quantitation of data obtained with fluorescent protein (FP)-based biosensors in vivo. Current biosensors designs are, in general, unable to simultaneously meet all these criteria. Here, we describe a generalizable platform to create dual-FP biosensors with large dynamic ranges by employing a single FP-cassette, named GO-(Green-Orange) Matryoshka. The cassette nests a stable reference FP (large Stokes shift LSSmOrange) within a reporter FP (circularly permuted green FP). GO-Matryoshka yields green and orange fluorescence upon blue excitation. As proof of concept, we converted existing, single-emission biosensors into a series of ratiometric calcium sensors (MatryoshCaMP6s) and ammonium transport activity sensors (AmTryoshka1;3). We additionally identified the internal acid-base equilibrium as a key determinant of the GCaMP dynamic range. Matryoshka technology promises flexibility in the design of a wide spectrum of ratiometric biosensors and expanded in vivo applications.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/143107', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Carnegie Institution for Science;', u'UC Berkeley;', u'Italian National Research Council (CNR);', u'Academia Sinica;', u'Heinrich Heine Universitaet Duesseldorf']]
[u'Stepwise approach to oocyte depletion in Sry mutated XY female mice', ['Akihiko Sakashita', 'Takuya Wakai', 'Yukiko Kawabata', 'Chiaki Nishimura', 'Yusuke Sotomaru', 'Tomohiro Kono'], u'June 6, 2017.', u'Little is known regarding the mechanisms underlying infertility in male-to-female sex-reversed females. To gain a better understanding of germ cell dysfunction in this condition, we produced XYsry\u2212-females via the CRISPR/Cas9 system in C57BL/6 inbred strain mice. Mutant mice showed severe attrition of germ cells during foetal development, resulting in depletion of ovarian germ cells before sexual maturation. Comprehensive transcriptome analysis of embryonic day 13.5 primordial germ cells (PGCs) and postnatal day 1 oocytes demonstrated that XYsry\u2212-PGCs had already deviated from the developmental process at the mitotic stage. In addition, XYsry\u2212-oocytes resulted in meiotic disruption and developmental failure, and the genes related to these processes were significantly changed. This grievous disruption, which caused germ cell deterioration in XYsry\u2212-females, was shown to proceed from the germ cells themselves. These results provide novel insight into the germ cell depletion of sex-reversed mice as well as into disorders of sex differentiation in human, such as Swyer syndrome, wherein patients present as typical females albeit with an XY karyotype and infertile.', u'/content/early/2017/06/06/146571', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Bioscience, Tokyo University of Agriculture;', u'Graduate School of Environment and Life Science, Okayama University;', u'Natural Science Centre for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima University']]
