[u'Structural basis of Mycobacterium tuberculosis transcription and transcription inhibition', ['Wei Lin', 'Soma Mandal', 'David Degen', 'Yu Liu', 'Yon Ebright', 'Shengjian Li', 'Yu Feng', 'Yu Zhang', 'Sukhendu Mandal', 'Yi Jiang', 'Shuang Liu', 'Matthew Gigliotti', 'Meliza Talaue', 'Nancy Connell', 'Kalyan Das', 'Eddy Arnold', 'Richard H. Ebright'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is the causative agent of tuberculosis, which kills 1.8 million annually. Mtb RNA polymerase (RNAP) is the target of the first-line antituberculosis drug rifampin (Rif). We report crystal structures of Mtb RNAP, alone and in complex with Rif. The results identify an Mtb-specific structural module of Mtb RNAP and establish that Rif functions by a steric-occlusion mechanism that prevents extension of RNA. We also report novel non-Rif-related compounds--Nalpha-aroyl-N-aryl-phenylalaninamides (AAPs)--that potently and selectively inhibit Mtb RNAP and Mtb growth, and we report crystal structures of Mtb RNAP in complex with AAPs. AAPs bind to a different site on Mtb RNAP than Rif, exhibit no cross-resistance with Rif, function additively when co-administered with Rif, and suppress resistance emergence when co-administered with Rif.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099606', [], [u'Rutgers University;', u'Waksman Institute']]
[u'Polymer dynamics of Alp7A reveals two \u2032critical\u2032 concentrations that govern dynamically unstable actin-like proteins', ['Natalie A Petek', 'Alan I Derman', 'Jason A Royal', 'Joe Pogliano', 'Dyche Mullins'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Dynamically unstable polymers capture and move cellular cargos in both bacteria and eukaryotes, but the regulation of their assembly remains poorly understood. Here we describe polymerization of Alp7A, a bacterial Actin-Like Protein (ALP) that segregates the low copy-number plasmid pLS20 in Bacillus subtilis. Purified Alp7A forms dynamically unstable polymers with two critical points: an intrinsic critical concentration (0.6 \u03bcM), observed when ATP hydrolysis is blocked, and a dynamic critical concentration (10.3 \u03bcM), observed when ATP hydrolysis occurs. From biochemical and kinetic analysis, the intrinsic critical concentration reflects a balance between filament elongation and shortening, while the dynamic critical concentration reflects a balance between filament nucleation and catastrophic disassembly. Although Alp7A does not form stable polymers at physiological concentrations, rapid nucleation by an accessory factor, Alp7R, decreases the dynamic critical concentration into the physiological range. Intrinsic and dynamic critical concentrations are fundamental parameters that can be used to describe the behavior of all dynamically unstable polymers.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/098954', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California, San DIego;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'A combined meta-barcoding and shotgun metagenomic analysis of spontaneous wine fermentation', ['Peter R Sternes', 'Danna Lee', 'Dariusz R Kutyna', 'Anthony R Borneman'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Wine is a complex beverage, comprising hundreds of metabolites produced through the action of yeasts and bacteria in fermenting grape must. To ensure a robust and reliable fermentation, most commercial wines are produced via inoculation with commercial strains of the major wine yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae. However, there is a growing trend towards the use of uninoculated or "wild" fermentations, in which the yeasts and bacteria that are naturally associated with the vineyard and winery, perform the fermentation. In doing so, the varied metabolic contributions of the numerous non-Saccharomyces species in this microbial community are thought to impart complexity and desirable taste and aroma attributes to wild ferments in comparison to their inoculated counterparts.\n\nIn order the map the microflora of spontaneous fermentation, metagenomic techniques were used to characterize and monitor the progression of fungal species in several wild fermentations. Both amplicon-based ITS phylotyping (meta-barcoding) and shotgun metagenomics were used to assess community structure. While providing a sensitive and highly accurate means of characterizing the wine microbiome, the shotgun metagenomic data also uncovered a significant over-abundance bias in the ITS phylotyping abundance estimations for the common non-Saccharomyces wine yeast genus Metschnikowia.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/098061', [], [u'Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of Technology;', u'Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, Sweden;', u'The Australian Wine research Institute']]
[u'Glutamate release is inhibitory and unnecessary for the long-term potentiation of presynaptic function', ['Zahid Padamsey', 'Rudi Tong', 'Nigel Emptage'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) of transmitter release probability (Pr) are thought to be triggered by the activation of glutamate receptors. Here, we demonstrate that glutamate release at CA3-CA1 synapses is in fact inhibitory and unnecessary for increases in Pr. Instead, at active presynaptic terminals, postsynaptic depolarization alone can increase Pr by promoting the release of nitric oxide from neuronal dendrites in a manner dependent on L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The release of glutamate, in contrast, decreases Pr by activating presynaptic NMDA receptors (NMDAR). Thus, net changes in Pr are determined by the combined effect of both LTP-promoting and LTD-promoting processes, that is, by the amount of glutamate release and postsynaptic depolarization that accompany presynaptic activity, respectively. Neither of these processes directly depends on the activation of postsynaptic NMDARs. We further show that presynaptic changes can be captured by a simple mathematical framework, in which the role of presynaptic plasticity is to ensure that the ability for a presynaptic terminal to release glutamate is matched with its ability to predict postsynaptic spiking.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099515', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Plants resistance to drought relies on early stomata closure', ['Nicolas Martin-StPaul', 'Sylvain Delzon', 'Herve Cochard'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Plant resistance to drought has long been thought to be associated with the ability to maintain transpiration and photosynthesis longer during drought, through the opening of stomata. This premise is at the root of most current framework used to assess drought impacts on land plants in vegetation models. We examined this premise by coupling a meta-analysis of functional traits of stomatal response to drought (i.e. the water potential causing stomatal closure, \u03c8close) and embolism resistance (the water potential at the onset of embolism formation, \u03a812), with simulations from a soil-plant hydraulic model. We found that \u03c8close and \u03a812 were equal (isometric) only for a restricted number of species, but as \u03a812 decreases, the departure from isometry increases, with stomatal closure occurring far before embolism occurs. For the most drought resistant species (\u03a812<-4.2 MPa), \u03a8close was remarkably independent of embolism resistance and remained above -4.5 MPa, suggesting the existence of a restrictive boundary by which stomata closure must occur. This pattern was supported by model simulations. Indeed, coordinated decrease in both \u03c8close and \u03c812 leads to unsuspected accelerated death under drought for embolism resistant species, in contradiction with observations from drought mortality experiments. Overall our results highlight that most species have similarity in stomatal behavior, and are highly conservative in terms of their water use during drought. The modelling framework presented here provides a baseline to simulate the temporal dynamic leading to mortality under drought by accounting for multiple, measurable traits.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099531', [], [u'INRA']]
[u'Evidence for a Large-Scale Brain System Supporting Allostasis and Interoception in Humans', ['Ian Kleckner', 'Jiahe Zhang', 'Alexandra Touroutoglou', 'Lorena Chanes', 'Chenjie Xia', 'W. Kyle Simmons', 'Karen Quigley', 'Bradford Dickerson', 'Lisa Barrett'], u'January 10, 2017.', u"Large-scale intrinsic brain systems have been identified for exteroceptive senses (e.g., sight, hearing, touch). We introduce an analogous system for representing sensations from within the body, called interoception, and demonstrate its relation to regulating peripheral systems in the body, called allostasis. Employing the recently introduced Embodied Predictive Interoception Coding (EPIC) model, we used tract-tracing studies of macaque monkeys, followed by two intrinsic functional magnetic resonance imaging samples (N = 280 and N = 270) to evaluate the existence of an intrinsic allostatic/interoceptive system in the human brain. Another sample (N = 41) allowed us to evaluate the convergent validity of the hypothesized allostatic/interoceptive system by showing that individuals with stronger connectivity between system hubs performed better on an implicit index of interoceptive ability related to autonomic fluctuations. Implications include novel insights for the brain's functional architecture, dissolving the artificial boundary between mind and body, and unifying mental and physical illness.", u'/content/early/2017/01/10/098970', [], [u'University of Rochester Medical Center;', u'Northeastern University;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School;', u'Laureate Institute for Brain Research;', u'Edith Nourse Rogers Memorial']]
[u'Longitudinal differential abundance analysis of microbial marker-gene surveys using smoothing splines', ['Joseph Nathaniel Paulson', 'Hisham Talukder', 'Hector Corrada Bravo'], u'January 10, 2017.', u"Background:  High-throughput targeted sequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA marker gene is often used to profile and characterize the taxonomic composition of microbial communities. This type of big high-through sequencing data is rapidly being applied to various infectious diseases like diarrhea. While many studies are limited to single ''snapshots'' of these communities, there is increasing recognition that longitudinal profiling of these communities are required to understand community dynamics and the complex relationships between dynamics and phenotypes of interest. Statistical methods that determine microbial features that are differentially expressed are required as an initial step to characterizing phenotypic associations with community dynamics in big data and infectious diseases.  Results: We present a novel method for longitudinal marker-gene surveys based on smoothing splines that allows discovery and inference of time periods where specific microbial features are differentially abundant. We applied our method to three 16S marker-gene surveys, including, groups of gnotobiotic mice on two diets, patients challenged with ETEC (H10407), and a vaginal microbiome of healthy women. Employing our methodology we recover known bacterial differences and highlight a few extra species providing insight into when specific changes occurred. Additionally, in the cohort challenged with ETEC we recover proposed probiotic bacteria Bacteroides xylanisolvens, Collinsella aerofaciens, and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii associatons with healthy individuals.  Conclusions: The method presented is, to our knowledge, the first flexible method of its kind implemented as a software capable of detecting time periods of differential abundance for microbial features species between two or more sample groups of interest. Our method is available within the metagenomeSeq open-source software for analysis of metagenomic package available through the Bioconductor project and is termed metaSplines.", u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099457', [], [u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'University of Maryland, College Park']]
[u'A High Quality Assembly of the Nile Tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) Genome Reveals the Structure of Two Sex Determination Regions', ['Matthew A Conte', 'William J Gammerdinger', 'Kerry L Bartie', 'David J Penman', 'Thomas D Kocher'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'We report a high-quality assembly of the tilapia genome, a perciform fish important in aquaculture around the world. We sequenced a homozygous clonal XX female Nile tilapia (Oreochromis niloticus) to 44X coverage using Pacific Biosciences (PacBio) SMRT sequencing. We then developed 37 candidate assemblies using two different algorithms and a variety of parameter settings. The quality of these assemblies was evaluated using likelihood scores calculated from paired-end sequencing at several spatial scales. Principal component analysis was used to select an optimal assembly that had a contig NG50 of 3.3Mbp. We used physical and genetic maps to anchor this assembly to linkage groups (LGs) and to identify 34 likely misassemblies. Each putative misassembly showed a signature consisting of high sequence variation in the aligned PacBio reads, as well as low physical coverage in a complementary 40kbp-insert Illumina library. The sites of these misjoins contained long (>50kbp) stretches of nested transposable element (TE) repeats and were fixed in the final assembly. Several of these regions border large centromeric satellite repeats, which have now been partially assembled for the first time. The number of annotated genes in the new assembly increased by 27.3% compared to a previous O. niloticus assembly. The overall repeat landscape of the tilapia genome, including recent TE insertions, is now well represented. The final anchored assembly has a contig NG50 of 3.1Mbp, and a total size of 1.01Gbp. A total of 868.6Mbp of the assembly contigs has been anchored to LGs. The new assembly provides insight into the structure of an ~9Mbp XY sex-determination region on LG1 in O. niloticus, and a large (~50Mbp) WZ sex-determination region on LG3 in the related species O. aureus. This study highlights new techniques for generating and validating high quality reference genome assemblies.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099564', [], [u'University of Maryland, College Park;', u'University of Stirling']]
[u'Overlap among spatial memories triggers divergence of hippocampal representations', ['Avi JH Chanales', 'Ashima Oza', 'Serra E Favila', 'Brice A Kuhl'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Across the domains of spatial navigation and episodic memory, the hippocampus is thought to play a critical role in forming distinct representations of overlapping events. However, it is less clear how and when hippocampal representations of overlapping events become distinct. Here, using spatiotemporal pattern analysis of human fMRI data, we measured learning-related changes in hippocampal representations of overlapping real-world routes. We found that learning resulted in highly targeted representational changes within the hippocampus that specifically reduced similarity among overlapping routes. Strikingly, and in contrast to representations in other navigation-related brain regions, hippocampal representations of overlapping routes diverged to the point where overlapping routes became less similar than non-overlapping routes. This learning-related plasticity preferentially occurred for hippocampal voxels that were initially shared across overlapping routes. Collectively, these findings indicate that overlap among event representations triggers a divergence of hippocampal activity patterns that dramatically reshapes representational structure.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099226', [], [u'New York University;', u'University of Oregon']]
[u'MmpL3 is the flippase for mycolic acids in mycobacteria', ['Zhujun Xu', 'Giovanna Poce', 'Shu Sin Chng'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'The defining feature of the mycobacterial outer membrane (OM) is the presence of mycolic acids (MAs), which in part render the bilayer extremely hydrophobic and impermeable to external insults, including many antibiotics. While the biosynthetic pathway of MAs is well studied, the mechanism(s) by which these lipids are transported across the cell envelope is(are) much less known. MmpL3, an essential inner membrane (IM) protein, is implicated in MA transport, but its exact function has not been elucidated. It is believed to be the cellular target of several anti-mycobacterial compounds; however, evidence for direct inhibition of MmpL3 activity is also lacking. Here, we establish that MmpL3 is the MA flippase at the IM of mycobacteria, and show that a 1,5-diarylpyrrole compound, BM212, directly inhibits this activity. We develop assays that selectively access mycolates on the surface of Mycobacterium smegmatis spheroplasts, allowing us to monitor flipping of MAs across the IM. Using these assays, we establish the mechanism-of-action of BM212 as an MmpL3 inhibitor, and employ it as a molecular probe to demonstrate the requirement of functional MmpL3 for the transport of MAs across the IM. Our work provides fundamental insights into OM biogenesis and MA transport in mycobacteria. Furthermore, our assays serve as an important platform for accelerating the validation of small molecules that target MmpL3, and their development as future anti-tuberculosis drugs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099440', [], [u'National University of Singapore;', u'Sapienza University of Rome']]
[u'Deconvoluting multiple infections in Plasmodium falciparum  from high throughput sequencing data', ['Sha Joe Zhu', 'Jacob Almagro-Garcia', 'Gil McVean'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Motivation: The presence of multiple infecting strains of the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum affects key phenotypic traits, including drug resistance and risk of severe disease. Advances in protocols and sequencing technology have made it possible to obtain high-coverage genome-wide sequencing data from blood samples and blood spots taken in the field. However, analysing and interpreting such data is challenging because of the high rate of multiple infections present.  Results: We have developed a statistical method and implementation for deconvoluting multiple genome sequences present in an individual with mixed infections. The software package DEploid uses haplotype structure within a reference panel of clonal isolates as a prior for haplotypes present in a given sample. It estimates the number of strains, their relative proportions and the haplotypes presented in a sample, allowing researchers to study multiple infection in\nmalaria with an unprecedented level of detail.  Availability and implementation: The open source implementation DEploid is freely available at https://github.com/mcveanlab/DEploid under the conditions of the GPLv3 license. An R version is available at https://github.com/mcveanlab/DEploid-r.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099499', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Taxonomic identification of airborne pollen from complex environmental samples by DNA metabarcoding: a methodological study for optimizing protocols', ['Cleopatra Leontidou', 'Cristiano Vernesi', 'Johannes De Groeve', 'Fabiana Cristofolini', 'Despoina Vokou', 'Antonella Cristofori'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Metabarcoding is a promising DNA-based method for identifying airborne pollen from environmental samples with advantages over microscopic methods. This method requires several preparatory steps of the samples, with the extraction protocol being of fundamental importance to obtain an optimal DNA yield. Currently, there is no consensus in sample preparation and DNA extraction, especially for gravimetric pollen samplers. Therefore, the aim of this study was to develop protocols to process environmental samples for pollen DNA extraction and further metabarcoding analysis, and to assess the efficacy of these protocols for the taxonomic assignment of airborne pollen, collected by gravimetric (Tauber trap) and volumetric samplers (Burkard spore trap). Protocols were tested across an increasing complexity of samples, from single-species pure pollen to environmental samples. A short fragment (about 150 base pair) of chloroplast DNA was amplified by universal primers for plants (trnL). After PCR amplification, amplicons were Sanger-sequenced and taxonomic assignment was accomplished by comparison to a custom-made reference database including chloroplast DNA sequences of 46 plant families, including most of the anemophilous taxa occurring in the study area (Trentino, Italy, Eastern Italian Alps). Using as a benchmark the classical morphological pollen analysis, it emerged that DNA metabarcoding is applicable efficiently across a complexity of samples, provided that sample preparation, DNA extraction and amplification protocols are specifically optimized.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099481', [], [u'Fondazione Edmund Mach;', u'Aristotle University Thessaloniki']]
[u'Cell fixation and preservation for droplet-based single-cell transcriptomics', ['Jonathan Alles', 'Samantha Praktiknjo', 'Nikos Karaiskos', 'Stefanie Grosswendt', 'Salah Ayoub', 'Luisa Schreyer', 'Anastasiya Boltengagen', 'Christine Kocks', 'Nikolaus Rajewsky'], u'January 10, 2017.', u"'Drop-seq' is a droplet-based, microfluidic method that allows the transcriptional profiling of thousands of individual cells, in a highly parallel and cost-effective way. A critical and often limiting step is the preparation of cells in an unperturbed state, not compromised by stress or ageing. This can be particularly challenging during prolonged handling or transport, or when cells are rare and need to be collected over several days. Here, we tested whether chemical fixation can be used to overcome these problems. Methanol fixation allowed us to stabilize and preserve dissociated cells for several weeks. Fixed cells contained intact RNA and enabled high quality cDNA library generation. By using mixtures of fixed human and mouse cells, we showed that individual transcriptomes could be confidently assigned to one of the two species. Single-cell gene expression measurements from live and fixed samples were highly correlated with each other and with bulk mRNA-seq data. We expect that the availability of a simple cell fixation method will open up many new opportunities to quantitatively analyze transcriptional dynamics at single-cell resolution. As an additional resource, we provide 'dropbead', an R package for easy exploration and quantitative evaluation of informative parameters in Drop-seq data.", u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099473', [], [u'Max Delbrueck Center for Molecular Medicine']]
[u'Laminin \u03b11 orchestrates VEGFA functions in the ecosystem of colorectal carcinoma', ['E. Mammadova-Bach', 'T. Rupp', 'C. Spenle', 'I. Jivkov', 'P. P. Shankaranarayanan', 'A. Klein', 'L. Pisarsky', 'A. Mechine-Neuville', 'G. Cremel', 'M. Kedinger', 'O. De Wever', 'N. Ambartsumian', 'S. Robine', 'E. Pencreach', 'D. Guenot', 'Jacky G. Goetz', 'P. Simon-Assmann', 'G. Orend', 'Olivier Lefebvre'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Tumor stroma remodeling is a key feature of malignant tumors and can promote cancer progression. Laminins are major constituents of basement membranes that physically separate the epithelium from the underlying stroma. By employing mouse models expressing high and low levels of the laminin \u03b11 chain (LM\u03b11), we highlighted its implication in a tumor-stroma crosstalk, thus leading to increased colon tumor incidence, angiogenesis and tumor growth. The underlying mechanism involves attraction of carcinoma-associated fibroblasts by LM\u03b11, VEGFA expression triggered by the complex integrin \u03b12\u03b21-CXCR4 and binding of VEGFA to LM-111, which in turn promotes angiogenesis, tumor cell survival and proliferation. A gene signature comprising LAMA1, ITGB1, ITGA2, CXCR4 and VEGFA has negative predictive value in colon cancer. Together, this information opens novel opportunities for diagnosis and anti-cancer targeting.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099465', [], [u'INSERM U1109, Strasbourg;', u'Department of Anatomy and Pathology, CHRU Hautepierre, Strasbourg;', u'Laboratory of Experimental Cancer Research, Ghent;', u'Institut for Cancer Biology, Copenhagen;', u'Institut Curie, Paris;', u'EA3430, Strasbourg']]
[u'HLA class I binding prediction via convolutional neural networks', ['Yeeleng Scott Vang', 'Xiaohui Xie'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Many biological processes are governed by protein-ligand interactions. Of such is the recognition of self and nonself cells by the immune system. This immune response process is regulated by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) protein which is encoded by the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) complex. Understanding the binding potential between MHC\nand peptides is crucial to our understanding of the functioning of the immune system, which in turns will broaden our understanding of autoimmune diseases and\nvaccine design.\nWe introduce a new distributed representation of amino acids, named HLA-Vec, that can be used for a variety of downstream proteomic machine learning tasks.\nWe then propose a deep convolutional neural network architecture, named HLA-CNN, for the task of HLA class I-peptide binding prediction. Experimental results show combining the new distributed representation with our HLA-CNN architecture achieves state-of-the-art results in the vast majority of the latest two Immune Epitope Database (IEDB) weekly automated benchmark datasets.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099358', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California Irvine;', u'University of California, Irvine']]
[u'Biofilms Confer Resistance to Simulated Extra-terrestrial Geochemical Extremes', ['Adam H Stevens', 'Delma Childers', 'Mark Fox-Powell', 'Charles S Cockell'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Biofilms improve microbes\' resistance to a variety of extreme physical and chemical conditions on Earth. The discovery of putative aqueous environments on other planetary bodies such as Mars motivates an interest in understanding the viability of life, and the potential role of biofilms, in previously unexplored geochemical extremes. We investigated the loss of viability of planktonic cells and biofilms of Sphingomonas desiccabilis (a Gram-negative, desiccation resistant, soil crust-forming organism) to simulated Martian brines. These brines were produced from geochemical modelling of past aqueous environments on Mars, and their high sulfate concentrations make them different to most terrestrial brines, although similar briny environments have been found in locations such as the Basque Lakes in Canada or in deep subsurface groundwater systems. Biofilms grown on basaltic scoria were subjected to the simulated martian brines and the viability of cells was measured over time and compared to equivalent planktonic cultures. Crystal violet assay was used to measure how the biomass of the biofilms changed over time in response to the brines. While certain brines were highly hostile to microbial viability, we found that biofilms that were desiccated prior to being treated with brines maintained viability over a longer treatment period when compared to planktonic cells. Our results show that biofilms confer short-term protection to the harsh osmotic, ionic, and acidic conditions of Mars-relevant brines. However, in the most extreme simulated brines, even biofilms eventually lost viability. By demonstrating that biofilms confer protection to conditions that are potentially analogous to current day recurrent slope lineae (thought to be produced by the flow of briny fluids) on Mars, our results show that contaminant biofilm-forming microorganisms may have a greater chance of surviving in so-called "Special Regions" on Mars, with implications for planetary protection in missions that aim to explore these regions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099374', [u'Microbiology'], [u'UK Centre for Astrobiology;', u'MRC Centre For Medical Mycology at the University of Aberdeen;', u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of St. Andrews']]
[u'Two sides of the same coin: monetary incentives concurrently improve and bias confidence judgments.', ['Mael Lebreton', 'Shari Langdon', 'Matthijs J. Slieker', 'Jip S Nooitgedacht', 'Anna E Goudriaan', 'Damiaan Denys', 'Judy Luigjes', 'Ruth J van Holst'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Most decisions are accompanied by a feeling of confidence, i.e., a subjective estimate of the probability of being correct. Although confidence accuracy is critical, notably in high-stakes domains such as medical or financial decision-making, little is known about how incentive motivation influences this metacognitive judgment. In this article, we hypothesized that motivation can, paradoxically, deteriorate confidence accuracy. We designed an original incentive-compatible perceptual task to investigate the effects of monetary incentives on human confidence judgments. In line with classical theories of motivated cognition, our results first reveal that monetary incentives improve some aspects of confidence judgments. However, over three experiments and in line with our hypothesis, but unpredicted by normative or classical motivated cognition theories, we further show that incentives also robustly bias confidence reports: the perspective of potential gains (respectively losses) bias confidence upward (respectively downward), with potential detrimental consequences on confidence accuracy. Connecting our findings with recent models of confidence formation, we demonstrate that these two effects of incentives have dissociable signatures on how confidence builds on decision evidence. Altogether, these findings enrich current cognitive and evolutionary models of confidence, and may provide new hints about its healthy or pathological miscalibration.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099382', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Universiteit van Amsterdam;', u'Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam']]
[u'BGDMdocker: an workflow base on Docker for analysis and visualization pan-genome and biosynthetic gene clusters of Bacterial', ['Gong Cheng', 'Zongshan Zhou', 'Ling Ma', 'Guocai Zhang', 'Yilei WU', 'Chao Chen'], u'January 10, 2017.', u"At present Docker technology is increasing level of attention throughout the bi-oinformatics community,but Docker technology implementation details have not been mastered by most biologist and applied in biological research, In order to apply this technology in the popularization and sufficient use plenty of free academic re-sources of bioinformatics tools images(community, official, and private) in Docker Hub Registry and other Docker sources base on Docker, In this article, we intro-duced full and accurate instance of an bioinformatics workflow base on Docker of analysis and visualization pan-genome and biosynthetic geneclusters of Bacterial, provides the solutions for the data mining bioinformatics big data from various free biology databases of Bacterial. we'll guide you step-by-step through the process from dockerfile building your own image and run an container fast creating an workflow.", u'/content/early/2017/01/10/098392', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Research Institute of Pomology, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences;', u'Northeast Forestry University;', u'Beijing Hygenoimcs CO., LTD;', u'TangTangTianxia Biomedical Information Technology CO., LTD']]
[u'A quantitative description of the mouse piriform cortex', ['Shyam Srinivasan', 'Charles F Stevens'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'In this report, we provide a quantitative description for 2 aspects of the mouse piriform cortex. First, we give volumetric estimates of regions within the anterior and posterior piriform cortex. Second, we estimate the neuronal densities in each of these regions. From these two estimates, we calculate that the mouse piriform cortex contains around half a million neurons equally distributed over the anterior and posterior piriform cortex. Quantitative descriptions such as these are important because they make it possible to construct realistic models, and they provide a constraint that theories of the olfactory circuit must fulfil. We show how quantitative descriptions can be useful for modelling by using our data to refine and improve earlier models of piriform cortex activity.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099002', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Salk Institute and Kavli Institute, UCSD']]
[u'Improved Kinect sensor based motion capturing system for gait assessment', ['Bjorn Muller', 'Winfried Ilg', 'Martin A. Giese', 'Nicolas Ludolph'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Optical motion capturing systems are expensive and require substantial dedicated space to be set up. On the other hand, they provide unsurpassed accuracy and reliability. In many situations however flexibility is required and the motion capturing system can only temporarily be placed. The Microsoft Kinect v2 sensor is comparatively cheap and with respect to gait analysis promising results have been published. We here present a motion capturing system that is easy to set up, flexible with respect to the sensor locations and delivers high accuracy in gait parameters comparable to a gold standard motion capturing system (VICON). Further, we demonstrate that sensor setups which track the person only from one-side are less accurate and should be replaced by two-sided setups. With respect to commonly analyzed gait parameters, especially step width, our system shows higher agreement with the VICON system than previous reports.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/098863', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CIN, HIH, University of T\xfcbingen;', u'CIN, HIH, IMPRS, University of T\xfcbingen']]
[u'Stability and function of a putative microtubule organizing center in the human parasite Toxoplasma gondii', ['Jacqueline M Leung', 'Yudou He', 'Fangliang Zhang', 'Yu-Chen Hwang', 'Eiji Nagayasu', 'Jun Liu', 'John Murray', 'Ke Hu'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'The organization of the microtubule cytoskeleton is dictated by microtubule nucleators or organizing centers.  Toxoplasma gondii, an important human parasite, has an array of 22 regularly spaced cortical microtubules stemming from a ring-shaped structure, the apical polar ring.  This structure has been hypothesized to be an organizing center that determines the number and spacing of the cortical microtubules.  Here, we examine the functions of the apical polar ring by characterizing two of its components, KinesinA and APR1, and discovered that its putative role in templating can be separated from its mechanical stability.  Parasites that lack both KinesinA and APR1 (\u0394kinesinA\u0394apr1) are capable of generating 22 cortical microtubules.  However, the apical polar ring is fragmented in live \u0394kinesinA\u0394apr1 parasites, and is undetectable by electron microscopy after detergent extraction.  Disintegration of the apical polar ring results in the detachment of groups of microtubules from the apical end of the parasite, leaving large gaps in the microtubule array.  These structural defects are linked to a diminished ability of the parasite to move and to invade host cells, as well as decreased secretion of effectors important for these processes.  Together, the findings demonstrate the importance of the structural integrity of the apical polar ring and the microtubule array in the Toxoplasma lytic cycle, which is responsible for massive tissue destruction in acute toxoplasmosis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/099267', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Indiana University;', u'University of Miami;', u'Nikon Instruments Inc;', u'University of Miyazaki']]
[u'In vitro assembly of the Rous Sarcoma Virus capsid protein into hexamer tubes under physiological conditions.', ['Soumeya A Jaballah', 'Graham D Bailey', 'Ambroise Desfosses', 'Jaekyung Hyun', 'Alok K Mitra', 'Richard L Kingston'], u'January 9, 2017.', u'During a proteolytically-driven maturation process, the ortho-retroviral capsid protein (CA) assembles to form the convex shell that surrounds the viral genome. In some orthoretroviruses, including Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV), CA carries a short and hydrophobic spacer peptide (SP) at its C-terminus early in the maturation process, which is progressively removed as maturation proceeds. In this work, we show that RSV CA assembles in vitro at physiological temperatures, forming hexamer tubes that effectively model the mature capsid surface. Tube assembly is strongly influenced by electrostatic effects, and is a nucleated process that remains thermodynamically favored at lower temperatures, but is effectively arrested by the large Gibbs energy barrier associated with nucleation. RSV CA tubes are multi-layered, being formed by nested and concentric tubes of capsid hexamers. However the spacer peptide acts as a layering determinant during tube assembly. If only a minor fraction of CA-SP is present, multi-layered tube formation is blocked, and single-layered tubes predominate. This likely prevents formation of biologically aberrant multi-layered capsids in the virion. The generation of single-layered hexamer tubes facilitated 3D helical image reconstruction from cryo-electron microscopy data, revealing the basic tube architecture.', u'/content/early/2017/01/09/098400', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Auckland;', u'University Of Nottingham;', u'Center for Electron Microscopy Research, Korea Basic Science Institute']]
