[u'riboviz: analysis and visualization of ribosome profiling datasets', ['Oana Carja', 'Tongji Xing', 'Joshua B. Plotkin', 'Premal Shah'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Using high-throughput sequencing to monitor translation in vivo, ribosome profiling can provide critical insights into the dynamics and regulation of protein synthesis in a cell. Since its introduction in 2009, this technique has played a key role in driving biological discovery, and yet it requires a rigorous computational toolkit for widespread adoption. We developed a processing pipeline and browser-based visualization, riboviz, that allows convenient exploration and analysis of riboseq datasets. In implementation, riboviz consists of a comprehensive and flexible backend analysis pipeline that allows the user to analyze their private unpublished dataset, along with a web application for comparison with previously published public datasets.\nAvailability and implementation: JavaScript and R source code and extra documentation are freely available from https://github.com/shahpr/RiboViz, while the web-application is live at www.riboviz.org.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/100032', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'Rutgers University']]
[u'Polycomb-Mediated Chromatin Loops Revealed by a Sub-Kilobase Resolution Chromatin Interaction Map', ['Kyle P. Eagen', 'Erez Lieberman Aiden', 'Roger D. Kornberg'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'The locations of chromatin loops in Drosophila were determined by Hi-C (chemical cross-linking, restriction digestion, ligation, and high-throughput DNA sequencing).  Whereas most loop boundaries or "anchors" are associated with CTCF protein in mammals, loop anchors in Drosophila were found most often in association with the polycomb group (PcG) protein Polycomb (Pc), a subunit of Polycomb Repressive Complex 1 (PRC1).  Loops were frequently located within domains of PcG-repressed chromatin.  Promoters located at PRC1 loop anchors regulate some of the most important developmental genes and are less likely to be expressed than those not at PRC1 loop anchors.  Although DNA looping has most commonly been associated with enhancer-promoter communication, our results indicate that loops are also associated with gene repression.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099804', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine;', u'Baylor College of Medicine;', u'Stanford University School of Medicine']]
[u'CRISPR-RT: A web service for designing CRISPR-C2c2 crRNA with improved target specificity', ['Houxiang Zhu', 'Emily Richmond', 'Chun Liang'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'CRISPR-Cas systems have been successfully applied in genome editing. Recently, the CRISPR-C2c2 system has been reported as a tool for RNA editing. Here we describe CRISPR-RT (CRISPR RNA-Targeting), the first web service to help biologists design the crRNA with improved target specificity for the CRISPR-C2c2 system. CRISPR-RT allows users to set up a wide range of parameters, making it highly flexible for current and future research in CRISPR-based RNA editing. CRISPR-RT covers major model organisms and can be easily extended to cover other species. CRISPR-RT will empower researchers in RNA editing. It is available at http://bioinfolab.miamioh.edu/CRISPR-RT.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099895', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Miami University']]
[u'Toddlers later diagnosed with autism exhibit multiple structural abnormalities in temporal corpus callosum fibers', ['Noa Fingher', 'Ilan Dinstein', 'Michal Ben- Shachar', 'Shlomi Haar', 'Anders Dale', 'Lisa Eyler', 'Karen Pierce', 'Eric Courchesne'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Interhemispheric functional connectivity abnormalities are often reported in autism and it is thus not surprising that structural defects of the corpus callosum (CC) are consistently found using both traditional MRI and DTI techniques. Past DTI studies however, have subdivided the CC into 2 or 3 segments without regard for where fibers may project to within the cortex, thus placing limitations on our ability to understand the nature, timing and neurobehavioral impact of early CC abnormalities in autism. Leveraging a unique cohort of 97 toddlers (68 autism; 29 typical) we utilized a novel technique that identified seven CC tracts according to their cortical projections. Results revealed that younger (<2.5 years old), but not older toddlers with autism exhibited abnormally low mean, radial, and axial diffusivity values in the CC tracts connecting the occipital lobes and the temporal lobes. Fractional anisotropy and the cross sectional area of the temporal CC tract were significantly larger in young toddlers with autism. These findings indicate that water diffusion is more restricted and unidirectional in the temporal CC tract of young toddlers who develop autism. Such results may be explained by a potential overabundance of small caliber axons generated by excessive prenatal neural proliferation as proposed by previous genetic, animal model, and postmortem studies of autism. Furthermore, early diffusion measures in the temporal CC tract of the young toddlers were correlated with outcome measures of autism severity at later ages. These findings regarding the potential nature, timing, and location of early CC abnormalities in autism add to accumulating evidence, which suggests that altered inter-hemispheric connectivity, particularly across the temporal lobes, is a hallmark of the disorder.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099937', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ben Gurion University;', u'Bar Ilan University;', u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'Variation in the microbiome of the urogenital tract of koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) with and without "wet bottom"', ['Alistair Raymond Legione', 'Jemima Amery-Gale', 'Michael Lynch', 'Leesa Haynes', 'James Gilkerson', 'Joanne Devlin', 'Fiona Sansom'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Koalas (Phascolarctos cinereus) are iconic Australian marsupials currently threatened by several processes. Infectious reproductive tract disease, caused by Chlamydia pecorum, and koala retrovirus infection are considered key drivers of population decline. The clinical sign of "wet bottom", a staining of the rump associated with urinary incontinence, is often linked to chlamydial urogenital tract infections. But, wet bottom has been recorded in koalas free of C. pecorum, suggesting other causative agents in those individuals. Current understanding of the bacterial community of the koala urogenital tract is limited. We used 16S rRNA diversity profiling to investigate the microbiome of the urogenital tract of ten female koalas. Five presented with wet bottom and five were clinically normal. We detected thirteen phyla across the ten samples, with Firmicutes occurring at the highest relative abundance. The order Lactobacillales comprised 70.3% of the reads from all samples. After normalising reads using DESeq2 and testing for significant differences, there were 25 operational taxonomic units more commonly found in one group over the other. This study provides an essential foundation for future investigations of both the normal microflora of the koala urogenital tract, and better understanding of the causes of koala urogenital tract disease.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099945', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Melbourne;', u'Zoos Victoria']]
[u'Bayesian inference of agent-based models: a tool for studying kidney branching morphogenesis', ['Ben Lambert', 'Adam L MacLean', 'Alexander G Fletcher', 'Alexander N Coombes', 'Melissa H Little', 'Helen M Byrne'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'The adult mammalian kidney has a complex, highly-branched collecting duct epithelium that arises as a ureteric bud sidebranch from an epithelial tube known as the nephric duct. Subsequent branching of the ureteric bud to form the collecting duct tree is regulated by subcellular interactions between the epithelium and a population of mesenchymal cells that surround the tips of outgrowing branches. The mesenchymal cells produce glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), that binds with RET receptors on the surface of the epithelial cells to stimulate several subcellular pathways in the epithelium. Such interactions are known to be a prerequisite for normal branching development, although competing theories exist for their role in morphogenesis. Here we introduce the first agent-based model of ex vivo kidney uretic branching. Through comparison with experimental data, we show that growth factor-regulated growth mechanisms can explain early epithelial cell branching, but only if epithelial cell division depends in a switch-like way on the local growth factor concentration; cell division occurring only if the driving growth factor level exceeds a threshold. We also show how a recently-developed method, \u201cApproximate Approximate Bayesian Computation\u201d, can be used to infer key model parameters, and reveal the dependency between the parameters controlling a growth factor-dependent growth switch. These results are consistent with a requirement for signals controlling proliferation and chemotaxis, both of which are previously identified roles for GDNF.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/096032', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Department of Mathematics, University of California, Irvine;', u'Bateson Centre, University of Sheffield;', u'Department of Anatomy & Neuroscience, University of Melbourne;', u'Murdoch Childrens Research Institute;', u'Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford']]
[u'Predicting Transcriptional Regulatory Activities with Deep Convolutional Networks', ['Joe Paggi', 'Andrew Lamb', 'Kevin Tian', 'Irving Hsu', 'Pierre-Louis Cedoz', 'Prasad Kawthekar'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Massively parallel reporter assays (MPRAs) are a method to probe the effects of short sequences on transcriptional regulation activity. In a MPRA, short sequences are extracted from suspected regulatory regions, inserted into reporter plasmids, transfected into cell-types of interest, and the transcriptional activity of each reporter is assayed. Recently, Ernst et al. presented MPRA data covering 15750 putative regulatory regions. We trained a multitask convolutional neural network architecture using these sequence expression readouts which predicts as output the expression level outputs across four combinations of cell types and promoters. The model allows for the assigning of importance scores to each base through in silico mutagenesis, and the resulting importance scores correlated well with regions enriched for conservation and transcription factor binding.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099879', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'Evaluation of Oxford Nanopore MinION Sequencing for 16S rRNA Microbiome Characterization', ['Xiao Ma', 'Elyse Stachler', 'Kyle Bibby'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'In this manuscript we evaluate the potential for microbiome characterization by sequencing of near-full length 16S rRNA gene region fragments using the Oxford Nanopore MinION (hereafter Nanopore) sequencing platform. We analyzed pure-culture E. coli and P. flourescens, as well as a low-diversity mixed community sample from hydraulic fracturing produced water. Both closed and open reference operational taxonomic unit (OTU) picking failed, necessitating the direct use of sequences without OTU picking. The Ribosomal Database Project classifier against the Green Genes database was found to be the optimal annotation approach, with average pure-culture annotation accuracies of 93.8% and 82.0% at the phyla and genus levels, respectively. Comparative analysis of an environmental sample using Nanopore and Illumina MiSeq sequencing identified high taxonomic similarity when using a weighted metric (Bray-Curtis), and significantly reduced similarity when using an unweighted metric (Jaccard). These results highlight the great potential of Nanopore sequencing to analyze broad microbial community trends, and the challenge of applying Nanopore sequencing to discern rare taxa in mixed microbial communities. Finally, we observed that between-run carryover accounted for >10% of sequence reads, necessitating future development to either prevent carryover or filter sequences of interest (e.g. barcoding).', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099960', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Multidisciplinary field research in Kabwe, Zambia, towards better understanding of lead contamination of the city - A short report from a field survey', ['Yoshitaka Uchida', 'Kawawa Banda', 'Toru Hamamoto', 'Yui Yoshii', 'Kabenuka Munthali', 'Mukuka Mwansa', 'Moses Mukuka', 'Mubanga Mutale', 'Nobuyasu Naruse', 'Yukihiro Takahashi'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Heavy metal contamination is a serious issue in many post-mining area around the world. Kabwe city, Zambia, is known as one of the most polluted cities in the world and high lead (Pb) levels that have been reported in soils, plants, animals and human bloods. Multidisciplinary approaches are critically needed to understand the current situation and to remediate the polluted area. In the current research, we performed a large scale preliminary field survey to understand the current situation in Kabwe and to plan future mitigation approaches. Mainly, three aspects were observed; 1) plant communities during the dry season in Kabwe city, 2) spectral images of the land surfaces in various locations in Kabwe and 3) lead concentrations in soils and water. Overall, >15 different plant species were observed and many of them maintained their green color even during the dry season. Some tree species, for example, Caesalpiniaceae and Fabaceae families may be utilized as phytostabilization approaches although their impacts on the soil lead mobility have to be further studied. For the spectral images, we used a handmade portable spectrometer and our obtained spectral images showed typical curves observed from soils. These data may be used to understand the distribution of different soil types in this area, using aboveground images such as satellite images. For Pb concentrations in soils, extremely high total Pb levels (>1,000 ppm) was observed only within 2 km from the mining site. There was a weak but a positive correlation between the total and soluble lead thus further study should also focus on the mobility of Pb from soils to plant ecosystems.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/096164', [u'Ecology'], [u'Faculty of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Japan;', u'School of Mines, University of Zambia, Zambia;', u'School of Agriculture, University of Zambia, Zambia;', u'Faculty of Medicine, Shiga University of Medical Science;', u'Space Mission Center (SMC), Creative Research Institution (CRIS), Hokkaido University']]
[u'Ancient antagonism between CELF and RBFOX families tunes mRNA splicing outcomes', ['Matthew R Gazzara', 'Michael J Mallory', 'Renat Roytenberg', 'John Lindberg', 'Anupama Jha', 'Kristen W Lynch', 'Yoseph Barash'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Over 95% of human multi-exon genes undergo alternative splicing, a process important in normal development and often dysregulated in disease. We sought to analyze the global splicing regulatory network of CELF2 in human T cells, a well-studied splicing regulator critical to T cell development and function. By integrating high-throughput sequencing data for binding and splicing quantification with sequence features and probabilistic splicing code models, we find evidence of splicing antagonism between CELF2 and the RBFOX family of splicing factors. We validate this functional antagonism through knockdown and overexpression experiments in human cells and find CELF2 represses RBFOX2 mRNA and protein levels. Because both families of proteins have been implicated in the development and maintenance of neuronal, muscle, and heart tissues, we analyzed publicly available data in these systems. Our analysis suggests global, antagonistic co-regulation of splicing by the CELF and RBFOX proteins in mouse muscle and heart in several physiologically relevant targets including proteins involved in calcium signaling and members of the MEF2 family of transcription factors. Importantly, a number of these co-regulated events are aberrantly spliced in mouse models and human patients with diseases that affect these tissues including heart failure, diabetes, or myotonic dystrophy. Finally, analysis of exons regulated by ancient CELF family homologs in chicken, and Drosophila suggests this antagonism is conserved through evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099853', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Genomic rearrangements near genes leading to upregulation across a diverse subset of human cancers', ['Chad Creighton', 'Yiqun Zhang', 'Fengju Chen'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Using a dataset of somatic Structural Variants (SVs) in cancers from 2658 patients--1220 with corresponding gene expression data--we identified hundreds of genes for which the nearby presence (within 100kb) of an SV breakpoint was associated with altered expression. For the vast majority of these genes, expression was increased rather than decreased with corresponding SV event. Well-known up-regulated cancer-associated genes impacted by this phenomenon included TERT, MDM2, CDK4, ERBB2, and IGF2. For specific gene categories, associated SVs were found to potentially impact on the order of 2-4% of cases across various types. SVs upstream of TERT involved ~3% of cancer cases and were most frequent in liver-biliary, melanoma, sarcoma, stomach, and kidney cancers. For many genes, SVs were significantly associated with either an increase or decrease in the numbers of enhancer regulatory elements near the promoter. DNA methylation near the gene promoter was often increased with nearby SV breakpoint.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099861', [u'Genomics'], [u'Baylor College of Medicine']]
[u'Identification of Mechanisms of Functional Signaling Between Human Hippocampus Regions', ['Ruben Sanchez-Romero', 'Joseph D Ramsey', 'Jackson C Liang', 'Clark Glymour'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Background:  Standard BOLD connectivity analyses depend on aggregating the signals of individual voxels within regions of interest (ROIs). In certain cases, this spatial aggregation implies a loss of valuable functional and anatomical information about subsets of voxels that drive the ROI level connectivity.  New Method: We use the FGES algorithm, a data-driven score-based graphical search method, to identify subsets of voxels that are chiefly responsible for exchanging signals between ROIs. We apply the method to high-resolution resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) data from medial temporal lobe regions of interest of a single healthy individual measured repeated times over a year and a half.  Results: The FGES algorithm recovered subsets of voxels within larger medial temporal lobe ROIs of entorhinal cortex and hippocampus subfields that show spatially consistency across different scanning sessions, and are statistically significant under tests that validate the role of these subsets as main drivers of effective connectivity between hippocampal regions of interest.  Comparison with Existing Methods: In contrast to standard functional connectivity methods, the FGES algorithm is robust against false positive connections produced by transitive closures of adjacencies (correlation methods) and common effect conditioning (Markov random field methods).  Conclusions: The FGES algorithm allows for identification of communication subsets of voxels driving the connectivity between regions of interest, recovering valuable anatomical and functional information that is lost when ROIs are aggregated. The FGES algorithm is specially suited for voxelwise connectivity research, given its short running time and scalability to big data problems.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099820', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Carnegie Mellon University;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'DeeperBind: Enhancing Prediction of Sequence Specificities of DNA Binding Proteins', ['May D Wang', 'Hamid Reza Hassanzadeh'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Transcription factors (TFs) are macromolecules that bind to cis-regulatory specific sub-regions of DNA promoters and initiate transcription. Finding the exact location of these binding sites (aka motifs) is important in a variety of domains such as drug design and development. To address this need, several in vivo and in vitro techniques have been developed so far that try to characterize and predict the binding specificity of a protein to different DNA loci. The major problem with these techniques is that they are not accurate enough in prediction of the binding affinity and characterization of the corresponding motifs. As a result, downstream analysis is required to uncover the locations where proteins of interest bind. Here, we propose DeeperBind, a long short term recurrent convolutional network for prediction of protein binding specificities with respect to DNA probes. DeeperBind can model the positional dynamics of probe sequences and hence reckons with the contributions made by individual sub-regions in DNA sequences, in an effective way. Moreover, it can be trained and tested on datasets containing varying-length sequences. We apply our pipeline to the datasets derived from protein binding microarrays (PBMs), an in-vitro high-throughput technology for quantification of protein-DNA binding preferences, and present promising results. To the best of our knowledge, this is the most accurate pipeline that can predict binding specificities of DNA sequences from the data produced by high-throughput technologies through utilization of the power of deep learning for feature generation and positional dynamics modeling.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099754', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'GT']]
[u'QuPath: Open source software for digital pathology image analysis', ['Peter Bankhead', 'Maurice B Loughrey', 'Jose A Fernandez', 'Yvonne Dombrowski', 'Darragh G McArt', 'Philip D Dunne', 'Stephen McQuaid', 'Ronan T Gray', 'Liam J Murray', 'Helen G Coleman', 'Jacqueline A James', 'Manuel Salto-Tellez', 'Peter W Hamilton'], u'January 12, 2017.', u"QuPath is new bioimage analysis software designed to meet the growing need for a user-friendly, extensible, open-source solution for digital pathology and whole slide image analysis.  In addition to offering a comprehensive panel of tumor identification and high-throughput biomarker evaluation tools, QuPath provides researchers with powerful batch-processing and scripting functionality, and an extensible platform with which to develop and share new algorithms to analyze complex tissue images.  Furthermore, QuPath's flexible design make it suitable for a wide range of additional image analysis applications across biomedical research.", u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099796', [u'Pathology'], [u"Queen's University Belfast;", u'Belfast Health and Social Care Trust']]
[u'Deciphering the dynamical origin of mixed population during neural stem cell developmental lineage commitment', ['DOLA SENGUPTA', 'Sandip Kar'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Neural stem cells (NSCs) often give rise to mixed population of cells during differentiation. However, the dynamical origin of these mixed states is poorly understood. In this article, our mathematical modeling study demonstrates that the bone morphogenetic protein 2 (BMP2) driven differential differentiation dynamics of NSCs in central and peripheral nervous systems essentially function through two distinct bi-stable switches that are mutually interconnected. Stochastic simulations of the model reveal that the mixed population originates due to the existence of these bi-stable switching regulations while the maintenance of such mixed states depends on the level of stochastic fluctuations of the system. Importantly, the model predicts that by individually altering the expression level of key regulatory proteins, the NSCs can be converted entirely to a preferred phenotype for BMP2 doses that earlier resulted into mixed population. Our findings show that efficient neuronal regeneration can be achieved by systematically maneuvering the differentiation dynamics.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099903', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'IIT BOMBAY']]
[u'The scaffolding protein Cnk Interacts with Alk to Promote Visceral Founder Cell Specification in Drosophila', ['Georg Wolfstetter', 'Kathrin Pfeifer', 'Jesper R. vanDijk', 'Fredrik Hugosson', 'Xiangyi Lu', 'Ruth H. Palmer'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'In Drosophila, the receptor tyrosine kinase Alk and its ligand Jeb are required to drive founder cell (FC) specification in the visceral mesoderm (VM). Alk-signalling activates downstream MAPK/ERK- and PI3K-pathways in human and Drosophila but little is known about immediate downstream signalling events. Here we report that the scaffolding protein Cnk interacts directly with Alk via a novel c-terminal binding motif. Cnk is required for Alk-signalling as ectopic expression of the minimal interaction motif as well as loss of maternal and zygotic cnk blocks visceral FC-formation, resembling the phenotype of jeb and Alk mutants. We also show that the Cnk-interactor Aveugle/Hyphen (Ave/HYP) is critical, while the (pseudo-) kinase Ksr is not required for Alk-signalling in the developing VM. Taken together, Cnk and Ave represent the first molecules downstream of Alk whose loss genocopies the lack of visceral FC-specification of Alk and jeb mutants indicating an essential role in Alk-signalling.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099986', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Gothenburg;', u'Wayne State University School of Medicine']]
[u'Caenorhabditis elegans as an emerging model for studying the basic biology of anorectic effects of nicotine', ['Robert Sobkowiak', 'Piotr Kaczmarek', 'Mateusz Kowalski', 'Rafa Kabacinski', 'Andrzej Lesicki'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Nicotine decreases food intake, and smokers often report that they smoke to control their weight. To see whether similar phenomena could be observed in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, we challenged drug-naive nematodes with a chronic low (0.01 mM) and high (1 mM) nicotine concentration for 55 h (from hatching to adulthood). After that, we recorded changes in their behavior in a nicotine gradient, where they could choose a desired nicotine concentration. By using a combination of behavioral and morphometric methods, we found that both nicotine and food modulate worm behavior. In the presence of food the nematodes adapted to the low nicotine concentration, when placed in the gradient, chose a similar nicotine concentration like C. elegans adapted to the high nicotine concentration. However, in the absence of food, the nematodes adapted to the low nicotine concentration, when placed in the gradient of this alkaloid, chose a similar nicotine concentration like naive worms. The nematodes growing up in the presence of high concentrations of nicotine had a statistically smaller body size, compared to the control condition, and the presence of food did not cause any enhanced slowing movement. These results provide a platform for more detailed molecular and cellular studies of nicotine addiction and food intake in this model organism.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099952', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Adam Mickiewicz University, Poland;', u'Poznan University of Technology, Poland']]
[u'Gene expression profiling reveals U1 snRNA regulates cancer gene expression', ['Zhi Cheng', 'Yu Sun', 'Xiaoran Niu', 'YingChun Shang', 'Zhenfeng Wu', 'Jinsong Shi', 'Shan Gao', 'Tao Zhang'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'U1 small nuclear RNA (U1 snRNA), as one of the most abundant noncoding RNA in eukaryotic cells plays an important role in splicing of pre-mRNAs. Compared to other studies which have focused on the primary function of U1 snRNA and the neurodegenerative diseases caused by the abnormalities of U1 snRNA, this study is to investigate how the U1 snRNA over-expression affects the expression of genes on a genome-wide scale. In this study, we built a model of U1 snRNA over-expression in a rat cell line. By comparing the gene expression profiles of U1 snRNA over-expressed cells with those of their controls using the microarray experiments, 916 genes or loci were identified significantly differentially expressed. These 595 up-regulated genes and 321 down-regulated genes were further analyzed using the annotations from the GO terms and the KEGG database. As a result, three of 12 enriched pathways are well-known cancer pathways, while nine of them were associated to cancers in previous studies. The further analysis of 73 genes involved in 12 pathways suggests that U1 snRNA regulates cancer gene expression. The microarray data with ID GSE84304 is available in the NCBI GEO database.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099929', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Nankai University;', u'Nanjing University School of Medicine']]
[u'Temporal super-resolution in single-molecule experiments', ['Colin D Kinz-Thompson', 'Ruben L Gonzalez'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Many time-resolved single-molecule biophysics experiments seek to characterize the kinetics of biomolecular systems exhibiting dynamics that challenge the time resolution of the given technique. Here we present a general, computational approach to this problem that employs Bayesian inference to learn the underlying dynamics of such systems, even when these kinetics are much faster than the time resolution of the given technique. By accurately and precisely inferring rate constants, this Bayesian Inference for the Analysis of Sub-temporal-resolution Data (BIASD) approach effectively enables the experimenter to super-resolve the poorly resolved, fast kinetics that are present in their data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099648', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Dept. of Chemistry, Columbia University']]
[u'Dissecting limiting factors of the Protein synthesis Using Recombinant Elements (PURE) system', ['Jun Li', 'Chi Zhang', 'Poyi Huang', 'Erkin Kuru', 'Eliot T. C. Forster Benson', 'Taibo Li', 'George M Church'], u'January 12, 2017.', u'Reconstituted cell-free protein synthesis systems such as the Protein synthesis Using Recombinant Elements (PURE) system give high-throughput and controlled access to in vitro protein synthesis. Here we show that compared to the commercial S30 crude extract based RTS 100 E. coli HY system, the PURE system has less mRNA degradation and produces ~4-fold more total protein. However the majority of these polypeptides are partially translated or inactive since the signal from firefly luciferase (Fluc) translated in PURE is only ~2/3rd of that measured using the S30 crude extract system. Both of the two systems suffer from low ribosome recycling efficiency when translating proteins from 90 kD to 220 kD. A systematic fed-batch analysis of PURE shows replenishment of 6 small molecule substrates individually or in combination prior to energy depletion increased Fluc protein yield by ~1.5 to ~2-fold, while accumulation of inorganic phosphate contributes to reaction termination. Additionally, while adding EF-P to PURE reduced total protein translated, it also increased the fraction of active product and reduced partial translated product probably by slowing down the translation process. Finally, ArfA, rather than YaeJ or PrfH, helped reduce ribosome stalling when translating Fluc and improved system productivity in a template-dependent fashion.', u'/content/early/2017/01/12/099838', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Ravenwood High School;', u'Massachusetts of Institute of Technology']]
