[u'The Sequence of 1504 Mutants in the Model Rice Variety Kitaake Facilitates Rapid Functional Genomic Studies', ['Guotian Li', 'Rashmi Jain', 'Mawsheng Chern', 'Nikki T Pham', 'Joel A Martin', 'Tong Wei', 'Wendy S Schackwitz', 'Anna M Lipzen', 'Phat Q Duong', 'Kyle C Jones', 'Liangrong Jiang', 'Deling Ruan', 'Diane Bauer', 'Yi Peng', 'Kerrie W Barry', 'Jeremy Schmutz', 'Pamela C Ronald'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'The availability of a whole-genome sequenced mutant population and the cataloging of mutations of each line at a single-nucleotide resolution facilitates functional genomic analysis. To this end, we generated and sequenced a fast-neutron-induced mutant population in the model rice cultivar Kitaake (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica), which completes its life cycle in 9 weeks. We sequenced 1,504 mutant lines at 45-fold coverage and identified 91,513 mutations affecting 32,307 genes, 58% of all rice genes. We detected an average of 61 mutations per line. Mutation types include single base substitutions, deletions, insertions, inversions, translocations, and tandem duplications. We observed a high proportion of loss-of-function mutations. Using this mutant population, we identified an inversion affecting a single gene as the causative mutation for the short-grain phenotype in one mutant line with a small segregating population. This result reveals the usefulness of the resource for efficient identification of genes conferring specific phenotypes. To facilitate public access to this genetic resource, we established an open access database called KitBase that provides access to sequence data and seed stocks, enabling rapid functional genomic studies of rice.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111237', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of California, Davis;', u'U.S. Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute;', u'Xiamen University;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology']]
[u'A Spatially Localized Architecture for Fast and Modular Computation at the Molecular Scale', ['Gourab Chatterjee', 'Neil Dalchau', 'Richard A. Muscat', 'Andrew Phillips', 'Georg Seelig'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Cells use spatial constraints to control and accelerate the \ufb02ow of information in enzyme cascades and signaling networks. Here we show that spatial organization can be a similarly powerful design principle for overcoming limitations of speed and modularity in engineered molecular circuits. We create logic gates and signal transmission lines by spatially arranging reactive DNA hairpins on a DNA origami. Signal propagation is demonstrated across transmission lines of different lengths and orientations, and logic gates are modularly combined into circuits that establish the universality of our approach. Because reactions preferentially occur between neighbors, identical DNA hairpins can be reused across circuits. Co-localization of circuit elements decreases computation time from hours to minutes compared to circuits with diffusible components. Detailed computational models enable predictive circuit design. We anticipate that our approach will motivate the use of spatial constraints in molecular engineering more broadly, bringing embedded molecular control circuits closer to applications.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/110965', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of Washington, Seattle, USA;', u'Microsoft Research, Cambridge, UK']]
[u'Preprinting Microbiology', ['Patrick D Schloss'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'The field of microbiology has experienced significant growth due to transformative advances in technology and the influx of scientists driven by a curiosity to understand how bacteria, archaea, microbial eukaryotes, and viruses interact with each other and their environment to sustain myriad biochemical processes that are essential for maintaining the Earth. With this explosion in scientific output, a significant bottleneck has been the ability to disseminate this new knowledge to peers and the public in a timely manner. Preprints have emerged as a tool that a growing number of microbiologists are using to overcome this bottleneck and to recruit in an effective and transparent way a broader pool of reviewers prior to submitting to traditional journals. Although use of preprints is still limited in the biological sciences, early indications are that preprints are a robust tool that can complement and enhance peer-reviewed publications. As publishing moves to embrace advances in internet technology, there are many opportunities for preprints and peer-reviewed journals to coexist in the same ecosystem.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/110858', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Adaptation of the FADS gene family in Europe: Variation across time, geography and subsistence', ['Kaixiong Ye', 'Feng Gao', 'David Wang', 'Ofer Bar-Yosef', 'Alon Keinan'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'The FADS gene family encodes rate-limiting enzymes for the biosynthesis of omega-6 and omega-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs), which is essential for individuals subsisting on LCPUFAs-poor diets (e.g. plant-based). Positive selection on FADS genes has been reported in multiple populations, but its presence and pattern in Europeans remain elusive. Here, with analyses of ancient and modern DNA, we demonstrated positive selection acted on variants centered on FADS1 and FADS2 both before and after the advent of farming in Europe, but adaptive alleles in these two periods are opposite. Selection signals in recent history also vary geographically, with the strongest in Southern Europe. We showed that adaptive alleles in recent farmers are associated with expression of FADS genes, enhanced LCPUFAs biosynthesis and reduced risk of inflammatory bowel diseases. Thus, the adaptation of FADS genes in Europe varies across time and geography, probably due to varying diet and subsistence.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111229', [u'Genomics'], [u'Cornell University;', u'Harvard University']]
[u'TOWARDS A GLOBAL SUPPORT OF CORE DATA RESOURCES FOR THE LIFE SCIENCES', ['Warwick Anderson', 'Rolf Apweiler', 'Alex Bateman', 'Guntram A Bauer', 'Helen Berman', 'Judith A Blake', 'Niklas Blomberg', 'Stephen K Burley', 'Guy Cochrane', 'Valentina Di Francesco', 'Tim Donohue', 'Christine Durinx', 'Alfred Game', 'Eric Green', 'Takashi Gojobori', 'Peter Goodhand', 'Ada Hamosh', 'Henning Hermjakob', 'Minoru Kanehisa', 'Robert Kiley', 'Johanna McEntyre', 'Rowan McKibbin', 'Satoru Miyano', 'Barbara Pauly', 'Norbert Perrimon', 'Mark A Ragan', 'Geoffrey Richards', 'Yik-Ying Teo', 'Monte Westerfield', 'Eric Westhof', 'Paul F Lasko'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'On November 18-19, 2016, the Human Frontier Science Program Organization (HFSPO) hosted a meeting of senior managers of key data resources and leaders of several major funding organizations to discuss the challenges associated with sustaining biological and biomedical (i.e., life sciences) data resources and associated infrastructure. A strong consensus emerged from the group that core data resources for the life sciences should be supported through coordinated international efforts that better ensure long-term sustainability and that appropriately align funding with scientific impact. Ideally, funding for such data resources should allow for access at no charge, as is presently the usual (and preferred) mechanism. Designing and implementing a plan for long-term accessibility is the vision. Below, the rationale for this vision is described, and some important considerations for developing a new international funding model to support core data resources for the life sciences are presented.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/110825', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Human Frontier Science Program Organization;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute;', u'Human Frontier Science Program;', u'Rutgers University;', u'Jackson Laboratory;', u'ELIXIR;', u'National Human Genome Research Institute;', u'University of Wisconsin-Madison;', u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics;', u'Marlborough;', u'King Abdullah University of Science and Technology;', u'Global Alliance for Genomics and Health;', u'Johns Hopkins University;', u'Kyoto University;', u'Wellcome Library;', u'Biotechnology & Biological Sciences Research Council;', u'University of Tokyo;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'The University of Queensland;', u'National University of Singapore;', u'University of Oregon;', u'Universite de Strasbourg;', u'McGill University']]
[u'The genomic architecture of flowering time varies across space and time in Mimulus guttatus', ['Patrick Monnahan', 'John K Kelly'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'The degree to which genomic architecture varies across space and time is central to the evolution of genomes in response to natural selection.  Bulked-segregant mapping combined with pooled sequencing provides an efficient method to estimate the effect of genetic variants on quantitative traits.  We develop a novel likelihood framework to identify segregating variation within multiple populations and generations while accommodating estimation error on a sample-and SNP-specific basis. We use this method to map loci for flowering time within natural populations of Mimulus guttatus, collecting the early and late flowering plants from each of three neighboring populations and two consecutive generations.  We find appreciable variation in genetic effects on flowering time across both time and space; the greatest differences evident between populations.  Structural variants, such as inversions, and genes from multiple flowering time pathways exhibit the strongest associations with flowering time. It is also clear that genotype-by-environment interactions are an important influence on flowering time variation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111203', [u'Genomics'], [u'John Innes Centre, United Kingdom;', u'University of Kansas, United States']]
[u'Profiling metabolic flux modes by enzyme cost reveals variable trade-offs between growth and yield in Escherichia coli.', ['Meike T. Wortel', 'Elad Noor', 'Michael Ferris', 'Frank J. Bruggeman', 'Wolfram Liebermeister'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Microbes in fragmented environments profit from yield-efficient metabolic strategies, which allow for a maximal number of cells. In contrast, cells in well-mixed, nutrient-rich environments need to grow and divide fast to out-compete others. Paradoxically, a fast growth can entail wasteful, yield-inefficient modes of metabolism and smaller cell numbers. Therefore, general trade-offs between biomass yield and growth rate have been hypothesized. To study the conditions for such rate-yield trade-offs, we considered a kinetic model of E. coli central metabolism and determined flux distributions that provide maximal growth rates or maximal biomass yields. In the model, maximal growth rates or yields are achieved by sparse flux distributions called elementary flux modes (EFMs). We screened all EFMs in the network model and computed the biomass yields and growth rates enabled by these EFMs. Growth rates were computed from the amount of protein required to sustain a given biomass production, computed from the kinetic model by enzyme cost minimization (ECM). In a scatter plot between the growth rates and yields of all EFMs, a trade-off shows up as a Pareto front. At reference glucose and oxygen levels, we find that the rate-yield trade-off is almost negligible. However, in low-oxygen environments, a clear trade-off emerges: low-yield fermentation EFMs allow for a growth 2-3 times faster than the maximal-yield EFM. The trade-off is therefore strongly condition-dependent and should be almost unnoticeable at high oxygen and glucose levels, the typical conditions in laboratory experiments. Our public web service www.neos-guide.org/content/enzyme-cost-minimization allows users to run ECM to compute enzyme costs for metabolic models flux distributions of their choice.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111161', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Oslo;', u'Eidgenoessische Technische Hochschule Zuerich;', u'University of Wisconsin;', u'Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam;', u'Charite - Universitaetsmedizin Berlin']]
[u'Human PGBD5 DNA transposase promotes site-specific oncogenic mutations in rhabdoid tumors', ['Anton Henssen', 'Richard Koche', 'Jiali Zhuang', 'Eileen Jiang', 'Casie Reed', 'Amy Eisenberg', 'Eric Still', 'Ian MacArthur', 'Elias Rodriguez-Fos', 'Santiago Gonzalez', 'Montserrat Puiggros', 'Andrew Blackford', 'Christopher Mason', 'Elisa De Stanchina', 'Mithat Gonen', 'Anne-Katrin Emde', 'Minita Shah', 'Kanika Arora', 'Catherine Reeves', 'Nicholas Socci', 'Elizabeth Perlman', 'Cristina Antonescu', 'Charles Roberts', 'Hanno Steen', 'Elizabeth Mullen', 'Stephen Jackson', 'David Torrents', 'Zhiping Weng', 'Scott Armstrong', 'Alex Kentsis'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Genomic rearrangements are a hallmark of childhood solid tumors, but their mutational causes remain poorly understood.  Here, we identify the piggyBac transposable element derived 5 (PGBD5) gene as an enzymatically active human DNA transposase expressed in the majority of rhabdoid tumors, a lethal childhood cancer.  Using assembly-based whole-genome DNA sequencing, we observed previously unknown somatic genomic rearrangements in primary human rhabdoid tumors.  These rearrangements were characterized by deletions and inversions involving PGBD5-specific signal (PSS) sequences at their breakpoints, with some recurrently targeting tumor suppressor genes, leading to their inactivation.  PGBD5 was found to be physically associated with human genomic PSS sequences that were also sufficient to mediate PGBD5-induced DNA rearrangements in rhabdoid tumor cells.  We found that ectopic expression of PGBD5 in primary immortalized human cells was sufficient to promote penetrant cell transformation in vitro and in immunodeficient mice in vivo.  This activity required specific catalytic residues in the PGBD5 transposase domain, as well as end-joining DNA repair, and induced distinct structural rearrangements, involving PSS-associated breakpoints, similar to those found in primary human rhabdoid tumors.  This defines PGBD5 as an oncogenic mutator and provides a plausible mechanism for site specific DNA rearrangements in childhood and adult solid tumors.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111138', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'MSKCC;', u'University of Massachusetts;', u'Barcelona Supercomputing Center;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'Weill Cornell Medical College;', u'New York Genome Center;', u'Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine;', u'St. Jude Children Research Hospital;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Institucio Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avancats;', u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute;', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center']]
[u'The spatial and metabolic basis of colony size variation', ['Jeremy Chacon', 'Wolfram Moebius', 'William Harcombe'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Spatial structure impacts microbial growth and interactions, with ecological and evolutionary consequences. It is therefore important to quantitatively understand how spatial proximity affects interactions in different environments. We test how proximity influences colony size when either Escherichia coli or Salmonella enterica are grown on different carbon sources. The importance of colony location changes with species and carbon source. Spatially-explicit, genome-scale metabolic modeling predicts colony size variation, supporting the hypothesis that metabolic mechanisms and diffusion are sufficient to explain the majority of observed variation. Geometrically, individual colony sizes are best predicted by Voronoi diagrams, which identify the territory that is closest to each colony. This means that relative colony growth is largely independent of the distance to colonies beyond those that set territory boundaries. Further, the effect of location increases when colonies take-up resource quickly relative to the diffusion of limiting resources. These analyses made it apparent that the importance of location was smaller than expected for experiments with colonies growing on sugars. The accumulation of toxic byproducts appears to limit the growth of large colonies and reduce variation in colony size. Our work provides an experimentally and theoretically grounded understanding of how location interacts with metabolism and diffusion to influence microbial interactions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111153', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Exeter']]
[u'Real-time chromatin dynamics at the single gene level during transcription activation', ['Thomas Germier', 'Silvia Kocanova', 'Nike Walther', 'Aurelien Bancaud', 'Haitham Ahmed Shaban', 'Hafida Sellou', 'Antonio Politi', 'Jan Ellenberg', 'Franck Gallardo', 'Kerstin Bystricky'], u'February 23, 2017.', u"Genome dynamics relate to regulation of gene expression, the most fundamental process in biology. Yet we still do not know whether the very process of transcription drives spatial organization and chromatin conformation at specific gene loci. To address this issue, we have optimized the ANCHOR/ParB DNA labeling system for real-time imaging and quantitative analysis of the dynamics of a single-copy transgene in human cells. Transcription of the transgene under the control of the endogenous Cyclin D1 promoter was induced by addition of 17beta-estradiol. Motion of the ANCHOR3-tagged DNA locus was recorded in the same cell prior to and during appearance of nascent mRNA visualized using the MS2 system. We found that transcription initiation resulted in rapid confinement of the mRNA-producing gene. The confinement was maintained even upon inhibition of pol2 elongation. It did not occur when recruitment of pol2 or transcription initiation was blocked by anti-estrogens or Triptolide. These results suggest that preinitiation complex formation and concomitant reorganization of the chromatin domain constrains freedom of movement of an induced gene's promoter within minutes. Confined diffusion reflects assembly of functional protein hubs and DNA processing during the rate-limiting steps of transcription.", u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111179', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Center for Integrative Biology of Toulouse;', u'EMBL;', u'Laboratoire de Automatismes et Architecture des Systemes (LAAS), Toulouse;', u'NeoVirTech SAS']]
[u'Foreground Enhancement and Background Suppression in Human Early Visual System During Passive Perception of Natural Images', ['Paolo Papale', 'Andrea Leo', 'Luca Cecchetti', 'Giacomo Handjaras', 'Kendrick Kay', 'Pietro Pietrini', 'Emiliano Ricciardi'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'One of the major challenges in visual neuroscience is represented by foreground-background segmentation, a process that is supposed to rely on computations in cortical modules, as information progresses from V1 to V4. Data from nonhuman primates (Poort et al., 2016) showed that segmentation leads to two distinct, but associated processes: the enhancement of cortical activity associated to figure processing (i.e., foreground enhancement) and the suppression of ground-related cortical activity (i.e., background suppression). To characterize foreground-background segmentation of natural stimuli in humans, we parametrically modulated low-level properties of 334 images and their behaviorally segmented counterparts. A model based on simple visual features was then adopted to describe the filtered and intact images, and to evaluate their resemblance with fMRI activity in different visual cortices (V1, V2, V3, V3A, V3B, V4, LOC). Results from representational similarity analysis (Kriegeskorte et al., 2008) showed that the correspondence between behaviorally segmented natural images and brain activity increases throughout the visual processing stream. We found evidence of foreground enhancement for all the tested visual regions, while background suppression occurs in V3B, V4 and LOC. Our results suggest that foreground-background segmentation is an automatic process that occurs during natural viewing, and cannot be merely ascribed to differences in objects size or location. Finally, neural images reconstructed from V4 and LOC fMRI activity revealed a preserved spatial resolution of foreground textures, indicating a richer representation of the salient part of natural images, rather than a simplistic model of objects shape.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/109496', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'IMT Lucca;', u'Research Center E. Piaggio;', u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'A practical guide for inferring reliable dominance hierarchies and estimating their uncertainty', ['Alfredo Sanchez-Tojar', 'Julia Schroeder', 'Damien R Farine'], u'February 23, 2017.', u"Many animal social structures are organized hierarchically, with dominant individuals monopolizing resources. Dominance hierarchies have received great attention from behavioural and evolutionary ecologists. As a result, there are many methods for inferring hierarchies from social interactions. Yet, there are no clear guidelines about how many observed dominance interactions (i.e. sampling effort) are necessary for inferring reliable dominance hierarchies, nor are there any established tools for quantifying their uncertainty. In this study, we simulated interactions (winners and losers) in scenarios of varying steepness (the probability that a dominant defeats a subordinate based on their difference in rank). Using these data, we (1) quantify how the number of interactions recorded and hierarchy steepness affect the performance of three methods, (2) propose an amendment that improves the performance of a popular method, and (3) suggest two easy procedures to measure uncertainty in the inferred hierarchy. First, we found that the ratio of interactions to individuals required to infer reliable hierarchies is surprisingly low, but depends on the hierarchy steepness and method used. We then show that David's score and our novel randomized Elo-rating are the two best methods, whereas the original Elo-rating and the recently described ADAGIO perform less well. Finally, we propose two simple methods to estimate uncertainty at the individual and group level. These uncertainty measures further allow to differentiate non-existent, very flat and highly uncertain hierarchies from intermediate, steep and certain hierarchies. Overall, we find that the methods for inferring dominance hierarchies are relatively robust, even when the ratio of observed interactions to individuals is as low as 10 to 20. However, we suggest that implementing simple procedures for estimating uncertainty will benefit researchers, and quantifying the shape of the dominance hierarchies will provide new insights into the study organisms.", u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111146', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Max Planck Institute for Ornithology;', u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Dissociable effects of surprising rewards on learning and memory', ['Nina Rouhani', 'Kenneth A. Norman', 'Yael Niv'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'The extent to which rewards deviate from learned expectations is tracked by a signal known as a reward prediction error, but it is unclear how this signal interacts with episodic memory. Here, we investigated whether learning in a high-risk environment, with frequent large prediction errors, gives rise to higher fidelity memory traces than learning in a low-risk environment. In Experiment 1, we showed that higher magnitude prediction errors, positive or negative, improved recognition memory for trial-unique items. Participants also increased their learning rate after large prediction errors. In addition, there was an overall higher learning rate in the low-risk environment. Although unsigned prediction errors enhanced memory and increased learning rate, we did not find a relationship between learning rate and memory, suggesting that these two effects were due to separate underlying mechanisms. In Experiment 2, we replicated these results with a longer task that posed stronger memory demands and allowed for more learning. We also showed improved source and sequence memory for high-risk items. In Experiment 3, we controlled for the difficulty of learning in the two risk environments, again replicating the previous results. Moreover, equating the range of prediction errors in the two risk environments revealed that learning in a high-risk context enhanced episodic memory above and beyond the effect of prediction errors to individual items. In summary, our results across three studies showed that (absolute) prediction error magnitude boosted both episodic memory and incremental learning, but the two effects were not correlated, suggesting distinct underlying systems.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111070', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Observation of histone nuclear import in living cells: implications in the processing of newly synthesised H3.1 & H4', ['Andrew James Bowman', 'Michael James Smith'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'We present here a cytosolic tether-and-release system to study the import and dynamics of newly synthesised nuclear proteins. Release is gated by rapamycin-induced recruitment and activation of a viral protease, with cleavage of a peptide linker releasing the tethered cargo. We use this system to investigate nucleo-cytoplasmic divisions in the histone H3.1 & H4 deposition pathway, revealing that, contrary to previous analyses, H3.1 and H4 are predominantly monomeric in the cytosol, and only associate with the core histone chaperoning machinery after translocation to the nucleus. Whilst we do not detect interaction with known H3-H4 chaperones in the cytosol we do detect interaction with a number of importin-\u03b2 proteins, that may serve a dual import and chaperoning function, preventing aggregation of histones until they are handed-off to the core histone chaperoning machinery in the nucleus.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111096', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Mobility as the purpose of postural control', ['Charlotte Le Mouel', 'Romain Brette'], u'February 23, 2017.', u"Counteracting the destabilizing force of gravity is usually considered to be the purpose of postural control. However, from the consideration of the mechanical requirements for movement, we argue that posture is adjusted in view of providing impetus for movement. Thus, we show that the posture that is usually adopted in quiet standing in fact allows torque for potential movement. Moreover, when performing a movement - either voluntarily or in response to an external perturbation - we show that the postural adjustments are organized both spatially and temporally so as to provide the required torque for the movement. Thus, when movement is performed skillfully, the force of gravity is not counteracted but actually used to provide impetus to movement. This ability to move one's weight so as to exploit the torque of gravity seems crucial, especially for recovering one's balance when a standing person is perturbed by an external force.", u'/content/early/2017/02/23/110932', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Sorbonne Universites, UPMC, Univ Paris 06, INSERM, CNRS, Institut de la Vision']]
[u'EXTRACT 2.0: text-mining-assisted interactive annotation of biomedical named entities and ontology terms', ['Evangelos Pafilis', 'Rudolfs Berzins', 'Lars Juhl Jensen'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'The original version of EXTRACT was designed to support annotation of metagenomic samples with semantically con-trolled environmental descriptors (Pafilis et al., 2016). For this reason, it focused on named entity recognition of terms from the Environment Ontology (ENVO) and ontologies relevant for describing host organisms, tissues, and disease states. EXTRACT 2.0 expands the scope of the tool in several new directions with the aim to make it more broadly useful.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111088', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and Aquaculture, Hellenic Centre for Marine Research;', u'Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'MetaCherchant - an algorithm for analyzing genomic environment of antibiotic resistance gene in gut microbiota', ['Evgenii I Olekhnovich', 'Artem T Vasilyev', 'Vladimir I Ulyantsev', 'Alexander V Tyakht'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'Antibiotic resistance is an important global public health problem. Human gut human microbiota is an accumulator of\nresistance genes potentially providing them to pathogens. It is important to develop tools for identifying the mechanisms of\nhow resistance is transmitted between gut microbial species and pathogens. We developed MetaCherchant - an algorithm\nfor extracting the genomic environment of antibiotic resistance genes from metagenomic data in the form of a graph. The\nalgorithm was validated on simulated datasets and applied to new "shotgun" metagenomes of gut microbiota from patients\nwith Helicobacter pylori who underwent antibiotic therapy. Genomic context was reconstructed for several dominant\nresistance genes; taxonomic annotation of the context showed the species carrying the genes. Application of MetaCherchant\nin differential mode produced specific graph structures suggesting the evidence of possible resistance gene transmission\nwithin a mobile element that occurred as a result of the antibiotic therapy. MetaCherchant is a promising tool giving\nresearchers an opportunity to get an insight into dynamics of resistance transmission in vivo based on metagenomic data.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/106161', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Federal Research and Clinical Centre of Physical-Chemical Medicine;', u'ITMO University, Saint-Petersburg, Russian Federation; JetBrains Research, Russian Federation;', u'ITMO University, Saint-Petersburg, Russian Federation;', u'Federal Research and Clinical Centre of Physical and Chemical Medicine, Federal Medical and Biologic']]
[u'The recombinase protein is a torque sensitive molecular switch.', ['Scott X. Atwell', 'Aurelie Dupont', 'Daniel Migliozzi', 'Jean-Louis Viovy', 'Giovanni Cappello'], u'February 23, 2017.', u'How a nano-searcher finds its nano-target is a general problem in non-equilibrium statistical physics. It becomes vital when the searcher is a damaged DNA fragment trying to find its counterpart on the intact homologous chromosome. If the two copies are paired, that intact homologous sequence serves as a template to reconstitute the damaged DNA sequence, enabling the cell to survive without genetic mutations. To succeed, the search must stop only when the perfect homology is found. The biological process that ensures such a genomic integrity is called Homologous Recombination and is promoted by the Recombinase proteins. In this article, we use torque-sensitive magnetic tweezers to measure the free-energy landscape of the human Recombinase hRad51 protein assembled a DNA fragment. Based on our measurements we model the hRad51/DNA complex as an out-of-equilibrium two-state system and provide a thermodynamical description of Homologous Recombination. With this dynamical two-state model, we suggest a mechanism by which the recombinase proteins discriminate between homologous and a non-homologous sequences.', u'/content/early/2017/02/23/111104', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Institut Curie;', u'CNRS']]
