[u'Reversed graph embedding resolves complex single-cell developmental trajectories', ['Xiaojie Qiu', 'Qi Mao', 'Ying Tang', 'Li Wang', 'Raghav Chawla', 'Hannah Pliner', 'Cole Trapnell'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Organizing single cells along a developmental trajectory has emerged as a powerful tool for understanding how gene regulation governs cell fate decisions. However, learning the structure of complex single-cell trajectories with two or more branches remains a challenging computational problem. We present Monocle 2, which uses reversed graph embedding to reconstruct single-cell trajectories in a fully unsupervised manner. Monocle 2 learns an explicit principal graph to describe the data, greatly improving the robustness and accuracy of its trajectories compared to other algorithms. Monocle 2 uncovered a new, alternative cell fate in what we previously reported to be a linear trajectory for differentiating myoblasts. We also reconstruct branched trajectories for two studies of blood development, and show that loss of function mutations in key lineage transcription factors diverts cells to alternative branches on the a trajectory. Monocle 2 is thus a powerful tool for analyzing cell fate decisions with single-cell genomics.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110668', [], [u'University of Washington;', u'HERE Company;', u'Shanghai Jiao Tong University;', u'University of Illinois at Chicago']]
[u'COPII-coated membranes function as transport carriers of intracellular procollagen-1', ['Amita Gorur', 'Lin Yuan', 'Samuel J Kenny', 'Satoshi Baba', 'Ke Xu', 'Randy Schekman'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'The coat protein complex II (COPII) is essential for the secretion of large cargo, such as the 300 nm precursor fibrils of procollagen I (PC1). Previous work has shown that the CUL3-KLHL12 complex increases the size of COPII vesicles to over 300 nm in diameter and accelerates the secretion of PC1; however, the role of large COPII vesicles as PC1 transport carriers was not unambiguously demonstrated. In this study, using stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy (STORM), correlated light electron microscopy (CLEM), and live cell imaging we report the existence of mobile COPII-coated vesicles that completely encapsulate the cargo PC1 and are physically separated from ER. We have also developed a cell-free COPII vesicle budding reaction that reconstitutes the capture of PC1 into large COPII vesicles. This process requires COPII proteins and the GTPase activity of the COPII subunit SAR1. We conclude from in vivo and in vitro evidence that large COPII vesicles are bona fide carriers of PC1.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110700', [], [u'UC Berkeley;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd.']]
[u'Structural covariance networks in children with autism or ADHD', ['Richard A.I. Bethlehem', 'Rafael Romero-Garcia', 'Elijah Mak', 'Edward Bullmore', 'Simon Baron-Cohen'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'While autism and ADHD are considered distinct conditions from a diagnostic perspective, they share some phenotypic features and have high comorbidity. Taking a dual-condition approach might help elucidate shared and distinct neural characteristics. Graph theory was used to analyse properties of cortical thickness structural covariance networks across both conditions and relative to a neurotypical (NT; n=87) group using data from the ABIDE (autism; n=62) and ADHD-200 datasets (ADHD; n=69). This was analysed in a theoretical framework examining potential differences in long and short range connectivity. We found convergence between autism and ADHD, where both conditions show an overall decrease in CT covariance with increased Euclidean distance compared to a neurotypical population. The two conditions also show divergence: less modular overlap between the two conditions than there is between each condition and the neurotypical group. Lastly, the ADHD group also showed reduced wiring costs compared to the autism groups. Our results indicate a need for taking an integrated approach when considering highly comorbid conditions such as autism and ADHD. Both groups show a distance-covariance relation that more strongly favours short-range over long-range. Thus, on some network features the groups seem to converge, yet on others there is divergence.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110643', [], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Understanding Tissue-specific Gene Regulation', ['Abhijeet R. Sonawane', 'John Platig', 'Maud Fagny', 'Cho-Yi Chen', 'Joseph N. Paulson', 'Camila M. Lopes-Ramos', 'Dawn L. DeMeo', 'John Quackenbush', 'Kimberly Glass', 'Marieke L. Kuijjer'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Although all human tissues carry out common processes, tissues are distinguished by gene expression patterns, implying that distinct regulatory programs control tissue-specificity. In this study, we investigate gene expression and regulation across 38 tissues profiled in the Genotype-Tissue Expression project. We find that network edges (transcription factor to target gene connections) have higher tissue-specificity than network nodes (genes) and that regulating nodes (transcription factors) are less likely to be expressed in a tissue-specific manner as compared to their targets (genes). Gene set enrichment analysis of network targeting also indicates that regulation of tissue-specific function is largely independent of transcription factor expression. In addition, tissue-specific genes are not highly targeted in their corresponding tissue-network. However, they assume bottleneck positions due to changes in transcription factor targeting and the influence of non-canonical regulatory interactions. These results suggest that tissue-specificity is driven by the creation of new regulatory paths, providing transcriptional control of tissue-specific processes.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110601', [], [u"Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard;", u'Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health']]
[u'Sequence properties underlying gene regulatory enhancers are conserved across mammals', ['Ling Chen', 'Alexandra E Fish', 'John Anthony Capra'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Gene expression patterns and transcription factor DNA binding preferences are largely conserved across mammals; however, there is substantial turnover in active regulatory enhancers between closely related species. We investigated this seeming contradiction by quantifying the conservation of sequence patterns underlying histone-mark defined enhancers across six diverse mammalian species (human, macaque, mouse, dog, cow, and opossum). In each species, we found that machine-learning classifiers based on short DNA sequence patterns could accurately identify many adult liver and developing limb enhancers. We applied these classifiers across species and found that classifiers trained in different species performed nearly as well as classifiers trained on the target species, indicating that the underlying sequence properties predictive of enhancers are largely conserved. We also observed similar cross-species conservation in classifiers trained on human and mouse enhancers validated in transgenic reporter assays, and these classifiers learned predictive sequence properties similar to the classifiers trained on histone-mark defined enhancers. The sequence patterns most predictive of enhancers in each species matched the binding motifs for a common set of TFs enriched for expression in relevant tissues, which supports the biological relevance of the learned features. These results suggest that, though the genomic regions with enhancer activity change rapidly between species, many of the sequence properties encoding enhancer activity have been maintained across more than 180 million years of mammalian evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110676', [], [u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Environmental cholera (Vibrio cholerae) dynamics in an estuarine system in southern coastal Ecuador', ['Sadie J. Ryan', 'Anna M. Stewart-Ibarra', 'Eunice Ordonez', 'Winnie Chu', 'Julia L. Finkelstein', 'Christine A. King', 'Luis E. Escobar', 'Christina Lupone', 'Froilan Heras', 'Erica Tauzer', 'Egan Wagonner', 'Tyler G. James', 'Washington Cardenas', 'Mark Polhemus'], u'February 21, 2017.', u"Cholera emergence is strongly linked to local environmental and ecological context. The 1991-2004 pandemic emerged in Per&uacute and spread north into Ecuador's El Oro province, making this a key site for potential re-emergence. Machala, El Oro, is a port city of 250,000, near the Peruvian border. Many livelihoods depend on the estuarine system, from fishing for subsistence and trade, to domestic water use. In 2014, we conducted biweekly sampling for 10 months in five estuarine locations, across a gradient of human use, and ranging from inland to ocean. We measured water-specific environmental variables implicated in cholera growth and persistence: pH, temperature, salinity, and algal concentration, and evaluated samples in 5 months for pathogenic and non-pathogenic Vibrio cholerae, by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We found environmental persistence of pandemic strains O1 and O139, but no evidence for toxigenic strains. Cholera presence was coupled to algal and salinity concentration, and sites exhibited considerable seasonal and spatial heterogeneity. This study indicates that environmental conditions in Machala are optimal for cholera re-emergence, with risk peaking during September, and higher risk near urban periphery low-income communities. This highlights a need for surveillance of this coupled cholera-estuarine system to anticipate potential future cholera outbreaks.", u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110189', [], [u'University of Florida;', u'SUNY Upstate Medical University;', u'Esceula Superior Politecnica del Litoral;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of Minnesota;', u'Universidad Technica Machala']]
[u'Variability of quantal NMDA to AMPA current ratio in nucleus tractus solitarii neurons', ['Caroline Strube', 'Florian Gackiere', 'Layal Saliba', 'Fabien Tell', 'Jean-Pierre KESSLER'], u'February 21, 2017.', u"The ratio between AMPA and NMDA receptors is a key factor governing integrative and plastic properties of excitatory glutamatergic synapses. To determine whether the respective proportions of AMPA and NMDA receptors are similar or vary across a neuron's synapse, we analyzed the variability of NMDA and AMPA currents in quantal responses recorded from neurons located in the nucleus tractus solitarii. We found that the average NMDA to AMPA current ratio strongly differed between recorded neurons and that most of the intra-neuronal current ratio variability was attributable to fluctuations in NMDA current. We next performed computer simulations with a Monte Carlo model of a glutamatergic synapse to estimate the part of AMPA and NMDA currents fluctuations induced by stochastic factors. We found that NMDA current variability mainly resulted from strong channel noise with few influence of release variations. On the contrary, partly because of the presence of subconductance states, AMPA receptor channel noise was low and AMPA current fluctuations tightly reflected changes in the amount of glutamate released. We next showed that these two factors, channel noise and fluctuations in glutamate release, were sufficient to explain the observed variability of the NMDA to AMPA current ratio in quantal events recorded from the same neuron. We therefore concluded that the proportion of AMPA and NMDA receptors was similar, or roughly similar, across synapses onto the same target cell.", u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110569', [], [u'Aix Marseille Universite, CNRS, CRN2M UMR 7286, Marseille, France;', u'CNRS']]
[u'SAVE: A secure cloud-based pipeline for CRISPR pooled screen deconvolution', ['Hyun-hwan Jeong', 'Seon Young Kim', 'Maxime WC Rosseaux', 'Huda Y Zoghbi', 'Zhandong Liu'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'We present a user-friendly, cloud-based, data analysis pipeline for the deconvolution of pooled screening data. This tool, termed SAVE for Screening Analysis Visual Explorer, serves a dual purpose of extracting, clustering and analyzing raw next generation sequencing files derived from pooled screening experiments while at the same time presenting them in a user-friendly way on a secure web-based platform. Moreover, SAVE serves as a useful web-based analysis pipeline for reanalysis of pooled CRISPR screening datasets. Taken together, the framework described in this study is expected to accelerate development of web-based bioinformatics tool for handling all studies which include next generation sequencing data. SAVE is available at http://save.nrihub.org.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110262', [], [u'Baylor College of Medicine']]
[u'Payoff-biased social learning underlies the diffusion of novel extractive foraging traditions in a wild primate', ['Brendan J Barrett', 'Richard McElreath', 'Susan Perry'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'The type and variety of learning strategies used by individuals to acquire behaviours in the wild are poorly understood, despite the taxonomic prevalence of behavioural traditions. Social learning strategies such as conformity can be broadly adaptive, but may also retard the spread of adaptive innovations. Strategies like payoff-biased social learning, in contrast, are effective at diffusing new behaviour but may perform poorly when adaptive behaviour is common. We present a field experiment in a wild primate, Cebus capucinus, that introduced a novel food item and documented the innovation and diffusion of successful extraction techniques. We develop a multilevel, Bayesian statistical analysis that allows us to quantify individual-level evidence for different social and individual learning strategies. We find that payoff-biased social learning and age-biased social learning are primarily responsible for the diffusion of the new techniques. We find no evidence of conformity; instead rare techniques receive slightly increased attention. We also find substantial and important variation in individual learning strategies that is patterned by age, with younger individuals being more influenced by both social information and their own individual experience. The aggregate cultural dynamics in turn depend upon the variation in learning strategies and the age structure of the wild population.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110221', [], [u'University of California, Davis;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Repressing Integrase attachment site operation with CRISPR-Cas9 in E. coli', ['Andrey Shur', 'Richard M Murray'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Serine integrases are bacteriophage proteins responsible for integrating the phage genome into that of the host. Synthetic biologists have co-opted these proteins into useful tools for permanent DNA logic, utilizing their specific DNA recombination abilities to build synthetic cell differentiation and genetic memory systems. Each integrase has a specific pair of DNA sequences (attP/attB sites) that it recombines, but multiple identical sites can result in unpredictable recombination. We have developed a way to control integrase activity on identical attP/attB sites by using catalytically dead Cas9 (dCas9) as a programmable binding protein that can compete with integrase for binding to specific attachment sites. Utilizing a plasmid that contains two identical Bxb1 attP sites, integration can be repressed up to 8 fold at either one of the two attP sites when guide RNA and dCas9 are present. Guide RNA sequences that bind specifically to attB, or either of two attP sites, have been developed. Future goals are to utilize this technology to construct larger and more complex integrase logic circuits.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110254', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Caltech']]
[u'Atomic resolution structure of serine protease proteinase K at ambient temperature', ['Tetsuya Masuda', 'Mamoru Suzuki', 'Shigeyuki Inoue', 'Changyong Song', 'Takanori Nakane', 'Eriko Nango', 'Rie Tanaka', 'Kensuke Tono', 'Yasumasa Joti', 'Takashi Kameshima', 'Takaki Hatsui', 'Makina Yabashi', 'Bunzo Mikami', 'Osamu Nureki', 'Keiji Numata', 'So Iwata', 'Michihiro Sugahara'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Atomic resolution structures (beyond 1.20 \xc5) at ambient temperature, which is usually hampered by the radiation damage in synchrotron X-ray crystallography (SRX), will add to our understanding of the structure-function relationships of enzymes. Serial femtosecond crystallography (SFX) has attracted surging interest by providing a route to bypass such challenges. Yet the progress on atomic resolution analysis with SFX has been rather slow. In this report, we describe the 1.20 \xc5 resolution structure of proteinase K using 13 keV photon energy. Hydrogen atoms, water molecules, and a number of alternative side-chain conformations have been resolved. The increase in the value of B-factor in SFX suggests that the residues and water molecules adjacent to active sites were flexible and exhibited dynamic motions at specific substrate-recognition sites.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110361', [], [u'Division of Food Science and Biotechnology, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University;', u'Institute for Protein Research, Osaka University;', u'Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of Tokyo;', u'Department of Physics, POSTECH;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo;', u'RIKEN SPring-8 Center;', u'Japan Synchrotron Radiation Research Institute;', u'Division of Applied Life Sciences, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University;', u'Enzyme Research Team, Biomass Engineering Research Division, RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource S;', u'Department of Cell Biology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University']]
[u'Large scale variation in the rate of de novo mutation in humans and its relationship to divergence and diversity.', ['Thomas Smith', 'Adam Eyre-Walker'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'The rate of divergence between species, and the level diversity within a species, are expected to depend on the rate of mutation. Here we investigate the relationship between divergence, diversity and the rate of mutation across the human genome at scales of 1MB and 100KB using >40,000 de novo mutations (DNM). We show that there is significant variation in the rate of DNM across the human genome, but that the variation is modest. Different types of mutation show similar levels of variation and appear to vary in concert. Regressing the rate of DNM against a range of genomic features suggests that nucleosome occupancy is the most important correlate, but that GC content, recombination rate, replication time and various histone methylation signals also correlate significantly. In total the model explains ~75% of the explainable variance. As expected the rate of divergence between species and the level of diversity within humans is correlated to the rate of DNM. However, the correlations are weaker than if all the variation in divergence was due to variation in the mutation rate. We provide evidence that this is due the effect of biased gene conversion on the probability that a mutation will become fixed. Finally, we show that the correlation between divergence and DNM density declines as increasingly divergent species are considered. Our results have important implications for the use of divergence and diversity data to study variation in the mutation rate.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110452', [u'Genomics'], [u'School of Life Sciences;', u'University of Sussex']]
[u'The mutation rates and mutational bias of influenza A virus', ['Matt D. Pauly', 'Megan Procario', 'Adam S. Lauring'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Influenza virus has a high mutation rate, and this low replicative fidelity contributes to its capacity for rapid evolution. Clonal sequencing and fluctuation tests have suggested that the mutation rate of influenza A virus is 7.1 x 10-6 - 4.5 x 10-5 substitutions per nucleotide per cell infection cycle and 2.7 x 10-6 - 3.0 x 10-5 substitutions per nucleotide per strand copied (s/n/r). However, sequencing assays are biased toward mutations with minimal impacts on viral fitness and fluctuation tests typically investigate only a subset of the twelve mutational classes. We developed a fluctuation test based on reversion to fluorescence in a set of virally encoded mutant green fluorescent proteins. This method allowed us to measure the rates of selectively neutral mutations representative of all 12 mutational classes in the context of an unstructured RNA. We measured an overall mutation rate of 1.8 x 10-4 s/n/r for PR8 (H1N1) and 2.5 x 10-4 s/n/r for Hong Kong 2014 (H3N2). The replication mode was linear. The mutation rates of these divergent strains are significantly higher than previous estimates and suggest that each replicated genome will have an average of 2-3 mutations. The viral mutational spectrum is heavily biased toward A to G and U to C transitions, resulting in a transition to transversion bias of 2.7 and 3.6 for the two strains. These mutation rates were relatively constant over a range of physiological temperatures. Our high-resolution analysis of influenza virus mutation rates will enable more refined models of its molecular evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110197', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Michigan']]
[u'Replication and characterization of CADM2 and MSRA genes on human behavior', ['Brian Boutwell', 'David Hinds', 'Jorim Tielbeek', 'Ken Ong', 'Felix Day', 'John Perry'], u'February 21, 2017.', u"Progress identifying the genetic determinants of personality has historically been slow, with candidate gene studies and small-scale genome-wide association studies yielding few reproducible results. In the UK Biobank study, genetic variants in CADM2 and MSRA were recently shown to influence risk taking behavior and irritability respectively, representing some of the first genomic loci to be associated with aspects of personality.\nWe extend this observation by performing a personality 'phenome-scan' across 16 traits in up to 140,487 participants from 23andMe for these two genes. Heritability estimates for these traits ranged from 5-19%, with both CADM2 and MSRA demonstrating significant effects on multiple personality types. These associations covered all aspects of the big five personality domains, including specific facet traits such as compliance, altruism, anxiety and activity / energy. This study both confirms and extends the original observations, highlighting the role of genetics in aspects of mental health and behavior.", u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110395', [u'Genetics'], [u'Saint Louis University;', u'23andMe;', u'VU University Medical Center;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'chromVAR: Inferring transcription factor variation from single-cell epigenomic data', ['Alicia N Schep', 'Beijing Wu', 'Jason Daniel Buenrostro', 'William J. Greenleaf'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Single cell ATAC-seq (scATAC) yields sparse data that makes application of conventional computational approaches for data analysis challenging or impossible. We developed chromVAR, an R package for analyzing sparse chromatin accessibility data by estimating the gain or loss of accessibility within sets of peaks sharing the same motif or annotation while controlling for known technical biases. chromVAR enables accurate clustering of scATAC-seq profiles and enables characterization of known, or the de novo identification of novel, sequence motifs associated with variation in chromatin accessibility across single cells or other sparse epigenomic data sets.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110346', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'Broad Institute']]
[u'Boron Hyperaccumulation Mechanisms in Puccinellia distans as Revealed by Transcriptomic Analysis', ['Saniye Elvan Ozturk', 'Mehmet Goktay', 'Canan Has', 'Mehmet Babaoglu', 'Jens Allmer', 'Sami Doganlar', 'Anne Frary'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Boron is an essential plant micronutrient; but is toxic at high concentrations. Boron toxicity can severely affect crop productivity in arid and semi-arid environments. Puccinellia distans (Jacq.) Parl., common alkali grass, is found throughout the world and can survive under boron concentrations that are lethal for other plant species. In addition, P. distans can accumulate very high levels of this element. Despite these interesting features, very little research has been performed to elucidate the boron tolerance mechanism in this species. In this study, P. distans samples were analyzed by RNA sequencing to identify genes related to boron tolerance and hyperaccumulation. Abundance levels of selected differentially expressed transcripts were validated by real-time PCR. The results indicated that the hyperaccumulation mechanism of P. distans involves many transcriptomic changes including those that lead to: alterations in the malate pathway, changes in cell wall components that allow sequestration of excess boron without toxic effects, and increased expression of at least one putative boron transporter and two putative aquaporins. Elucidation of the boron accumulation mechanism is important to develop approaches for bioremediation of boron contaminated soils.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110403', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Izmir institute of Technology;', u'Selcuk University;', u'Izmir Institute of Technology']]
[u'Sweep Dynamics (SD) plots: Computational identification of selective sweeps to monitor the adaptation of influenza A viruses', ['Thorsten Ralf Klingen', 'Susanne Reimering', 'Jens Loers', 'Kyra Mooren', 'Frank Klawonn', 'Thomas Krey', 'Guelsah Gabriel', 'Alice McHardy'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Monitoring changes in the genome of influenza A viruses is crucial to understand its rapid evolution. These changes reflect how the virus adapts to changing environmental conditions such as establishment within a novel host species. Selective sweeps represent a rapid mode of adaptation and are typically observed in the evolution of human influenza A viruses. Here we describe a computational method named Sweep Dynamics (SD) plots. These combine phylogenetic algorithms with statistical techniques, allowing to characterize the molecular adaptation of rapidly evolving viruses from longitudinal sequence data. To our knowledge, it is the first method that allows not only to identify selective sweeps, but also the time periods in which these occurred and the associated amino acid changes that may have provided a selective advantage to the virus. Using SD plots, we studied the past genome-wide adaptation of the 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza A (pH1N1) and seasonal H3N2 influenza A (sH3N2) viruses. The pH1N1 influenza virus showed simultaneous amino acid changes in various proteins, particularly in seasons of high pH1N1 activity. Some of these adaptive changes resulted in functional alterations that facilitated virus transmission by respiratory droplets, which is key for sustained human-to-human transmission, directly after pandemic emergence. In the evolution of sH3N2 influenza viruses since 1999, we detected a large number of amino acid changes characterizing vaccine strains. Amino acid changes found in antigenically novel strains rising to predominance were occasionally revealed in a selective sweep one season prior to the recommendation of the WHO, suggesting the value of the technique for the vaccine strain selection problem. Taken together, our results show that SD plots allow to monitor and characterize the adaptive evolution of influenza A viruses by identifying selective sweeps and their associated signatures.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110528', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research;', u'Hannover Medical School;', u'Heinrich Pette Institute']]
[u'IcyTree: Rapid browser-based visualization for phylogenetic trees and networks', ['Timothy Glenn Vaughan'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Summary: IcyTree is an easy-to-use application which can be used to visualize a wide variety of phylogenetic trees and networks. While numerous phylogenetic tree viewers exist already, IcyTree distinguishes itself by being a purely online tool, having a responsive user interface, supporting phylogenetic networks (ancestral recombination graphs in particular), and efficiently drawing trees that include information such as ancestral locations or trait values. IcyTree also provides intuitive panning and zooming utilities that make exploring large phylogenetic trees of many thousands of taxa feasible.\n\nAvailability and Implementation: IcyTree is a web application and can be accessed directly at    http://tgvaughan.github.io/icytree. Currently-supported web browsers include Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome. IcyTree is written entirely in client-side JavaScript (no plugin required) and, once loaded, does not require network access to run. IcyTree is free software, and the source code is made available at http://github.com/tgvaughan/icytree under version 3 of the GNU General Public License.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110213', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Auckland']]
[u'Genome-wide protein phylogenies for four African cichlid species', ['Ajay Ramakrishnan Varadarajan', 'Rohini Mopuri', 'J. Todd Streelman', 'Patrick T McGrath'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Background: The thousands of species of closely related cichlid fishes in the great lakes of East Africa are a powerful model for understanding speciation and the genetic basis of trait variation. Recently, the genomes of five species of African cichlids representing five distinct lineages were sequenced and used to predict protein products at a genome-wide level. Here we characterize the evolutionary relationship of each cichlid protein to previously sequenced animal species.  Results: We used the Treefam database, a set of preexisting protein phylogenies built using 109 previously sequenced genomes, to identify Treefam families for each protein annotated from four cichlid species: Metriaclima zebra, Astatotilapia burtoni, Pundamilia nyererei and Neolamporologus brichardi. For each of these Treefam families, we built new protein phylogenies containing each of the cichlid protein hits. Using these new phylogenies we identified the evolutionary relationship of each cichlid protein to its nearest human and zebrafish protein. This data is available either through download or through a webserver we have implemented.  Conclusion: These phylogenies will be useful for any cichlid researchers trying to predict biological and protein function for a given cichlid gene, understanding the evolutionary history of a given cichlid gene, identifying recently duplicated cichlid genes, or performing genome-wide analysis in cichlids that relies on using databases generated from other species.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110510', [u'Genomics'], [u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Micromanagment of stem cell proliferation by the Drosophila testis stem cell niche', ['Olga A Puretskaia', 'Evgenii A Albert', 'Nadezhda V Terekhanova', 'Christian Boekel'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Niches are traditionally characterized as signalling microenvironments that allow stem cells to maintain their fate. This definition implicitly assumes the integration of multiple niche signals towards a binary decision between stemness and differentiation. However, observations in multiple systems have demonstrated that stem cell properties such as proliferation and differentiation can be uncoupled at the level of niche signalling input, which is incompatible with this traditional view. We have studied the role of the transcriptional regulator Zfh1, a shared target of the Hedgehog and Jak/Stat niche signalling pathways in the somatic cyst stem cells of the Drosophila testis. We demonstrate that Zfh1 binds and downregulates salvador and kibra, two tumour suppressor genes of the Hippo/Wts/Yki pathway. Yki activation is thereby restricted to the Zfh1 positive stem cells, which are hence the only somatic cell able to proliferate. Our observations therefore trace a direct connection from stem cell proliferation back to niche signal input, and provide a mechanistic example for the "micromanagement" of an individual aspect of stem cell behaviour by the niche.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110619', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'CRTD, TU Dresden;', u'Sector for Molecular Evolution, Institute for Information Transmission Problems of the RAS (Kharkevi']]
[u'Histone H3 Lysine 4 methyltransferases MLL3 and MLL4 Modulate Long-range Chromatin Interactions at Enhancers', ['Jian Yan', 'Shi-An A. Chen', 'Andrea Local', 'Tristin Liu', 'Yunjiang Qiu', 'Ah-Young Lee', 'Inkyung Jung', 'Sebastian Preissl', 'Chloe M Rivera', 'Chaocheng Wang', 'Haruhiko Ishii', 'Rongxin Fang', 'Zhen Ye', 'Kai Ge', 'Ming Hu', 'Bing Ren'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Regulation of gene expression in mammalian cells depends on long-range chromatin interactions between enhancers and promoters. Currently, the exact mechanisms that connect distal enhancers to their specific target promoters remain to be fully elucidated. Here we show that the histone H3 Lysine 4 monomethylation (H3K4me1) writer proteins MLL3 and MLL4 (MLL3/4) play an active role in this process. We demonstrate that in differentiating mouse embryonic stem cells, MLL3/4-dependent deposition of H3K4me1 at enhancers correlates with increased levels of chromatin interactions, whereas loss of MLL3/4 leads to greatly reduced frequencies of chromatin interactions and failure of lineage-specific gene expression programs. We further show that H3K4me1 facilitates recruitment of the Cohesin complex to chromatin in vitro and in vivo, providing a potential mechanism for MLL3/4 to promote chromatin looping. Taken together, our results support an active role for MLL3/4 in modulating chromatin organization at enhancers in mammalian cells.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110239', [u'Genomics'], [u'Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research;', u'National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases;', u'New York University']]
