[u'Reduced representation optical methylation mapping (R2OM2).', ['Assaf Grunwald', 'Hila Sharim', 'Tslil Gabrieli', 'Yael Michaeli', 'Dmitry Torchinsky', 'Matyas Juhasz', 'Kathryn R Wagner', 'Jonathan Pevsner', 'Jeff Reifenberger', 'Alex R Hastie', 'Han Cao', 'Elmar Weinhold', 'Yuval Ebenstein'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Reduced representation methylation profiling is a method of analysis in which a subset of CpGs is used to report the overall methylation status of the probed genomic regions. This approach has been widely adopted for genome-scale bisulfite sequencing since it requires fewer sequencing reads and uses significantly less starting material than whole-genome analysis. Consequently, this method is suitable for profiling medical samples and single cells at high throughput and reduced costs. Here, we use this concept in order to create a pattern of fluorescent optical methylation profiles along individual DNA molecules. Reduced representation optical methylation mapping (R2OM2) in combination with Bionano Genomics next generation genome mapping (NGM) technology provides a hybrid genetic/epigenetic genome map of individual chromosome segments spanning hundreds of kilobase pairs (kbp). These long reads, along with the single-molecule resolution, allow for epigenetic variation calling and methylation analysis of large structural aberrations such as pathogenic macrosatellite arrays not accessible to single-cell next generation sequencing (NGS). We apply this method to facioscapulohumeral dystrophy (FSHD) showing both structural variation and hypomethylation status of a disease-associated, highly repetitive locus on chromosome 4q.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113522', [], [u'Tel Aviv University, Israel;', u'RWTH Aachen University, Germany;', u'The Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, United States;', u'Bionano Genomics, Inc., United States']]
[u'Representing Genetic Determinants in Bacterial GWAS with Compacted De Bruijn Graphs', ['Magali Jaillard', 'Maud Tournoud', 'Leandro Lima', 'Vincent Lacroix', 'Jean-Baptiste Veyrieras', 'Laurent Jacob'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Motivation: Antimicrobial resistance has become a major worldwide public health concern, calling for a better characterization of existing and novel resistance mechanisms. GWAS methods applied to bacterial genomes have shown encouraging results for new genetic marker discovery. Most existing approaches either look at SNPs obtained by sequence alignment or consider sets of kmers, whose presence in the genome is associated with the phenotype of interest. While the former approach can only be performed when genomes are similar enough for an alignment to make sense, the latter can lead to redundant descriptions and to results which are hard to interpret.  Results: We propose an alignment-free GWAS method detecting haplotypes of variable length associated to resistance, using compacted De Bruijn graphs. Our representation is flexible enough to deal with very plastic genomes subject to gene transfers while drastically reducing the number of features to explore compared to kmers, without loss of information. It accomodates polymorphisms in core genes, accessory genes and noncoding regions. Using our representation in a GWAS leads to the selection of a small number of entities which are easier to visualize and interpret than fixed-length kmers. We illustrate the benefit of our approach by describing known as well as potential novel determinants of antimicrobial resistance in P. aeruginosa, a pathogenic bacteria with a highly plastic genome.  Availability and implementation: The code and data used in the experiments will be made available upon acceptance of this manuscript.  Contact: magali.dancette@biomerieux.com', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113563', [], [u'bioM\xe9rieux; Universit\xe9 Lyon 1 UMR5558;', u'bioM\xe9rieux;', u'Universit\xe9 Lyon 1 UMR5558']]
[u'REPARATION: Ribosome Profiling Assisted (Re-)Annotation of Bacterial genomes.', ['Elvis Ndah', 'Veronique Jonckheere', 'Adam Giess', 'Eivind Valen', 'Gerben Menschaert', 'Petra Van Damme'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Prokaryotic genome annotation is highly dependent on automated methods, as manual curation cannot keep up with the exponential growth of sequenced genomes. Current automated methods depend heavily on sequence context and often underestimate the complexity of the proteome. We developed REPARATION (RibosomeE Profiling Assisted (Re-)AnnotaTION), a de novo algorithm that takes advantage of experimental protein translation evidence from ribosome profiling (Ribo-seq) to delineate translated open reading frames (ORFs) in bacteria, independent of genome annotation. REPARATION evaluates all possible ORFs in the genome and estimates minimum thresholds based on a growth curve model to screen for spurious ORFs. We applied REPARATION to three annotated bacterial species to obtain a more comprehensive mapping of their translation landscape in support of experimental data. In all cases, we identified hundreds of novel (small) ORFs including variants of previously annotated ORFs. Our predictions were supported by matching mass spectrometry (MS) proteomics data, sequence composition and conservation analysis. REPARATION is unique in that it makes use of experimental translation evidence to perform de novo ORF delineation in bacterial genomes irrespective of the sequence context of the reading frame.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113530', [], [u'University of Gent;', u'University of Bergen']]
[u'Rational design of proteins that exchange on functional timescales', ['James A Davey', 'Adam M Damry', 'Natalie K Goto', 'Roberto A Chica'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Proteins are intrinsically dynamic molecules that can exchange between multiple conformational states, enabling them to carry out complex molecular processes with extreme precision and efficiency. Attempts to design novel proteins with tailored functions have mostly failed to yield efficiencies matching those found in nature because standard methods do not allow for the design of exchange between necessary conformational states on a functionally-relevant timescale. Here, we develop a broadly-applicable computational method to engineer protein dynamics that we term meta-multistate design. We used this methodology to design spontaneous exchange between two novel conformations introduced into the global fold of Streptococcal protein G domain \u03b21. The designed proteins, named DANCERs, for Dynamic And Native Conformational ExchangeRs, are stably folded and exchange between predicted conformational states on the millisecond timescale. The successful introduction of defined dynamics on functional timescales opens the door to new applications requiring a protein to spontaneously access multiple conformational states.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113845', [], [u'University of Ottawa']]
[u'Development of a Novel CD4+ TCR Transgenic Line that Reveals a Dominant Role for CD8+ DC and CD40-Signaling in the Generation of Helper and CTL Responses to Blood Stage Malaria', ['Daniel Fernandez-Ruiz', 'Lei Shong Lau', 'Nazanin Ghazanfari', 'Claerwen M Jones', 'Wei Yi Ng', 'Gayle M Davey', 'Dorothee Berthold', 'Lauren Holz', 'Yu Kato', 'Ganchimeg Bayarsaikhan', 'Sanne H Hendriks', 'Kylie R James', 'Anton Cozijnsen', 'Vanessa Mollard', 'Tania De Koning-Ward', 'Paul Gilson', 'Tsuneyasu Kaisho', 'Ashraful Haque', 'Brendan S Crabb', 'Francis R Carbone', 'Geoffrey I McFadden', 'William Heath'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'We describe an MHC II (IAb)-restricted T cell receptor (TCR) transgenic mouse line that produces CD4+ T cells specific for Plasmodium species. This line, termed PbT-II, was derived from a CD4+ T cell hybridoma generated to blood-stage Plasmodium berghei ANKA (PbA). PbT-II cells responded to all Plasmodium species and stages tested so far, including rodent (PbA, P. berghei NK65, P. chabaudi AS and P. yoelii 17XNL) and human (P. falciparum) blood-stage parasites as well as irradiated PbA sporozoites. PbT-II cells can provide help for generation of antibody to P. chabaudi infection and can control this otherwise lethal infection in CD40L-deficient mice. PbT-II cells can also provide help for development of CD8+ T cell-mediated experimental cerebral malaria (ECM) during PbA infection. Using PbT-II CD4+ T cells and the previously described PbT-I CD8+ T cells, we determined the dendritic cell (DC) subsets responsible for immunity to PbA blood-stage infection. CD8+ DC (a subset of XCR1+ DC) were the major antigen presenting cell (APC) responsible for activation of both T cell subsets, though other DC also contributed to CD4+ T cell responses. Depletion of CD8+ DC at the beginning of infection prevented ECM development and impaired both Th1 and Tfh responses; in contrast, late depletion did not affect ECM. This study describes a novel and versatile tool for examining CD4+ T cell immunity during malaria and provides evidence that CD4+ T cell help, acting via CD40L signalling, can promote immunity or pathology to blood stage malaria largely through antigen presentation by CD8+ DC.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113837', [], [u'The University of Melbourne;', u'University of Melbourne;', u'Nagasaki University;', u'QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute;', u'Deakin University;', u'Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research & Public Health,;', u'Wakayama Medical University;', u'Macfarlane Burnet Institute for Medical Research & Public Health']]
[u'The exported chaperone PfHsp70x is dispensable for the Plasmodium falciparum intraerythrocytic lifecycle', ['David W Cobb', 'Anat Florentin', 'Michelle Krakowiak', 'Vasant Muralidharan'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Export of parasite proteins into the host erythrocyte is essential for survival of Plasmodium falciparum during its asexual lifecycle. While several studies described key factors within the parasite that are involved in protein export, the mechanisms employed to traffic exported proteins within the host cell are currently unknown. Members of the Hsp70 family of chaperones, together with their Hsp40 co-chaperones, facilitate protein trafficking in other organisms, and are thus likely used by P. falciparum in the trafficking of its exported proteins. A large group of Hsp40 proteins is encoded by the parasite and exported to the host cell, but only one Hsp70, PfHsp70x, is exported with them. PfHsp70x is absent from most Plasmodium species and is found only in P. falciparum and closely-related species that infect Apes. Herein, we have utilized CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing in P. falciparum to investigate the essentiality of PfHsp70x. We show that parasitic growth was unaffected by knockdown of PfHsp70x using both the DHFR-based Destabilization Domain and the glmS ribozyme system. Similarly, a complete gene knockout of PfHsp70x did not affect the ability of P. falciparum to proceed through its intraerythrocytic lifecycle. The effect of PfHsp70x knockout on the export of proteins to the host RBC was tested and we found that this process was unaffected. These data show that although PfHsp70x is the sole exported Hsp70, it is not essential for the asexual development of P. falciparum.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113365.1', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Georgia']]
[u'1/f neural noise is a better predictor of schizophrenia than neural oscillations', ['Erik J Peterson', 'Burke Q Rosen', 'Alana M Campbell', 'Aysenil Belger', 'Bradley Voytek'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Schizophrenia has been associated with separate irregularities in several neural oscillatory frequency bands, including theta, alpha, and gamma. Our multivariate classification suggests that instead of irregularities in many frequency bands, schizophrenia-related EEG differences may better be explained by an overall shift in neural noise, reflected by a change in the 1/f slope of the power spectrum.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113449.1', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'U.C. San Diego;', u'University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill;', u'University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Signatures of natural selection in the drug metabolizing enzyme genes: Opportunity for developing personalized and precision medicine', ['Sheikh Nizamuddin', 'Kumarasamy Thangaraj'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Modern human experienced various selective pressures; including range of xenobiotics which contributed to heterogeneity of drug response. Many genes involve in pharmacokinetics and dynamics of drug, have been reported under natural selection. However, none of the studies have utilized comprehensive information of drug-centered PharmGKB pathways. We have extended this work and aimed to investigate sweep signals, using 1,798 subjects, from 53 Indian and 15 other world populations. We observed that modifiers which alters the biochemical function of other genes, have excess of natural selection (median std-z score=0.033\xb10.95; p-value=1.7x10-9-3.7x10-3). Taxane and statin primarily used for chemotherapy and lowering cholesterol level, respectively; and well known for heterogeneous drug response. We observed that pharmacokinetic pathway of taxane and statins are under natural selection (p-value=2.53x10-9 and 2.73x10-9-1.09x10-4; q-value=1.28x10-7 and 6.91x10-6-1.1x10-3). We also observed signal of selection in Ibuprofen pharmacokinetics (p-value=1.76x10-5; q-value =2.22x10-4), beta-agonist/beta-blocker pharmacodynamic (p-value=4.79x10-4; q-value =4.04x10-4) and Zidovudin pharmacokinetics/dynamic pathway (p-value=7.0x10-4; q-value =5.06x10-4). Hard sweeps signals were observed in a total of 322 loci. Of which, 53 affect mRNA expression (p-value<0.001) and 16 were already reported with therapeutic response. Interestingly, we observed that Africans have experience 2 phases of natural selection, one at ~30,000 another at ~10,000 years before present.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113514', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology;', u'Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology']]
[u'Targeted genomic screen reveals focal long non-coding RNA copy number alterations in cancer', ['Pieter-Jan Volders', 'Jo Vandesompele', 'Steve Lefever', 'Shalina Baute', 'Justine Nuytens', 'Katrien Vanderheyden', 'Bjorn Menten', 'Pieter Mestdagh'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'The landscape of somatic copy-number alterations (SCNAs) affecting long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in human cancer remains largely unexplored. While the majority of lncRNAs remains to be functionally characterized, several have been implicated in cancer development and metastasis. Considering the plethora of lncRNAs genes that is currently reported, it is conceivable that several lncRNAs might function as oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes.\nWe devised a strategy to detect focal lncRNA SCNAs using a custom DNA microarray platform probing 20 418 lncRNA genes. By screening a panel of 80 cancer cell lines, we detected numerous focal aberrations targeting one or multiple lncRNAs without affecting neighboring protein-coding genes. These focal aberrations are highly suggestive for a tumor suppressive or oncogenic role of the targeted lncRNA gene. Although functional validation remains an essential step in the further characterization of the involved candidate cancer lncRNAs, our results provide a direct way of prioritizing candidate lncRNAs involved in cancer pathogenesis.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113316', [u'Genetics'], [u'Ghent University']]
[u'Myeloablation-associated deletion of ORF4 in a human coronavirus 229E infection', ['Alexander Greninger', 'Gregory Pepper', 'Ryan C Shean', 'Anne Cent', 'Isabel Palileo', 'Jane M. Kuypers', 'Joshua T. Schiffer', 'Keith R Jerome'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'We describe metagenomic next-generation sequencing (mNGS) of a human coronavirus 229E from a patient with AML and persistent upper respiratory symptoms, who underwent hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).  mNGS revealed a 548-nucleotide deletion, which comprised the near entirety of the ORF4 gene, and no minor allele variants were detected to suggest a mixed infection.  As part of her pre-HCT conditioning regimen, the patient received myeloablative treatment with cyclophosphamide and 12 Gy total body irradiation.  Iterative sequencing and RT-PCR confirmation of 4 respiratory samples over the 4-week peritransplant period revealed that the pre-conditioning strain contained an intact ORF4 gene, while the deletion strain appeared just after conditioning and persisted over a 2.5-week period.  This sequence represents one of the largest genomic deletions detected in a human RNA virus and is the first description of large-scale viral mutation associated with myeloablation for HCT.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113423', [u'Genomics'], [u'UW']]
[u'An indicator cell assay for blood-based diagnostics', ['Samuel A Danziger', 'Leslie R. Miller', 'Karanbir Singh', 'G Adam Whitney', 'Elaine R Peskind', 'Ge Li', 'Robert J Lipshutz', 'John D Aitchison', 'Jennifer Smith'], u'March 3, 2017.', u"We have established proof of principle for the Indicator Cell Assay Platform (iCAP), a broadly applicable tool for blood-based diagnostics that uses specifically-selected, standardized cells as biosensors, relying on their innate ability to integrate and respond to diverse signals present in patients' blood. To develop an assay, indicator cells are exposed in vitro to serum from case or control subjects and their global differential response patterns are used to train reliable, cost-effective disease classifiers based on a small number of features. In a feasibility study, the iCAP detected pre-symptomatic disease in a murine model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) with 94% accuracy (p-Value=3.81E-6) and correctly identified samples from a murine Huntington's disease model as non-carriers of ALS. In a preliminary human disease assay, the iCAP detected early stage Alzheimer's disease with 72% cross-validated accuracy (p-Value=3.10E-3). For both assays, iCAP features were enriched for disease-related genes, supporting the assay's relevance for disease research.", u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113357', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Institute for Systems Biology;', u'PreCyte Inc;', u'VA Puget Sound;', u'University of Washington;', u'PreCyte']]
[u'Key Issues Review: Evolution on rugged adaptive landscapes', ['Uri Obolski', 'Yoav Ram', 'Lilach Hadany'], u'March 3, 2017.', u"Adaptive landscapes represent a mapping between genotype and fitness. Rugged adaptive landscapes contain two or more adaptive peaks: allele combinations that differ in two or more genes and confer higher fitness than intermediate combinations. How would a population evolve on such rugged landscapes? Evolutionary biologists have struggled with this question since it was first introduced in the 1930's by Sewall Wright. \nDiscoveries in the fields of genetics and biochemistry inspired various mathematical models of adaptive landscapes. The development of landscape models led to numerous theoretical studies analyzing evolution on rugged landscapes under different biological conditions. The large body of theoretical work suggests that adaptive landscapes are major determinants of the progress and outcome of evolutionary processes.\nRecent technological advances in molecular biology and microbiology allow experimenters to measure adaptive values of large sets of allele combinations and construct empirical adaptive landscapes for the first time. Such empirical landscapes have already been generated in bacteria, yeast, viruses, and fungi, and are contributing to new insights about evolution on adaptive landscapes. \nIn this Key Issues Review we will: (i) introduce the concept of adaptive landscapes; (ii) review the major theoretical studies of evolution on rugged landscapes; (iii) review some of the recently obtained empirical adaptive landscapes; (iv) discuss recent mathematical and statistical analyses motivated by empirical adaptive landscapes, as well as provide the reader with source code and instructions to implement simulations of adaptive landscapes; and (v) discuss possible future directions for this exciting field.", u'/content/early/2017/03/03/112177', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Stanford\tUniversity;', u'Tel Aviv University']]
[u'The Genetic History of Northern Europe', ['Alissa Mittnik', 'Chuan-Chao Wang', 'Saskia Pfrengle', 'Mantas Daubaras', 'Gunita Zarina', 'Fredrik Hallgren', 'Raili Allmae', 'Valery Khartanovich', 'Vyacheslav Moiseyev', 'Anja Furtwangler', 'Aida Andrades Valtuena', 'Michal Feldman', 'Christos Economou', 'Markku Oinonen', 'Andrejs Vasks', 'Mari Torv', 'Oleg Balanovsky', 'David Reich', 'Rimantas Jankauskas', 'Wolfgang Haak', 'Stephan Schiffels', 'Johannes Krause'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Recent ancient DNA studies have revealed that the genetic history of modern Europeans was shaped by a series of migration and admixture events between deeply diverged groups. While these events are well described in Central and Southern Europe, genetic evidence from Northern Europe surrounding the Baltic Sea is still sparse. Here we report genome-wide DNA data from 24 ancient North Europeans ranging from ~7,500 to 200 calBCE spanning the transition from a hunter-gatherer to an agricultural lifestyle, as well as the adoption of bronze metallurgy. We show that Scandinavia was settled after the retreat of the glacial ice sheets from a southern and a northern route, and that the first Scandinavian Neolithic farmers derive their ancestry from Anatolia 1000 years earlier than previously demonstrated. The range of Western European Mesolithic hunter-gatherers extended to the east of the Baltic Sea, where these populations persisted without gene-flow from Central European farmers until around 2,900 calBCE when the arrival of steppe pastoralists introduced a major shift in economy and established wide-reaching networks of contact within the Corded Ware Complex.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113241', [u'Genetics'], [u'Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena, Germany;', u'Institute for Archaeological Sciences, Archaeo- and Palaeogenetics, University of T\xfcbingen;', u'Department of Archaeology, Lithuanian Institute of History, Vilnius;', u'Institute of Latvian History, University of Latvia, Riga, Latvia;', u'The Cultural Heritage Foundation, V\xe4ster\xe5s, Sweden;', u'Archaeological Research Collection, Tallinn University, Tallinn, Estonia;', u'Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography (Kunstkamera) RAS, St. Petersburg, Russia;', u'Archaeological Research Laboratory, Stockholm University, Stockholm, Sweden;', u'Finnish Museum of Natural History - LUOMUS, University of Helsinki, Finland;', u'Independent researcher;', u'Research Centre for Medical Genetics, Moscow, Russia;', u'Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA;', u'Department of Anatomy, Histology and Anthropology, Vilnius University, Vilnius, Lithuania']]
[u'Despite reproductive interference, the net outcome of reproductive interactions among spider mite species is not necessarily costly', ['Salome H Clemente', 'Ines Santos', 'Ana R Ponce', 'Leonor R Rodrigues', 'Susana A.M. Varela', 'Sara Magalhaes'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Reproductive interference is considered a strong ecological force, potentially leading to species exclusion. This supposes that the net effect of reproductive interactions is strongly negative for one of the species involved. Testing this requires a comprehensive analysis of interspecific reproductive interactions, accounting for the order and timing of mating events, and for their effects on either fertility or fecundity. To this aim, we measured reproductive interactions between a focal species, Tetranychus urticae, and an invasive (T.evansi) and a resident (T. ludeni) species, varying the mating sequence and interval, and measuring the effect of such crosses on fecundity and offspring sex ratio (a measure of fertility, as these species are haplodiploid). We found that mating with heterospecifics affected fecundity and sex ratio negatively, but also positively, depending on the species involved, and on the order and timing of mating events. To assess the net effect of these interactions on T. urticae, we performed a meta-analysis on the data obtained. This revealed that the net effect of the interaction T. urticae / T. evansi was neutral, whereas that between T. urticae and T. ludeni was slightly positive for T. urticae. Therefore, the net effect of such interactions may be weak despite strong effects of particular events. In natural situations the outcome of reproductive interactions will thus hinge upon the frequency of each event.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113274', [u'Ecology'], [u'ce3c;', u'cE3c']]
[u'Individual differences in frequency and topography of slow and fast sleep spindles', ['Roy Cox', 'Anna C Schapiro', 'Dara S Manoach', 'Robert Stickgold'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Sleep spindles are transient oscillatory waveforms occurring during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and are implicated in plasticity and memory processes. In humans, spindles can be classified as either slow or fast, but large individual differences in spindle frequency as well as methodological difficulties have hindered progress towards understanding their function. Using two nights of high-density electroencephalography recordings from healthy individuals, we first characterize the individual variability of NREM spectra and demonstrate the difficulty of determining subject-specific spindle frequencies. We then introduce a novel spatial filtering approach that can reliably separate subject-specific spindle activity into slow and fast components that are stable across nights and across N2 and N3 sleep. We then proceed to provide detailed analyses of the topographical expression of individualized slow and fast spindle activity. Group-level analyses conform to known spatial properties of spindles, but also uncover novel differences between sleep stages and spindle classes. Moreover, subject-specific examinations reveal that individual topographies show considerable variability that is stable across nights. Finally, we demonstrate that topographical maps depend nontrivially on the spindle metric employed. In sum, our findings indicate that group-level approaches mask substantial individual variability of spindle dynamics, in both the spectral and spatial domains. We suggest that leveraging, rather than ignoring, such differences may prove useful to further our understanding of the physiology and functional role of sleep spindles.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113373', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center / Harvard Medical School;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital / Athinoula A. Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging']]
[u'SV2: Accurate Structural Variation  Genotyping and De Novo Mutation Detection', ['Danny Antaki', 'William M Brandler', 'Jonathan Sebat'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Structural Variation (SV) detection from short-read Illumina whole genome sequencing is error prone, presenting significant challenges for analysis in particularly, de novo mutations. Here we describe SV2, a machine-learning algorithm for genotyping deletions and tandem duplications from paired-end whole genome sequencing data. SV2 can rapidly integrate variant calls from multiple structural variant discovery algorithms into a unified callset with low rates of false discoveries and Mendelian errors, accurate de novo detection with no transmission bias in families.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113498', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'UCSD']]
[u'Finding analytic stationary solutions to the chemical master equation by gluing state spaces at one or two states recursively', ['X. Flora Meng', 'Ania-Ariadna Baetica', 'Vipul Singhal', 'Richard M. Murray'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Noise is often indispensable to key cellular activities, such as gene expression, necessitating the use of stochastic models to capture its dynamics. The chemical master equation (CME) is a commonly used stochastic model that describes how the probability distribution of a chemically reacting system varies with time. Knowing analytic solutions to the CME can have benefits, such as expediting simulations of multiscale biochemical reaction networks and aiding the design of distributional responses. However, analytic solutions are rarely known. A recent method of computing analytic stationary solutions relies on gluing simple state spaces together recursively at one or two states. We explore the capabilities of this method and introduce algorithms to derive analytic stationary solutions to the CME. We first formally characterise state spaces that can be constructed by performing single-state gluing of paths, cycles or both sequentially. We then study stochastic biochemical reaction networks that consist of reversible, elementary reactions with two-dimensional state spaces. We also discuss extending the method to infinite state spaces and designing stationary distributions that satisfy user-specified constraints. Finally, we illustrate the aforementioned ideas using examples that include two interconnected transcriptional components and chemical reactions with two-dimensional state spaces.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113340', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'Activity of Sulfa Drugs and Their Combinations against Stationary Phase B. burgdorferi in vitro', ['Jie Feng', 'Shuo ZHANG', 'Wanliang Shi', 'YING ZHANG'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Lyme disease is a most common vector borne disease in the US. Although the majority of Lyme patients can be cured with the standard 2-4 week antibiotic treatment, at least 10-20% of patients continue to suffer from prolonged post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome (PTLDS). While the cause for this is unclear, one possibility is that persisting organisms are not killed by current Lyme antibiotics. In our previous studies, we screened an FDA drug library and an NCI compound library on B. burgdorferi and found some drug hits including sulfa drugs as having good activity against B. burgdorferi stationary phase cells. In this study, we evaluated the relative activity of three commonly used sulfa drugs sulfamethoxazole (Smx), dapsone (Dps), sulfachlorpyridazine (Scp), and also trimethoprim (Tmp), and assessed their combinations with the commonly prescribed Lyme antibiotics for activities against B. burgdorferi stationary phase cells. Using the same molarity concentration, dapsone, sulfachlorpyridazine and trimethoprim showed very similar activity against stationary phase B. burgdorferi enriched in persisters, however, sulfamethoxazole was the least active drug among the three sulfa drugs tested. Interestingly, contrary to other bacterial systems, Tmp did not show synergy in drug combinations with the three sulfa drugs at their clinically relevant serum concentrations against B. burgdorferi. We found that sulfa drugs combined with other antibiotics were more active than their respective single drugs and that four-drug combinations were more active than three-drug combinations. Four drug combinations dapsone+minocycline+cefuroxime+azithromycin and dapsone+minocycline+cefuroxime+rifampin showed best activity against stationary phase B. burgdorferi in these sulfa drug combinations. However, these 4-sulfa drug containing combinations still had considerably less activity against B. burgdorferi stationary phase cells than the daptomycin+cefuroxime+doxycycline used as a positive control which completely eradicated B. burgdorferi stationary phase cells. Future studies are needed to evaluate and optimize the sulfa drug combinations in vitro and also in animal models.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/112607', [u'Microbiology'], [u'JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Quantitative monitoring of multispecies fish environmental DNA using high-throughput sequencing', ['Masayuki Ushio', 'Hiroaki Murakami', 'Reiji Masuda', 'Tetsuya Sado', 'Masaki Miya', 'Sho Sakurai', 'Hiroki Yamanaka', 'Toshifumi Minamoto', 'Michio Kondoh'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'In the present study, we added internal standard DNAs (i.e., quantified short DNA fragments from fish species that have never been observed in a sampling area) to environmental DNA (eDNA) samples, which were collected weekly from a coastal marine ecosystem in Maizuru-Bay, Japan (from April 2015 to March 2016), and performed metabarcoding analysis to identify fish species and quantify fish eDNA copy number simultaneously. A standard curve was drawn for each sample using the number of reads and the added amount of the standard DNA, which was used to convert the reads of eDNA to the copy numbers. The converted copy numbers showed significant positive correlation with those determined by quantitative PCR, suggesting that eDNA metabarcoding with standard DNA enabled the quantification of eDNA as accurately as quantitative PCR. Furthermore, for samples that show a high level of PCR inhibition, eDNA metabarcoding with internal standard DNAs might allow more accurate quantification than qPCR because the standard curves drawn for internal standard DNAs would include the effect of PCR inhibition. A single run of Illumina MiSeq produced 70 quantitative fish eDNA time series in our study, showing that our method would contribute to more efficient and quantitative monitoring of biodiversity.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113472', [u'Ecology'], [u'Kyoto University;', u'Natural History Museum and Institute;', u'Ryukoku University;', u'Kobe University']]
[u'Non-linear disease tolerance curves reveal distinct components of host responses to viral infection', ['Vanika Gupta', 'Pedro F Vale'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'The ability to tolerate infection is a key component of host defence and offers potential novel therapeutic approaches for infectious diseases. To yield successful targets for therapeutic intervention, it is important that the analytical tools employed to measure disease tolerance are able to capture distinct host responses to infection. Here, we show that commonly used methods that estimate tolerance as a linear relationship may be inadequate and that more flexible, non-linear estimates of this relationship may reveal variation in distinct components of host defence. To illustrate this, we measured the survival of Drosophila melanogaster carrying either a functional or non-functional regulator of the JAK-STAT immune pathway (G9a) when challenged with a range of concentrations of Drosophila C Virus (DCV). While classical linear model analyses indicated that G9a affected tolerance only in females, a more powerful non-linear logistic model showed that G9a mediates viral tolerance to different extents in both sexes. This analysis also revealed that G9a acts by changing the sensitivity to increasing pathogen burdens, but does not reduce the ultimate severity of disease. These results indicate that fitting non-linear models to host health-pathogen burden relationships may offer better and more detailed estimates of disease tolerance.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113217', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'A climosequence of chronosequences in southwestern Australia', ['Benjamin L Turner', 'Etienne Laliberte', 'Patrick E Hayes'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'To examine how climate affects soil development and nutrient availability over long timescales, we studied a series of four long-term chronosequences along a climate gradient in southwestern Australia. Annual rainfall ranged from 533 mm to 1185 mm (water balance from \u2212900 mm to +52 mm) and each chronosequence included Holocene (\u2264 6.5 ka), Middle Pleistocene (120 to 500 ka), and Early Pleistocene (~2000 ka) dunes. Vegetation changed markedly along the climosequence, from shrubland at the driest site to Eucalyptus forest at the wettest. The carbonate and P content of the parent sand declined along the climosequence, presumably linked to variation in offshore productivity. However, soil development and associated nutrient status followed remarkably consistent patterns along the four chronosequences. Pedogenesis involved decalcification and secondary carbonate precipitation in Holocene soils and leaching of iron oxides from Middle Pleistocene soils, ultimately yielding bleached quartz sands on the oldest soils. Along all chronosequences soil pH and total P declined, while C:P and N:P ratios increased, consistent with the predicted shift from N to P limitation of vegetation during ecosystem development. The expected unimodal pattern of leaf area index was most pronounced along wetter chronosequences, suggesting an influence of climate on the expression of retrogression. The four chronosequences do not appear to span a pedogenic climate threshold, because exchangeable phosphate and base cations declined consistently during long-term pedogenesis. However, the proportion of the total P in organic form was greater along wetter chronosequences. We conclude that soils and nutrient availability on the coastal sand plains of southwestern Australia change consistently during long-term pedogenesis, despite marked variation in modern vegetation and climate. The four chronosequences provide a rare soil-age \xd7 climate framework within which to study long-term ecosystem development.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113308', [u'Ecology'], [u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute;', u'Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al;', u'University of Western Australia']]
[u'Negative frequency-dependent selection is frequently confounding', ['Dustin Brisson'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'The existence of persistent genetic variation within natural populations presents an evolutionary problem as natural selection and genetic drift tend to erode genetic diversity. Models of balancing selection were developed to account for the high and sometimes extreme levels of polymorphism found in many natural populations. Negative frequency-dependent selection may be the most powerful selective force maintaining balanced natural polymorphisms but it is also commonly misinterpreted. The aim of this review is to clarify the processes underlying the negative frequency-dependent selection model, describe classes of natural polymorphisms that can and cannot result from these processes, and discuss observational and experimental data that can aid in accurately identifying the processes that generated or are maintain diversity in nature. Finally, I consider the importance of accurately describing the processes affecting genetic diversity within populations as it relates to research progress.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113324', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
