[u'Large-scale interpretation of chemical-genetic interaction profiles using a genetic interaction network', ['Scott W Simpkins', 'Justin Nelson', 'Raamesh Deshpande', 'Sheena C Li', 'Jeff S Piotrowski', 'Erin H Wilson', 'Abraham A Gebre', 'Reika Okamoto', 'Yoshikazu Ohya', 'Hiroyuki Osada', 'Minoru Yoshida', 'Charles Boone', 'Chad L Myers'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Genetic interactions provide a key for interpreting the functional information contained in chemical-genetic interaction profiles. However, they have remained underutilized in this capacity across recent chemical-genetic interaction screening efforts and their ability to interpret chemical-genetic interaction profiles on a large scale has not been tested. We developed a method, which we refer to as CG-TARGET (Chemical Genetic Translation via A Reference Genetic nETwork), that integrates the data from large-scale chemical-genetic interaction screens with genetic interaction data to predict the biological processes perturbed by compounds. CG-TARGET compared favorably to a standard enrichment approach across a variety of benchmarks, achieving similar performance on measures of accuracy and substantial improvement in the ability to control the false discovery rate of its predictions. We found that one-third to one-half of gene mutants in the data contribute to the highest-confidence biological process predictions and that these contributions overwhelmingly come from negative chemical-genetic interactions. This method was used to prioritize over 1500 out of over 13,000 compounds for further study in a recently-completed chemical-genetic interaction screen in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, enabling the rapid functional annotation of unknown compounds to biological processes through targeted biological validations. We present here a detailed characterization of the method and further biological validations to demonstrate the utility of genetic interactions in the interpretation of chemical-genetic interaction profiles and the effectiveness of our implementation of this concept.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/111252', [], [u'University of Minnesota - Twin Cities;', u'RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource Science;', u'Yumanity Therapeutics;', u'University of Tokyo;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Detecting Long-term Balancing Selection using Allele Frequency Correlation', ['Katherine M Siewert', 'Benjamin Franklin Voight'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Balancing selection preserves multiple alleles at a locus over long evolutionary time periods. A characteristic signature of balancing selection is an excess number of intermediate frequency polymorphisms nearby the balanced site. However, the expected distribution of allele frequencies at these loci has not been extensively detailed. We use simulations to show that new mutations that arise very close to a site targeted by long term balancing selection accumulate at frequencies nearly identical to that of the frequency of the balanced allele to which they are linked. To capture this unique signature, we propose a new summary statistic, \u03b2. Compared to existing summary statistics, simulation studies show that our statistic has improved power to detect balancing selection, and is reasonably powered in non-equilibrium demographic models or when recombination or mutation rate varies. We compute \u03b2 on 1000 Genomes Project data, to identify loci potentially subjected to long-term balancing selection in humans. We report two balanced haplotypes - localized to the genes WFS1 and CADM2 - that are strongly linked to association signals for complex traits. Our approach is computationally efficient and applicable to species that lack appropriate outgroup sequences, allowing for well-powered analysis of selection in the wide variety of species for which population data is rapidly being generated.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112870', [], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'HiCPlus: Resolution Enhancement of Hi-C interaction heatmap', ['Yan Zhang', 'Lin An', 'Ming Hu', 'Jijun Tang', 'Feng Yue'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Motivation: The Hi-C technology has become an efficient tool to measure the spatial organization of the genome. With the recent advance of 1Kb resolution Hi-C experiment, some of the essential regulatory features have been uncovered. However, most available Hi-C datasets are in coarse-resolution due to the extremely high cost for generating high-resolution data. Therefore, a computational method to maximum the usage of the current available Hi-C data is urgently desired.  Results: Inspired by the super-resolution image technique, we develop a computational approach to impute the high-resolution Hi-C data from low-resolution Hi-C data using the deep convolutional neural network. We hypothesize that the Hi-C interaction heatmap contains the repeating features, and develop an end-to-end framework to map these features from low-resolution Hi-C heatmap to high-resolution Hi-C heatmap at the feature level.  Our approach successfully reconstructs the high-resolution Hi-C interaction map from the low-resolution counterpart, which also proves that the Hi-C interaction matrix is a combination of the regional features. Besides, our approach is highly expandable, and we can also increase prediction accuracy by incorporating ChIA-PET data. Availability: Source code is publicly available at https://github.com/zhangyan32/HiCPlus', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112631', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA;', u'Bioinformatics and Genomics Program, Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, Penn State University;', u'Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation;', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Penn State School of Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033']]
[u'Improving prediction of compound function from chemical structure using chemical-genetic networks', ['Hamid Safizadeh', 'Scott William Simpkins', 'Justin Nelson', 'Chad L Myers'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'The drug discovery process can be significantly improved through understanding how the structure of chemical compounds relates to their function. A common paradigm that has been used to filter and prioritize compounds is ligand-based virtual screening, where large libraries of compounds are queried for high structural similarity to a target molecule, with the assumption that structural similarity is predictive of similar biological activity. Although the chemical informatics community has already proposed a wide range of structure descriptors and similarity coefficients, a major challenge has been the lack of systematic and unbiased benchmarks for biological activity that covers a broad range of targets to definitively assess the performance of the alternative approaches.  We leveraged a large set of chemical-genetic interaction data from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae that our labs have recently generated, covering more than 13,000 compounds from the RIKEN NPDepo and several NCI, NIH, and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) compound collections. Supportive of the idea that chemical-genetic interaction data provide an unbiased proxy for biological functions, we found that many commonly used structural similarity measures were able to predict the compounds that exhibited similar chemical-genetic interaction profiles, although these measures did exhibit significant differences in performance. Using the chemical-genetic interaction profiles as a basis for our evaluation, we performed a systematic benchmarking of 10 different structure descriptors, each combined with 12 different similarity coefficients. We found that the All-Shortest Path (ASP) structure descriptor paired with the Braun-Blanquet similarity coefficient provided superior performance that was robust across several different compound collections.  We further describe a machine learning approach that improves the ability of the ASP metric to capture biological activity. We used the ASP fingerprints as input for several supervised machine learning models and the chemical-genetic interaction profiles as the standard for learning. We found that the predictive power of the ASP fingerprints (as well as several other descriptors) could be substantially improved by using support vector machines. For example, on held-out data, we measured a 5-fold improvement in the recall of biologically similar compounds at a precision of 50% based upon the ASP fingerprints. Our results generally suggest that using high-dimensional chemical-genetic data as a basis for refining chemical structure descriptors can be a powerful approach to improving prediction of biological function from structure. \nKeywords: chemical-genetic network, chemical structure, molecular descriptor, structural similarity, virtual screening, and machine learning', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112698', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Evolution of ribosomal internal transcribed spacers in Deuterostomia', ['Alexandr Dyomin', 'Valeria Volodkina', 'Elena Koshel', 'Svetlana Galkina', 'Alsu Saifitdinova', 'Elena Gaginskaya'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Sequences of ribosomal internal transcribed spacers (ITSs) are of great importance to molecular phylogenetics and DNA barcoding, but remain unstudied in some large taxa of Deuterostomia. We have analyzed complete ITS1 and ITS2 sequences in 62 species from 16 Deuterostomia classes, with ITSs sequences in 24 species from 11 classes initially obtained using unannotated contigs and raw read sequences. A general tendency for both ITS length and GC-content increase from interior to superior Deuterostomia taxa, a uniform GC-content in both ITSs within the same species, thymine content decrease in sense DNA sequences of both ITSs are shown. A possible role of GC-based gene conversion in Deuterostomia ITSs evolutionary changes is hypothesized. The first example of non-LTR retrotransposon insertion into ITS sequence in Deuterostomia is described in turtle Geochelone nigra. The roles of mobile genetic element insertions in the evolution of ITS sequences in some Sauropsida taxa are discussed as well.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112797', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'Saint-Petersburg State University']]
[u'Population dynamics of immune repertoires', ['Jonathan Desponds', 'Andreas Mayer', 'Thierry Mora', 'Aleksandra M Walczak'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'The evolution of the adaptive immune system is characterized by changes in the relative abundances of the B- and T-cell clones that make up its repertoires. To fully capture this evolution, we need to describe the complex dynamics of the response to pathogenic and self-antigenic stimulations, as well as the statistics of novel lymphocyte receptors introduced throughout life. Recent experiments, ranging from high-throughput immune repertoire sequencing to quantification of the response to specific antigens, can help us characterize the effective dynamics of the immune response. Here we describe mathematical models informed by experiments that lead to a picture of clonal competition in a highly stochastic context. We discuss how different types of competition, noise and selection shape the observed clone-size distributions, and contrast them with predictions of a neutral theory of clonal evolution. These mathematical models show that memory and effector immune repertoire evolution is far from neutral, and is driven by the history of the pathogenic environment, while naive repertoire dynamics are consistent with neutral theory and competition in a fixed antigenic environment. Lastly, we investigate the effect of long-term clonal selection on repertoire aging.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112755', [u'Immunology'], [u'UCSD;', u'ENS']]
[u'Altering lipid droplet homeostasis affects Coxiella burnetii intracellular growth', ['Minal Mulye', 'Brianne Zapata', 'Stacey Gilk'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Coxiella burnetii is an obligate intracellular bacterial pathogen and a causative agent of culture-negative endocarditis. While C. burnetii initially infects alveolar macrophages, it has also been found in lipid droplet (LD)-containing foamy macrophages in the cardiac valves of endocarditis patients. In addition, transcriptional studies of C. burnetii-infected macrophages reported differential regulation of the LD coat protein-encoding gene perilipin 2 (plin-2). To further investigate the relationship between LDs and C. burnetii, we compared LD numbers in mock-infected and C. burnetii-infected alveolar macrophages using fluorescence microscopy. Compared to only 10% of mock-infected cells, 50% of C. burnetii-infected cells had more than 50 LDs/cell as early as 24 hours post-infection, indicating a significant increase in LDs in infected cells. Increased LDs required the C. burnetiiType 4B Secretion System (T4BSS), a major virulence factor that manipulates host cellular processes by secreting bacterial effector proteins into the host cell cytoplasm. To determine the importance of LDs during C. burnetii infection, we assessed the effect of manipulating LD homeostasis on C. burnetiiintracellular growth. Surprisingly, blocking LD formation with the pharmacological inhibitors triascin C or T863, or knocking out acyl-CoA transferase-1 (acat-1) in alveolar macrophages, increased C. burnetii growth at least 2-fold. Conversely, preventing LD lipolysis by inhibiting adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL) with atglistatin almost completely blocked bacterial growth, suggesting LD breakdown is essential for C. burnetii. Together these data suggest that LDs are detrimental to C. burnetiiand maintenance of LD homeostasis, possibly via the T4BSS, is critical for bacterial growth.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112300', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Indiana University School of Medicine']]
[u'Discovery and reporting of clinically-relevant germline variants in advanced cancer patients assessed using whole-exome sequencing', ['Tuo Zhang', 'Alessandro Romanel', 'Kenneth W Eng', 'Hanna Rennert', 'Adrian Y Tan', 'Yaohua Xue', 'Joanna Cyrta', 'Juan Miguel Mosquera', 'Andrea Sboner', 'Ivan Iossifov', 'Steven M Lipkin', 'Jenny Xiang', 'Xiaojun Feng', 'Peter Nelson', 'Himisha Beltran', 'Colin C Pritchard', 'Mark A Rubin', 'Francesca Demichelis', 'Olivier Elemento'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Purpose: In precision cancer care, WES-based analysis of tumor-normal samples helps reveal somatic alterations but can also identify cancer-associated germline variants important for disease surveillance, treatment choice and cancer prevention. WES can also identify germline secondary findings impacting risk of cardiac, neurodegenerative or metabolic diseases. In patients with advanced cancer, the frequency of reportable secondary findings encountered with WES is not well defined. \nMethods: To address this question, we analyzed a cohort of 343 patients with advanced, metastatic cancer for whom we have performed tumor and germline WES interrogating more than 21,000 genes using a CLIA/CLEP approved assay. \nResults: 17% of patients in our cohort have one or more reportable germline variants, including patients with pathogenic variants in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. The frequency of non-cancer clinically relevant germline variants (8.8%) was within the range of two control non-cancer cohorts (11.0% and 6.5%). The frequency of variants in cancer-associated genes was significantly higher (p<0.0005) in our advanced cancer cohort (8.2%) compared to control cohorts (2.7% and 3.8%). More than 50% of patients with reportable germline cancer variants had a family history of cancer.\nConclusion: these results stress the importance of returning germline results found during somatic genomic tumor testing.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112672', [u'Genomics'], [u'Weill Cornell Medicine;', u'University of Trento;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Time-delayed biodiversity feedbacks and the sustainability of social-ecological systems.', ['Anne-Sophie Lafuite', 'Michel Loreau'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'The sustainability of coupled social-ecological systems (SESs) hinges on their long-term ecological dynamics. Land conversion generates extinction and functioning debts, i.e. a time-delayed loss of species and associated ecosystem services. Sustainability theory, however, has not so far considered the long-term consequences of these ecological debts on SESs. We investigate this question using a dynamical model that couples human demography, technological change and biodiversity. Human population growth drives land conversion, which in turn reduces biodiversity-dependent ecosystem services to agricultural production (ecological feedback). Technological change brings about a demographic transition leading to a population equilibrium. \nWhen the ecological feedback is delayed in time, some SESs experience population overshoots followed by large reductions in biodiversity, human population size and well-being, which we call environmental crises. Using a sustainability criterion that captures the vulnerability of an SES to such crises, we show that some of the characteristics common to modern SESs (e.g. high production efficiency and labor intensity, concave-down ecological relationships) are detrimental to their long-term sustainability. Maintaining sustainability thus requires strong counteracting forces, such as the demographic transition and land-use management. To this end, we provide integrative sustainability thresholds for land conversion, biodiversity loss and human population size - each threshold being related to the others through the economic, technological, demographic and ecological parameters of the SES. Numerical simulations show that remaining within these sustainable boundaries prevents environmental crises from occurring. By capturing the long-term ecological and socio-economic drivers of SESs, our theoretical approach proposes a new way to define integrative conservation objectives that ensure the long-term sustainability of our planet.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112730', [u'Ecology'], [u'Ctr for Biodiversity Theory & Modelling, Theoretical & Exp Ecol Stn, CNRS & Paul Sabatier University']]
[u'MOSAIC: a chemical-genetic interaction data repository and web resource for exploring chemical modes of action', ['Justin Nelson', 'Scott William Simpkins', 'Chad L Myers'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Summary: Chemical genomic approaches that map interactions between compounds and genetic perturbations offer a promising new strategy for annotation of uncharacterized bioactive compounds. We recently developed a new high-throughput platform for mapping chemical-genetic interactions in yeast that can be scaled to screen large compound collections, which has been applied to generate chemical genetic (CG) profiles for more than 13,000 compounds. When integrated with existing yeast genetic interaction network data, these CG interaction profiles can enable the prediction of modes of action for previously uncharacterized compounds as well as the discovery of new effects for approved drugs. To facilitate future analysis of these valuable data, we developed a public database and web interface named MOSAIC. The website provides a convenient interface for querying compounds, genes, or biological processes (GO terms) for direct chemical genetic interactions or target predictions. MOSAIC also provides direct access to chemical structural information of screened molecules and the ability to search for compounds sharing structural similarity. This resource will be of interest both to chemical biologists interested in discovering new probes with specific modes of action as well as computational biologists interested in analyzing chemical genetic interaction networks. Availability:  MOSAIC is available at http://mosaic.cs.umn.edu. Contact: chadm@umn.edu', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112854', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Minnesota - Twin Cities;', u'University of Minnesota']]
[u'Comparative genomics of the tardigrades Hypsibius dujardini and Ramazzottius varieornatus', ['Yuki Yoshida', 'Georgios Koutsovoulos', 'Dominik R Laetsch', 'Lewis Stevens', 'Sujai Kumar', 'Daiki D Horikawa', 'Kyoko Ishino', 'Shiori Komine', 'Takekazu Kunieda', 'Masaru Tomita', 'Mark Blaxter', 'Kazuharu Arakawa'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Tardigrada, a phylum of meiofaunal organisms, have been at the center of discussions of the evolution of Metazoa, the biology of survival in extreme environments, and the role of horizontal gene transfer in animal evolution. Tardigrada are placed as sisters to Arthropoda and Onychophora (velvet worms) in the superphylum Panarthropoda by morphological analyses, but many molecular phylogenies fail to recover this relationship. This tension between molecular and morphological understanding may be very revealing of the mode and patterns of evolution of major groups. Limno-terrestrial tardigrades display extreme cryptobiotic abilities, including anhydrobiosis and cryobiosis, as do bdelloid rotifers, nematodes and other animals of the water film. These extremophile behaviors challenge understanding of normal, aqueous physiology: how does a multicellular organism avoid lethal cellular collapse in the absence of liquid water? Meiofaunal species have been reported to have elevated levels of HGT events, but how important this is in evolution, and particularly in the evolution of extremophile physiology, is unclear. To address these questions, we resequenced and reassembled the genome of Hypsibius dujardini, a limno-terrestrial tardigrade that can undergo anhydrobiosis only after extensive pre-exposure to drying conditions, and compared it to the genome of Ramazzottius varieornatus, a related species with tolerance to rapid desiccation. The two species had contrasting gene expression responses to anhydrobiosis, with major transcriptional change in H. dujardini but limited regulation in R. varieornatus. We identified few horizontally transferred genes, but some of these were shown to be involved in entry into anhydrobiosis. Whole-genome molecular phylogenies supported a Tardigrada+Nematoda relationship over Tardigrada+Arthropoda, but rare genomic changes tended to support Tardigrada+Arthropoda.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112664', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institute for Advanced Biosciences, Keio University;', u'Institute of Evolutionary Biology, School of Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh;', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, University of Tokyo']]
[u'Systematic identification of pleiotropic genes from genetic interactions', ['Elizabeth N Koch', 'Michael Costanzo', 'Raamesh Deshpande', 'Brenda Andrews', 'Charles Boone', 'Chad L. Myers'], u'March 1, 2017.', u"Modular structures in biological networks are ubiquitous and well-described, yet this organization does not capture the complexity of genes individually influencing many modules.  Pleiotropy, the phenomenon of a single genetic locus with multiple phenotypic effects, has previously been measured according to many definitions, which typically count phenotypes associated with genes.  We take the perspective that, because genes work in complex and interconnected modules, pleiotropy can be treated as a network-derived characteristic.  Here, we use the complete network of yeast genetic interactions (GI) to measure pleiotropy of nearly 2700 essential and nonessential genes.  Our method uses frequent item set mining to discover GI modules, annotates them with high-level processes, and uses entropy to measure the functional spread of each gene's set of containing modules.  We classify genes whose modules indicate broad functional influence as having high pleiotropy, while genes with focused functional influence have low pleiotropy.  These pleiotropy classes differed in a number of ways: high-pleiotropy genes have comparatively higher expression variance, higher protein abundance, more domains, and higher copy number, while low pleiotropy genes are more likely to be in protein complexes and have many curated phenotypes.  We discuss the implications of these results regarding the nature and evolution of pleiotropy.", u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112326', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Minnesota;', u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Mice lacking NF-\u03baB1 exhibit marked DNA damage responses and more severe gastric pathology in response to parenteral tamoxifen administration.', ['Michael Burkitt', 'Jonathan M Williams', 'Tristan Townsend', 'Rachael Hough', 'Carrie A Duckworth', 'D Mark Pritchard'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Background: The estrogen receptor antagonist tamoxifen has recently been shown to cause acute gastric atrophy and metaplasia in mice. We have previously demonstrated that the outcome of Helicobacter felis infection, which induces similar gastric lesions in mice, is altered by deletion of specific NF-\u03baB subunits. Nfkb1-/- mice developed more severe gastric atrophy than wild-type (WT) mice 6 weeks after H. felis infection. In contrast, Nfkb2-/- mice were protected from this pathology. We therefore hypothesized that gastric lesions induced by tamoxifen may be similarly regulated by signaling via NF-\u03baB subunits.  Methods: Groups of 5 female C57BL/6 (WT), Nfkb1-/-, Nfkb2-/- and c-Rel-/- mice were administered 150mg/kg tamoxifen by IP injection. 72 hours later, gastric corpus tissues were taken for quantitative histological assessment. In addition, groups of 6 female WT and Nfkb1-/- mice were exposed to 12Gy \u03b3-irradiation. Gastric epithelial apoptosis was quantified 6 and 48 hours after irradiation.  Results: tamoxifen induced gastric epithelial lesions in all strains of mice, but this was more severe in Nfkb1-/- mice than WT mice. Nfkb1-/- mice exhibited more severe parietal cell loss than WT mice, had increased gastric epithelial expression of Ki67 and had an exaggerated gastric epithelial DNA damage response as quantified by \u03b3H2AX. To determine investigate whether the difference in gastric epithelial DNA damage response of Nfkb1-/- mice was unique to tamoxifen induced DNA damage, or a generic consequence of DNA damage, we also assessed gastric epithelial apoptosis following \u03b3-irradiation. 6 hours after \u03b3-irradiation, gastric epithelial apoptosis was increased in the gastric corpus and antrum of Nfkb1-/- mice.  Conclusions: NF-\u03baB1 mediated signaling regulates the development of gastric mucosal pathology following tamoxifen administration. This is associated with an exaggerated gastric epithelial DNA damage response. This aberrant response appears to reflect a more generic sensitization of the gastric mucosa of Nfkb1-/- mice to DNA damage.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112656', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Liverpool;', u'Royal Veterinary College']]
[u'Quantifying the entropic cost of cellular growth control', ['Daniele De Martino', 'Fabrizio Capuani', 'Andrea De Martino'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'We quantify the amount of regulation required to control growth in living cells by a Maximum Entropy approach to the space of  underlying metabolic states described by genome-scale models. Results obtained for E. coli and human cells are consistent with experiments and point to different regulatory strategies by which growth can be fostered or repressed. Moreover we explicitly connect the \u2018inverse temperature\u2019 that controls MaxEnt distributions to the growth dynamics, showing that the initial  size of a colony may be crucial in determining how an exponentially growing population organizes the phenotypic space.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112748', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'IST Austria;', u'INFN, Sez. di Roma 1;', u'CNR-NANOTEC & Human Genetics Foundation']]
[u'Learning Complex Representations from Spatial Phase Statistics of Natural Scenes', ['HaDi MaBouDi', 'Hideaki Shimazaki', 'Hamid Soltanian-Zadeh', 'Shun-ichi Amari'], u'March 1, 2017.', u'Natural scenes contain higher-order statistical structures that can be encoded in their spatial phase information. Nevertheless, little progress has been made in modeling phase information of images in order to understand efficient representation of image phases in the brain. Based on recent findings of spatial phase structure in natural scenes, we introduce a generative model of the phase information in the visual systems according to the efficient coding hypothesis. In this model, we assume independent priors for the amplitude and phase of the coefficients, and model the phase using a non-uniform distribution, which extends existing models of independent component analysis for complex-valued signals. The parameters of the proposed model are then estimated under the maximum-likelihood principle. Using simulated data, we show that the proposed model outperforms conventional models with a uniform phase prior in blind source separation of complex-valued signals. We then apply the proposed model to natural scenes in the Fourier domain. The learning yields nonlinear features specified by a pair of similar Gabor-like filters in quadratic phase structure. These features predict properties of phase sensitive complex cells in the visual cortex, and indicate that the phase sensitive complex cells are essential for removing redundancy in natural scenes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/01/112813', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London;', u'RIKEN Brain Science Institute;', u'School of Cognitive Sciences, Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences (IPM)']]
