[u'Stem cell differentiation is a stochastic process with memory', ['Patrick S. Stumpf', 'Rosanna C. G. Smith', 'Michael Lenz', 'Andreas Schuppert', 'Franz-Josef Muller', 'Ann Babtie', 'Thalia E. Chan', 'Michael P. H. Stumpf', 'Colin P. Please', 'Sam D. Howison', 'Fumio Arai', 'Ben D. MacArthur'], u'January 17, 2017.', u"Pluripotent stem cells are able to self-renew indefinitely in culture and differentiate into all somatic cell types in vivo. While much is known about the molecular basis of pluripotency, the molecular mechanisms of lineage commitment are complex and only partially understood. Here, using a combination of single cell profiling and mathematical modeling, we examine the differentiation dynamics of individual mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) as they progress from the ground state of pluripotency along the neuronal lineage. In accordance with previous reports we find that cells do not transit directly from the pluripotent state to the neuronal state, but rather first stochastically permeate an intermediate primed pluripotent state, similar to that found in the maturing epiblast in development. However, analysis of rate at which individual cells enter and exit this intermediate metastable state using a hidden Markov model reveals that the observed ESC and epiblast-like 'macrostates' conceal a chain of unobserved cellular 'microstates', which individual cells transit through stochastically in sequence. These hidden microstates ensure that individual cells spend well-defined periods of time in each functional macrostate and encode a simple form of epigenetic 'memory' that allows individual cells to record their position on the differentiation trajectory. To examine the generality of this model we also consider the differentiation of mouse hematopoietic stem cells along the myeloid lineage and observe remarkably similar dynamics, suggesting a general underlying process. Based upon these results we suggest a statistical mechanics view of cellular identities that distinguishes between functionally-distinct macrostates and the many functionally-similar molecular microstates associated with each macrostate. Taken together these results indicate that differentiation is a discrete stochastic process amenable to analysis using the tools of statistical mechanics.", u'/content/early/2017/01/17/101048', [], [u'University of Southampton;', u'RWTH Aachen University;', u'Universit\xe4tsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein;', u'Imperial College London;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Kyushu University']]
[u'Demonstration of short-term plasticity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex with theta burst stimulation: A TMS-EEG study', ['Sung Wook Chung', 'Benjamin Lewis', 'Nigel Rogasch', 'Takashi Saeki', 'Richard Thomson', 'Kate Hoy', 'Neil Bailey', 'Paul Fitzgerald'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Objectives: To examine the effects of intermittent TBS (iTBS) and continuous TBS (cTBS) on\ncortical reactivity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.  Methods: 10 healthy participants were stimulated with either iTBS, cTBS or sham at F3 electrode. Single- and paired-pulse TMS and concurrent electroencephalography (EEG) were used to assess change in cortical reactivity and long-interval intracortical inhibition (LICI) via\nTMS-evoked potentials (TEPs) and TMS-evoked oscillations.  Results: Significant increases in N120 amplitudes (p < 0.01) were observed following iTBS over prefrontal cortex. Changes in TMS-evoked theta oscillations and LICI of theta oscillations were also observed following iTBS (increase) and cTBS (decrease). Change in LICI of theta oscillations correlated with change in N120 amplitude following TBS (r = -0.670, p = 0.001).  Conclusions: This study provides preliminary evidence that TBS produces direct changes in cortical reactivity in the prefrontal cortex. Combining TBS with TMS-EEG may be a useful\napproach to optimise stimulation paradigms prior to the conduct of clinical trials.  Significance: TBS is able to modulate cortical reactivity and cortical inhibition in the\nprefrontal cortex.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/101097', [], [u'Monash Alfred Psychiatry Research Centre, Monash University;', u'Monash Alfred Psychiatry Research Centre;', u'Brain and Mental Health Laboratory, Monash University']]
[u'Evolutionary capacitance emerges spontaneously during adaptation to environmental changes', ['Paul G Nelson', 'Joanna G Masel'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'All biological populations are to a greater or lesser degree evolvable, but the forces that shape evolvability, especially the evolution of evolvability as an adaptive response to a changing environment, have been a source of controversy. One source of enhanced evolvability is the benign status of \u201ccryptic sequences\u201d typically expressed at low levels due to molecular errors, but with the potential to be expressed more fully following mutational co-option. A genome enriched for benign cryptic sequences has a more benign mutational neighborhood, via the possibility of co-option, and thus enhanced evolvability. Whether selection for evolvability itself can be the cause of a more benign mutational neighborhood remains an open question. Here, we show that environmental change can cause the evolution of increased evolvability, despite our use of a strong-selection weak mutation regime that precludes, by design, the adaptive evolution of evolvability. Instead, enhanced evolvability arises as a byproduct of environmental change via a novel mechanism that we call \u201cemergent evolutionary capacitance\u201d. When the environment changes, increased molecular error rates evolve as a strategy to rapidly change phenotypes, with the side effect of purging deleterious cryptic sequences and enhancing the mutational neighborhood for future adaptation. The behavior is strikingly similar to that seen in a model system for capacitance, the yeast prion [PSI+].', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/101055', [], [u'University of Arizona, United States']]
[u'Early transcriptome response to brown streak virus infection in susceptible and resistant cassava varieties', ['Ravi B Anjanappa', 'Devang Mehta', 'Michal J Okoniewski', 'Alicja Szabelska', 'Wilhelm Gruissem', 'Herve Vanderschuren'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'-Cassava brown streak disease is caused by cassava brown streak viruses (CBSVs), which are responsible for significant cassava yield losses in eastern sub-Saharan Africa.  -We inoculated CBSV-susceptible and -resistant cassava varieties with a mixed infection of CBSVs using top-cleft grafting. Virus titres in grafted scions were monitored in a time course experiment. We performed RNA-Seq of the two cassava varieties at the earliest time-point of full infection in the susceptible scions. A meta-analysis of the current RNA-Seq dataset and selected, previously reported, crop-virus RNA-Seq datasets was performed to investigate similarities in gene expression regulation.  -Genes encoding proteins in RNA silencing and salicylic acid pathways were regulated in the susceptible cassava variety but transcriptional changes were limited in the resistant variety. After infection, genes related to callose deposition at plasmodesmata were regulated and callose deposition was significantly reduced in the susceptible cassava variety.  -The differences in transcriptional responses to CBSV infection in susceptible and resistant varieties indicate that resistance involves callose deposition at plasmodesmata but does not trigger typical anti-viral defence responses. Our meta-analysis of selected host-potyvirus and cassava-virus infections reveals comparable host responses across pathosystems only at similar time points after infection or infection of a common host.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100552.1', [], [u'ETH Zurich;', u'Poznan University of Life Sciences;', u'University of Liege']]
[u'On the relationship between psychopathy and general intelligence: A meta-analytic review', ['Olga Sanchez de Ribera', 'Nicholas Kavish', 'Brian Boutwell'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Over recent decades, a growing body of research has accumulated concerning the relationship between indicators of general intelligence and the personality construct known as psychopathy.  Both traits represent key correlates of life outcomes, predicting everything from occupational and economic success, to various indicators of prosocial behavior (including avoiding contact with the criminal justice system).  The findings to date regarding the association of the two traits, however, have been somewhat inconsistent.  Thus, there remains a need for a more systematic investigation of the extant empirical literature. The current study reports a meta-analysis conducted to evaluate the direction and overall effect size of the relationship between these two constructs. Our analyses revealed a small, but significant, negative effect of intelligence on psychopathy. The results and impact of possible moderating variables such as type of intelligence test used are discussed.  Finally, the study limitations, and possible directions for further research on this issue are detailed prior to concluding.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100693.1', [], [u'Cambridge;', u'Sam Houston State University;', u'Saint Louis University']]
[u'Phylogenomic Synteny Network Analysis Reveals an Ancient MADS-Box Transcription Factor Tandem Duplication and Lineage-Specific Transpositions', ['Tao Zhao', 'Rens Holmer', 'Suzanne de Bruijn', 'Harrold A. van den Burg', 'Michael Eric Schranz'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Conserved genomic context (or synteny) provides critical information for comparative evolutionary analysis, such as the inference of ancient polyploidy events, recurrent genomic rearrangements across species and gene ancestry. With the increase of sequenced and assembled plant genomes, we now have the opportunity to use synteny to analyze the dynamics of gene family expansion and contraction across broad phylogenetic groups. Here we present an integrated approach to organize plant kingdom-wide gene synteny networks using k-clique percolation. As an example, we analyzed the gene synteny network of the MADS-box transcription factor family based on fifty-one completed plant genomes. We conclude from two massive gene clusters that one of the two Type II MADS-box gene clades evolved from an ancient tandem gene duplication likely predating the radiation of seed plants, which then expanded by polyploidy events and sub-functionalization. This gene clade now contains key regulators of major phenotypes of angiosperms including flower development. Moreover, we find lineage-specific gene clusters derived from transposition events. For example, lineage-specific clusters in the Brassicales containing genes that are well-known for their function in controlling flower morphology (AP3 and PI). Our phylogenomic synteny network approach can be applied to any group of species to gain new insights into the evolution and dynamics of any set of genes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100990', [u'Genomics'], [u'Wageningen University;', u'University of Amsterdam']]
[u'Biochemical, serological and molecular confirmation of Salmonella isolates', ['Prasanna Kumar V.', 'S.P. Singh', 'A.K. Upadhyay', 'Deepak Kumar'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Salmonellosis is one of the most frequently reported food-borne diseases world-wide commonly caused by Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Enteritidis serovars. The present study was undertaken to confirm Salmonella isolates by various techniques.  All the 94 isolates were confirmed to be S. Typhimurium through various morphological, biochemical, serological and molecular methods.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100917', [u'Microbiology'], [u'G.B.Pant University of Agriculture and Technology']]
[u'Reporting correct p-values in VEGAS analyses', ['Julian Hecker', 'Dmitry Prokopenko', 'Heide Fier', 'Christoph Lange'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'VEGAS (versatile gene-based association study) is a popular methodological framework to perform gene-based tests based on summary statistics from single-variant analyses. The approach incorporates linkage disequilibrium information from reference panels to account for the correlation of test statistics. The gene-based test can utilize three different types of tests. In 2015, the improved framework VEGAS2, using more detailed reference panels, was published. Both versions provide user-friendly web- and offline-based tools for the analysis. However, the implementation of the popular top-percentage test is erroneous in both versions. The p-values provided by VEGAS2 are deflated/anti-conservative.  Based on real data examples, we demonstrate that this can increase substantially the rate of false positive findings and can lead to inconsistencies between different test options. We also provide code that allows the user of VEGAS to compute correct p-values.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/101014', [u'Genetics'], [u'HSPH;', u'Harvard School of Public Health']]
[u'Signs of host genetic regulation in the microbiome composition in cattle', ['Oscar Gonzalez-Recio', 'I Zubiria', 'Aser Garcia-Rodriguez', 'Ana Hurtado', 'Raquel Atxaerandio'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Previous studies have revealed certain genetic control by the host over the microbiome composition, although in many species the host genetic link controlling microbial composition is yet unknown. This potential association is important in livestock to study all factors and interactions that rule the effect of the microbiome in complex traits. This report aims to study whether the host genotype exerts any genetic control on the microbiome composition of the rumen in cattle. Data on 16S and 18S rRNA gene-based analysis of the rumen microbiome in 18 dairy cows from two different breeds (Holstein and Brown Swiss) were used. The effect of the genetic background of the animal (through the breed and Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms; SNP) on the relative abundance (RA) of archaea, bacteria and ciliates (with average relative abundance per breed >0.1%) was analysed using Bayesian statistics.  In total, 13 genera were analysed for bacteria (5), archaea (1), and ciliates (7). All these bacteria and archaea genera showed association to the host genetic background both for breed and SNP markers, except RA for the genera Butyrivibrio and Ruminococcus that showed association with the SNP markers but not with the breed composition. Relative abundance of 57% (4/7) of ciliate analysed showed to be associated to the genetic background of the host. This host genetic link was observed in some genus of Trichostomatia family. For instance, the breed had a significant effect on Isotricha, Ophryoscolex and Polyplastron, and the SNP markers on Entodinium, Ophryoscolex and Polyplastron. In total, 77% (10/13) of microbes analysed showed to be associated to the host genetic background (either by breed or SNP genotypes). Further, the results showed a significant association between DGAT1, ACSF3, AGPAT3 and STC2 genes with the relative abundance Prevotella genus with a false discovery rate lower than 15%. The results in this study support the hypothesis and provide some evidence that there exist a host genetic component in cattle that can partially regulate the composition of the microbiome.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100966', [u'Genomics'], [u'Dpt. Mejora Genetica Animal. Instituto Nacional de Investigacion y Tecnologia Agraria y Alimentaria;', u'Departamento de Produccion Animal. NEIKER-Tecnalia;', u'Departamento de Sanidad Animal. NEIKER-Tecnalia']]
[u'Structural-mechanical remodelling of GDP-microtubules by kinesin', ['Daniel R. Peet', 'NIgel J Burroughs', 'Robert A. Cross'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Kinesin-1 is a nanoscale molecular motor that walks towards the fast growing (plus) ends of microtubules, hauling molecular cargo to specific reaction sites in cells. Kinesin-driven transport is central to the self-organisation of eukaryotic cells and shows great promise as a tool for nano-engineering1,2. Recent work hints that kinesin may also play a role in modulating the stability of its microtubule track, both in vitro3-5 and in vivo6, but results are conflicting7-9 and mechanisms are unclear. Here we report a new dimension to the kinesin-microtubule interaction, whereby strong-state (ATP-bound and apo) kinesin-1 motor domains inhibit the shrinkage of dynamic microtubules by up to 2 orders of magnitude and expand their lattice spacing by \u223c1.6%. Our data reveal an unexpected new mechanism by which the mechanochemical cycles of kinesin and tubulin interlock, allowing motile kinesins to influence the structure, stability and mechanics of their microtubule track.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/101022', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Warwick University']]
[u'Transcriptome analysis of genetically matched human induced pluripotent stem cells disomic or trisomic for chromosome 21.', ['Patrick K. Gonzales', 'Virginia Fonte', 'Christine M. Roberts', 'Connor Jacobsen', 'Gretchen H Stein', 'Christopher D. Link'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Trisomy of chromosome 21, the genetic cause of Down syndrome, has the potential to alter expression of genes on chromosome 21, as well as other locations throughout the genome.  These transcriptome changes are likely to underlie the Down syndrome clinical phenotypes.  We have employed RNA-seq to undertake an in-depth analysis of transcriptome changes resulting from trisomy of chromosome 21, using induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) derived from a single individual with Down syndrome. These cells were originally derived by Li et al, who genetically targeted chromosome 21 in trisomic iPSCs, allowing selection of disomic sibling iPSC clones.  Analyses were conducted on trisomic/disomic cell pairs maintained as iPSCs or differentiated into cortical neuronal cultures.  In addition to characterization of gene expression levels, we have also investigated patterns of RNA adenosine-to-inosine editing, alternative splicing, and repetitive element expression, aspects of the transcriptome that have not been significantly characterized in the context of Down syndrome.  We identified significant changes in transcript accumulation associated with chromosome 21 trisomy, as well as changes in alternative splicing and repetitive element transcripts.  Unexpectedly, the trisomic iPSCs we characterized expressed higher levels of neuronal transcripts than control disomic iPSCs, and readily differentiated into cortical neurons, in contrast to another reported study.  Comparison of our transcriptome data with similar studies of trisomic iPSCs suggests that trisomy of chromosome 21 may not intrinsically limit neuronal differentiation, but instead may interfere with the maintenance of pluripotency.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100859', [u'Genetics'], [u'Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome, University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'Linda Crnic Institute, University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'Linda Crnic Insitute, University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'Linda Crnic Insitute, Unicversity of Colorado, Boulder']]
[u'Internal modifications in the CENP-A nucleosome modulate centromeric dynamics', ['Minh Bui', 'Mary Pitman', 'Arthur Nuccio', 'Serene Roque', 'Paul Gregory Donlin-Asp', 'Aleksandra Nita-Lazar', 'Garegin A. Papoian', 'Yamini Dalal'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Post-translational modifications (PTMs) of core histones have studied for over 2 decades, and are correlated with changes in transcriptional status, chromatin fiber folding, and nucleosome dynamics. However, within the centromere-specific histone H3 variant CENP-A, few modifications have been reported, and their functions remain largely unexplored. In this multidisciplinary report, we utilize in silico computational and in vivo approaches to dissect lysine 124 of human CENP-A, which was previously reported to be acetylated in advance of replication. Computational modeling demonstrates that acetylation of K124 causes tightening of the histone core, and hinders accessibility to its C-terminus, which in turn diminishes CENP-C binding. Additionally, CENP-A K124ac/H4 K79ac containing nucleosomes are prone to DNA sliding. In vivo experiments using an acetyl or unacetylatable mimic (CENP-A K124Q and K124A respectively) reveal alterations in CENP-C levels, and a modest increase in mitotic errors. Furthermore, mutation of K124 results in alterations in centromeric replication timing, with the permanently acetylated form replicating centromeres early, and the unacetylable form replicating centromeres late. Purification of native CENP-A proteins followed by mass spectrometry analysis reveal that while CENP-A K124 is acetylated at G1/S, it switches to monomethylation during early and mid-S phase. Finally, we provide evidence that the HAT p300 is involved in this cycle. Taken together, our data suggest that cyclical modifications within the CENP-A nucleosome can influence the binding of key kinetochore proteins, the integrity of mitosis and centromeric replication. These data support the emerging paradigm that core modifications in histone variant nucleosomes transduce defined changes to key biological processes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/101006', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'National Insitutes of Health;', u'National Institutes of Health;', u'Emory University;', u'University of Maryland;', u'NIH']]
[u'Pebbles as Dry Ice Replacement for Snap Freezing of Rodents Brains', ['Rene Bernard', 'Larissa Mosch', 'Ulrich Dirnagl'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Dry ice is commonly used as a cooling agent in the preclinical research environment. It permits rapid freezing of tissues and organs through liquid media. Laboratories depend on a constant supply of dry ice because it disintegrates in a matter of days. Here we tested whether commercially available pebble gravel could be used as dry ice replacement for snap freezing mouse brains in 2-methylbutane. We monitored 2-methylbutane temperature for one hour and tested different setups with the focus on creating a practical solution that can be used in every research laboratory. While gravel pebbles cannot replace dry ice in the laboratory entirely, they present a useful addition as readily available and reusable cooling agent.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100776', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Charite Universitaetsmedizin']]
[u'MCF-7 breast cancer cell line PacBio generated transcriptome has ~300 novel transcribed regions, un-annotated in both RefSeq and GENCODE, and absent in the liver, heart and brain transcriptomes', ['Sandeep Chakraborty'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Illuminating the "dark" regions of the human genome remains an ongoing effort, a decade and a half after the human genome was sequenced - RefSeq and GENCODE being two of the major annotation databases. Pacific Biosciences (PacBio) has provided open access to the transcriptome of MCF-7, a breast cancer cell line that has provided significant therapeutic advancement in breast cancer research since the 1970s. PacBio sequencing generates much longer reads compared to second-generation sequencing technologies, with a trade-off of lower throughput, higher error rate and more cost per base. Here, this transcriptome was analyzed using the YeATS pipeline, with additionally introduced kmer based algorithms, reducing computational times to a few hours on a simple workstation. Out of ~300 transcripts that have no match in both RefSeq and GENCODE, ~250 are absent in the transcriptomes of the heart, liver and brain, also provided by PacBio. Also, ~200 transcripts are absent in a recent catalogue of un-annotated long non-coding RNAs from 6,503 samples (~43 Terabases of sequence data) [1], and only two present in common in an experimental workflow RACE-Seq that reported 2,556 novel transcripts [2]. ~100 transcripts have >100 amino acid open reading frames, and have the potential of being protein coding genes. ORF based annotation also identified few bacterial transcripts in the PacBio database mapped to the human genome, and one human transcript that has been annotated as bacterial in the NCBI database. The current work reiterates the under-utilization of transcriptomes for annotating genomes. It also provides new leads for investigating breast cancer by virtue of exclusively expressed transcripts not expressed in other tissues, which have the prospects of breast cancer biomarkers based on further investigations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100974', [u'Genomics'], [u'Celia Engineers']]
[u'Emergence of localized patterns in globally coupled networks of relaxation oscillators with heterogeneous connectivity', ['Randolph J. Leiser', 'Horacio G. Rotstein'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Several chemical, biochemical and biological systems exhibit oscillatory temporal patterns when they are far from equilibrium. These phenomena are generated by the nonlinear interplay of positive and negative feedback effects operating at different time scales.  In many biologically realistic systems  the time scales between activators and inhibitors are well separated generating oscillations of relaxation type. Relaxation oscillators may exhibit small amplitude oscillations (SAOs) in addition to the typical large amplitude oscillations (LAOs)  as well as abrupt transitions between them (canard phenomenon). Localized cluster patterns in networks of relaxation oscillators consist of one cluster oscillating in the LAO regime or exhibiting mixed-mode oscillations (LAOs interspersed with SAOs), while the other oscillates in the SAO regime. We investigate the mechanisms underlying the generation of localized patterns in globally coupled networks of piecewise-linear (PWL) relaxation oscillators where global feedback acting on the rate of change of the activator (fast variable) involves the inhibitor (slow variable). We also investigate of these patterns are affected by the presence of a diffusive type of coupling whose synchronizing effects compete with the symmetry breaking global feedback effects.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100933', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'New Jersey Institute of Technology']]
[u'New kids on the block: Intercontinental dissemination and transmission of newly emerging lineages of multi-drug resistant Escherichia coli with highly dynamic resistance gene acquisition.', ['Zhiyong Zong', 'Feng Yu', 'Alan McNally'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Background: The increase in infections as a result of multi-drug resistant strains of Escherichia coli is a global health crisis. The emergence of globally disseminated lineages of E. coli carrying ESBL genes has been well characterised. An increase in strains producing carbapenemase enzymes and mobile colistin resistance is now being reported, but there is little data on emerging global lineages of such strains.\nMethods: Routine screening of patients within an ICU of West China Hospital identified a potential outbreak of E. coli carrying the blaNDM-5 carbapenemase gene. Genome sequencing was performed on the strains isolated. The MLST lineage of the strains was determined and a global collection of genomes of relevant lineages utilised to characterise the emergence of two globally disseminated carbapenemase-producing Enterobacteriaceae (CPE) lineages of E. coli.\nFindings: Our data describes the presence of E. coli ST167 and ST617 in a potential West China Hospital outbreak, which are globally disseminated CPE lineages of E. coli. Both lineages show extreme levels of MDR gene acquisition ranging across ESBL, CPE, and mobile colistin resistance genes. Our analysis also shows real-time switching of CPE genes in a plasmid and real-time transfer of the plasmid across lineages, as well as recent inter-continental transmission of the ST167 lineage.\nInterpretation: Our data suggests that dominant lineages of E. coli are emerging as CPE clinical threats, in much the same way as occurred for ESBL lineages of E. coli.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100941', [u'Microbiology'], [u'West China Hospital;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'ARCS: Assembly Roundup by Chromium Scaffolding', ['Sarah Yeo', 'Lauren Coombe', 'Justin Chu', 'Rene L Warren', 'Inanc Birol'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Sequencing of human genomes is now routine, and assembly of shotgun reads is increasingly feasible. However, assemblies often fail to inform about chromosome-scale structure due to lack of linkage information over long stretches of DNA - a shortcoming that is being addressed by new sequencing protocols, such as linked reads from 10X Genomics.\n        Here we present ARCS, an application that utilizes the barcoding information contained in linked reads to further organize draft genomes into highly contiguous assemblies. We show how the contiguity of an ABySS H. sapiens genome assembly can be increased over six-fold using moderate coverage (25-fold) Chromium data. We expect ARCS to have broad utility in harnessing the barcoding information contained in Chromium data for connecting high-quality sequences in genome assembly drafts. Availability: http://www.bcgsc.ca/platform/bioinfo/software/arcs', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100750', [u'Genomics'], [u'BC Cancer Agency, Genome Sciences Centre']]
[u'Chromosome contacts in activated T cells identify autoimmune disease-candidate genes', ['Oliver S Burren', 'Arcadio Rubio Garcia', 'Biola-Maria Javierre', 'Daniel B Rainbow', 'Jonathan Cairns', 'Nicholas J Cooper', 'John J Lambourne', 'Ellen Schofield', 'Xaquin Castro Dopico', 'Ricardo C Ferreira', 'Richard Coulson', 'Frances Burden', 'Sophia P Rowlston', 'Kate Downes', 'Steven W Wingett', 'Mattia Frontini', 'Willem H Ouwehand', 'Peter Fraser', 'Mikhail Spivakov', 'John A Todd', 'Linda S Wicker', 'Antony J Cutler', 'Chris Wallace'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Autoimmune disease-associated variants are preferentially found in regulatory regions in immune cells, particularly CD4+ T cells. Linking such regulatory regions to gene promoters in disease-relevant cell contexts facilitates identification of candidate disease genes. Here we show that, within four hours, activation of CD4+ T cells invokes changes in histone modifications and enhancer RNA transcription that correspond to altered expression of the interacting genes identified by promoter capture Hi-C (PCHi-C). By integrating PCHi-C data with genetic associations for five autoimmune diseases we prioritised 252 candidate genes, of which 116 were related to activation-sensitive interactions. This included  IL2RA, where allele-specific expression analyses were consistent with its interaction-mediated regulation, illustrating the utility of the approach.', u'/content/early/2017/01/17/100958', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Babraham Institute']]
[u'Spatial point pattern analysis of prehospital naloxone administrations', ['Christopher Ryan'], u'January 17, 2017.', u'Objectives: The increasing problem in the United States with opioid dependence and overdose, often fatal, is well-recognized. As naloxone has only one clinical use---the treatment of opioid overdose---its administration by EMS personnel can serve as a surveillance indicator for opioid overdose. This study uses specific locations of EMS calls, and methods of point pattern analysis, to detect overall spatial clustering among EMS naloxone administrations compared to EMS calls in general.\nStudy Design: A cross-sectional study of incident locations of EMS responses in a three-county EMS region in the United States.\nMethods:  Repeated random samples from the spatial distribution of all EMS calls were used, in a Monte Carlo simulation, to represent the background inhomogeneity of the population. Observed F, G, and inhomogeneous K and L functions from the spatial distribution of naloxone-involved calls were compared to their null sampling distributions obtained from the Monte Carlo simulation.\nResults: Cases of naloxone administration demonstrated spatial clustering in the range of 0 to 5000 meters, and particularly around 2500 meters, beyond what could be attributable to the spatial heterogeneity of all EMS calls.\nConclusions: Efforts to understand the fundamental nature of opioid overdose as a spatial point process could yield innovative public health interventions to control the epidemic.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100412', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'SUNY Upstate Medical University']]
[u'Evaluating hybridization capture with RAD probes as a tool for museum genomics with historical bird specimens', ['Ethan B Linck', 'Zach Hanna', 'Anna Sellas', 'John P Dumbacher'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Laboratory techniques for high-throughput sequencing have enhanced our ability to generate DNA sequence data from millions of natural history specimens collected prior to the molecular era, but remain poorly tested at shallower evolutionary time scales. Hybridization capture using restriction site associated DNA probes (hyRAD) is a recently developed method for population genomics with museum specimens (Suchan et al. 2016). The hyRAD method employs fragments produced in a restriction site associated double digestion as the basis for probes that capture orthologous loci in samples of interest. While promising in that it does not require a reference genome, hyRAD has yet to be applied across study systems in independent laboratories. Here we provide an independent assessment of the effectiveness of hyRAD on both fresh avian tissue and dried tissue from museum specimens up to 140 years old and investigate how variable quantities of input DNA affects sequencing, assembly, and population genetic inference. We present a modified bench protocol and bioinformatics pipeline, including three steps for detection and removal of microbial and mitochondrial DNA contaminants. We confirm that hyRAD is an effective tool for sampling thousands of orthologous SNPs from historic museum specimens to describe phylogeographic patterns. We find that modern DNA performs significantly better than historical DNA better during sequencing, but that assembly performance is largely equivalent. We also find that the quantity of input DNA predicts %GC content of assembled contiguous sequences, suggesting PCR bias. We caution against sampling schemes that include taxonomic or geographic autocorrelation across modern and historic samples.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100867', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Washington;', u'University of California Berkeley;', u'California Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Simplified Power Calculations for Aggregate-level Association Tests Provide Insights to Challenges for Rare Variant Association Studies', ['Andriy Derkach', 'Haoyu Zhang', 'Nilanjan Chatterjee'], u'January 16, 2017.', u'Genome-wide association studies are now shifting focus from analysis of common to uncommon and rare variants with an anticipation to explain additional heritability of complex traits.  As power for association testing for individual rare variants may often be low, various aggregate level association tests have been proposed to detect genetic loci that may contain clusters of susceptibility variants.  Typically power calculations for such tests require specification of large number of parameters, including effect sizes and allele frequencies of individual markers, making them difficult to use in practice. In this report, we approximate power to varying degree of accuracy using a smaller number of key parameters, including the total genetic variance explained by multiple variants within a locus. We perform extensive simulation studies to assess the accuracy of the proposed approximation in realistic settings. Using the simplified power calculation methods, we then develop an analytic framework to obtain bounds on genetic architecture of an underlying trait given results from a genome-wide study and observe important implications for lack or limited number of findings in many currently reported studies. Finally, we provide insights into the required quality of annotation/functional information for identification of likely causal variants to make meaningful improvement in power of subsequent association tests. A shiny application in R implementing the methods is made publicly available.', u'/content/early/2017/01/16/100891', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'National Cancer Institute;', u'John Hopkins University']]
