[u'Growth is required for perception of water availability to pattern plant root branches', ['Neil E Robbins', 'Jose R Dinneny'], u'January 2, 2017.', u"Water availability is a potent regulator of development in plants and acts as a positional cue to induce root branching through a process termed hydropatterning. The mechanism by which roots perceive the spatial distribution of water to position lateral branches is unknown. Here we reveal that a root's developmental competence for hydropatterning is limited to the root tip, where tissue growth occurs. Mathematical modeling suggests that water uptake during growth creates spatial biases in tissue water potential, and we show that these gradients predict the position of future lateral branches. By altering growth dynamics with exogenous chemical and environmental treatments, we demonstrate that growth is necessary to allow roots to distinguish environments with relatively high or low water availability and pattern branching accordingly. Furthermore, we show that these cues regulate a number of other physiologically important pathways. Our work supports a sense-by-growth mechanism governing lateral root hydropatterning, in which water availability cues are rendered interpretable through growth-sustained water movement.", u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097758', [], [u'Carnegie Institution for Science']]
[u'Evolution of genetic variance during adaptive radiation', ['Gregory Matthew Walter', 'David Aguirre', 'Mark W Blows', 'Daniel Ortiz-Barrientos'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Genetic correlations between traits can bias adaptation away from optimal phenotypes and constrain the rate of evolution. If genetic correlations between traits limit adaptation to contrasting environments, rapid adaptive divergence across a heterogeneous landscape may be difficult. However, if genetic variance can evolve and align with the direction of natural selection, then abundant allelic variation can promote rapid divergence during adaptive radiation. Here, we explored adaptive divergence among ecotypes of an Australian native wildflower by quantifying divergence in multivariate phenotypes of populations that occupy four contrasting environments. We investigated differences in multivariate genetic variance underlying morphological traits and examined the alignment between divergence in phenotype and divergence in genetic variance. We found that divergence in mean multivariate phenotype has occurred along two major axes represented by different combinations of plant architecture and leaf traits. Ecotypes also showed divergence in the level of genetic variance in individual traits, and the multivariate distribution of genetic variance among traits. Divergence in multivariate phenotypic mean aligned with divergence in genetic variance, with most of the divergence in phenotype among ecotypes associated with a change in trait combinations that had substantial levels of genetic variance in each ecotype. Overall, our results suggest that divergent natural selection acting on high levels of standing genetic variation might fuel ecotypic differentiation during the early stages of adaptive radiation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097642', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Queensland;', u'Massey University']]
[u'Chemical composition and the potential for proteomic transformation in cancer, hypoxia, and hyperosmotic stress', ['Jeffrey M. Dick'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Models of chemical composition and thermodynamic potential emphasize the microenvironmental context for proteomic transformations. Here, data from 71 comparative proteomics studies were analyzed using elemental ratios and chemical components as measures of oxidation and hydration state. Experimental lowering of oxygen availability (hypoxia) and water activity (hyperosmotic stress) are reflected in decreased oxidation and hydration states of proteomes, but up-expressed proteins in colorectal and pancreatic cancer most often have higher average oxidation or hydration state. Calculations of chemical affinity were used to quantify the thermodynamic potentials for transformation of proteomes as a function of fugacity of O2 and activity of H2O, which serve as scales of oxidation and hydration potential. Potential diagrams for the overall reactions between down- and up-expressed proteins in various datasets have predicted equipotential lines that cluster near unit activity of H2O, suggesting that protein expression is sensitive to local variations in water activity. A redox balance calculation indicates that an increase in the lipid to protein ratio in cancer cells by 20% over hypoxic cells would generate an electron sink of sufficient size for oxidation of the cancer proteomes. These findings demonstrate consistent, condition-dependent chemical differences between proteomes, identify primary microenvironmental constraints on proteomic transformations, and help to quantify the redox balance among cellular macromolecules. The datasets and computer code used here are supplied in a new R package, canprot.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097667', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Wattanothaipayap School']]
[u'Multi-Region Neural Representation: A novel model for decoding visual stimuli in human brains', ['Muhammad Yousefnezhad', 'Daoqiang Zhang'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Multivariate Pattern (MVP) classification holds enormous potential for decoding visual stimuli in the human brain by employing task-based fMRI data sets. There is a wide range of challenges in the MVP techniques, i.e. decreasing noise and sparsity, defining effective regions of interest (ROIs), visualizing results, and the cost of brain studies. In overcoming these challenges, this paper proposes a novel model of neural representation, which can automatically detect the active regions for each visual stimulus and then utilize these anatomical regions for visualizing and analyzing the functional activities. Therefore, this model provides an opportunity for neuroscientists to ask this question: what is the effect of a stimulus on each of the detected regions instead of just study the fluctuation of voxels in the manually selected ROIs. Moreover, our method introduces analyzing snapshots of brain image for decreasing sparsity rather than using the whole of fMRI time series. Further, a new Gaussian smoothing method is proposed for removing noise of voxels in the level of ROIs. The proposed method enables us to combine different fMRI data sets for reducing the cost of brain studies. Experimental studies on 4 visual categories (words, consonants, objects and nonsense photos) confirm that the proposed method achieves superior performance to state-of-the-art methods.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097675', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics']]
[u'\u03b17 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor signalling modulates the inflammatory and iron homeostasis in fetal brain microglia', ['Marina Cortes', 'Mingju Cao', 'Hai Lun Liu', 'Craig S Moore', 'Lucien Daniel Durosier', 'Patrick Burns', 'Gilles Fecteau', 'Andre Desrochers', 'Luis B Barreiro', 'Jack Antel', 'Martin G Frasch'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Neuroinflammation in utero may result in life-long neurological disabilities. Microglia play a pivotal role in this process, but the mechanisms are still being established. No early postnatal treatment strategies exist to enhance neuroprotective potential of microglia. We hypothesized that agonism on \u03b17 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (\u03b17nAChR) in fetal microglia will augment their neuroprotective transcriptome profile, while the antagonistic stimulation of \u03b17nAChR will achieve the opposite. Using an in vivo - in vitro model of developmental programming of neuroinflammation induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), we validated this hypothesis in primary fetal sheep microglia cultures re-exposed to LPS in presence of a selective \u03b17nAChR agonist or antagonist. Our findings suggest that a pro-inflammatory microglial phenotype acquired in vitro by LPS stimulation is reversed with \u03b17nAChR agonistic stimulation. Conversely, antagonistic \u03b17nAChR stimulation potentiates the pro-inflammatory microglial phenotype. Surprisingly, under conditions of LPS double-hit an interference of a postulated \u03b17nAChR - ferroportin signaling pathway may impede this mechanism. These results suggest a therapeutic potential of \u03b17nAChR agonists in early treatment or re-programming of microglia in neonates exposed to in utero inflammation via an endogenous cerebral cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. Our findings further point to the significance of microglial iron homeostasis in double-hit LPS scenarios. Interactions between inflammation-triggered microglial iron sequestering and \u03b17nAChR stimulation require further studies to assess the full therapeutic potential of this novel brain signaling network and its role in neurodevelopment and programming of cognitive dysfunction in adult life.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097295', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CRRA, Universite de Montreal;', u'Universite de Montreal;', u'McGill University;', u'University of Washington']]
[u'Correlated patterns of genetic diversity and differentiation across an avian family', ['Benjamin Mark Van Doren', 'Leonardo Campagna', 'Barbara Helm', 'Juan Carlos Illera', 'Irby J. Lovette', 'Miriam Liedvogel'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Comparative studies of genomic differentiation among independent lineages can provide insights into aspects of the speciation process, such as the relative importance of selection and drift in shaping genomic landscapes, the role of genomic regions of high differentiation, and the prevalence of convergent molecular evolution. We investigated patterns of genetic diversity and divergence in stonechats (genus Saxicola), a widely distributed avian species complex with phenotypic variation in plumage, morphology, and migratory behavior, to ask whether similar genomic regions are important in the evolution of independent, but closely related, taxa. We used whole-genome pooled sequencing of 262 individuals from 5 taxa and found that patterns of genetic diversity and divergence are highly similar among different stonechat taxa. We then asked if these patterns remain correlated at deeper evolutionary scales and found that homologous genomic regions have become differentiated in stonechats and the closely related Ficedula flycatchers. Such correlation across a range of evolutionary divergence and among phylogenetically independent comparisons suggests that similar processes may be driving the differentiation of these independently evolving lineages, which in turn may be the result of intrinsic properties of particular genomic regions (e.g., areas of low recombination). Consequently, studies employing genome scans to search for areas important in reproductive isolation should account for corresponding regions of differentiation, as these regions may not necessarily represent speciation islands or facilitate local adaptation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097733', [u'Genomics'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Cornell University;', u'University of Glasgow;', u'Oviedo University;', u'Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology']]
[u'Monitoring Microtubule Mechanical Vibrations via Optomechanical Coupling', ['Shabir Barzanjeh', 'Vahid Salari', 'J. A Tuszynski', 'M Cifra', 'C Simon'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'The possible disruption of a microtubule during mitosis can control the duplication of a cancer cell.\nCancer detection and treatment may be possible based on the detection and control of microtubule\nmechanical oscillations in cells through external fields (e.g. electromagnetic or ultrasound). However,\nlittle is known about the dynamic (high-frequency) mechanical properties of microtubules. Here\nwe propose to control the vibrations of a doubly clamped microtubule by tip electrodes and to\ndetect its motion via the optomechanical coupling between the vibrational modes of the microtubule\nand an optical cavity. In the presence of a red-detuned strong pump laser, this coupling leads to\noptomechanical induced transparency of an optical probe field, which can be detected with state-of the\nart technology. The center frequency and linewidth of the transparency peak give the resonance\nfrequency and damping rate of the microtubule respectively, while the height of the peak reveals\ninformation about the microtubule-cavity field coupling. Our method should yield new knowledge\nabout the physical properties of microtubules, which will enhance our capability to design physical\ncancer treatment protocols as alternatives to chemotherapeutic drugs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097725', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Institute of Science and technology;', u'Institute for Research in Fundamental Sciences;', u'University of Alberta;', u'The Czech Academy of Sciences;', u'University of Calgary']]
[u'Beyond modularity: Fine-scale mechanisms and rules for brain network reconfiguration', ['Ankit N Khambhati', 'Marcelo G Mattar', 'Danielle S Bassett'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'The human brain is in constant flux, as distinct areas engage in transient communication to support basic behaviors as well as complex cognition. The collection of interactions between cortical and subcortical areas forms a functional brain network whose topology evolves with time. Despite the nontrivial dynamics that are germane to this networked system, experimental evidence demonstrates that functional interactions organize into putative brain systems that facilitate different facets of cognitive computation. We hypothesize that such dynamic functional networks are organized around a set of rules that constrain their spatial architecture - which brain regions may functionally interact - and their temporal architecture - how these interactions fluctuate over time. To objectively uncover these organizing principles, we apply an unsupervised machine learning approach called nonnegative matrix factorization to time-evolving, resting state functional networks in 20 healthy subjects. This machine-learning approach automatically clusters temporally co-varying functional interactions into subgraphs that represent putative topological modes of dynamic functional architecture. We find that subgraphs are stratified based on both the underlying modular organization and the topographical distance of their strongest interactions: while many subgraphs are largely contained within modules, others span between modules and are expressed differently over time. The relationship between dynamic subgraphs and modular architecture is further highlighted by the ability of time-varying subgraph expression to explain inter-individual differences in module reorganization. Collectively, these results point to the critical role subgraphs play in constraining the topography and topology of functional brain networks. More broadly, this machine learning approach opens a new door for understanding the architecture of dynamic functional networks during both task and rest states, and for probing alterations of that architecture in disease.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097691', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Composite measurements and molecular compressed sensing for highly efficient transcriptomics', ['Brian Cleary', 'Le Cong', 'Eric Lander', 'Aviv Regev'], u'January 2, 2017.', u"RNA profiling is an excellent phenotype of cellular responses and tissue states, but can be costly to generate at the massive scale required for studies of regulatory circuits, genetic states or perturbation screens. Here, we draw on a series of advances over the last decade in the field of mathematics to establish a rigorous link between biological structure, data compressibility, and efficient data acquisition. We propose that very few random composite measurements - in which gene abundances are combined in a random linear combination - are needed to approximate the high-dimensional similarity between any pair of gene abundance profiles. We then show how finding latent, sparse representations of gene expression data would enable us to 'decompress' a small number of random composite measurements and recover high-dimensional gene expression levels that were not measured (unobserved). We present a new algorithm for finding sparse, modular structure, which improves the ability to interpret samples in terms of small numbers of active modules, and show that the modular structure we find is sufficient to recover gene expression profiles from composite measurements (with ~100-fold fewer composite measurements than genes). Moreover, the knowledge that sparse, modular structures exist allows us to recover expression profiles from composite measurements, even without access to any training data. Finally, we present a proof-of-concept experiment for making composite measurements in the laboratory, involving the measurement of linear combinations of RNA abundances. Altogether, our results suggest new compressive modalities in experimental biology that can form a foundation for massive scaling in high-throughput measurements, while also offering new insights into the interpretation of high-dimensional data.\nA recorded seminar presentation of this work is available at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2dBZEOXqKHs", u'/content/early/2017/01/02/091926', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'MIT / Broad Institute;', u'Broad Institute']]
[u'Tumor cell division rate heterogeneity explains in vitro clonal dominance', ['Margriet M Palm', 'Marjet Elemans', 'Joost B Beltman'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Tumors frequently develop clonal dominance, meaning that most cells descend from a small fraction of initial clones. Such dominance also occurred in published in vitro iterated growth and passage experiments with tumor cells in which lineage tracing was performed using genetic barcodes. A potential source for such heterogeneity is that dominant clones derive from cancer stem cells with an unlimited self-renewal capacity. Alternatively, clonal dominance may be caused by heterogeneity of division rates between clones. To test which hypothesis can explain the development of clonal dominance, we build a computational model that accurately simulates the iterated growth and passage experiments in which clonal dominance emerged. With this model we show that clonal dominance does not develop in a model where all cells grow at a uniform rate, even when the population is subdivided in cancer stem cells and differentiated cells. However, when the division rates vary between clones and are inherited from parent cells, clonal dominance develops and increases over time.  The experimentally observed evolution of clone loss, clonal dominance, and the clonal overlap across biological replicates are closely matched by our simulations. Thus, our findings suggest that tumor cells exhibit a heritable variation in the division rates of individual cells.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097683', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Division of Toxicology, Leiden Academic Center for Drug Research, Leiden University, The Netherlands']]
[u'Wiring variations that enable and constrain neural computation in a sensory microcircuit', ['William F. Tobin', 'Rachel I. Wilson', 'Wei-Chung Allen Lee'], u'January 2, 2017.', u'Neural network function can be shaped by varying the strength of synaptic connections. One way to achieve this is to vary connection structure. To investigate how structural variation among synaptic connections might affect neural computation, we examined primary afferent connections in the Drosophila olfactory system. We used large-scale serial section electron microscopy to reconstruct all the olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) axons that target a left-right pair of glomeruli, as well as all the projection neurons (PNs) postsynaptic to these ORNs. We found three variations in ORN\u2192PN connectivity. First, we found a systematic co-variation in synapse number and PN dendrite size, suggesting total synaptic conductance is tuned to postsynaptic excitability. Second, we discovered that PNs receive more synapses from ipsilateral than contralateral ORNs, providing a structural basis for odor lateralization behavior. Finally, we found evidence of imprecision in ORN\u2192PN connections and show how this can diminish network performance.', u'/content/early/2017/01/02/097659', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Harvard Medical School']]
