[u'Interactive effects of shifting body size and feeding adaptation drive interaction strengths of protist predators under warming', ['Katarina Elisabeth Fussmann', 'Benjamin Rosenbaum', 'Ulrich Brose', 'Bjoern Christian Rall'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Global change is heating up ecosystems fuelling biodiversity loss and species extinctions. High-trophic-level predators are especially prone to extinction due to an energetic mismatch between increasing feeding rates and metabolism with warming. Different adaptation mechanisms such as decreasing body size to reduce energy requirements (morphological response) as well as direct effects of adaptation to feeding parameters (physiological response) have been proposed to overcome this problem. Here, we use protist-bacteria microcosm experiments to show how those adaptations may have the potential to buffer the impact of warming on predator-prey interactions. After adapting the ciliate predator Tetrahymena pyriformis to three different temperatures (15C, 20C and 25C) for approximately 20 generations we conducted functional response experiments on bacterial prey along an experimental temperature gradient (15C, 20C and 25C). We found an increase of maximum feeding rates and half-saturation densities with rising experimental temperatures. Adaptation temperature had on average slightly negative effects on maximum feeding rates, but maximum feeding rates increased more strongly with rising experimental temperature in warm adapted predators than in cold-adapted predators. There was no effect of adaptation temperature on half-saturation densities characterising foraging efficiency. Besides the mixed response in functional response parameters, predators also adapted by decreasing body size. As smaller predators need less energy to fulfill their energetic demands, maximum feeding rates relative to the energetic demands increased slightly with increased adaptation temperature. Accordingly, predators adapted to 25C showed the highest feeding rates at 25C experimental temperature, while predators adapted to 15C showed the highest maximum feeding rate at 15C. Therefore, adaptation to different temperatures potentially avoids an energetic mismatch with warming. Especially a shift in body size with warming additionally to an adaptation of physiological parameters potentially helps to maintain a positive energy balance and prevent predator extinction with rising temperatures.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101675', [u'Ecology'], [u'Georg-August-University Goettingen;', u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig']]
[u'The effect of dietary ginseng polysaccharide supplementation on the immune responses involved in porcine milk-derived esRNAs', ['JIAJIE SUN', 'Liyuan Yao', 'Ting Chen', 'Qianyun Xi', 'Yongliang Zhang'], u'January 20, 2017.', u"Ginseng and its polysaccharides (GPS) have been well known as an immune modulator. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of dietary supplemental GPS on the immune responses involved in sow's milk-derived exosomal shuttle RNAs (esRNAs) using RNA-Seq and miRNA-Seq. Of the 213 identified miRNA types, a total of 26 conserved miRNAs were differently expressed in response to GPS supplementation, including 10 up-regulated and 16 down-regulated miRNAs in GPS feeding group. In addition, exosomal transcriptome analysis identified 14,696 protein-coding genes in sow's milk exosomes, and 283 genes with 204 and 79 candidates showing up and down-regulation were significantly responded to GPS supplementation. Integrated analysis of each differently expressed miRNA with significantly expressed genes further revealed the presence of 51 highly conserved miRNA-gene interactions that were annotated to be related to immunoregulatory functions. This work provided an important advance in the functional identification of dietary GPS supplementation and more fundamental information about how GPS promoted the immune response and healthy growth of the infant from mothers at molecular levels.", u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101592', [u'Genomics'], [u'South China Agricultural University, China']]
[u'Reduced foraging investment as an adaptation to patchy food sources: a phasic army ant simulation', ['Serafino Teseo', 'Francesco Delloro'], u'January 20, 2017.', u"Colonies of several ant species within the subfamily Dorylinae alternate stereotypical discrete phases of foraging and reproduction. Such phasic cycles are thought to be adaptive because they minimize the amount of foraging and the related costs, and at the same time enhance the colony-level ability to rely on patchily distributed food sources. In order to investigate these hypotheses, we use here a simple computational approach to study the population dynamics of two species of virtual ant colonies that differ quantitatively in their foraging investment. One species, which we refer to as 'phasic', forages only half of the time, mirroring the phasic activity of some army ants; the other 'non-phasic' species forages instead all the time. We show that, when foraging costs are relatively high, populations of phasic colonies grow on average faster than non-phasic populations, outcompeting them in mixed populations. Interestingly, such tendency becomes more consistent as food becomes more difficult to find but locally abundant. According to our results, reducing the foraging investment, for example by adopting a phasic lifestyle, can result in a reproductive advantage, but only in specific conditions. We thus suggest phasic colony cycles to have emerged together with the doryline specialization in feeding on the brood of other eusocial insects, a resource that is hard to obtain but highly abundant if available.", u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101600', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Independent scholar;', u'Material Research Center (CNRS 7633), MINES ParisTech, Evry, France']]
[u'A new and accurate continuum description of moving fronts', ['Stuart T Johnston', 'Ruth E Baker', 'Matthew J Simpson'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Processes that involve moving fronts of populations are prevalent in ecology and cell biology. A common approach to describe these processes is a lattice-based random walk model, which can include mechanisms such as crowding, birth, death, movement and agent-agent adhesion. However, these models are generally analytically intractable and it is computationally expensive to perform sufficiently many realisations of the model to obtain an estimate of average behaviour that is not dominated by random fluctuations. To avoid these issues, both mean-field and corrected mean-field continuum descriptions of random walk models have been proposed. However, both continuum descriptions are inaccurate outside of limited parameter regimes, and corrected mean-field descriptions cannot be employed to describe moving fronts. Here we present an alternative description in terms of the dynamics of groups of contiguous occupied lattice sites and contiguous vacant lattice sites. Our description provides an accurate prediction of the average random walk behaviour in all parameter regimes. Critically, our description accurately predicts the persistence or extinction of the population in situations where previous continuum descriptions predict the opposite outcome. Furthermore, unlike traditional mean-field models, our approach provides information about the spatial clustering within the population and, subsequently, the moving front.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101824', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Queensland University of Technology;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Queensland Univeristy of Technology']]
[u'Symptoms of Depression in a Large Healthy Population Cohort are related to Subjective Memory Complaints and Memory Performance in Negative Contexts', ['Susanne Schweizer', 'Rogier A. Kievit', 'Tina Emery', 'Richard N Henson'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Decades of research have investigated the impact of clinical depression on memory, which has revealed biases and in some cases impairments. However, little is understood about the effects of sub-clinical symptoms of depression on memory performance in the general population. Here we report the effects of symptoms of depression on memory problems in a large population-derived cohort (N = 2544), 87% of whom reported at least one symptom of depression. Specifically, we investigate the impact of depressive symptoms on subjective memory complaints, objective memory performance on a standard neuropsychological task and, in a subsample (n = 288), objective memory in affective contexts. There was a dissociation between subjective and objective memory performance, with depressive symptoms showing a robust relationship with self-reports of memory complaints, even after adjusting for age, gender, general cognitive ability and symptoms of anxiety, but not with performance on the standardised measure of verbal memory. Contrary to our expectations, hippocampal volume (assessed in a subsample, n = 592) did not account for significant variance in subjective memory, objective memory or depressive symptoms. Nonetheless, depressive symptoms were related to poorer memory for pictures presented in negative contexts, even after adjusting for memory for pictures in neutral contexts. Thus the symptoms of depression, associated with subjective memory complaints, appear better assessed by memory performance in affective contexts, rather than standardised memory measures. We discuss the implications of these findings for understanding the impact of depressive symptoms on memory functioning in the general population.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101642', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit;', u'MRC Cognition & Brain Sciences Unit']]
[u'asymptoticMK: A web-based tool for the asymptotic McDonald-Kreitman test', ['Benjamin C Haller', 'Philipp W Messer'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'The McDonald-Kreitman (MK) test is a widely used method for quantifying the role of positive selection in molecular evolution. One key shortcoming of this test lies in its sensitivity to the presence of slightly deleterious mutations, which can severely bias its estimates. An asymptotic version of the MK test was recently introduced that addresses this problem by evaluating polymorphism levels for different mutation frequencies separately, and then extrapolating a function fitted to that data. Here we present asymptoticMK, a web-based implementation of this asymptotic McDonald-Kreitman test. Our web service provides a simple R-based interface into which the user can upload the required data (polymorphism and divergence data for the genomic test region and a neutrally evolving reference region). The web service then analyzes the data and provides plots of the test results. This service is free to use, open-source, and available at http://benhaller.com/messerlab/asymptoticMK.html.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101808', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Modelling haplotypes with respect to reference cohort variation graphs', ['Yohei Rosen', 'Jordan Eizenga', 'Benedict Paten'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Current statistical models of haplotypes are limited to cohorts of haplotypes which can be represented by arrays of values at linearly ordered bi- or multiallelic loci. These methods cannot model either structural variants or overlapping or nested variants. A variation graph is a mathematical structure can encode arbitrarily complex genetic variation. We present the first model which uses a variation graph representation of haplotypes. We present an algorithm to calculate the likelihood that a haplotype arose from a population through recombinations and demonstrate time complexity linear in haplotype length and sublinear in population size. We demonstrate mathematical extensions to allow modelling of mutations. Our results provide a starting point for haplotype inference on variation graphs. This is an essential step forward for clinical genomics and genetic epidemiology since it is the first haplotype model which can represent all sorts of variation in the population.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101659', [u'Genomics'], [u'UC Santa Cruz Genomics Institute']]
[u'Comparison and Characterisation of Mutation Calling from Whole Exome and RNA Sequencing Data for Liver and Muscle Tissue in Lactating Holstein Cows Divergent for Fertility', ['Bruce Moran', 'Stephen T Butler', 'Christopher J Creevey'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Whole exome sequencing has had low uptake in livestock species, despite allowing accurate analysis of single nucleotide variant (SNV) mutations. Transcriptomic data in the form of RNA sequencing has been generated for many livestock species and also represents a source of mutational information. However, there is little information on the accuracy of using this data for the identification of SNVs. We generated a bovine exome capture design and used it to sequence and call mutations from a lactating dairy cow model genetically divergent for fertility (Fert+, n=8; Fert-, n=8). We compared mutations called from liver and muscle transcriptomes from the same animals. Our exome capture demonstrated 99.1% coverage of the exome design of 56.7MB, whereas transcriptomes covered 55 and 46.5% of the exome, or 24.4 and 20.7MB, in liver and muscle respectively after filtering. We found that specificity of SNVs in the transcriptome data is approximately 75% following basic hard-filtering, and could be increased to above 80% by increasing the minimum threshold of reads covering SNVs, but this effect was negated in more highly covered SNVs. RNA-DNA differences, SNVs found in transcriptome but not exome, were discovered and shown to have significantly increased levels of transition mutations in both tissues. Functional annotation of non-synonymous SNVs specific to the high and low fertility phenotypes identified immune response-related genes, supporting previous work that has identified differential expression in the same genes. Publically available RNAseq data may be analysed in a similar way to further increase the utility of this resource.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101733', [u'Genomics'], [u'Teagasc, Ireland;', u'Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences, Ireland']]
[u'A Bayesian Perspective on Accumulation in the Magnitude System', ['Benoit Martin', 'Martin Wiener', 'Virginie van Wassenhove'], u'January 20, 2017.', u'Theoretical and empirical work posits the existence of a common magnitude system in the brain. Such a proposal implies that manipulating stimuli in one magnitude dimension (e.g. time) should interfere with the subjective estimation of another magnitude dimension (e.g. space). Here, we asked whether a generalized Bayesian magnitude estimation system would sample sensory evidence using a common, amodal prior. Two psychophysical experiments separately tested participants on their perception of duration, surface, and numerosity when non-target magnitude dimensions and the rate of sensory evidence accumulation were manipulated. First, we found that duration estimation was resilient to changes in surface or numerosity, whereas lengthening (shortening) duration yielded under- (over-) estimations of surface and numerosity. Second, the perception of numerosity and surface were affected by changes in the rate of sensory evidence accumulation, whereas duration was not. Our results suggest that a generalized magnitude system based on Bayesian computations would minimally necessitate multiple priors.', u'/content/early/2017/01/20/101568', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'CEA, DRF/I2BM; INSERM; Universit\xe9 Paris-Sud; Universit\xe9 Paris-Saclay;', u'Department of Psychology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA USA']]
