[u'The processing of dynamic faces in the human brain: Support for an integrated neural framework of face processing.', ['Michal Bernstein', 'Yaara Erez', 'Idan Blank', 'Galit Yovel'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'Faces convey rich information including identity, gender and expression. Current neural models of face processing suggest a dissociation between the processing of invariant facial aspects such as identity and gender, that engage the fusiform face area (FFA) and the processing of changeable aspects, such as expression and eye gaze, that engage the posterior superior temporal sulcus face area (pSTS-FA). Recent studies report a second dissociation within this network such that the pSTS-FA, but not the FFA, shows much stronger response to dynamic than static faces. The aim of the current study was to test a unified model that accounts for these two major functional characteristics of the neural face network. In an fMRI experiment, we presented static and dynamic faces while subjects judged an invariant (gender) or a changeable facial aspect (expression). We found that the pSTS-FA was more engaged in processing dynamic than static faces and changeable than invariant facial aspects, whereas the OFA and FFA showed similar response across all four conditions. Our results reveal no dissociation between the processing of changeable and invariant facial aspects, but higher sensitivity to the processing of changeable facial aspects by the motion-sensitive face area in the superior temporal sulcus.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/140939', [], [u'Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 6997801, Israel;', u'MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, 15 Chaucer Rd, Cambridge, UK;', u'Dept. of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA']]
[u'Compartmental and spatial rule-based modeling with Virtual cell (VCell)', ['Mikhail L. Blinov', 'James C. Schaff', 'Dan Vasilescu', 'Ion I. Moraru', 'Judy E. Bloom', 'Leslie M. Loew'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'In rule-based modeling, molecular interactions are systematically specified in the form of reaction rules that serve as generators of reactions. This provides a way to account for all the potential molecular complexes and interactions among multivalent or multistate molecules. Recently, we introduced rule-based modeling into the Virtual Cell (VCell) modeling framework, permitting graphical specification of rules and merger of networks generated automatically (using the BioNetGen modeling engine) with hand-specified reaction networks. VCell provides a number of ordinary differential equation (ODE) and stochastic numerical solvers for single-compartment simulations of the kinetic systems derived from these networks, and agent-based network-free simulation of the rules. In this work, compartmental and spatial modeling of rule-based models has been implemented within VCell. To enable rule-based deterministic and stochastic spatial simulations and network-free agent-based compartmental simulations, the BioNetGen and NFSim engines were each modified to support compartments. In the new rule-based formalism, every reactant and product pattern and every reaction rule are assigned locations. We also introduce the novel rule-based concept of molecular anchors. This assures that any species that has a molecule anchored to a predefined compartment will remain in this compartment. Importantly, in addition to formulation of compartmental models, this now permits VCell users to seamlessly connect reaction networks derived from rules to explicit geometries to automatically generate a system of reaction-diffusion equations. These may then be simulated using either the VCell partial differential equations (PDE) deterministic solvers or the Smoldyn stochastic simulator.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146225', [], [u'University of Connecticut School of Medicine']]
[u'Inference of Adaptive Shifts for Multivariate Correlated Traits', ['Paul Bastide', 'Cecile Ane', 'Stephane Robin', 'Mahendra Mariadassou'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'To study the evolution of several quantitative traits, the classical phylogenetic comparative framework consists of a multivariate random process running along the branches of a phylogenetic tree. The Ornstein-Uhlenbeck (OU) process is sometimes preferred to the simple Brownian Motion (BM) as it models stabilizing selection toward an optimum. The optimum for each trait is likely to be changing over the long periods of time spanned by large modern phylogenies. Our goal is to automatically detect the position of these shifts on a phylogenetic tree, while accounting for correlations between traits, which might exist because of structural or evolutionary constraints. We show that, in the presence shifts, phylogenetic Principal Component Analysis (pPCA) fails to decorrelate traits efficiently, so that any method aiming at finding shift needs to deal with correlation simultaneously. We introduce here a simplification of the full multivariate OU model, named scalar OU (scOU), which allows for noncausal correlations and is still computationally tractable. We extend the equivalence between the OU and a BM on a re-scaled tree to our multivariate framework. We describe an Expectation Maximization algorithm that allows for a maximum likelihood estimation of the shift positions, associated with a new model selection criterion, accounting for the identifiability issues for the shift localization on the tree. The method, freely available as an R-package (PhylogeneticEM) is fast, and can deal with missing values. We demonstrate its efficiency and accuracy compared to another state-of-the-art method (l1ou) on a wide range of simulated scenarios, and use this new framework to re-analyze recently gathered datasets on New World Monkeys and Anolis lizards.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146191', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'UMR MIA-Paris, AgroParisTech, INRA, Universit\xe9 Paris-Saclay, 75005, Paris, France;', u'Department of Statistics and Botany, University of Wisconsin-Madison, WI, 53706, USA;', u'MaIAGE, INRA, Universit\xe9 Paris-Saclay, 78352 Jouy-en-Josas, France']]
[u'Network integration of multi-tumour omics data suggests novel targeting strategies', ['Italo Faria do Valle', 'Giulia Menichetti', 'Giorgia Simonetti', 'Samantha Bruno', 'Isabella Zironi', 'Danielle Fernandes Durso', 'Jose C. M. Mombach', 'Giovanni Martinelli', 'Gastone Castellani', 'Daniel Remondini'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'We characterize different tumour types in the search for multi-tumour drug targets, in particular aiming for drug repurposing or novel drug combinations. Starting from 11 tumour types from The Cancer Genome Atlas, we obtain three clusters based on transcriptomic correlation profiles. A network-based analysis, integrating gene expression profiles and protein interactions of cancer-related genes, allowed us to define three cluster-specific signatures, with genes belonging to NF-\u03baB signaling, chromosomal instability, ubiquitin-proteasome system, DNA metabolism, and apoptosis biological processes. These signatures have been characterized by different approaches based on mutational, pharmacological and clinical evidences, demonstrating the validity of our selection. Moreover, we defined new pharmacological strategies validated by in vitro experiments that showed inhibition of cell growth in two tumour cell lines, with significant synergistic effect. Our study thus provides a list of genes and pathways with the potential to be used, singularly or in combination, for the design of novel treatment strategies.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146209', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Bologna, Italy;', u'Dept. of Physics, Center for Complex Network Research, Northeastern University, Boston USA;', u'Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine, University of Bologna Italy;', u'Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Bologna Italy;', u'Department of Physics, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria, RS, Brazil']]
[u'Exploring thematic structure in 16S rRNA marker gene surveys', ['Stephen Woloszynek', 'Joshua Chang Mell', 'Gideon Simpson', 'Gail L. Rosen'], u'June 5, 2017.', u"Analysis of microbiome data involves identifying co-occurring taxa associated with a specific set of sample attributes (e.g., disease presence) but is often hindered by the data being compositional, high dimensional, and sparse. Also, the configuration of co-occurring taxa may represent overlapping subcommunities that contribute to host status. Preserving the configuration of co-occurring microbes is superior to detecting indicator species since this approach is more likely to represent underlying microbiome mechanisms and thus facilitate more biologically meaningful interpretations. Moreover, analysis which simultaneously utilizes taxonomic and functional abundances typically requires independent characterization of taxonomic and functional profiles before linking them to sample information. However, this limits investigators from identifying which specific functional components associate with which subsets of co-occurring taxa. We provide a pipeline to explore co-occurring taxa using topics generated via a topic model approach and then link these topics to specific sample classes. Also, rather than inferring predicted functional content independently from taxonomic information, we instead focus on within-topic functional content, which we parse via estimating pathway-topic interactions through a multilevel fully Bayesian regression model. We apply our methods to two large 16S amplicon sequencing datasets: an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) dataset from Gevers et al. and data from the American Gut (AG) project. When applied to the Gevers et al. IBD study, we determine that a topic highly associated with Crohn's disease (CD) diagnosis is (1) dominated by a cluster of bacteria known to be linked with CD and (2) uniquely enriched for a subset of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) synthesis genes. In the AG data, our approach found that individuals with plant-based diets were enriched with Lachnospiraceae, Roseburia, Blautia, and Ruminococcaceae, as well as fluorobenzoate degradation pathways, whereas pathways involved in LPS biosynthesis were depleted. We therefore introduce an approach for uncovering latent thematic structure in the context of host state for 16S rRNA surveys. Using our topic-model approach, investigators can (1) capture sets of co-occurring taxa, (2) uncover their functional potential, and (3) identify gene sets that may help guide future inquiry. These methods have been implemented in a freely available R package https://github.com/EESI/themetagenomics.", u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146126', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Drexel University']]
[u'The Emergent Connectome in Caenorhabditis elegans Embryogenesis', ['Bradly J. Alicea'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'The relatively new field of connectomics provides us with a unique window into nervous systems and neuronal systems function. In the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, this promise is even greater due to the relatively small cellular size (302 cells) of the nervous system. While the adult C. elegans connectome has been characterized, the emergence of these networks in development has yet to be established. In this paper, we approach this problem using secondary data describing the birth times of terminally-differentiated cells as they appear in the embryo and connectomics data for pharyngeal neurons in the adult hermaphrodite. By combining these two sources of data, we can better understand what an incipient connectome look like. This includes identifying at what point in embryogenesis the connectome first comes into being, observing some of the earliest connectivity patterns, and making comparisons between the formally-defined connectome and the embryogenetic interactome. An analysis is also conducted to root terminally-differentiated pharyngeal neurons in their developmental cell lineage. This analysis reveals subnetworks with different properties at 300 minutes of embryogenesis. Overall, this analysis reveals important information about the birth order of specific cells, key building blocks of global connectivity, and how these structures corresponds to various embryogenetic stages during the emergence of a connectome.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146035', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'-;', u'Orthogonal Research']]
[u'Evaluation of in silico algorithms for use with ACMG/AMP clinical variant interpretation guidelines', ['Rajarshi Ghosh', 'Ninad Oak', 'Sharon E. Plon'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'The ACMG/AMP variant classification guidelines for clinical reporting recommend complete concordance of predictions among all in silico algorithms used without specifying the number or types of algorithms. The subjective nature of this recommendation contributes to discordance of variant classification among clinical laboratories. Using 14,819 benign or pathogenic missense variants from the ClinVar database, we compared performance of 25 algorithms across datasets differing in distinct biological and technical variables. There was wide variability in concordance among different combinations of algorithms with particularly low concordance for benign variants. We identified recently developed algorithms with high predictive power and robust to variables like disease mechanism, gene constraint and mode of inheritance, although poorer performing algorithms are more frequently used based on review of the clinical genetics literature (2011-2017). We describe high performing algorithm combinations with increased concordance in variant assertion, which should lead to more informed in silico algorithm usage by diagnostic laboratories.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146100', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Baylor College of Medicine']]
[u'Mammalian genomic regulatory regions predicted by utilizing human genomics, transcriptomics and epigenetics data', ['Quan H. Nguyen', 'Ross L. Tellam', 'Marina Naval-Sanchez', 'Laercio Porto-Neto', 'Bill W. Barendse', 'Toni Reverter-Gomez', 'Ben Hayes', 'James Kijas', 'Brian P. Dalrymple'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'Genome sequences for hundreds of mammalian species are available, but an understanding of genomic regulatory regions for non-model species is only beginning. A comprehensive prediction of potential active regulatory regions is necessary to functionally study the roles of the majority of genomic variants in evolution, domestication, and animal production. We developed a computational method to predict regulatory DNA sequences (promoters, enhancers and transcription factor binding sites) in production animals (cows and pigs) and extended its broad applicability to other mammals. The pipeline utilizes human regulatory features identified from thousands of tissues, cell lines, and experimental assays to predict homologous regions in another mammalian species. Importantly, we developed a filtering strategy, including a machine learning classification method, to utilize a very small number of species-specific experimental datasets available to select for the likely active regulatory regions. The method finds the optimal combination of sensitivity and accuracy to unbiasedly predict regulatory regions in non-model species. Importantly, we demonstrated the utility of the predicted regulatory datasets in cattle for prioritizing variants associated with multiple production and climate change adaptation traits, and identifying potential genome editing targets.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/143990', [u'Genomics'], [u'Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO);', u'University of Queensland;', u'CSIRO and The University of Western Australia']]
[u'No evidence of MET and HER2 over-expression in non-small cell lung carcinoma and breast cancer, respectively, raises serious doubts on using RNA-seq profiles of tumor-educated platelets as a \u2018liquid biopsy\u2019 source', ['Sandeep Chakraborty'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'The prevailing excitement in the scientific and medical community about \u201cliquid biopsy\u201d, a minimally invasive diagnostic involving body fluid, is understandable, since it has the possibility of detecting pre-malignant and early-stage cancers, and enables the assessment of response to treatments. Supplementing previous techniques that sample circulating cell-free tumor DNA, tumor cells, and microvesicles, a recent work has shown using RNA-seq data that tumor-educated platelets (TEP) can distinguish 228 patients with localized and metastasized tumors from 55 healthy individuals with 96% accuracy. However, as demonstrated in the current work, over-expression of MET genes in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), and HER2/ERBB2 genes in breast cancer are grossly misreported. Based on an analysis of a smaller subset of samples, it is shown that there is little, leave alone over-expression, of these genes in the samples with the specified disease. Further confirmation is provided by high levels of the platelet marker TMSB4X. A kmer-based method (k=32) has been used here (KEATS) to detect homologous transcripts, although the results are easily verified by a BLAST search - BLAST-ing the MET gene (Accid:NM 001127500.2) to a NSCLC sample (https://trace.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/Trace/sra/?run=SRR1982781) shows almost no expression. This is in contrast to expected expression of the MET gene in another a NSCLC sample (SRR3475320) from another sample. Similar contradictions apply for HER2/ERBB2 genes with respect to breast cancer samples. This work emphasizes the necessity of a more stringent verification framework for bioinformatic analyses, and raises serious doubts on using TEP as a possible \u201cliquid biopsy\u201d candidate.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146134', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Celia Engineers']]
[u'The collective influence of 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 with physiological fluid shear stress on osteoblasts', ['Yan Li', 'Jiafeng Yuan', 'Qianwen Wang', 'Lijie Sun', 'Yunying Sha', 'Yanxiang Li', 'Lizhong Wang', 'Zhonghua Wang'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1, 25 (OH)2 D3) and mechanical stimuli in physiological environment play an important role in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis. The effects of 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 alone and mechanical stimuli alone on osteoblasts have been widely investigated. This study reports the collective influences of 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and flow shear stress (FSS) on biological functions of osteoblasts. 1, 25 (OH)2 D3 were constructed in various kinds of concentration (0, 1, 10, 100 nmmol/L), while physiological fluid shear stress (12 dynes/cm2) were produced by using a parallel-plate fluid flow system. 1, 25 (OH)2 D3 affects the responses of ROBs to FSS, including the inhibition of NO releases and cell proliferation as well as the promotion of PGE2 releases and cell differentiation. These findings provide a possible mechanism by which 1, 25(OH)2 D3 influences osteoblasts responses to FSS and may provide guidance for the selection of 1, 25(OH)2 D3 concentration and mechanical loading in order to in vitro produce functional bone tissues.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146159', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Taizhou Polytechnic College;', u'School of Pharmacy, Taizhou Polytechnic College']]
[u'Prediction of RNA-protein sequence and structure binding preferences using deep convolutional and recurrent neural networks', ['Xiaoyong Pan', 'Peter Rijnbeek', 'Junchi Yan', 'Hong-Bin Shen'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'RNA regulation is significantly dependent on its binding protein partner, which is known as the RNA-binding proteins (RBPs). Unfortunately, the binding preferences for most RBPs are still not well characterized, especially on the structure point of view. Informative signals hiding and interdependencies between sequence and structure specificities are two challenging problems for both predicting RBP binding sites and accurate  sequence and structure motifs mining. In this study, we propose a deep learning-based method, iDeepS, to simultaneously identify the binding sequence and structure motifs from RNA sequences using convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and a bidirectional long short term memory network (BLSTM). We first perform one-hot encoding for both the sequence and predicted secondary structure, which are appropriate for subsequent convolution operations. To reveal the hidden binding knowledge from the observations, the CNNs are applied to learn the abstract motif features. Considering the close relationship between sequences and predicted structures, we use the BLSTM to capture the long range dependencies between binding sequence and structure motifs identified by the CNNs. Finally, the learned weighted representations are fed into a classification layer to predict the RBP binding sites. We evaluated iDeepS on verified RBP binding sites derived from large-scale representative CLIP-seq datasets, and the results demonstrate that iDeepS can reliably predict the RBP binding sites on RNAs, and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. An important advantage is that iDeepS is able to automatically extract both binding sequence and structure motifs, which will improve our transparent understanding of the mechanisms of binding specificities of RBPs. iDeepS is available at https://github.com/xypan1232/iDeepS.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146175', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Erasmus MC;', u'East China Normal University;', u'Shanghhai Jiao Tong University']]
[u'Male coercion, female resistance, and the evolutionary trap of sexual reproduction', ['Nathan William Burke', 'Russell Bonduriansky'], u'June 5, 2017.', u"Sexual conflict involving male coercion has been suggested as a possible mechanism for the maintenance of costly sexual reproduction, offering a potential resolution to the paradox of sex. However, the potential for sexual conflict to promote sexual reproduction may depend on ecological and genetic factors that influence the dynamics of sexually antagonistic coevolution. We investigated the conditions whereby male coercion could impede the invasion of asexual mutants and prevent transitions from sexual to asexual reproduction using a series of individual-based simulation models that vary in the ecology and genetic architecture of sexual antagonism. We show that a mutant allele that gives virgin females the ability to reproduce parthenogenetically easily invades obligately sexual populations over a broad parameter range via the fecundity advantage of occasional reproduction before mating. However, male coercion prevents transitions from facultative to obligate asexuality unless females evolve effective resistance. The potential for loss of sex can therefore depend on the dynamics of sexual arms races. Our results reveal the complementary roles of mate scarcity and female resistance in promoting the spread of asexual strategies. Our results also suggest that the costs and limitations of female resistance can be key factors in the maintenance of sexual reproduction, and that males' ability to overcome female resistance can turn sex into an evolutionary trap.", u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146076', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of New South Wales Sydney']]
[u"Musical Imagery Involves the Wernicke's Area in Bilateral and Anti-Correlated Network Interactions in Musicians", ['Yizhen Zhang', 'Gang Chen', 'Haiguang Wen', 'Kun-Han Lu', 'Zhongming Liu'], u'June 5, 2017.', u"Musical imagery is a human experience of imagining music without actually hearing it. The neural basis of such a mental ability is unclear, especially for musicians capable of accurate and vivid musical imagery due to their musical training. Here, we visualized an 8-min symphony as a silent movie, and used it as real-time cues for musicians to continuously imagine the music for multiple synchronized sessions during functional magnetic resonance imaging. The activations and networks evoked by musical imagery were compared with those when the subjects directly listened to the same music. The musical imagery and perception shared similar responses at bilateral secondary auditory areas and Wernicke's area for encoding the musical feature. But the Wernicke's area was involved in highly distinct network interactions during musical imagery vs. perception. The former involved positive correlations with a subset of the auditory network and the attention network, but negative correlations with the default mode network; the latter was confined to the intrinsic auditory network in the resting state. Our results highlight the important role of the Wernicke's area in forming vivid musical imagery through bilateral and anti-correlated network interactions, challenging the conventional view of segregated and lateralized processing of music vs. language.", u'/content/early/2017/06/05/142950', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Purdue University;', u'Scientific and Statistical Computing Core, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes']]
[u'Emerging patterns of plasmid-host coevolution that stabilize antibiotic resistance', ['Thibault Stalder', 'Linda M. Rogers', 'Chris Renfrow', 'Hirokazu Yano', 'Zachary Smith', 'Eva M. Top'], u'June 5, 2017.', u"Multidrug resistant bacterial pathogens have become a serious global human health threat, and conjugative plasmids are important drivers of the rapid spread of resistance to last-resort antibiotics. Whereas antibiotics have been shown to select for adaptation of resistance plasmids to their new bacterial hosts, or vice versa, a general evolutionary mechanism has not yet emerged. Here we conducted an experimental evolution study aimed at determining general patterns of plasmid-bacteria evolution. Specifically, we found that a large conjugative resistance plasmid follows the same evolutionary trajectories as its non-conjugative mini-replicon in the same and other species. Furthermore, within a single host-plasmid pair three distinct patterns of adaptive evolution led to increased plasmid persistence: i) mutations in the replication protein gene (trfA1); ii) the acquisition by the resistance plasmid of a transposon from a co-residing plasmid encoding a putative toxin-antitoxin system; iii) a mutation in the host's global transcriptional regulator gene fur. Since each of these evolutionary solutions individually have been shown to increase plasmid persistence in other plasmid-host pairs, our work points towards common mechanisms of plasmid stabilization. These could become the targets of future alternative drug therapies to slow down the spread of antibiotic resistance.", u'/content/early/2017/06/05/146118', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Idaho']]
[u'A cell-free platform for rapid synthesis and testing of active oligosaccharyltransferases', ['Jennifer Schoborg', 'Jasmine Hershewe', 'Jessica C. Stark', 'Weston Kightlinger', 'James E. Kath', 'Thapakorn Jaroentomeechai', 'Aravind Natarajan', 'Matthew P. DeLisa', 'Michael C. Jewett'], u'June 5, 2017.', u'Protein glycosylation, or the attachment of sugar moieties (glycans) to proteins, is important for protein stability, activity, and immunogenicity. However, understanding the roles and regulations of site-specific glycosylation events remains a significant challenge due to several technological limitations. These limitations include a lack of available tools for biochemical characterization of enzymes involved in glycosylation. A particular challenge is the synthesis of oligosaccharyltransferases (OSTs), which catalyze the attachment of glycans to specific amino acid residues in target proteins. The difficulty arises from the fact that canonical OSTs are large (>70 kDa) and possess multiple transmembrane helices, making them difficult to overexpress in living cells. Here, we address this challenge by establishing a bacterial cell-free protein synthesis platform that enables rapid production of a variety of OSTs in their active conformations. Specifically, by using lipid nanodiscs as cellular membrane mimics, we obtained yields of up to 440 ug/mL for the single-subunit OST enzyme, "Protein glycosylation B" (PglB) from Campylobacter jejuni, as well as for three additional PglB homologs from Campylobacter coli, Campylobacter lari, and Desulfovibrio gigas. Importantly, all of these enzymes catalyzed N-glycosylation reactions in vitro with no purification or processing needed. Furthermore, we demonstrate the ability of cell-free synthesized OSTs to glycosylate multiple target proteins with varying N-glycosylation acceptor sequons. We anticipate that this broadly applicable production method will advance glycoengineering efforts by enabling preparative expression of membrane-embedded OSTs from all kingdoms of life.', u'/content/early/2017/06/05/145227', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Northwestern University;', u'Cornell University']]
