[u'Socio-environmental and measurement factors drive spatial variation in influenza-like illness', ['Elizabeth C Lee', 'Ali Arab', 'Sandra Goldlust', 'Cecile Viboud', 'Shweta Bansal'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'The mechanisms hypothesized to drive spatial heterogeneity in reported influenza activity include: environmental factors, contact patterns, population age structure, and socioeconomic factors linked to healthcare access and quality of life. Harnessing the large volume and high specificity of diagnosis codes in medical claims data for influenza seasons from 2002-2009, we estimate the importance of socio-environmental determinants and measurement-related factors on observed variation in influenza-like illness (ILI) across United States counties. We found that South Atlantic states tended to have higher ILI seasonal intensity, and a combination of transmission, environmental, influenza subtype, socioeconomic and measurement factors explained the variation in seasonal intensity across our study period. Moreover, our models suggest that sentinel surveillance systems should have fixed report locations across years for the most robust inference and prediction, and high volumes of data can offset measurement biases in opportunistic data samples.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/112680', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Georgetown University;', u'Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health']]
[u'Assessing the distribution and determinants of vaccine underutilization in the United States', ['Sandra Goldlust', 'Elizabeth C Lee', 'Murali Haran', 'Pejman Rohani', 'Shweta Bansal'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Despite advances in sanitation and immunization, vaccine-preventable diseases remain a significant cause of morbidity and mortality  worldwide. In high-income countries such as the United States, coverage rates for vaccination against childhood infections remains high. However, the phenomenon of vaccine hesitancy makes maintenance of herd immunity difficult, impeding global disease eradication efforts. Reaching the \u2018last mile\u2019 will require early detection of vaccine hesitancy (driven by philosophical or religious choices), identifying pockets of susceptibility due to underimmunization (driven by vaccine unavailability, costs ineligibility), determining the factors associated with the behavior and developing targeted strategies to ameliorate the concerns. Towards this goal, we harness high-resolution medical claims data to geographically localize vaccine refusal and underimmunization (collectively, \u2018underutilization\u2019)  in the United States and identify the socio-economic determinants of the behaviors. Our study represents the first large-scale effort for vaccination behavior surveillance and has the potential to aid in the development of targeted public health strategies for optimizing vaccine uptake.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113043', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Georgetown University;', u'Penn State University;', u'University of Georgia']]
[u'Genetic characterization of the Zika virus epidemic in the US Virgin Islands', ['Allison Black', 'Barney Potter', 'Gytis Dudas', 'Leora Feldstein', 'Nathan D Grubaugh', 'Kristian G Andersen', 'Brett R Ellis', 'Esther M Ellis', 'Trevor Bedford'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Here we release draft genome sequences of Zika virus (ZIKV) that were sequenced from PCR-positive diagnostic specimens collected by the United States Virgin Islands Department of Health (USVI DoH) as part of their ongoing response to the ZIKV outbreak. We will use these sequences to conduct a genomic epidemiological study of ZIKV transmission in the USVI. We are releasing these genomes in the hope that they are useful for those individuals involved in the public health response to ZIKV and to other groups working to understand Zika virus transmission and evolution.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113100', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'Scripps Research Institute;', u'United States Virgin Islands Department of Health']]
[u'Contractility, Differential Tension and Membrane Removal direct zebrafish Epiboly Biomechanics', ['Maria Marsal', 'Enrique Martin-Blanco'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Precise tissue remodeling during development is essential for shaping embryos and for optimal organ function. Epiboly is an early gastrulation event by which the blastoderm expands around the yolk to engulf it. Three different layers are involved, an epithelial layer (the enveloping layer, EVL), the embryo proper, constituted by the deep cells (DCs), and the yolk cell. Although teleost epiboly has been studied for many years, a clear understanding of its mechanics was still missing. Here we present new information on the cellular, molecular and mechanical elements involved in epiboly that, together with some other recent data and upon comparison with previous biomechanical models, lets conclude that the expansion of the epithelia is passive and driven by cortical contraction and membrane removal in the adjacent layer, the External Yolk Syncytial Layer (E-YSL). The isotropic actomyosin contraction of the E-YSL generates an anisotropic stress pattern and a directional net movement as a result of the differences in the deformation response of two opposites adjacent domains (the EVL and the Yolk Cytoplasmic Layer - YCL). Contractility is accompanied by the local formation of membrane folds and the membrane removal by Rab5ab dependent macropinocytosis. The increase in area of the epithelia during the expansion is achieved by cell-shape changes (flattening) responding to spherical geometrical cues. The counterbalance between the geometry of the embryo and forces dissipation is therefore essential for epiboly global coordination.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113282', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'IBMB (CSIC)']]
[u'Cartilage microRNA dysregulation during the onset and progression of mouse osteoarthritis overlaps with patient disease candidates', ['Louise H.W. Kung', 'Varshini Ravi', 'Lynn Rowley', 'Constanza Angelucci', 'Amanda J Fosang', 'Katrina M Bell', 'Christopher B Little', 'John Bateman'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'The regulatory interplay between the joint cartilage and subchondral bone (SCB) is known be important in osteoarthritis (OA) pathology. Thus, to explore the role of microRNAs in osteoarthritis, we conducted global microRNA microarray expression profiling on microdissected medial tibial cartilage and SCB in a mouse model of OA produced by medial meniscus destabilization (DMM).  Compared to sham-operated mice, DMM-operated mice had characteristic cartilage degeneration, SCB sclerosis and osteophyte formation. miRNA expression profiling revealed no statistically significant dysregulation of SCB miRNAs between DMM and sham-operated mice. In contrast, 139 miRNAs were found to be differentially expressed in DMM cartilage at 1 or 6 weeks post-surgery. To prioritize OA-candidates, dysregulated miRNAs were filtered against miRNAs identified in human OA and then using paired miRNA:mRNA expression analysis we identified a cohort of down-regulated microRNAs (miR-15a/16, 26b, 30c, 98, 149, 210, 342, 140, Let-7e) with corresponding changes in predicted target transcripts. Comparisons with microRNA dysregulation in DMM mouse cartilage where aggrecan cleavage was genetically ablated demonstrated that all, except Let-7e, were independent of aggrecan breakdown, earmarking this cohort of microRNAs of relevance to the critical early stages of OA initiation.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113456', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Murdoch Childrens Research Institute;', u'University of Sydney']]
[u'Genetic Diversity in Circulating Tumor Cell Clusters', ['Zafarali Ahmed', 'Simon Gravel'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'Genetic diversity plays a central role in tumor progression, metastasis, and resistance to treatment. Experiments are shedding light on this diversity at ever finer scales, but interpretation is challenging. Using recent progress in numerical models, we simulate macroscopic tumors to investigate the interplay between global growth dynamics, microscopic composition, and circulating tumor cell cluster diversity. We find that modest differences in growth parameters can profoundly change microscopic diversity. Simple outwards expansion leads to spatially segregated clones, as expected, but a modest cell turnover can result in mixing at the microscopic scale, consistent with experimental observations. Whereas simple range expansion models predict maximum diversity at the tumor edge, turnover models predict maximum diversity near the core of the tumor and a higher potency of CTCs for metastasis. Using multi-region sequencing data from a Hepatocellular Carcinoma patient to validate our models, we propose that deep multi-region sequencing is well-powered to distinguish between some of the leading models of cancer evolution. The genetic composition of circulating tumor cell clusters, which can be obtained from noninvasive blood draws, is therefore informative about tumor evolution, the position of origin of the cluster within the tumor, and its metastatic potential. It is therefore a promising tool for both fundamental and medical research.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113480', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'McGill University']]
[u'Image processing techniques for high-resolution structure determination from badly ordered 2D crystals', ['Nikhil Biyani', 'Sebastian Scherer', 'Ricardo D. Righetto', 'Julia Kowal', 'Mohamed Chami', 'Henning Stahlberg'], u'March 3, 2017.', u"2D electron crystallography can be used to study small membrane proteins in their native environment. Obtaining highly ordered 2D crystals is difficult and time-consuming. However, 2D crystals diffracting to only 10-12 Angstrom can be prepared relatively conveniently in most cases. We have developed image-processing algorithms allowing to generate a high resolution 3D structure from cryo-electron crystallography images of badly ordered crystals. These include movie-mode unbending, that corrects for crystal imperfections and locally-varying beam-induced sample deformations, while preventing overfitting and computationally optimizing the electron dose used for each resolution range individually; refinement over sub-tiles of the images in order to locally refine the sample tilt geometry within different tile locations on the images; and implementation of different CTF correction schemes. Additionally, the sample tilt angle achievable while collecting 2D crystal data, is typically limited to 60 degrees. This leads to a missing conical region in 3D Fourier space known as the 'missing cone'. In real space, the missing cone makes the densities look elongated in the vertical direction. In addition, data can also be missing in other regions, depending on the tilt sampling.  Here we report an iterative method that applies known constraints in the real and reciprocal space to approximate amplitudes and phases in missing regions. We applied the new procedure to a three-dimensional (3D) dataset consisting of ~400 movies of the voltage-gated ion-channel MloK1 crystallized in 2D. The 3D density map and its quality measurements improved significantly. The refined map shows more distinct densities than the 3D reconstruction obtained by classical crystal unbending and is easier to interpret.", u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113415', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of Basel']]
[u'DHX15 regulates CMTR1-dependent gene expression and cell proliferation', ['Francisco Inesta-Vaquera', 'Alison Galloway', 'Laurel Chandler', 'Alejandro Rojas-Fernandez', 'Viduth K Chaugule', 'Simone Weidlich', 'Mark Peggie', 'Victoria H Cowling'], u'March 3, 2017.', u'CMTR1 contributes to mRNA cap formation by methylating the O-2 position of the 1st transcribed nucleotide ribose. mRNA cap O-2 methylation has roles in mRNA translation and self-RNA tolerance in innate immunity, however its role in cell physiology is unclear. We report that CMTR1 is recruited to Serine-5 phosphorylated RNA Pol II CTD, facilitating cotranscriptional methylation. We isolated CMTR1 in a complex with DHX15, an RNA helices functioning in splicing and ribosome biogenesis, and characterised it as a regulator of CMTR1. When bound to DHX15, CMTR1 activity is repressed and prevented from binding to RNA pol II, thus constraining 1st nucleotide methylation to a co-transcriptional event. Conversely CMTR1 activates DHX15 helicase activity and influences its nuclear localisation, which is likely to\nimpact on several nuclear functions. The impact of the CMTR1-DHX15 interaction is complex and will depend on the relative expression of these enzymes and their interactors, and the cellular dependency on different RNA processing pathways. In HCC1806 cells, the DHX15-CMTR1 interaction controls ribosome loading of a subset of mRNAs and impacts on cell proliferation.', u'/content/early/2017/03/03/113209', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Dundee']]
