[u'An allosteric theory of transcription factor induction', ['Manuel Razo-Mejia', 'Stephanie L. Barnes', 'Nathan M. Belliveau', 'Griffin Chure', 'Tal Einav', 'Rob Phillips'], u'February 22, 2017.', u"Allosteric molecules serve as regulators of cellular activity across all\ndomains of life.  We present a general theory of allosteric transcriptional\nregulation that permits quantitative predictions for how physiological responses are tuned to environmental stimuli. To test the model's predictive power, we apply it to the specific case of the  ubiquitous simple repression motif in bacteria. We measure the fold-change in gene expression at different inducer concentrations in a collection of strains that span a range of repressor copy numbers and operator binding strengths. After inferring the inducer dissociation constants using data from one of these strains, we show the broad reach of the model by predicting the induction profiles of all other strains. Finally, we derive an expression for the free energy of allosteric transcription factors which enables us to collapse the data from all of our experiments onto a single master curve, capturing the diverse phenomenology of the induction profiles.", u'/content/early/2017/02/22/111013', [], [u'Caltech']]
[u'The evolution of queen control over worker reproduction in the social Hymenoptera', ['Jason Olejarz', 'Carl Veller', 'Martin A. Nowak'], u'February 22, 2017.', u"A trademark of eusocial insect species is reproductive division of labor, in which workers forego their own reproduction while the queen produces almost all offspring. The presence of the queen is key for maintaining social harmony, but the specific role of the queen in the evolution of eusociality remains unclear. A long-discussed scenario is that a queen either behaviorally or chemically sterilizes her workers. However, the demographic and ecological conditions that enable such manipulation are unknown. Accordingly, we propose a simple model of evolutionary dynamics that is based on haplodiploid genetics. We consider a mutation that acts in a queen, causing her to control the reproductive behavior of her workers. Our mathematical analysis yields precise conditions for the evolutionary emergence and stability of queen-induced worker sterility. These conditions do not depend on the queen's mating frequency. Moreover, we find that queen control is always established if it increases colony reproductive efficiency and can evolve even if it decreases colony efficiency. We further outline the conditions under which queen control is evolutionarily stable against invasion by mutant, reproductive workers.", u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110973', [], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Fitting mechanistic epidemic models to data: a comparison of simple Markov chain Monte Carlo approaches', ['Michael Li', 'Jonathan Dushoff', 'Benjamin M Bolker'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Background: Simple mechanistic epidemic models are widely used for forecasting and parameter estimation of infectious diseases based on noisy case reporting data. Despite the widespread application of models to emerging infectious diseases, we know little about the comparative performance of standard computational-statistical frameworks in these contexts. Here we build a simple stochastic, discrete-time, discrete-state epidemic model with both process and observation error and use it to characterize the effectiveness of different flavours of Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) techniques. We explore the limitations of different platforms and quantify parameter estimation accuracy, forecasting accuracy, and computational efficiency across combinations of modelling decisions (e.g. discrete vs. continuous latent states, levels of stochasticity) and computational platforms (JAGS, NIMBLE, Stan).\nResults: Simulations showed that models incorporating at least one source of population-level variation (i.e., dispersion in either the transmission process or the observation process) provide reasonably good forecasts and parameter estimates, while models that incorporate only individual-level variation can lead to inaccurate (or overconfident) results. Models using continuous-approximations to the transmission process showed improved computational efficiency without loss of accuracy. \nConclusion: Simple models of disease transmission and observation can be fitted reliably to simple simulations, as long as population-level variation is taken into account. Continuous approximations can improve computational efficiency using more advanced MCMC techniques.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110767.1', [], [u'McMaster University']]
[u'An attempt to replicate a dissociation between syntax and semantics during sentence comprehension reported by Dapretto & Bookheimer (1999, Neuron)', ['Matthew Siegelman', 'Zachary Mineroff', 'Idan Blank', 'Evelina Fedorenko'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Abstract\nDoes processing the meanings of individual words vs. assembling words into phrases and sentences rely on distinct pools of cognitive and neural resources? Many have argued for such a dissociation, although the field is lacking a consensus on which brain region(s) support lexico-semantic vs. syntactic processing. Although some have also argued against such a dissociation, the dominant view in the field remains that distinct brain regions support these two fundamental components of language. One of the earlier and most cited pieces of evidence in favor of this dissociation comes from a paper by Dapretto & Bookheimer (1999, Neuron; DB). Using a sentence meaning comparison task, DB observed two distinct peaks within the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG): one more active when comparisons relied on lexico-semantic cues, and another when they instead relied on syntactic cues. Although the paper has been highly cited over the years, no attempt has been made, to our knowledge, to replicate the original finding. We here report an fMRI study that attempts to do so. Using a combination of three approaches, namely, whole-brain, group-level ROIs, and individual functional ROIs, we fail to replicate the originally reported dissociation. In particular, parts of the LIFG respond reliably more strongly during lexico-semantic than syntactic processing, but no part of the LIFG (including in the region defined around the peak reported by DB) shows the opposite response pattern. We hypothesize that the original result was a false positive, possibly driven by one participant or item given the use of a fixed-effects analysis and a small number of items (8 per condition) and participants (n=8).', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110791', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MIT;', u'HMS, MGH']]
[u'GCalignR: An R package for aligning Gas-Chromatography data', ['Meinolf Ottensmann', 'Martin A Stoffel', 'Joseph I Hoffman'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Chemical signals are arguably the oldest and most fundamental means of animal communication and play a fundamental role in mate choice and kin selection. A key tool for uncovering broad patterns of chemical similarity is gas chromatography (GC). However, downstream analyses rely on the correct alignment of homologous substances, represented by peaks, across samples. Here we present GCalignR, a user-friendly R package for aligning GC data based on retention times. The package also implements a suite of dynamic visualisation tools to facilitate inspection of the resulting alignments and can be integrated within a broader workflow in R to facilitate downstream multivariate analyses. We demonstrate an example workflow using a chemical dataset from Antarctic fur seals, show that the resulting alignments are relatively insensitive to realistic levels of randomly introduced noise, and also test the package on three pre-validated datasets to reveal generally rather low alignment error rates. We hope that GCalignR will help to simplify the processing of chemical datasets and contribute towards improved standardization and reproducibility.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110494', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Bielefeld University']]
[u'A Mixture Copula Bayesian Network Model for Multimodal Genomic Data', ['Qingyang Zhang', 'Xuan Shi'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Gaussian Bayesian networks have become a widely used framework to estimate directed associations between joint Gaussian variables, where the network structure encodes decomposition of multivariate normal density into local terms. However, the resulting estimates can be inaccurate when normality assumption is moderately or severely violated, making it unsuitable to deal with recent genomic data such as the Cancer Genome Atlas data. In the present paper, we propose a mixture copula\nBayesian network model which provides great flexibility in modeling non-Gaussian and multimodal data for causal inference. The parameters in mixture copula functions can be efficiently estimated by a routine\nExpectation-Maximization algorithm. A heuristic search algorithm based on Bayesian information criterion is developed to estimate the network structure, and prediction can be further improved by the best-scoring network out of multiple predictions from random initial values. Our method outperforms Gaussian Bayesian networks and regular copula Bayesian networks in terms of modeling flexibility and prediction accuracy, as demonstrated using a cell signaling dataset. We apply the proposed methods to the Cancer Genome Atlas data to study the genetic and epigenetic pathways that underlie serous ovarian cancer.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110288', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Arkansas']]
[u'Comparative insights to the transportome of Nosema: a genus of parasitic microsporidians', ['Hasnahana Chetia', 'Debajyoti Kabiraj', 'Swagata Sharma', 'Utpal Bora'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Nosema, a genus of parasitic microsporidia, causes pebrine disease in arthropods, including economically important silkworms and honeybees. Nosema have gene-poor genomes shaped by loss of the metabolic pathways, as a consequence of continued dependence on host-derived substrates. As an act of counterbalance, they have developed an array of transporter proteins that allow stealing from their hosts. Here, we have identified the core set of twelve transporter families present in Nosema genus, viz. N. apis, N. bombycis, N. ceranae and N. antheraea through in silico pipeline. Transportomes of N. apis, N. bombycis, N. ceranae and N. antheraea have a dominant share of secondary carriers and primary active transporters. The comparatively rich and diverse transportome of N. bombycis indicates the role of transporters in its remarkable capability of host adaptation. The core set of transporter families of Nosema includes ones that have a likely role in osmo-regulation, intra- and extra-cellular pH regulation, energy compensation and self-defence mechanism. This study has also revealed a set of ten species-specific transporter families within the genus. To our knowledge, this is the first ever intra-genus study on microsporidian transporters. Both these datasets constitutes a valuable resource that can aid in development of inhibitor-based Nosema management strategies.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110809', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati']]
[u'Functional Connectivity Between Somatosensory and Motor Brain Areas Predicts Individual Differences in Motor Learning by Observing', ['Heather R McGregor', 'Paul L Gribble'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Action observation can facilitate the acquisition of novel motor skills, however, there is considerable individual variability in the extent to which observation promotes motor learning. Here we tested the hypothesis that individual differences in brain function or structure can predict subsequent observation-related gains in motor learning. Subjects underwent an anatomical MRI scan and resting-state fMRI scans to assess pre-observation grey matter volume and pre-observation resting-state functional connectivity (FC), respectively. On the following day, subjects observed a video of a tutor adapting her reaches to a novel force field. After observation, subjects performed reaches in a force field as a behavioral assessment of gains in motor learning resulting from observation. We found that individual differences in resting-state FC, but not grey matter volume, predicted post-observation gains in motor learning. Pre-observation resting-state FC between left S1 and bilateral PMd, M1, S1 and left SPL was positively correlated with behavioral measures of post-observation motor learning. Sensory-motor resting-state FC can thus predict the extent to which observation will promote subsequent motor learning.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110924', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Western Ontario']]
[u'Novel blood pressure locus and gene discovery using GWAS and expression datasets from blood and the kidney', ['Georg Ehret', 'Louise Wain'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Elevated blood pressure is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease and has a substantial genetic contribution. Genetic variation influencing blood pressure has the potential to identify new pharmacological targets for the treatment of hypertension. To discover additional novel blood pressure loci, we used 1000 Genomes Project-based imputation in 150,134 European ancestry individuals and sought significant evidence for independent replication in a further 228,245 individuals. We report 6 new signals of association in or near HSPB7, TNXB, LRP12, LOC283335, SEPT9 and AKT2, and provide new replication evidence for a further 2 signals in EBF2 and NFKBIA. Combining large whole-blood gene expression resources totaling 12,607 individuals, we investigated all novel and previously reported signals and identified 48 genes with evidence for involvement in BP regulation that are significant in multiple resources.  Three novel kidney-specific signals were also detected. These robustly implicated genes may provide new leads for therapeutic innovation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110833', [u'Genomics'], [u'Johns Hopkins University US and Geneva University Switzerland;', u'Leicester University UK']]
[u'Anoxia-Induced VEGF-Release from Rat Cardiomyocites Promotes Vascular Differentiation of Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells.', ['Raquel Gutierrez_Lanza', 'Victor M Campa'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Background. Albeit several studies show that cellular therapy with bone marrow mesenchymal\nstem cells (BM-hMSCs) improves cardiac function after myocardial infarction (MI), the underlying mechanism is subject of controversy. Here we hypothesized that soluble factors, including VEGF, secreted by cardiomyocytes and BM-hMSCs under a low oxygen environment promote vascular differentiation of BM-hMSCs.\nMethods. Human BM-MSCs were isolated and expanded in vitro by the same procedure we\nemployed to prepare cells suitable for cardiac cell therapy. BM-hMSCs were characterized by flow cytometry and functional analysis. Vascular differentiation was induced by VEGF or by conditioned media from neonate rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (NRVCs) cultured in anoxia and confirmed by immunostaining, tube formation over matrigel and cell migration across transwells. Presence of VEGF in conditioned media was determined by ELISA and activation of VEGF signaling by Western blot.\nResults. BM-hMSCs used in this study met the criteria recommended by International Society for Cellular Therapy for defining mesenchymal stromal cells. Von Willebrand factor (vWF) expression and tube formation in matrigel indicate that these cells had the capacity to differentiate into the endothelial lineage, which was further enhanced by VEGF and conditioned media from NRVCs cultured in anoxia. Furthermore, condition media and VEGF stimulated cell migration across transwells, which demonstrates the migratory capacity of BM-hMSCs. Finally, when VEGF signaling was blocked by neutralizing anti-VEGF, vascular differentiation of BM-hMSCs was reduced to basal levels.\nConclusions. Soluble VEGF released in the culture media after exposure to low oxygen\nconditions is responsible for endothelial differentiation of BM-hMSCs.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110908', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Inst. Biomed. Biotec. Cantabria']]
[u'Decoding temporal interpretation of the morphogen Bicoid in the early Drosophila embryo', ['Anqi Huang', 'Christopher Amourda', 'Shaobo Zhang', 'Nicholas S Tolwinski', 'Timothy Edward Saunders'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Morphogen gradients provide essential spatial information during development. Not only the local concentration but also duration of morphogen exposure is critical for correct cell fate decisions. Yet, how and when cells temporally integrate signals from a morphogen remains unclear.  Here, we use optogenetic manipulation to switch off Bicoid-dependent transcription in the early Drosophila embryo with high temporal resolution, allowing time-specific and reversible manipulation of morphogen signalling.  We find that Bicoid transcriptional activity is dispensable for embryonic viability in the first hour after fertilization, but persistently required throughout the rest of the blastoderm stage. Short interruptions of Bicoid activity alter the most anterior cell fate decisions, while prolonged inactivation expands patterning defects from anterior to posterior. Such anterior susceptibility correlates with high reliance of anterior gap gene expression on Bicoid. Therefore, cell fates exposed to higher Bicoid concentration require input for longer duration, demonstrating a previously unknown aspect of morphogen decoding.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110841', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'Mechanobiology Institute;', u'Division of Science, Yale-NUS college']]
[u'Strategic exploration in human adaptive control', ['Eric Schulz', 'Edgar Klenske', 'Neil Bramley', 'Maarten Speekenbrink'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'How do people explore in order to gain rewards in uncertain dynamical systems?   \nWithin a reinforcement learning paradigm, control normally involves trading off between exploration (i.e. trying out actions in order to gain more knowledge about the system) and exploitation (i.e. using current knowledge of the system to maximize reward). We study a novel control task in which participants must steer a boat on a grid, assessing whether participants explore strategically in order to produce higher rewards later on. We find that participants explore strategically yet conservatively, exploring more when mistakes are less costly and practicing actions that will be needed later on.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110486', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'University College London;', u'MPI Tubingen']]
[u'Dynactin has two antagonistic regulatory domains and exerts opposing effects on dynein motility', ['Takuya Kobayashi', 'Takuya Miyashita', 'Takashi Murayama', 'Yoko Y. Toyoshima'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Dynactin is a dynein-regulating protein that increases the processivity of dynein movement on microtubules. Recent studies have shown that a tripartite complex of dynein-dynactin-Bicaudal D2 is essential for highly processive movement. To elucidate the regulation of dynein motility by dynactin, we focused on two isoforms (A and B) of dynactin 1 (DCTN1), the largest subunit of dynactin that contains both microtubule- and dynein-binding domains. The only difference between the primary structures of the two isoforms is that DCTN1B lacks the K-rich domain, a cluster of basic residues. We measured dynein motility by single molecule observation of recombinant dynein and dynactin. Whereas the tripartite complex containing DCTN1A exhibited highly processive movement, the complex containing DCTN1B dissociated from microtubules with no apparent processive movement. This inhibitory effect of DCTN1B was caused by reductions of the microtubule-binding affinities of both dynein and dynactin, which is attributed to the coiled-coil 1 domain of DCTN1. In DCTN1A, the K-rich domain antagonized these inhibitory effects. Therefore, dynactin has two antagonistic domains and promotes or suppresses dynein motility to accomplish correct localization and functions of dynein within a cell.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110775', [u'Biophysics'], [u'The University of Tokyo;', u'Juntendo University School of Medicine']]
[u'Mitochondrial impairment and rescue in riboflavin responsive neuropathy', ['Andreea Manole', 'Zane Jaunmuktane', 'Iain Hargreaves', 'Amelie Pandraud', 'Vincenzo Salpietro', 'Simon Pope', 'Marthe H. R. Ludtmann', 'Alejandro Horga', 'Renata S. Renata', 'Abi Li', 'Balasubramaniem Ashokkumar', 'Charles M. Lourenco', 'Simon Heales', 'Rita Horvath', 'Patrick F. Chinnery', 'Camilo Toro', 'Andrew B. Singleton', 'Thomas S. Jacques', 'Andrey Y. Abramov', 'Francesco Muntoni', 'Michael G. Hanna', 'Mary M. Reilly', 'Tamas Revesz', 'Dimitri M. Kullmann', 'James E.C. Jepson', 'Henry Houlden'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Brown-Vialetto-Van Laere syndrome (BVVLS) represents a phenotypic spectrum of motor, sensory, and cranial nerve neuropathy, often with ataxia, optic atrophy and respiratory problems leading to ventilator-dependence. Loss-of-function mutations in two riboflavin transporter (RFVT) genes, SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, have recently been linked to BVVLS. However, the genetic frequency, neuropathology and downstream consequences of RFVT mutations have previously been undefined. By screening a large cohort of 132 patients with early-onset severe sensory, motor and cranial nerve neuropathy we confirmed the strong genetic link between RFVT mutations and BVVLS, identifying twenty-two pathogenic mutations in SLC52A2 and SLC52A3, fourteen of which were novel. Brain and spinal cord neuropathological examination of two cases with SLC52A3 mutations showed classical symmetrical brainstem lesions resembling pathology seen in mitochondrial disease, including severe neuronal loss in the lower cranial nerve nuclei, anterior horns and corresponding nerves, atrophy of the spinothalamic and spinocerebellar tracts and posterior column-medial lemniscus pathways. Mitochondrial dysfunction has previously been implicated in an array of neurodegenerative disorders. Since riboflavin metabolites are critical components of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC), we hypothesized that reduced riboflavin transport would result in impaired mitochondrial activity, and confirmed this using in vitro and in vivo models. ETC complex I and complex II activity were decreased in SLC52A2 patient fibroblasts, while global knockdown of the single Drosophila RFVT homologue revealed reduced levels of riboflavin, downstream metabolites, and ETC complex I activity. RFVT knockdown in Drosophila also resulted in severely impaired locomotor activity and reduced lifespan, mirroring patient pathology, and these phenotypes could be partially rescued using a novel esterified derivative of riboflavin. Our findings indicate mitochondrial dysfunction as a downstream consequence of RFVT gene defects in BVVLS and validate riboflavin esters as a potential therapeutic strategy.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110890', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCL Institute of Neurology, Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK;', u'Neurometabolic Unit, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London, WC1N 3BG,UK;', u'Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK;', u'Universidade de Sao Paulo (USP), Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil;', u"Chemical Pathology, Great Ormond Street Children's Hospital, London, UK;", u'Institute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, Central Parkway, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK;', u'Department of Clinical Neurosciences, School of Clinical Medicine, University of Cambridge, UK;', u'NIH Undiagnosed Diseases Program, Common Fund, Office of the Director, Bethesda, MD, USA;', u'Laboratory of Neurogenetics, NIA/NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA;', u'UCL Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, 30 Guilford Street, London WC1N 1EH, UK;', u'UCL Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, 30 Guildford Street, London, WC1N 1EH, UK']]
[u'Granatum: a graphical single-cell RNA-seq analysis pipeline for genomics scientists', ['Xun Zhu', 'Thomas Wolfgruber', 'Austin Tasato', 'Lana Garmire'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Background: Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) is an increasingly popular platform to study heterogeneity at the single cell level. Computational methods to process scRNA-seq have limited accessibility to bench scientists, as they require significant amount of bioinformatics skills.\nResults: We have developed Granatum, a web browser based scRNA-seq analysis pipeline to make analysis more broadly accessible to researchers. Without a single line of programming code, a user can click through the pipeline, setting parameters and visualizing results via the interactive graphical interface. The pipeline conveniently walks the users through various steps of scRNA-seq analysis. It has a comprehensive list of modules, including plate merging and batch effect removal, outlier sample removal, gene filtering, gene expression normalization, cell clustering, differential gene expression analysis, pathway/ontology enrichment analysis, protein network interaction visualization, and pseudo-time cell series construction.\nConclusions: Granatum enables much widely adoption of scRNA-seq technology by empowering the bench scientists with an easy to use graphical interface for scRNA-seq data analysis. The code is freely available for research use at: http://garmiregroup.org/granatum/code', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110759', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Hawaii;', u'University of Hawaii Cancer Center']]
[u'Locomotion induces stimulus-specific response enhancement in adult visual cortex', ['Megumi Kaneko', 'Yu Fu', 'Michael P Stryker'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'The responses of neurons in the visual cortex (V1) of adult mammals have long been thought to be stable over long periods. Here, we investigated whether repeated exposure to specific stimuli would enhance V1 visual responses in mice using intrinsic signal imaging through the intact skull and two-photon imaging of calcium signals in single neurons. Mice ran on Styrofoam balls floating on air while viewing one of three different, high-contrast visual stimuli. V1 responses to the stimuli that were viewed by the animal were specifically enhanced, while responses to other stimuli were unaffected. Similar exposure in stationary mice, or in mice in which NMDA receptors were partially blocked, did not significantly enhance responses. These findings indicate that stimulus-specific plasticity in the adult visual cortex depends on concurrent locomotion, presumably as a result of the high-gain state of visual cortex induced by locomotion.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/109660', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of California - San Francisco;', u'Singapore Bioimaging Consortium, Agency for Science Technology and Research (A*STAR), Singapore']]
[u'Modeling heterogeneous populations using Boolean networks', ['Brian C Ross', 'Mayla Boguslav', 'Holly Weeks', 'James Costello'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Boolean networks are commonly used to model biological pathways and processes, in part because analyses can often find all possible long-term outcomes. Here we describe a Boolean network analysis that captures both the long-term outcomes of a heterogeneous population, as well as the transient behavior leading up to those outcomes. In contrast to other approaches, our method gives an explicit simulation through time using the composition of the mixed population without having to track each subpopulation individually, thus allowing us to simulate heterogeneous populations. This technique accurately models the dynamics of large populations of deterministic, probabilistic or continuous-time Boolean networks that use either synchronous or asynchronous updating. Our method works by treating the network dynamics as a linear system in a variable space that includes products of the Boolean state variables. We show that these product-basis analyses can help find very rare subpopulations or behaviors that sampling-based analyses would likely miss. Such rare events are critical in processes such as the initiation and progression of cancer, and the development of treatment resistance.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110817', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of Colorado, Denver at Anschutz']]
[u'Gal4 activation domain 9aaTAD could be inactivated by adjacent mini-inhibitory domain and reactivated by distal re-activation domain', ['Martin Piskacek', 'Marek Havelka', 'Martina Rezacova', 'Andrea Knight'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'The characterisation of the activation domains started three decades ago with Gcn4 and Gal4 activators. The amorphous character of the activation domains strongly hindered their definition. Moreover, during the attempts to localise the Gal4 activation domain, the artificial peptides, an unintended consequence of cloning, were responsible for artificial transcriptional activity of the several Gal4 constructs. These artefacts produced enormous experimental bias and misconception. The presence of inhibitory domains in some Gal4 constructs made the misperception even worse. Previously, we reported that the nine amino acid transactivation domain, 9aaTAD, is the exclusive activation domain in the Gal4 protein. The activation domain 9aaTAD could be identified in Gal4 paralogs Oaf1, Pip2, Pdr1, Pdr3 and other activators p53, E2A and MLL. Surprisingly, the activation domain 9aaTAD was reported as misconception for Gal4 activator. Here we demonstrated that small region of 10 amino acids adjacent to the Gal4 activation domain 9aaTAD is an inhibitory domain, which the authors included in their constructs. Moreover, we identified Gal4 region, which was able to the reverse the inhibitory effect. The 9aaTAD re-activation domain was localized to the 13 amino acid long region. In this report we clarified the numerous confusions and rebutted supposed 9aaTAD misconception.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110882', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'MU Brno, Czech Republic']]
[u'HIV population-level adaptation can rapidly diminish the impact of a partially effective vaccine', ['Joshua Herbeck', 'Kathryn Peebles', 'Paul Edlefsen', 'Morgane Rolland', 'James Murphy', 'Geoffrey Gottlieb', 'Neil Abernethy', 'James Mullins', 'John Mittler', 'Steven Goodreau'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Development of an HIV vaccine is essential to ending the HIV/AIDS pandemic. However, vaccines can result in the emergence and spread of vaccine-resistant strains. Indeed, analyses of breakthrough infections in the HIV vaccine trial RV144 identified HIV genotypes with differential rates of transmission in vaccine and placebo recipients. We hypothesized that, for HIV vaccination programs based on partially effective vaccines similar to RV144, HIV adaptation will diminish the expected vaccine impact. Using two HIV epidemic models, we simulated large-scale vaccination programs and, critically, included HIV strain diversity with respect to the vaccine response. We show here that rapid population-level viral adaptation can lead to decreased overall vaccine efficacy and substantially fewer infections averted by vaccination, when comparing scenarios with and without viral evolution (depending on vaccination coverage, vaccine efficacy against the sensitive allele, and the initial resistant allele frequency). Translating this to the epidemic in South Africa, a scenario with 70% vaccination coverage may result in 250,000 new infections within 10 years of vaccine rollout that are due solely to HIV adaptation, all else being equal. These findings suggest that approaches to HIV vaccine development, program implementation, and epidemic modeling may require attention to viral evolutionary responses to vaccination.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110783', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'US Military HIV Research Program']]
[u'The Pax9/Wnt pathway regulates secondary palate formation in mice', ['Shihai Jia', 'Jing Zhou', 'Christopher Fanelli', 'Yinshen Wee', 'John Bonds', 'Pascal Schneider', 'Gabriele Mues', "Rena N. D'Souza"], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Clefts of the palate and/or lip arise in about 1/700 human live births and are caused by multiple genetic and environmental factors. Studies of mouse genetic models of cleft palate have improved our understanding of the molecular control of palatogenesis. While it is known that Pax9 regulates palatogenesis through Bmp, Fgf and Shh signaling, there is still much to learn about its precise relationship with other pathways. Here we show that alterations of Wnt expression and decreased Wnt activity in Pax9\u2212/\u2212 palatal shelves are a result of Pax9 ability to directly bind and repress the promoters of Dkk1 and Dkk2, proteins that antagonize Wnt signaling. The delivery of small molecule Dkk inhibitors (Wnt agonists) into the tail veins of pregnant Pax9+/\u2212 mice from E10.5 to E14.5 restored Wnt signaling, promoted cell proliferation, bone formation and restored the fusion of palatal shelves in Pax9\u2212/\u2212 embryos. In contrast, other organ defects in Pax9 mutants were not corrected. These data uncover a unique molecular relationship between Pax9 and Wnt genes in palatogenesis and offer a new approach for treating cleft palates in humans.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110692', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Utah;', u'Texas A&M University College of Dentistry;', u'University of Lausanne']]
