[u'Low Dimensional Activity in Spiking Neuronal Networks', ['Emil Waernberg', 'Arvind Kumar'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Several recent studies have shown that neural activity in vivo tends to be constrained to a low-dimensional manifold. Such activity does not arise in simulated neural networks with homogeneous connectivity and it has been suggested that it is indicative of some other connectivity pattern in neuronal networks. Surprisingly, the structure of the intrinsic manifold of the network activity puts constraints on learning. For instance, animals find it difficult to perform tasks that may require a change in the intrinsic manifold. Here, we demonstrate that the Neural Engineering Framework (NEF) can be adapted to design a biologically plausible spiking neuronal network that exhibit low dimensional activity. Consistent with experimental observations, the resulting synaptic weight distribution is heavy-tailed (log-normal). In our model, a change in the intrinsic manifold of the network activity requires rewiring of the whole network, which may be either not possible or a very slow process. This observation provides an explanation of why learning is easier when it does not require the neural activity to leave its intrinsic manifold.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/109900', [], [u'KTH Royal Inst of Technology']]
[u'mTORC1 in AGRP neurons integrates exteroceptive and interoceptive food-related cues in the modulation of adaptive energy expenditure in mice', ['Clemence Blouet', 'Luke Burke', 'Tamana Darwish', 'Althea Cavanaugh', 'Sam Virtue', 'Emma Roth', 'Joanna Moro', 'Shun-Mei Liu', 'Jing Xia', 'Jeff Dalley', 'Keith Burling', 'Streamson Chua', 'Toni Vidal-Puig', 'Gary Schwartz'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Energy dissipation through interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT) thermogenesis is an important contributor to adaptive energy expenditure. However, it remains unresolved how acute and chronic changes in energy availability are detected by the brain to adjust iBAT activity and maintain energy homeostasis. Here we provide evidence that AGRP inhibitory tone to iBAT represents an energy-sparing circuit that integrates environmental food cues and internal signals of energy availability. We establish a role for the nutrient-sensing mTORC1 signaling pathway within AGRP neurons in the detection of environmental food cues and internal signals of energy availability, and in the bi-directionnal control of iBAT thermogenesis during nutrient deficiency and excess. Collectively, our findings provide insights into how mTORC1 signaling within AGRP neurons surveys energy availability to engage iBAT thermogenesis, and identify AGRP neurons as a neuronal substrate for the coordination of energy intake and adaptive expenditure under varying physiological and environmental contexts.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110544', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'Albert Einstein College of Medicine']]
[u'Consensus rank orderings of molecular fingerprints illustrate the most genuine similarities between marketed drugs and small endogenous human metabolites, but highlight exogenous natural products as the most important natural drug transporter substrates. bioRxiv version.', ["Stephen O'Hagan", 'Douglas B Kell'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'We compare several molecular fingerprint encodings for marketed, small molecule drugs, and assess how their rank order varies with the fingerprint in terms of the Tanimoto similarity to the most similar endogenous human metabolite as taken from Recon2. For the great majority of drugs, the rank order varies very greatly depending on the encoding used, and also somewhat when the Tanimoto similarity (TS) is replaced by the Tversky similarity. However, for a subset of such drugs, amounting to some 10% of the set and a Tanimoto similarity of ~0.8 or greater, the similarity coefficient is relatively robust to the encoding used. This leads to a metric that, while arbitrary, suggests that a Tanimoto similarity of 0.75-0.8 or greater genuinely does imply a considerable structural similarity of two molecules in the drug-endogenite space. Although comparatively few (<10% of) marketed drugs are, in this sense, robustly similar to an endogenite, there is often at least one encoding with which they are genuinely similar (e.g. TS > 0.75). This is referred to as the Take Your Pick Improved Cheminformatic Analytical Likeness or TYPICAL encoding, and on this basis some 66% of drugs are within a TS of 0.75 to an endogenite. \nWe next explicitly recognise that natural evolution will have selected for the ability to transport dietary substances, including plant, animal and microbial secondary metabolites, that are of benefit to the host. These should also be explored in terms of their closeness to marketed drugs. We thus compared the TS of marketed drugs with the contents of various databases of natural products. When this is done, we find that some 80% of marketed drugs are within a TS of 0.7 to a natural product, even using just the MACCS encoding. For patterned and TYPICAL encodings, 80% and 98% of drugs are within a TS of 0.8 to (an endogenite or) an exogenous natural product. This implies strongly that it is these exogeneous (dietary and medicinal) natural products that are more to be seen as the natural substrates of drug transporters (as is recognised, for instance, for the solute carrier SLC22A4 and ergothioneine). This novel analysis casts an entirely different light on the kinds of natural molecules that are to be seen as most like marketed drugs, and hence potential transporter substrates, and further suggests that a renewed exploitation of natural products as drug scaffolds would be amply rewarded.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110437', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'The University of Manchester']]
[u'Developmental cognitive neuroscience using Latent Change Score models: A tutorial and applications', ['Rogier Kievit', 'Andreas Brandmaier', 'Gabriel Ziegler', 'Anne-Laura van Harmelen', 'Susanne de Mooij', 'Michael Moutoussis', 'Ian Goodyer', 'Ed Bullmore', 'Peter Jones', 'Peter Fonagy', 'Ulman Lindenberger', 'Raymon Dolan'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'Assessing and analysing individual differences in change over time is of central scientific importance to developmental neuroscience. However, the extant literature is based largely on cross-sectional comparisons, which reflect a variety of influences and cannot directly represent change. We advocate using latent change score (LCS) models in longitudinal samples as a statistical framework to tease apart the complex processes underlying lifespan development in brain and behaviour using longitudinal data. LCS models provide a flexible framework that naturally accommodates key developmental questions as model parameters and can even be used, with some limitations, in cases with only two measurement occasions. We illustrate the use of LCS models with two empirical examples. In a lifespan cognitive training study (COGITO, N=204, two waves) we observe correlated change in brain and behaviour in the context of a high-intensity training intervention. In an adolescent development cohort (NSPN, N=176, two waves) we find greater variability in cortical thinning in males than in females. To facilitate the adoption of LCS by the developmental community, we provide analysis code that can be adapted by other researchers and basic primers in two freely available SEM software packages (lavaan and \u03a9nyx).', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110429', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MRC-CBSU;', u'Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin, Germany;', u'German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Magdeburg, Germany;', u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Amsterdam;', u'University College London;', u'Max Planck UCL Centre for Computational Psychiatry and Ageing Research, University College London']]
[u'Evolution and manipulation of vector host choice', ['Sylvain Gandon'], u'February 22, 2017.', u'The transmission of many animal and plant diseases relies on the behavior of arthropod vectors. In particular, the choice to feed on either infected or uninfected hosts can dramatically affect the epidemiology of vector-borne diseases. I develop an epidemiological model to explore the impact of host choice behavior on the dynamics of these diseases and to examine selection acting on vector behavior, but also on pathogen manipulation of this behavior. This model identifies multiple evolutionary conflicts over the control of this behavior and generates testable predictions under different scenarios. In general, the vector should evolve the ability to avoid infected hosts. However, if the vector behavior is under the control of the pathogen, uninfected vectors should prefer infected hosts while infected vectors should seek uninfected hosts. Some mechanistic constraints on pathogen manipulation ability may, however, alter these predictions. These theoretical results are discussed in the light of observed behavioral patterns obtained on a diverse range of vector-borne diseases. These patterns confirm that many pathogens have evolved complex behavioral manipulation strategies of their vector species. Contrasting the behavior of infected and uninfected vectors may help to reveal mechanistic constraints acting on the manipulation of vector behavior.', u'/content/early/2017/02/22/110577', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'CNRS']]
[u'GRIDSS: sensitive and specific genomic rearrangement detection using positional de Bruijn graph assembly', ['Daniel L Cameron', 'Jan Schroeder', 'Jocelyn Sietsma Penington', 'Hongdo Do', 'Ramyar Molania', 'Alexander Dobrovic', 'Terence P Speed', 'Anthony Troy Papenfuss'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'The identification of genomic rearrangements, particularly in cancers, with high sensitivity and specificity using massively parallel sequencing remains a major challenge. Here, we describe the Genome Rearrangement IDentification Software Suite (GRIDSS), a high-speed structural variant (SV) caller that performs efficient genome-wide break-end assembly prior to variant calling using a novel positional de Bruijn graph assembler. By combining assembly, split read and read pair evidence using a probabilistic scoring, GRIDSS achieves high sensitivity and specificity on simulated, cell line and patient tumour data, recently winning SV sub-challenge #5 of the ICGC-TCGA DREAM Somatic Mutation Calling Challenge. On human cell line data, GRIDSS halves the false discovery rate compared to other recent methods. GRIDSS identifies non-template sequence insertions, micro-homologies and large imperfect homologies, and supports multi-sample analysis. GRIDSS is freely available at https://github.com/PapenfussLab/gridss.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110387', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research;', u'Olivia Newton-John Cancer Research Institute']]
[u'Recurrent inhibition in striatum enables transfer of time-flexible skills to basal ganglia', ['James M Murray', 'G. Sean Escola'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'The basal ganglia play a major role in directing learned action sequences such as reaching and pressing, particularly in cases where precise timing plays an important role, as shown in experiments on rodents performing delayed lever press tasks. A comprehensive understanding of the relative roles of cortex and basal ganglia in learning and performing such behaviors, however, is still lacking. Inspired by recent experimental results showing that motor cortex is necessary for learning certain types of motor sequences but not for performing them once learned, we develop a model of the striatum, the major input structure of the basal ganglia, in which recurrently connected inhibitory neurons receive cortical input. An anti-Hebbian plasticity rule at the recurrent synapses in the striatum allows our model to learn a sparse, sequential pattern of neural activity similar to the patterns observed in experimental population recordings. After learning, the network can reproduce the same dynamics autonomously without patterned cortical input, and can further speed up or slow down the activity pattern simply by adjusting the level of tonic external input. The general mechanisms used in this model can also be applied to circuits with both excitatory and inhibitory populations, and hence may underlie sequential neural activity patterns that have been observed throughout other brain areas in addition to basal ganglia.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110072', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Modeling mechanical interactions in growing populations of rod-shaped bacteria', ['James J. Winkle', 'Oleg A Igoshin', 'Matthew R. Bennett', 'Kresimir Josic', 'William Ott'], u'February 21, 2017.', u"Advances in synthetic biology allow us to engineer bacterial collectives with pre-specified characteristics. However, the behavior of these collectives is difficult to understand, as cellular growth and division as well as extra-cellular fluid flow lead to complex, changing  arrangements of cells within the population. To rationally engineer and control the behavior of cell collectives we need theoretical and computational tools to understand their emergent spatiotemporal dynamics. Here, we present an agent-based  model that allows growing cells to detect and respond to mechanical interactions. Crucially, our  model couples the dynamics of cell growth to the  cell's environment: Mechanical constraints can affect cellular growth rate and a cell may alter its behavior in response to these  constraints. This coupling  links the mechanical forces that influence cell growth and emergent behaviors in cell assemblies. We illustrate our approach by showing how mechanical interactions can impact the dynamics of bacterial collectives growing in microfluidic traps.", u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110742', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'University of Houston;', u'Rice University']]
[u'The Sorghum bicolor reference genome: improved assembly and annotations, a transcriptome atlas, and signatures of genome organization', ['Ryan F. McCormick', 'Sandra K. Truong', 'Avinash Sreedasyam', 'Jerry Jenkins', 'Shengqiang Shu', 'David Sims', 'Megan Kennedy', 'Mojgan Amirebrahimi', 'Brock Weers', 'Brian McKinley', 'Ashley Mattison', 'Daryl Morishige', 'Jane Grimwood', 'Jeremy Schmutz', 'John Mullet'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Sorghum bicolor is a drought tolerant C4 grass used for production of grain, forage, sugar, and lignocellulosic biomass and a genetic model for C4 grasses due to its relatively small genome (~800 Mbp), diploid genetics, diverse germplasm, and colinearity with other C4 grass genomes. In this study, deep sequencing, genetic linkage analysis, and transcriptome data were used to produce and annotate a high quality reference genome sequence. Reference genome sequence order was improved, 29.6 Mbp of additional sequence was incorporated, the number of genes annotated increased 24% to 34,211, average gene length and N50 increased, and error frequency was reduced 10-fold to 1 per 100 kbp. Sub-telomeric repeats with characteristics of Tandem Repeats In Miniature (TRIM) elements were identified at the termini of most chromosomes. Nucleosome occupancy predictions identified nucleosomes positioned immediately downstream of transcription start sites and at different densities across chromosomes.  Alignment of the reference genome sequence to 56 resequenced genomes from diverse sorghum genotypes identified ~7.4M SNPs and 1.8M indels. Large scale variant features in euchromatin were identified with periodicities of ~25 kbp.  An RNA transcriptome atlas of gene expression was constructed from 47 samples derived from growing and developed tissues of the major plant organs (roots, leaves, stems, panicles, seed) collected during the juvenile, vegetative and reproductive phases. Analysis of the transcriptome data indicated that tissue type and protein kinase expression had large influences on transcriptional profile clustering. The updated assembly, annotation, and transcriptome data represent a resource for C4 grass research and crop improvement.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110593', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Texas A&M University;', u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology;', u'Department of Energy Joint Genome Institute;', u'Texas A&M Univeristy']]
[u'Heritability of the structures and 13C fractionation in tomato leaf wax alkanes: a genetic model system to inform paleoenvironmental reconstructions', ['Amanda Lorraine Dorothy Bender', 'Daniel H Chitwood', 'Alexander S Bradley'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Leaf wax n-alkanes are broadly used to reconstruct paleoenvironmental information. However, the utility of the n-alkane paleoclimate proxy is modulated by the extent to which genetic as well as environmental factors influence the structural and isotopic variability of leaf waxes. In paleoclimate applications, there is an implicit assumption that most variation of leaf wax traits through a time series can be attributed to environmental change and that biological sources of variability within plant communities are small. For example, changes in hydrology affect the \u03b42H of waxes though rainwater and the \u03b413C of leaf waxes by changing plant communities (i.e., C3 versus C4 input). Here we test the assumption of little genetic control over \u03b413C variation of leaf wax by presenting the results of an experimental greenhouse growth study in which we estimate the role of genetic variability on structural and isotopic leaf wax traits in a set of 76 introgression lines (ILs) between two interfertile Solanum (tomato) species: S. lycopersicum cv M82 (hereafter cv M82) and S. pennellii. We found that the leaves of S. pennellii, a wild desert tomato relative, produces significantly more iso-alkanes than cv M82, a domesticated tomato cultivar adapted to water-replete conditions; we introduce a methylation index to summarize the ratio of branched (iso- and anteiso-) to total alkanes. Between S. pennellii and cv M82, the iso-alkanes were found to be enriched in 13C by 1.2-1.4\u2030 over n-alkanes. By modeling our results from the ILs, we report the broad-sense heritability values (H2) of leaf wax traits to describe the degree to which genetic variation contributes to variation of these traits. Individual carbon isotope values of alkanes are of low heritability (H2 = 0.13-0.19), suggesting that \u03b413C of leaf waxes from this study are strongly influenced by environmental variance, which supports the interpretation that variation in the \u03b413C of wax compounds recorded in sediments reflects paleohydrological changes. Average chain length (ACL) values of n-alkanes are of intermediate heritability (H2 = 0.30), suggesting that ACL values are strongly influenced by genetic cues.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110718', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Washington University in St. Louis;', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center']]
[u'Soil classification predicts differences in prokaryotic communities across a range of geographically distant soils once pH is accounted for', ['Rachel Kaminsky', 'Blandine Trouche', 'Sergio E. Morales'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Agricultural land is typically managed based on visible plant life at the expense of the belowground majority. However, microorganisms mediate processes sustaining plant life and the soil environment. To understand the role of microbes we first must understand what controls soil microbial community assembly. We assessed the distribution and composition of prokaryotic communities from soils representing four geographic regions on the South Island of New Zealand. These soils are under three different uses (dairy, sheep and beef, and high country farming) and are representative of major soil classification groups (brown, pallic, gley and recent). We hypothesized that pH would account for major community patterns based on 16S profiles, but that land use and location would be secondary modifiers. Community diversity and structure was linked to pH, coinciding with land use. Soil classification correlated with microbial community structure and evenness, but not richness in high country and sheep and beef communities. The impact of land use and pH remained significant at the regional scale, but soil classification provided support for community variability not explained by either of those factors. These results suggest that several edaphic properties must be examined at multiple spatial scales to robustly examine soil prokaryotic communities.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110726', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Otago']]
[u'Resolving Rapid Radiations Within Families Using Anchored Phylogenomics', ['Etienne Leveille-Bourret', 'Julian R. Starr', 'Bruce A. Ford', 'Emily Moriarty Lemmon', 'Alan R. Lemmon'], u'February 21, 2017.', u'Despite the promise that molecular data would provide a seemingly unlimited source of independent characters, many plant phylogenetic studies are based on only two regions, the plastid genome and nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA). Their popularity can be explained by high copy numbers and universal PCR primers that make their sequences easily amplified and converted into parallel datasets. Unfortunately, their utility is limited by linked loci and limited characters resulting in low confidence in the accuracy of phylogenetic estimates, especially when rapid radiations occur. In another contribution on anchored phylogenomics in angiosperms, we presented flowering plant-specific anchored enrichment probes for hundreds of conserved nuclear genes and demonstrated their use at the level of all angiosperms. In this contribution, we focus on a common problem in phylogenetic reconstructions below the family level: weak or unresolved backbone due to rapid radiations (\u2264 10 million years) followed by long divergence, using the Cariceae-Dulichieae-Scirpeae clade (CDS, Cyperaceae) as a test case. By comparing our nuclear matrix of 461 genes to a typical Sanger-sequence dataset consisting of a few plastid genes (matK, ndhF) and an nrDNA marker (ETS), we demonstrate that our nuclear data is fully compatible with the Sanger dataset and resolves short backbone internodes with high support in both concatenated and coalescence-based analyses. In addition, we show that nuclear gene tree incongruence is inversely proportional to phylogenetic information content, indicating that incongruence is mostly due to gene tree estimation error. This suggests that large numbers of conserved nuclear loci could produce more accurate trees than sampling rapidly evolving regions prone to saturation and long-branch attraction. The robust phylogenetic estimates obtained here, and high congruence with previous morphological and molecular analyses, are strong evidence for a complete tribal revision of CDS. The anchored hybrid enrichment probes used in this study should be similarly effective in other flowering plant groups.', u'/content/early/2017/02/21/110296', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'University of Ottawa;', u'University of Manitoba;', u'Florida State University']]
