[u'Mitochondrial RNA processing in absence of tRNA punctuations in octocorals', ['Gaurav G. Shimpi', 'Sergio Vargas', 'Angelo Poliseno', 'Gert Woerheide'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Background: Mitogenome diversity is staggering among early branching animals with respect to size, gene density and content, gene orders, and number of tRNA genes, especially in cnidarians. This last point is of special interest as tRNA cleavage drives the maturation of mitochondrial mRNAs and is a primary mechanism for mt-RNA processing in animals. Mitochondrial RNA processing in non-bilaterian metazoans, some of which possess a single tRNA gene in their mitogenomes, is essentially unstudied despite its importance in understanding the evolution of mitochondrial transcription in animals.  Results: We characterized the mature mitochondrial mRNA transcripts in a species of the octocoral genus Sinularia (Alcyoniidae: Octocorallia), and defined precise boundaries of transcription units using different molecular methods. Most mt-mRNAs were polycistronic units containing two or three genes and 5' and/or 3' untranslated regions (UTRs) of varied length. The octocoral specific, mtDNA-encoded mismatch repair gene, mtMutS, was found to undergo alternative polyadenylation (APA), and exhibited differential expression of alternate transcripts suggesting a unique regulatory mechanism for this gene. In addition, a long noncoding RNA complementary to the ATP6 gene (lncATP6) potentially involved in antisense regulation was detected.  Conclusions: Mt-mRNA processing in octocorals bearing a single mt-tRNA is complex. Considering the variety of mitogenome arrangements known in cnidarians, and in general among non-bilaterian metazoans, our findings provide a first glimpse into the complex mtDNA transcription, mt-mRNA processing, and regulation among early branching animals and represents a first step towards understanding its functional and evolutionary implications.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103036', [], [u'Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet Muenchen']]
[u'New Techniques for Ancient Proteins: Direct Coupling Analysis Applied on Proteins involved in Iron Sulfur Cluster Biogenesis', ['Marco Fantini', 'Duccio Malinverni', 'Paolo De Los Rios', 'Annalisa Pastore'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Direct coupling analysis (DCA) is a powerful tool based on protein evolution and introduced to predict protein fold and protein-protein interactions which has been applied also to the prediction of entire interactomes. We have used DCA to analyse three proteins of the iron-sulfur biogenesis machine, an essential metabolic pathway conserved in all organisms. We show that, although based on a relatively small number of sequences due to its distribution in genomes, we can correctly recapitulate all the features of the fold of the CyaY/frataxin family, a protein involved in the human disease Friedreich's ataxia. This result gave us confidence in the use of this tool. Application of DCA to the iron-sulfur cluster scaffold protein IscU, which has been suggested to function both as an ordered and a disordered form, allows us to clearly distinguish evolutionary traces of the structured species, suggesting that, if present in the cell, the disordered form has not left any evolutionary imprinting. We observe instead, for the first time, direct indications of how the protein can dimerize head-to-head and bind 4Fe4S clusters. Analysis of the alternative scaffold protein IscA provides strong support to a coordination of the cluster mediated by a dimeric rather than a tetrameric form as previously suggested. Our analysis also suggests the presence in solution of a mixture of monomeric and dimeric species and guide us to the prevalent one. Finally, we used DCA to analyse protein-protein interactions between some of these proteins and discuss the potentialities and the limitations of the method.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103283', [], [u'Scuola normale superiore (SNS), Pisa, Italy;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne;', u'Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland;', u"King's College, London, UK &  University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy"]]
[u'Genetic contributions to trail making test performance in UK Biobank', ['Saskia Hagenaars', 'Simon R Cox', 'W David Hill', 'Gail Davies', 'Dave CM Liewald', 'Sarah E Harris', 'Andrew M McIntosh', 'Catharine R Gale', 'Ian Deary'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'The Trail Making Test is a widely used test of executive function and has been thought to be strongly associated with general cognitive function. We examined the genetic architecture of the trail making test and its shared genetic aetiology with other tests of cognitive function in 23 821 participants from UK Biobank. The SNP-based heritability estimates for trail-making measures were 7.9 % (part A), 22.4 % (part B), and 17.6 % (part B - part A). Significant genetic correlations were identified between trail-making measures and verbal-numerical reasoning (rg > 0.6), general cognitive function (rg > 0.6), processing speed (rg > 0.7), and memory (rg > 0.3). Polygenic profile analysis indicated considerable shared genetic aetiology between trail making, general cognitive function, processing speed, and memory (standardized \u03b2; between 0.03 and 0.08). These results suggest that trail making is both phenotypically and genetically strongly associated with general cognitive function and processing speed.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103119', [], [u'University of Edinburgh;', u'University if Edinburgh']]
[u'Multiple-trait Bayesian Regression Methods with Mixture Priors for Genomic Prediction', ['HAO CHENG', 'Kadir Kizilkaya', 'Jian Zeng', 'Dorian Garrick', 'Rohan Fernando'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Bayesian multiple-regression methods incorporating different mixture priors for marker effects are widely used in genomic prediction. Improvement in prediction accuracies from using those methods, such as BayesB, BayesC and BayesCPi, have been shown in single-trait analyses with both simulated data and real data. These methods have been extended to multi-trait analyses, but only under a specific limited circumstance that assumes all genes are pleiotropic so that any particular marker affects all of the traits or none of the traits. In this paper, we develop and implement the most general multi-trait BayesCPi and BayesB methods allowing a broader range of mixture priors. Further, we compare them to single-trait methods and the \u201crestricted\u201d multi-trait formulation using real data. In those data analyses, significant higher prediction accuracies were sometimes observed from these new broad-based multi-trait Bayesian multiple-regression methods. The software tool JWAS offers routines to perform the analyses.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102962', [], [u'Iowa State University, United States;', u'Adnan Menderes University, Turkey;', u'The University of Queensland, Australia;', u'Massey University, New Zealand;', u'Iowa State Univeristy, United States']]
[u'Translating ceRNA susceptibilities into correlation functions', ['Araks Martirosyan', 'Matteo Marsili', 'Andrea De Martino'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Competition to bind microRNAs induces an effective positive crosstalk between their targets, therefore known as \u2018competing endogenous RNAs\u2019 or ceRNAs. While such an effect is known to play a significant role in specific situations, estimating its strength from data and, experimentally, in physiological conditions appears to be far from simple. Here we show that the susceptibility of ceRNAs to different types of perturbations affecting their competitors (and hence their tendency to crosstalk) can be encoded in quantities as intuitive and as simple to measure as correlation functions. We confirm this scenario by extensive numerical simulations and validate it by re-analyzing PTEN's crosstalk pattern from TCGA breast cancer database. These results clarify the links between different quantities used to estimate the intensity of ceRNA crosstalk and provide new keys to analyze transcriptional datasets and effectively probe ceRNA networks in silico.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102988', [], [u'VIB-KU Leuven;', u'The Abdus Salam ICTP;', u'CNR NANOTEC & Human Genetics Foundation']]
[u'Severe acute dehydration in a desert rodent elicits a transcriptional response that effectively prevents kidney injury', ['Matthew D MacManes'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Animal living in desert environments are forced to survive despite severe heat, intense solar radiation, and both acute and chronic dehydration. Indeed, these animals have evolved phenotypes that effectively address these environmental stressors. To begin to understand the ways in which the desert adapted rodent P. eremicus survives, we performed an experiment by which we subjected reproductively mature adults to profound acute dehydration, during which they lost on average 23% of their body weight. Animals react via a series of changes in the kidney, which include modulating expression of genes responsible for reducing the rate of transcription, and maintaining water and salt balance. Extracellular matrix turnover appears to be decreased, and apoptosis is limited. Serum Creatinine and other biomarkers of kidney injury are not elevated, which is different than the canonical human response, suggesting that transcriptional changes caused by acute dehydration effectively prohibit widespread kidney damage in the cactus mouse.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103077', [], [u'University of New Hampshire']]
[u'UMI-Reducer: Collapsing duplicate sequencing reads via Unique Molecular Identifiers', ['Serghei Mangul', 'Sarah Van Driesche', 'Lana S. Martin', 'Kelsey C. Martin', 'Eleazar Eskin'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Every sequencing library contains duplicate reads. While many duplicates arise during polymerase chain reaction (PCR), some duplicates derive from multiple identical fragments of mRNA present in the original lysate (termed "biological duplicates"). Unique Molecular Identifiers (UMIs) are random oligonucleotide sequences that allow differentiation between technical and biological duplicates. Here we report the development of UMI-Reducer, a new computational tool for processing and differentiating PCR duplicates from biological duplicates. UMI-Reducer uses UMIs and the mapping position of the read to identify and collapse reads that are technical duplicates. Remaining true biological reads are further used for bias-free estimate of mRNA abundance in the original lysate. This strategy is of particular use for libraries made from low amounts of starting material, which typically require additional cycles of PCR and therefore are most prone to PCR duplicate bias.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103267', [], [u'University of California Los Angeles;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Gut microbiota and resistome dynamics in intensive care patients receiving selective digestive tract decontamination', ['Elena Buelow', 'Teresita de Jesus Bello Gonzalez', 'Susana Fuentes', 'Wouter A.A. de Steenhuijsen Piters', 'Leo Lahti', 'Jumamurat R. Bayjanov', 'Eline A.M. Majoor', 'Johanna C. Braat', 'Maaike S.M. van Mourik', 'Evelien A.N. Oostdijk', 'Rob J.L. Willems', 'Marc J.M. Bonten', 'Mark W.J. van Passel', 'Hauke Smidt', 'Willem van Schaik'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Background:  Critically ill patients hospitalized in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) are at increased risk of acquiring potentially life-threatening infections with opportunistic pathogens. The gut microbiota of ICU patients forms an important reservoir for these infectious agents. To suppress gut colonization with opportunistic pathogens, a prophylactic antibiotic regimen, termed 'Selective decontamination of the digestive tract' (SDD), may be used. SDD has previously been shown to improve clinical outcome in ICU patients, but the impact of ICU hospitalization and SDD on the gut microbiota remains largely unknown. Here, we characterize the composition of the gut microbiota and its antimicrobial resistance genes ('the resistome') of ICU patients during SDD.  Results: During ICU-stay, 30 fecal samples of ten patients were collected. Additionally, feces were collected from five of these patients after transfer to a medium-care ward and cessation of SDD. As a control group, feces from ten healthy subjects were collected twice, with a one-year interval. Gut microbiota and resistome composition were determined using 16S rRNA phylogenetic profiling and nanolitre-scale quantitative PCRs. The microbiota of the ICU patients differed from the microbiota of healthy subjects and was characterized by low microbial diversity, decreased levels of E. coli and of anaerobic Gram-positive, butyrate-producing bacteria of the Clostridium clusters IV and XIVa, and an increased abundance of Bacteroidetes and enterococci. Four resistance genes (aac(6')-Ii, ermC,  qacA, tetQ), providing resistance to aminoglycosides, macrolides, disinfectants and tetracyclines respectively, were significantly more abundant among ICU patients than in healthy subjects, while a chloramphenicol resistance gene (catA) and a tetracycline resistance gene (tetW) were more abundant in healthy subjects.  Conclusions: The microbiota and resistome of ICU patients and healthy subjects were noticeably different, but importantly, levels of E. coli remained low during ICU hospitalization, presumably due to SDD therapy. Selection for four antibiotic resistance genes was observed, but none of these are of particular concern as they do not contribute to clinically relevant resistance. Our data support the ecological safety of SDD, at least in settings with low levels of circulating antibiotic resistance.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102467', [], [u'University Medical Center Utrecht;', u'Wageningen University;', u'University of Turku']]
[u'Heritability enrichment of specifically expressed genes identifies disease-relevant tissues and cell types', ['Hilary Finucane', 'Yakir Reshef', 'Verneri Anttila', 'Kamil Slowikowski', 'Alexander Gusev', 'Andrea Byrnes', 'Steven Gazal', 'Po-Ru Loh', 'Giulio Genovese', 'Arpiar Saunders', 'Evan Macosko', 'Samuela Pollack', 'John R.B. Perry', 'Soumya Raychaudhuri', 'Steven McCarroll', 'Benjamin Neale', 'Alkes Price'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Genetics can provide a systematic approach to discovering the tissues and cell types relevant for a complex disease or trait. Identifying these tissues and cell types is critical for following up on non-coding allelic function, developing ex-vivo models, and identifying therapeutic targets. Here, we analyze gene expression data from several sources, including the GTEx and PsychENCODE consortia, together with genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary statistics for 48 diseases and traits with an average sample size of 86,850, to identify disease-relevant tissues and cell types. We develop and apply an approach that uses stratified LD score regression to test whether disease heritability is enriched in regions surrounding genes with the highest specific expression in a given tissue. We detect tissue-specific enrichments at FDR < 5% for 30 diseases and traits across a broad range of tissues that recapitulate known biology. In our analysis of traits with observed central nervous system enrichment, we detect an enrichment of neurons over other brain cell types for several brain-related traits, enrichment of inhibitory neurons over excitatory neurons for bipolar disorder, and enrichments in the cortex for schizophrenia and in the striatum for migraine. In our analysis of traits with observed immunological enrichment, we identify enrichments of alpha beta T cells for asthma and eczema, B cells for primary biliary cirrhosis, and myeloid cells for lupus and Alzheimer's disease. Our results demonstrate that our polygenic approach is a powerful way to leverage gene expression data for interpreting GWAS signal.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103069', [], [u'Massachusetts Institute of Technology;', u'Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Science;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'Broad Institute;', u'University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine']]
[u'High density genome scan for selection signatures in French sheep reveals allelic heterogeneity and introgression at adaptive loci', ['Christina Marie Rochus', 'Flavie Tortereau', 'Florence Plisson-Petit', 'Gwendal Restoux', 'Carole Moreno-Romieux', 'Gwenola Tosser-Klopp', 'Bertrand Servin'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Sheep was one of the first domesticated livestock species in the Anatolia region of contemporary Iran and eventually spread world-wide. Previous studies have shown that French sheep populations likely harbor a large part of European domesticated sheep diversity in a relatively small geographical region, offering a powerful model for the study of adaptation. We studied the diversity of 27 French sheep populations by genotyping 542 individuals for more than 500 000 SNPs. We found that French sheep breeds were divided into two main groups, corresponding to northern and southern origins and additionally we identified admixture events between northern and southern populations. The genetic diversity of domesticated animals results from adaptation of populations to constraints imposed by farmers and environmental conditions. We identified 126 genomic regions likely affected by selection. In many cases, we found evidence for parallel selection events in different genetic backgrounds, most likely for different mutations. Some of these regions harbour genes potentially involved in morphological traits (SOCS2, NCAPG/LCORL, MSRB3), coat colour (MC1R) and adaptation to environmental conditions (ADAMTS9). Closer inspection of two of these regions clarified their evolutionary history: at the LCORL/NCAPG locus we found evidence for introgression of an adaptive allele from a southern population into northern populations and by resequencing MC1R in some breeds we confirmed different mutations in this gene are responsible for the same phenotypic trait. Our study illustrates how dense genetic data in multiple populations allows the deciphering of evolutionary history of populations and of their adaptive mutations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103010', [], [u'Swedish University of Animal Science;', u'INRA;', u'AgroParisTech']]
[u'Disambiguating brain functional connectivity', ['Eugene Duff', 'Tamar Makin', 'Stephen M. Smith', 'Mark W. Woolrich'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Functional connectivity (FC) analyses of correlations of neural activity are used extensively in neuroimaging and electrophysiology to gain insights into neural interactions.  However, correlation fails to distinguish sources as different as changes in neural signal amplitudes or noise levels.  This ambiguity substantially diminishes the value of FC for inferring system properties and clinical states. Network modelling approaches may avoid ambiguities, but require specific assumptions.  We present an enhancement to FC analysis with improved specificity of inferences, minimal assumptions and no reduction in flexibility.  The Additive Signal Change (ASC) approach characterises FC changes into certain prevalent classes involving additions of signal.  With FMRI data, the approach reveals a rich diversity of signal changes underlying measured changes in FC, bringing into question standard interpretations.  The ASC method can also be used to disambiguate other measures of dependency, such as regression and coherence, providing a flexible tool for the analysis of neural data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103002', [], [u'University of Oxford;', u'University College London, UK']]
[u'Early frameshift alleles of zebrafish tbx5a that fail to develop the heartstrings phenotype', ['Elena Chiavacci', 'Lucia Kirchgeorg', 'Anastasia Felker', 'Alexa Burger', 'Christian Mosimann'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Tbx5 is a key transcription factor for vertebrate heart and forelimb development that causes Holt-Oram syndrome when mutated in humans. The classic zebrafish mutant for tbx5a named heartstrings (hst) features recessive absence of pectoral fins and a spectrum of heart defects, most-prominently featuring the name-giving stretched heart tube. The mutation of the hst allele is a stop codon that is predicted to result in a truncated Tbx5a protein that might feature residual activity. Here, using CRISPR-Cas9 mutagenesis, we generated zebrafish strains for two new tbx5a frameshift alleles in the first coding exon: tbx5a c.21_25del and tbx5a c.22_31del, abbreviated as tbx5a\u03945 and tbx5a\u039410. Homozygous and trans-heterozygous combinations of these new tbx5a alleles cause fully penetrant loss of pectoral fins and heart defects including changes in cardiac marker expression akin to hst mutants. Nonetheless, distinct from hst mutants, homozygous and trans-heterozygous combinations of these tbx5a frameshift mutants do not readily manifest the stretched hst heart phenotype. Our observation points out the importance and value of comparing phenotypes from different classes of mutant alleles per gene.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103168', [], [u'Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich']]
[u'Cell-to-cell Modeling of the interface between Atrial and Sinoatrial Anisotropic Heterogeneous Nets II: Mechanisms Underlying Nets Dynamics', ['Gabriel Lopez', 'Norma Pilar Abrego', 'Rafael Godinez'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'We study the transitional zone between Sinoatrial cells and Atrial cells in the Heart. The present paper study the mechanisms underlying the dynamics of the modeled nets in a recent paper.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103259', [], [u'Universidad Autonoma Metropolitana']]
[u'Resolution of conflict between parental genomes in a hybrid species', ['Fabrice Eroukhmanoff', 'Richard I Bailey', 'Tore O Elgvin', 'Jo S Hermansen', 'Anna Runemark', 'Cassandra N Trier', 'Glenn-Peter Saetre'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'The development of reproductive barriers against parent species is crucial during hybrid speciation, and post-zygotic isolation can be important in this process. Genetic incompatibilities that normally isolate the parent species can become sorted in hybrids to form reproductive barriers towards either parent. However, the extent to which this sorting process is systematically biased and therefore predictable in which loci are involved and which alleles are favored is largely unknown. Theoretically, reduced fitness in hybrids due to the mixing of differentiated genomes can be resolved through rapid evolution towards allelic combinations ancestral to lineage-splitting of the parent species, as these alleles have successfully coexisted in the past. However, for each locus this effect may be influenced by its chromosomal location, function, and interactions with other loci. We use the Italian sparrow, a homoploid hybrid species that has developed post-zygotic barriers against its parent species, to investigate this prediction. We show significant bias towards fixation of the ancestral allele among 57 nuclear intragenic SNPs, particularly those with a mitochondrial function whose ancestral allele came from the same parent species as the mitochondria. Consistent with increased pleiotropy leading to stronger fitness effects, genes with more protein-protein interactions were more biased in favor of the ancestral allele. Furthermore, the number of protein-protein interactions was especially low among candidate incompatibilities still segregating within Italian sparrows, suggesting that low pleiotropy allows steep intraspecific clines in allele frequencies to form. Finally, we report evidence for pervasive epistatic interactions within one Italian sparrow population, particularly involving loci isolating the two parent species but not hybrid and parent. However there was a lack of classic incompatibilities and no admixture linkage disequilibrium. This suggests that parental genome admixture can continue to constrain evolution and prevent genome stabilization long after incompatibilities have been purged.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102970', [], [u'University of Oslo;', u'Charles University in Prague']]
[u'Interactive analysis of Long-read RNA isoforms with Iso-Seq Browser', ['Jingyuan Hu', 'Prech Uapinyoying', 'Jeremy Goecks'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Background: Long-read RNA sequencing, such as Pacific Biosciences Iso-Seq method, enables generation of sequencing reads that are 10 kilobases or even longer. These reads are ideal for discovering splice junctions and resolving full-length gene transcripts without time-consuming and error-prone techniques such as transcript assembly and junction inference.  Results: Iso-Seq Browser is a Web-based visual analytics tool for long-read RNA sequencing data produced by Pacific Biosciences isoform sequencing (Iso-Seq) techniques. Key features of the Iso-Seq Browser are: 1) an exon-only web-based interface with zooming and exon highlighting for exploring reference gene transcripts and novel gene isoforms, 2) automated grouping of transcripts and isoforms by similarity, 3) many customization features for data exploration and creating publication ready figures, and 4) exporting selected isoforms into fasta files for further analysis. Iso-Seq Browser is written in Python using several scientific libraries. The application and analyses described in this paper are freely available to both academic and commercial users at https://github.com/goeckslab/isoseq-browser  Conclusions: Iso-Seq Browser enables interactive genome-wide visual analysis of long RNA sequence reads. Through visualization, highlighting, clustering, and filtering of gene isoforms, ISB makes it simple to identify novel isoforms and novel isoform features such as exons, introns and untranslated regions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102905', [], [u'George Washington University;', u'Oregon Health and Science University']]
[u'Pure Correlates of Exploration and Exploitation in the Human Brain', ['Tommy C Blanchard', 'Samuel J Gershman'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Balancing exploration and exploitation is a fundamental problem in reinforcement learning. Previous neuroimaging studies of the exploration-exploitation dilemma could not completely disentangle these two processes, making it difficult to unambiguously identify their neural signatures. We overcome this problem using a task in which subjects can either observe (pure exploration) or bet (pure exploitation). Insula and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex showed significantly greater activity on observe trials compared to bet trials, suggesting that these regions play a role in driving exploration. A model-based analysis of task performance suggested that subjects chose to observe until a critical evidence threshold was reached. We observed a neural signature of this evidence accumulation process in ventromedial prefrontal cortex. These findings support theories positing an important role for anterior cingulate cortex in exploration, while also providing a new perspective on the roles of insula and ventromedial prefrontal cortex.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103135', [], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Decoding the categorization of visual motion with magnetoencephalography', ['Yousra Bekhti', 'Alexandre Gramfort', 'Nicolas Zilber', 'Virginie van Wassenhove'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Brain decoding techniques are particularly efficient at deciphering weak and distributed neural patterns. Brain decoding has primarily been used in cognitive neurosciences to predict differences between pairs of stimuli (e.g. faces vs. houses), but how distinct brain/perceptual states can be decoded following the presentation of continuous sensory stimuli is unclear. Here, we developed a novel approach to decode brain activity recorded with magnetoencephalography while participants discriminated the coherence of two intermingled clouds of dots. Seven levels of visual motion coherence were tested and participants reported the colour of the most coherent cloud. The decoding approach was formulated as a ranked-classification problem, in which the model was evaluated by its capacity to predict the order of a pair of trials, each tested with two distinct visual motion coherence levels. Two brain states were decoded as a function of the degree of visual motion coherence. Importantly, perceptual motion coherence thresholds were found to match the decoder boundaries in a fully data-driven way. The algorithm revealed the earliest categorization in hMT+, followed by V1/V2, IPS, and vlPFC.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103044', [], [u'LTCI, Telecom ParisTech, Universite Paris-Saclay, 75013, Paris, France;', u'CEA, DRF/I2BM, NeuroSpin Center, Universite Paris-Saclay, F-91191 Gif-sur-Yvette, France']]
[u'Documenting and Evaluating Data Science Contributions in Academic Promotion in Departments of Statistics and Biostatistics', ['Lance A. Waller'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'The dynamic intersection of the emerging field of Data Science with the established academic communities of Statistics and Biostatistics continues to generate lively debate, often with the two fields playing the role of an upstart (but brilliant), tech-savvy prodigy and an established (but brilliant), curmudgeonly expert, respectively.  Like any new discipline, Data Science brings new perspectives and new tools to address new questions requiring new perspectives on traditionally established concepts.  In this paper, we explore a specific component of this discussion, namely the documentation and evaluation of Data Science-related research, teaching, and service contributions for faculty members seeking promotion and tenure within traditional departments of statistics and Biostatistics.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103093', [], [u'Emory University']]
[u"The genomic basis of adaptation to the deep water 'twilight zone' in Lake Malawi cichlid fishes", ['Christoph Hahn', 'Martin J. Genner', 'George T. Turner', 'Domino A. Joyce'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Deep water environments are characterized by low levels of available light at increasingly narrow spectra, great hydrostatic pressure and reduced dissolved oxygen - conditions predicted to exert highly specific selection pressures. In Lake Malawi over 800 cichlid species have evolved, and this adaptive radiation extends into the \'twilight zone\' below 100 metres. We use population-level RAD-seq data to investigate whether four endemic deep water species (Diplotaxodon spp.) have experienced divergent selection within this environment. We identify candidate genes including regulators of photoreceptor function, photopigments, lens morphology and haemoglobin, many not previously implicated in cichlid adaptive radiations. Co-localization of functionally linked genes suggests co-adapted "supergene" complexes. Comparisons of Diplotaxodon to the broader Lake Malawi radiation using genome resequencing data revealed functional substitutions in candidate genes. Our data provide unique insights into genomic adaptation to life at depth, and suggest genome-level specialisation for deep water habitat as an important process in cichlid radiation', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102830', [], [u'Institute of Zoology, University of Graz;', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol;', u'School of Biological Sciences, Bangor University;', u'Evolutionary and Environmental Genomics Group (@EvoHull), University of Hull']]
[u'A Parallel Multiobjective Metaheuristic for Multiple Sequence Alignment', ['Alvaro Rubio-Largo', 'Miguel A. Vega-Rodriguez'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'The alignment among three or more nucleotides/amino-acids sequences at the same time is known as Multiple Sequence Alignment (MSA), an NP-hard optimization problem. The time complexity of finding an optimal alignment raises exponentially when the number of sequences to align increases. In this work, we deal with a multiobjective version of the MSA problem where the goal is to simultaneously optimize the accuracy and conservation of the alignment. A parallel version of the Hybrid Multiobjective Memetic Metaheuristics for Multiple Sequence Alignment is proposed. In order to evaluate the parallel performance of our proposal, we have selected a pull of datasets with different number of sequences (up to 1000 sequences) and study its parallel performance against other well-known parallel metaheuristics published in the literature, such as MSAProbs, T-Coffee, Clustal \u03a9, and MAFFT. The comparative study reveals that our parallel aligner is around 25 times faster than the sequential version with 32 cores, obtaining a parallel efficiency around 80%.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103101', [], [u'Universidade NOVA de Lisboa;', u'University of Extremadura']]
[u'Estimating correlated rates of trait evolution with uncertainty', ['Daniel S. Caetano', 'Luke J. Harmon'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Correlated evolution among traits can happen due to genetic constraints, ontogeny, and selection and have an important impact on the trajectory of phenotypic evolution. Thus, shifts in the pattern of evolutionary integration may allow the exploration of novel regions of the morphospace by lineages. Here we use phylogenetic trees to study the pace of evolution of several traits and their pattern of evolutionary correlation across clades and over time. We use regimes mapped to the branches of the phylogeny to test for shifts in evolutionary integration. Our approach incorporates the uncertainty related to phylogeny, ancestral state estimates and parameter estimates to produce posterior distributions using Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo. We implemented the use of summary statistics to test for regime shifts based on a series of attributes of the model that can be directly relevant to biological hypotheses. In addition, we extend Felsenstein's pruning algorithm to the case of multivariate Brownian motion models with multiple rate regimes. We performed extensive simulations to explore the performance of the method under a series of scenarios. Finally, we provide two test cases; the evolution of a novel buccal morphology in fishes of the family Centrarchidae and a shift in the trajectory of evolution of traits during the radiation of anole lizards to the Caribbean islands.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102939', [], [u'University of Idaho']]
[u'The Nucleosome Remodelling and Deacetylation complex restricts Mediator access to enhancers to control transcription', ['Maria Xenophontos', 'Nicola Reynolds', 'Sarah Gharbi', 'Ewan Johnstone', 'Jason Signolet', 'Robin Floyd', 'Meryem Ralser', 'Susanne Borneloev', 'Sabine Dietmann', 'Remco Loos', 'Paul Bertone', 'Brian Hendrich'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'A number of different chromatin remodelling complexes in mammalian cells are implicated in the control of gene expression. The genetic requirements for many such complex components have been described, and the biochemical activities of complex components characterised in vitro, yet the molecular mechanisms by which these biochemical activities impact transcriptional regulation in vivo remain ill-defined. Using an inducible system with fine temporal resolution, we show that the Nucleosome Remodelling and Deacetylation (NuRD) complex directly regulates chromatin architecture at enhancer regions in ES cells, in turn influencing the activity of RNA polymerase II via Mediator. Through this mechanism NuRD restricts Mediator access to enhancer chromatin during lineage commitment, thereby enabling appropriate transcriptional regulation. In contrast, acetylation levels of histone H3 lysine 27 are not immediately impacted by NuRD activity, correlating with transcriptional response only after expression levels have changed. These findings provide a detailed, molecular description of genome-wide modulation of lineage-specific transcription by an abundant chromatin remodelling complex.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103192', [], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'CrosstalkNet: mining large-scale bipartite co-expression networks to characterize epi-stroma crosstalk', ['Venkata SK Manem', 'George Adam', 'Tina Gruosso', 'Mathieu Gigoux', 'Nicholas Bertos', 'Morag Park', 'Benjamin Haibe-Kains'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Background: Over the last several years, we have witnessed the metamorphosis of network biology from being a mere representation of molecular interactions to models enabling inference of complex biological processes. Networks provide promising tools to elucidate intercellular interactions that contribute to the functioning of key biological pathways in a cell. However, the exploration of these large-scale networks remains a challenge due to their high-dimensionality.  Results: CrosstalkNet is a user friendly, web-based network visualization tool to retrieve and mine interactions in large-scale bipartite co-expression networks. In this study, we discuss the use of gene co-expression networks to explore the rewiring of interactions between tumor epithelial and stromal cells. We show how CrosstalkNet can be used to efficiently  visualize, mine, and interpret large co-expression networks representing the crosstalk occurring between the tumour and its microenvironment.  Conclusion: CrosstalkNet serves as a tool to assist biologists and clinicians in exploring complex, large interaction graphs to obtain insights into the biological processes that govern the tumor epithelial-stromal crosstalk. A comprehensive tutorial along with case studies are provided with the application.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102848', [], [u'University Health Network;', u'McGill University']]
[u'Initiation of DNA replication requires actin dynamics and formin activity', ['Parisis Nikolaos', 'Liliana Krasinska', 'Bethany Harker', 'Serge Urbach', 'Michel Rossignol', 'Alain Camasses', 'James Dewar', 'Nathalie Morin', 'Daniel Fisher'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Nuclear actin influences transcription in a manner dependent on its dynamics of polymerisation and nucleocytoplasmic translocation. Using human somatic cells and transcriptionally-silent Xenopus egg extracts, we show that actin dynamics is also required for DNA replication. We identify many actin regulators in replicating nuclei from Xenopus egg extracts, and show that in human cells, nuclear actin filaments form in early G1 and disassemble prior to S-phase. In either system, treatments that stabilise nuclear actin filaments abrogate nuclear transport and initiation of DNA replication. Mechanistically, actin directly binds RanGTP-importin complexes and disruption of its dynamics hinders cargo release. This prevents both nuclear pore complex (NPC) formation and active nuclear transport, which we show is required throughout DNA replication. Nuclear formin activity is required for two further steps: loading of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) onto chromatin and initiation of DNA replication. Thus, actin dynamics and formins are involved in several nuclear processes essential for cell proliferation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102806', [], [u'CNRS;', u'INRA;', u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'DepEst: an R package of important dependency estimators for gene network inference algorithms', ['Gokmen Altay', 'Zeyneb Kurt', 'Nejla Altay', 'Nizamettin Aydin'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Gene network inference algorithms (GNI) are popular in bioinformatics area. In almost all GNI algorithms, the main process is to estimate the dependency (association) scores among the genes of the dataset. \nWe present a bioinformatics tool, DepEst (Dependency Estimators), which is a powerful and flexible R package that includes 11 important dependency score estimators that can be used  in almost all GNI Algorithms. DepEst is the first bioinformatics package that includes such a large number of estimators that runs both in parallel and serial.\nDepEst is currently available on https://sites.google.com/site/gokmenaltay/depest  and will be uploaded to public repositories upon publication. Package access link, instructions, various workflows and example data sets are provided in the supplementary file.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102871', [], [u'La Jolla Institute for Allergy and Immunology;', u'Computer Engineering, Yildiz Technical University, Istanbul, Turkey;', u'NA']]
[u'Neural correlates of perceptual constancy in Auditory Cortex', ['Stephen Town', 'Katherine C Wood', 'Jennifer Kim Bizley'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Perceptual constancy describes the ability to represent objects in the world across variation in sensory input such as recognizing a person from different angles or a spoken word across talkers. This ability requires neural representations that are sensitive to some aspects of a stimulus (such as the spectral envelope of a sound) while tolerant to other variations in stimuli (such periodicity). In hearing, such representations have been observed in auditory cortex but never in combination with behavioural testing, which is essential in order to link neural codes to perceptual constancy. By testing ferrets in a vowel discrimination task which they perform across multiple stimulus dimensions and recording neuronal activity in auditory cortex we directly correlate neural tolerance with perceptual constancy. Subjects reported vowel identity across variations in fundamental frequency, sound location, and sound level, but failed to consistently generalize across voicing from voiced to whispered sounds. We decoded the responses of simultaneously recorded units in auditory cortex to identity units informative about vowel identity across each of these task-orthogonal variations in acoustic input. Significant proportions of units were vowel informative across each of these conditions, although fewer units were informative about vowel identity across voicing. For about half of vowel informative units, information about vowel identity was conserved across multiple orthogonal variables. The time of best decoding was also used to identify the relative timing and temporal multiplexing of sound features. Our results show that neural tolerance can be observed within single units in auditory cortex in animals demonstrating perceptual constancy.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102889', [], [u'University College London;', u'University of Pennsylvania;', u'University College london']]
[u'A systematic screen for morphological abnormalities during fission yeast sexual reproduction identifies a mechanism of actin aster formation for cell fusion', ['Omaya Dudin', 'Laura Merlini', 'Felipe O Bendezu', 'Raphael Groux', 'Vincent Vincenzetti', 'Sophie G Martin'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'In non-motile fungi, sexual reproduction relies on strong morphogenetic changes in response to pheromone signaling. We report here on a systematic screen for morphological abnormalities of the mating process in fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. We derived a homothallic (self-fertile) collection of viable deletions, which, upon visual screening, revealed a plethora of phenotypes affecting all stages of the mating process, including cell polarization, cell fusion and sporulation. Cell fusion relies on the formation of the fusion focus, an aster-like F-actin structure that is marked by strong local accumulation of the myosin V Myo52, which concentrates secretion at the fusion site. A secondary screen for fusion-defective mutants identified the myosin V Myo51-associated coiled-coil proteins Rng8 and Rng9 as critical for the coalescence of the fusion focus. Indeed, rng8\u2206 and rng9\u2206 mutant cells exhibit multiple stable dots at the cell-cell contact site, instead of the single focus observed in wildtype. Rng8 and Rng9 accumulate on the fusion focus, dependent on Myo51 and tropomyosin Cdc8. A tropomyosin mutant allele, which compromises Rng8/9 localization but not actin binding, similarly leads to multiple stable dots instead of a single focus. By contrast, myo51 deletion does not strongly affect fusion focus coalescence. We propose that focusing of the actin filaments in the fusion aster primarily relies on Rng8/9-dependent cross-linking of tropomyosin-actin filaments.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103176', [], [u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Calculating the statistical significance of rare variants causal for Mendelian and complex disorders', ['Aliz R. Rao', 'Stanley F. Nelson'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'With the expanding use of next-gen sequencing (NGS) to diagnose the thousands of rare Mendelian genetic diseases, it is critical to be able to interpret individual DNA variation. We developed a general method to better interpret the likelihood that a rare variant is disease causing if observed in a given gene or genic region mapping to a described protein domain, using genome-wide information from a large control sample. We implemented these methods as a web tool and demonstrate application to 19 relevant but diverse next-gen sequencing studies. Additionally, we calculate the statistical significance of findings involving multi-family studies with rare Mendelian disease and studies of large-scale complex disorders such as autism spectrum disorder.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103218', [], [u'UCLA']]
[u'Drivers of diversification in individual life courses', ['Raisa Hernandez-Pacheco', 'Ulrich K Steiner'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Heterogeneity in life courses among individuals of a population influences the speed of adaptive evolutionary processes, but it is less clear how biotic and abiotic environmental fluctuations influence such heterogeneity. We investigate principal drivers of variability in sequence of stages during the life of an individual in a stage-structured population. We quantify heterogeneity by measuring population entropy, which computes the rate of diversification of individual life courses of a Markov chain. Using individual data of a primate population, we show that density regulates the stage composition of the population, but its entropy and the generating moments of heterogeneity are independent of density. This lack of influence of density on heterogeneity is neither due to low year-to-year variation in entropy nor due to differences in survival among stages, but due to differences in stage transitions. Our analysis thus shows that well-known classical ecological selective forces, such as density regulation, are not linked to potential selective forces governing heterogeneity through underlying stage dynamics. Despite evolution acting heavily on individual variability in fitness components, our understanding is poor whether observed heterogeneity is adaptive and how it evolves and is maintained. Our analysis illustrates how entropy represents a more integrated measure of diversity compared to the population structural composition, giving us new insights about the underlying drivers of individual heterogeneity within populations and potential evolutionary mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103184', [], [u'University of Puerto Rico;', u'University of Southern Denmark']]
[u'Inferring the Joint Demographic History of Multiple Populations: Beyond the Diffusion Approximation', ['Julien Jouganous', 'Will Long', 'Simon Gravel'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Understanding variation in allele frequencies across populations is a central goal of population genetics. Classical models for the distribution of allele frequencies, using forward simulation, coalescent theory, or the diffusion approximation, have been used extensively for demographic inference, medical study design, and evolutionary studies. Here we propose a simple model of ordinary differential equations for the evolution of allele frequencies that is closely related to the diffusion approximation but avoids many of its limitations and approximations. We show that the approach is typically faster, more numerically stable, and more easily generalizable than the state-of-the-art software implementation of the diffusion approximation. We present a number of applications to human sequence data, including demographic inference with a five-population joint frequency spectrum and a discussion of the transferability of demographic histories across populations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103275', [], [u'McGill University, Canada;', u'Duke University, United States']]
[u'DATS: the data tag suite to enable discoverability of datasets', ['Susanna-Assunta Sansone', 'Alejandra Gonzalez-Beltran', 'Philippe Rocca-Serra', 'George Alter', 'Jeffrey S Grethe', 'Hua Xu', 'Ian Fore', 'Jared Lyle', 'Anupama E Gururaj', 'Xiaoling Chen', 'Hyeoneui Kim', 'Nansu Zong', 'Yueling Li', 'Ruiling Liu', 'Ibrahim Burak Ozyurt', 'Lucila Ohno-Machado', 'bioCADDIE Working Groups Members'], u'January 25, 2017.', u"Today's science increasingly requires effective ways to find and access existing datasets that are distributed across a range of repositories. For researchers in the life sciences, discoverability of datasets may soon become as essential as identifying the latest publications via PubMed. Through an international collaborative effort funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH)'s Big Data to Knowledge (BD2K) initiative, we have designed and implemented the DAta Tag Suite (DATS) model to support the DataMed data discovery index. DataMed's goal is to be for data what PubMed has been for the scientific literature. Akin to the Journal Article Tag Suite (JATS) used in PubMed, the DATS model enables submission of metadata on datasets to DataMed. DATS has a core set of elements, which are generic and applicable to any type of datasets, and an extended set that can accommodate more specialized data types. DATS is a platform-independent model also available as a Schema.org annotated serialization to be used beyond DataMed, for example, in projects like DataCite.", u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103143', [], [u'University of Oxford, Oxford e-Research Centre, 7 Keble Road, OX1 3QG, Oxford, UK;', u'Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research, University of Michigan, PO Box 124;', u'University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Dr, La Jolla CA 92093, USA;', u'The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 7000 Fannin St, Houston, TX 77030, USA;', u'National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, 2115 E Jefferson St, Bethesda, MD 20892;', u'bioCADDIE Consortium']]
[u'kpLogo: positional k-mer analysis reveals hidden specificity in biological sequences', ['Xuebing Wu', 'David Bartel'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Motifs of only 1-4 letters can play important roles when present at key locations within macromolecules. Because existing motif-discovery tools typically miss these position-specific short motifs, we developed kpLogo, a probability-based logo tool for integrated detection and visualization of position-specific ultra-short motifs. kpLogo also overcomes the limitations of conventional motif-visualization tools in handling positional interdependencies and utilizing ranked or weighted sequences increasingly available from high-throughput assays.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102921', [], [u'Whitehead Institute/HHMI/MIT;', u'MIT']]
[u'Alternative Methods for Mitochondrial Transplantation: Efficiency of Unpackaged and Lipid-Packaged Preparations', ['Donna L McPhie', 'Laura W Sargent', 'Suzann M. Babb', 'Dorit Ben-Shachar', 'Anne M Cataldo', 'Bruce M. Cohen'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Mitochondrial transplantation is currently being explored as a means to repair and restore proper organelle function in a variety of inherited and acquired disorders of energy metabolism.  The optimal preparation and application of donor mitochondria is unknown, but most studies in vivo have used injection techniques or, for tissue studies, unpackaged mitochondria (organelles isolated and suspended in buffer) in transplant experiments.  Packaging in lipid rafts can increase recipient cell uptake of some compounds and objects.  We present the first data comparing recipient cell uptake of unpackaged mitochondria to recipient cell uptake of mitochondria packaged in cell membrane lipids.  Mitochondria and membranes were prepared from autologous cells and applied to cells (fibroblasts) in culture.  Both unpackaged and lipid-packaged mitochondria were taken into recipient cells and the donor mitochondria showed evidence, in each case, of retained functionality and the ability to merge with the recipient mitochondrial matrix.  However, lipid packaging appeared to enhance the uptake of functional mitochondria.  Current studies of mitochondrial transplantation in animal models might fruitfully explore the utility and efficacy of lipid-packaged mitochondria in transplant experiments.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102913', [], [u'Program for Neuropsychiatric Research, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA 02478;', u'Laboratory of Psychobiology, Dept of Psychiatry,Technion-IIT, Haifa Israel']]
[u'Spatial Attention Enhances the Neural Representation of Invisible Signals Embedded in Noise', ['Cooper A Smout', 'Jason B Mattingley'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Recent evidence suggests that voluntary spatial attention can modulate neural representations of visual stimuli that do not enter conscious awareness (i.e. invisible stimuli), supporting the notion that attention and awareness are dissociable processes (Watanabe et al., 2011; Wyart et al., 2012a). It remains unclear, however, whether spatial attention can modulate neural representations of invisible stimuli that are in direct competition with highly salient and visible stimuli. Here we developed a novel electroencephalography (EEG) frequency-tagging paradigm to obtain a continuous readout of neural activity associated with visible and invisible signals embedded in dynamic noise. Participants (N = 23) detected occasional contrast changes in one of two flickering image streams on either side of fixation. Each image stream contained a visible or invisible signal embedded in every second noise image, the visibility of which was titrated and checked using a two-interval forced-choice detection task. Steady-state visual-evoked potentials (SSVEPs) were computed from EEG data at the signal and noise frequencies of interest. Cluster-based permutation analyses revealed significant neural responses to both visible and invisible signals across posterior scalp electrodes. In line with previous findings, spatial attention increased the neural representation of visible signals. Crucially, spatial attention also increased the neural representation of invisible signals. As such, the present results replicate and extend previous studies by demonstrating that attention can modulate the neural representation of invisible signals that are in direct competition with highly salient masking stimuli.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/102731', [], [u'Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland;', u'The University of Queensland']]
[u'Context-Aware Prediction of Pathogenicity of Missense Mutations Involved in Human Disease', ['Christoph Feinauer', 'Martin Weigt'], u'January 25, 2017.', u'Amino-acid substitutions are implicated in a wide range of human diseases, many\nof which are lethal.  Distinguishing such mutations from polymorphisms without significant\neffect on human health is a necessary step in understanding the etiology of\nsuch diseases. Computational methods can be used to select interesting\nmutations within a larger set, to corroborate experimental findings and to\nelucidate the cause of the deleterious effect. In this work, we show that\ntaking into account the sequence context in which the mutation appears allows\nto improve the predictive and explanatory power of such methods. We present an\nunsupervised approach based on the direct-coupling analysis of homologous\nproteins. We show its capability to quantify mutations where methods without\ncontext dependence fail.  We highlight cases where the context dependence is\ninterpretable as functional or structural constraints and show that our simple\nand unsupervised method has an accuracy similar to state-of-the-art methods,\nincluding supervised ones.', u'/content/early/2017/01/25/103051', [], [u'University Pierre and Marie Curie']]
