[u'Bacterial physiological adaptations to contrasting edaphic conditions identified using landscape scale metagenomics', ['Ashish A Malik', 'Bruce C Thomson', 'Andrew S Whiteley', 'Mark Bailey', 'Rob I Griffiths'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Environmental factors relating to soil pH are widely known to be important in structuring soil bacterial communities, yet the relationship between taxonomic community composition and functional diversity remains to be determined. Here, we analyze geographically distributed soils spanning a wide pH gradient and assess the functional gene capacity within those communities using whole genome metagenomics. Low pH soils consistently had fewer taxa (lower alpha and gamma diversity), but only marginal reductions in alpha diversity and equivalent gamma diversity. However, coherent changes in the relative abundances of annotated genes between pH classes were identified; with functional profiles clustering according to pH independent of geography. Differences in gene abundances were found to reflect survival and nutrient acquisition strategies, with organic-rich acidic soils harboring a greater abundance of cation efflux pumps, C and N direct fixation systems and fermentation pathways indicative of anaerobiosis. Conversely, high pH soils possessed more direct transporter-mediated mechanisms for organic C and N substrate acquisition. These findings show that bacterial functional versatility may not be constrained by taxonomy, and we further identify the range of physiological adaptations required to exist in soils of varying nutrient availability and edaphic conditions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117887', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, Wallingford, UK;', u'The University of Western Australia, Crawley, Australia']]
[u'Molecular diagnosis of orthopaedic device infection direct from sonication fluid by metagenomic sequencing', ['Teresa L Street', 'Nicholas D Sanderson', 'Bridget L Atkins', 'Andrew J Brent', 'Kevin Cole', 'Dona Foster', 'Martin A McNally', 'Sarah Oakley', 'Leon Peto', 'Adrian Taylor', 'Tim E A Peto', 'Derrick W Crook', 'David W Eyre'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Culture of multiple periprosthetic tissue samples is the current gold-standard for microbiological diagnosis of prosthetic joint infections (PJI). Additional diagnostic information may be obtained through sonication fluid culture of explants. However, current techniques can have relatively low sensitivity, with prior antimicrobial therapy and infection by fastidious organisms influencing results. We assessed if metagenomic sequencing of complete bacterial DNA extracts obtained direct from sonication fluid can provide an alternative rapid and sensitive tool for diagnosis of PJI. \nWe compared metagenomic sequencing with standard aerobic and anaerobic culture in 97 sonication fluid samples from prosthetic joint and other orthopaedic device infections. Reads from Illumina MiSeq sequencing were taxonomically classified using Kraken. Using 50 samples (derivation set), we determined optimal thresholds for the number and proportion of bacterial reads required to identify an infection and validated our findings in 47 independent samples.\nCompared to sonication fluid culture, the species-level sensitivity of metagenomic sequencing was 61/69(88%,95%CI 77-94%) (derivation samples 35/38[92%,79-98%]; validation 26/31[84%,66-95%]), and genus-level sensitivity was 64/69(93%,84-98%). Species-level specificity, adjusting for plausible fastidious causes of infection, species found in concurrently obtained tissue samples, and prior antibiotics, was 85/97(88%,79-93%) (derivation 43/50[86%,73-94%], validation 42/47[89%,77-96%]). High levels of human DNA contamination were seen despite use of laboratory methods to remove it. Rigorous laboratory good practice was required to prevent bacterial DNA contamination. \nWe demonstrate metagenomic sequencing can provide accurate diagnostic information in PJI. Our findings combined with increasing availability of portable, random-access sequencing technology offers the potential to translate metagenomic sequencing into a rapid diagnostic tool in PJI.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118026', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Oxford;', u'Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust;', u'Royal Sussex County Hospital']]
[u'Comprehensive mapping of HIV-1 escape from a broadly neutralizing antibody', ['Adam S Dingens', 'Hugh K Haddox', 'Julie Overbaugh', 'Jesse D Bloom'], u'March 18, 2017.', u"Precisely defining how viral mutations affect HIV's sensitivity to antibodies is vital to the development and evaluation of vaccines and antibody immunotherapeutics. But despite great effort, a full map of escape mutants has not yet been delineated for even a single anti-HIV antibody. Here we describe a massively parallel experimental approach to quantify how all single amino-acid mutations to Envelope (Env) affect HIV's sensitivity to a neutralizing antibody. We applied this approach to PGT151 and identified novel sites of escape in addition to those previously defined by structural and functional studies, such as glycans at sites 611 and 637, residue 647, and sites in the fusion peptide. Evaluating the effect of each amino acid at each site lends insight into the biochemical basis of escape throughout the epitope. Thus, comprehensive mapping of HIV antibody escape gives a quantitative, mutation-level view of the ways that Env can evade neutralization.", u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117705', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Fred Hutch Cancer Research Center;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'GROOLS: reactive graph reasoning for genome annotation through biological processes', ['Jonathan Mercier', 'Adrien Josso', 'Claudine Medigue', 'David Vallenet'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Motivation: High quality functional annotation is essential for understanding the phenotypic consequences encoded in a genome. Despite improvements in bioinformatics methods, millions of sequences in databanks are not assigned reliable functions. The curation of protein functions in the context of  biological processes is a way to improve and validate their annotation.\n\nResults: We developed an expert system using paraconsistent logic, named GROOLS (Genomic Rule Object-Oriented Logic System), that assists biocurators in functional annotation of proteins. GROOLS evaluates the completeness and the consistency of predicted functions through biological processes like metabolic pathways. At the end of the reasoning, conclusions are assigned to biological process components and highlight confirmed/missing predictions and potential conflicts with expectations (e.g. growth phenotype experiments). Results on 14 microbial organisms are presented.\n\nAvailability: GROOLS is implemented as a standalone Java application. GROOLS is free open source software distributed under CeCILL license and can be downloaded from https://github.com/Grools.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117994', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'CEA Genoscope']]
[u'ARIBA: rapid antimicrobial resistance genotyping directly from sequencing reads', ['Martin Hunt', 'Alison E Mather', 'Leonor Sanchez-Buso', 'Andrew J Page', 'Julian Parkhill', 'Jacqueline A Keane', 'Simon R Harris'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is one of the major threats to human and animal health worldwide, yet few high-throughput tools exist to analyse and predict the resistance of a bacterial isolate from sequencing data. Here we present a new tool, ARIBA, that identifies AMR-associated genes and single nucleotide polymorphisms directly from short reads, and generates detailed and customisable output. The accuracy and advantages of ARIBA over other tools are demonstrated on three datasets from Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, with ARIBA outperforming existing methods. ARIBA is available at https://github.com/sanger-pathogens/ariba.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118000', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Brain connectivity-informed regularization methods for regression', ['Marta Karas', 'Damian Brzyski', 'Mario Dzemidzic', 'Joaquin Goni', 'David A Kareken', 'Timothy W Randolph', 'Jaroslaw Harezlak'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'A challenging problem arising in brain imaging research is principled incorporation of information from different imaging modalities. Frequently each modality is analyzed separately using, for instance, dimensionality reduction techniques which result in a loss of mutual information. We propose a novel regularization method to estimate the association between the brain structure features and a scalar outcome within the linear regression framework. Our regularization technique provides a principled approach to utilizing external information arising from the structural brain connectivity to inform the estimation of the regression coefficients. Our proposal extends the classical Tikhonov regularization framework by defining a penalty term based on the structural connectivity-derived Laplacian matrix. In the work presented, we address both theoretical and computational issues.  The approach is illustrated using simulated data and compared with other penalized regression methods. Finally, we apply our regularization method to study the associations between the alcoholism phenotypes and brain cortical thickness using a diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) derived measure of structural connectivity.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117945', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Indiana University Bloomington;', u'Indiana University School of Medicine;', u'Purdue University;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center']]
[u'A framework to identify modifier genes in patients with Phelan-McDermid syndrome', ['Anne-Claude Tabet', 'Thomas Rolland', 'Marie Ducloy', 'Jonathan Levy', 'Julien Buratti', 'Alexandre Mathieu', 'Damien Haye', 'Laurence Perrin', 'Celine Dupont', 'Sandrine Passemard', 'Yline Capri', 'Alain Verloes', 'Severine Drunat', 'Boris Keren', 'Cyril Mignot', 'Isabelle Marey', 'Aurelia Jacquette', 'Sandra Whalen', 'Eva Pipiras', 'Brigitte Benzacken', 'Sandra Chantot-Bastaraud', 'Alexandra Afenjar', 'Delphine Heron', 'Cedric Le Caignec', 'Claire Beneteau', 'Olivier Pichon', 'Bertrand Isidor', 'Albert David', 'Jean-Michel Dupont', 'Stephan Kemeny', 'Laetitia Gouas', 'Philippe Vago', 'Anne-Laure Mosca-Boidron', 'Laurence Faivre', 'Chantal Missirian', 'Nicole Philip', 'Damien Sanlaville', 'Patrick Edery', 'Veronique Satre', 'Charles Coutton', 'Francoise Devillard', 'Klaus Dieterich', 'Marie-Laure Vuillaume', 'Caroline Rooryck', 'Didier Lacombe', 'Lucile Pinson', 'Vincent Gatinois', 'Jacques Puechberty', 'Jean Chiesa', 'James Lespinasse', 'Christele Dubourg', 'Chloe Quelin', 'Melanie Fradin', 'Hubert Journel', 'Annick Toutain', 'Dominique Martin', 'Abdelamdjid Benmansour', 'Roberto Toro', 'Frederique Amsellem', 'Richard Delorme', 'Thomas Bourgeron'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Phelan-McDermid syndrome (PMS) is characterized by a variety of clinical symptoms with heterogeneous degrees of severity, including intellectual disability, speech impairment, and autism spectrum disorders (ASD). It results from a deletion of the 22q13 locus that in most cases includes the SHANK3 gene. SHANK3 is considered a major gene for PMS, but the factors modulating the severity of the syndrome remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated 85 PMS patients with different 22q13 rearrangements (78 deletions, 7 duplications). We first explored their clinical features and provide evidence for frequent corpus callosum abnormalities. We then mapped candidate genomic regions at the 22q13 locus associated with risk of clinical features, and suggest a second locus associated with absence of speech. Finally, in some cases, we identified additional rearrangements at loci associated with ASD, potentially modulating the severity of the syndrome. We also report the first SHANK3 deletion transmitted to five affected daughters by a mother without intellectual disability nor ASD, suggesting that some individuals could compensate for such mutations. In summary, we shed light on the genotype-phenotype relationship of PMS, a step towards the identification of compensatory mechanisms for a better prognosis and possibly treatments of patients with neurodevelopmental disorders.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117978', [u'Genetics'], [u'APHP;', u'Institut Pasteur;', u'Nantes Hospital;', u'CHU Estaing;', u'Dijon Hospital;', u'La Timone Hospital;', u'Lyon Civil Hospital;', u'Grenoble Hospital;', u'Bordeaux Hospital;', u'Montpellier Hospital;', u'CHRU Nimes;', u'Chambery-Hotel-Dieu Hospital;', u'CHU Rennes;', u'Chubert Hospital;', u'Bretonneau Hospital;', u'CH du Mans']]
[u'Single-cell RNA-Sequencing uncovers transcriptional states and fate decisions in haematopoiesis', ['Emmanouil I Athanasiadis', 'Helena Andres', 'Jan G Botthof', 'Lauren Ferreira', 'Pietro Lio', 'Ana Cvejic'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'The success of marker-based approaches for dissecting haematopoiesis in mouse and human is reliant on the presence of well-defined cell-surface markers specific for diverse progenitor populations. An inherent problem with this approach is that the presence of specific cell surface markers does not directly reflect the transcriptional state of a cell. Here we used a marker-free approach to computationally reconstruct the blood lineage tree in zebrafish and order cells along their differentiation trajectory, based on their global transcriptional differences. Within the population of transcriptionally similar stem and progenitor cells our analysis revealed considerable cell-to-cell differences in their probability to transition to another, committed state. Once fate decision was executed, the suppression of transcription of ribosomal genes and up-regulation of lineage specific factors co-ordinately controlled lineage differentiation. Evolutionary analysis further demonstrated that this haematopoietic program was highly conserved between zebrafish and higher vertebrates.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117960', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Genomic basis and evolutionary potential for extreme drought adaptation in Arabidopsis thaliana', ['Moises Exposito-Alonso', 'Francois Vasseur', 'Wei Ding', 'George Wang', 'Hernan A. A. Burbano', 'Detlef Weigel'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Because earth is currently experiencing unprecedented climate change, it is important to predict how species will respond to it. However, geographically-explicit predictive studies frequently ignore that species are comprised of genetically diverse individuals that can vary in their degree of adaptation to extreme local environments; properties that will determine the species ability to withstand climate change. Because an increase in extreme drought events is expected to challenge plant communities with global warming, we carried out a greenhouse experiment to investigate which genetic variants predict surviving an extreme drought event and how those variants are distributed across Eurasian Arabidopsis thaliana individuals. Genetic variants conferring higher drought survival showed signatures of polygenic adaptation, and were more frequently found in Mediterranean and Scandinavian regions. Using geoenvironmental models, we predicted that Central European populations might lag behind in adaptation by the end of the 21st century. Further analyses showed that a population decline could nevertheless be compensated by natural selection acting efficiently over standing variation or by migration of adapted individuals from populations at the margins of the species distribution. These findings highlight the importance of within-species genetic heterogeneity in facilitating an evolutionary response to a changing climate.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118067', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Department of Molecular Biology, Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology, Tuebingen']]
[u'CNN-based Encoding and Decoding of Visual Object Recognition in Space and Time', ['K. Seeliger', 'M. Fritsche', 'U. Guclu', 'S. Schoenmakers', 'J.-M. Schoffelen', 'S. E. Bosch', 'M. A. J. van Gerven'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been put forward as neurobiologically plausible models of the visual hierarchy. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, CNN representations of visual stimuli have previously been shown to correspond to processing stages in the ventral and dorsal streams of the visual system. Whether this correspondence between models and brain signals also holds for activity acquired at high temporal resolution has been explored less exhaustively. Here, we addressed this question by combining CNN-based encoding models with magnetoencephalography (MEG). Human participants passively viewed 1000 images of objects while MEG signals were acquired. We modelled their high temporal resolution source-reconstructed cortical activity with CNNs, and observed a feed-forward sweep across the visual hierarchy between 75-200 ms after stimulus onset. This spatiotemporal cascade was captured by the network layer representations, where the increasingly abstract stimulus representation in the hierarchical network model was reflected in different parts of the visual cortex, following the visual ventral stream. We further validated the accuracy of our encoding model by decoding stimulus identity in a left-out validation set of viewed objects, achieving state-of-the-art decoding accuracy.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118091', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour;', u'Radboud University, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour']]
[u'deStruct: Accurate Rearrangement Detection using Breakpoint Specific Realignment', ['Andrew McPherson', 'Sohrab P Shah', 'S Cenk Sahinalp'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'We propose that a breakpoint specific alignment procedure would improve breakpoint prediction.  Our method, deStruct, uses multiple stages of realignment and clustering to progressively refine breakpoint prediction quality and accuracy.  We show using simulated data that deStruct predicts breakpoints with higher sensitivity and specificity than existing breakpoint prediction tools.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/117523', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of British Columbia;', u'BC Cancer Agency;', u'Indiana University Bloomington']]
[u'SQANTI: extensive characterization of long read transcript sequences for quality control in full-length transcriptome identification and quantification', ['Manuel Tardaguila', 'Lorena de la Fuente', 'Cristina Marti', 'Cecile Pereira', 'Hector del Risco', 'Marc Ferrell', 'Maravillas Mellado', 'Marissa Macchietto', 'Kenneth Verheggen', 'Mariola Edelmann', 'Iakes Ezkurdia', 'Jesus Vazquez', 'Michael Tress', 'Ali Mortazavi', 'Lennart Martens', 'Susana Rodriguez-Navarro', 'Victoria Moreno', 'Ana Conesa'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'High-throughput sequencing of full-length transcripts using long reads has paved the way for the discovery of thousands of novel transcripts, even in very well annotated organisms as mice and humans. Nonetheless, there is a need for studies and tools that characterize these novel isoforms. Here we present SQANTI, an automated pipeline for the classification of long-read transcripts that computes over 30 descriptors, which can be used to assess the quality of the data and of the preprocessing pipelines. We applied SQANTI to a neuronal mouse transcriptome using PacBio long reads and illustrate how the tool is effective in readily describing the composition of and characterizing the full-length transcriptome. We perform extensive evaluation of ToFU PacBio transcripts by PCR to reveal that an important number of the novel transcripts are technical artifacts of the sequencing approach, and that SQANTI quality descriptors can be used to engineer a filtering strategy to remove them.  By comparing our iso-transcriptome with public proteomics databases we find that alternative isoforms are elusive to proteogenomics detection and are abundant in major protein changes with respect to the principal isoform of their genes. A comparison of Iso-Seq over the classical RNA-seq approaches solely based on short-reads demonstrates that the PacBio transcriptome not only succeeds in capturing the most robustly expressed fraction of transcripts, but also avoids quantification errors caused by unaccounted 3?? end variability in the reference. SQANTI allows the user to maximize the analytical outcome of long read technologies by providing the tools to deliver quality-evaluated and curated full-length transcriptomes. SQANTI is available at https://bitbucket.org/ConesaLab/sqanti.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118083', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Florida;', u'Centro de Investigaciones Principe Felipe;', u'University of California;', u'Ghent University;', u'Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares CNIC;', u'Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Oncologicas CNIO']]
[u'Estimating the proportion of disease heritability mediated by gene expression levels', ["Luke J O'Connor", 'Alexander Gusev', 'Xuanyao Liu', 'Po-Ru Loh', 'Hilary K Finucane', 'Alkes L Price'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Disease risk variants identified by GWAS are predominantly noncoding, suggesting that gene regulation plays an important role. eQTL studies in unaffected individuals are often used to link disease-associated variants with the genes they regulate, relying on the hypothesis that noncoding regulatory effects are mediated by steady-state expression levels. To test this hypothesis, we developed a method to estimate the proportion of disease heritability mediated by the cis-genetic component of assayed gene expression levels.  The method, gene expression co-score regression (GECS regression), relies on the idea that, for a gene whose expression level affects a phenotype, SNPs with similar effects on the expression of that gene will have similar phenotypic effects.  In order to distinguish directional effects mediated by gene expression from non-directional pleiotropic or tagging effects, GECS regression operates on pairs of cis SNPs in linkage equilibrium, regressing pairwise products of disease effect sizes on products of cis-eQTL effect sizes.  We verified that GECS regression produces robust estimates of mediated effects in simulations.  We applied the method to eQTL data in 44 tissues from the GTEx consortium (average NeQTL = 158 samples) in conjunction with GWAS summary statistics for 30 diseases and complex traits (average NGWAS = 88K) with low pairwise genetic correlation, estimating the proportion of SNP-heritability mediated by the cis-genetic component of assayed gene expression in the union of the 44 tissues. The mean estimate was 0.21 (s.e. = 0.01) across 30 traits, with a significantly positive estimate (p < 0.001) for every trait.  Thus, assayed gene expression in bulk tissues mediates a statistically significant but modest proportion of disease heritability, motivating the development of additional assays to capture regulatory effects and the use of our method to estimate how much disease heritability they mediate.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118018', [u'Genetics'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Dana Farber Cancer Institute']]
