[u'Tracking the Subtle Mutations Thriving Host Sensing by the Plant Pathogen Streptomyces scabies', ['Samuel Jourdan', 'Isolde M Francis', 'Benoit Deflandre', 'Rosemary Loria', 'Sebastien Rigali'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'The acquisition of genetic material conferring the arsenal necessary for host virulence is a prerequisite on the path to become a plant pathogen. More subtle mutations are also required for perception of cues witnessing the presence of the target host and optimal conditions for colonization. The decision to activate the pathogenic lifestyle is not taken lightly and involves efficient systems monitoring environmental conditions. But how can a pathogen timely trigger the expression of virulence genes if the main signal inducing its pathogenic behavior originates from cellulose, the most abundant polysaccharide on earth? This situation is encountered by Streptomyces scabies responsible for common scab disease on tuber and root crops. We here propose a series of hypotheses of how S. scabies could optimally distinguish whether cello-oligosaccharides originate from decomposing lignocellulose (nutrient sources) or, instead, emanate from living and expanding plant tissue (virulence signals), and accordingly adapt its physiological response.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097998', [], [u'University of Liege;', u'Californian State University of Bakersfield;', u'University of Florida']]
[u'Validated Bayesian differentiation of causative and passenger mutations', ['Frederick R Cross', 'Michal Breker', 'Kristi L Lieberman'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'In many contexts, the problem arises of determining which of many candidate mutations is the most likely to be causative for some phenotype. It is desirable to have a way to evaluate this probability that relies as little as possible on previous knowledge, to avoid bias against discovering new genes or functions.  We are isolating mutants with blocked cell cycle progression in Chlamydomonas, and determining mutant genome sequences. Due to the intensity of UV mutagenesis required for efficient mutant collection, the mutants contain multiple mutations altering coding sequence.  To provide a quantitative estimate of probability that each individual mutation in a given mutant is the causative one, we develop a Bayesian approach.  The approach employs four independent indicators: sequence conservation of the mutated coding sequence with Arabidopsis; severity of the mutation relative to Chlamydomonas wild type based on Blosum62 scores; meiotic mapping information for location of the causative mutation relative to known molecular markers; and, for a subset of mutants, transcriptional profile of the candidate wild type genes through the mitotic cell cycle. Analysis of best reciprocal blast relationships among Chlamydomonas and other eukaryotes indicate that the Ts-lethal mutants that our procedure recovers are highly enriched for fundamental cell-essential functions conserved broadly across plants and other eukaryotes, accounting for the high information content of sequence alignment to Arabidopsis. \nThese indicators are statistically independent, and so can be combined quantitatively into a single probability calculation. We validate this calculation: recently isolated mutations that were not in the training set for developing the indicators, with high calculated probability of causality, are confirmed in every case by additional genetic data to indeed be causative.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097931', [u'Genetics'], [u'The Rockefeller University, United States']]
[u'The contribution of striatal pseudo-reward prediction errors to value-based decision-making', ['Ernest Mas-Herrero', 'Guillaume Sescousse', 'Roshan Cools', 'Josep Marco-Pallares'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Most studies that have investigated the brain mechanisms underlying learning have focused on the ability to learn simple stimulus-response associations. However, in everyday life, outcomes are often obtained through complex behavioral patterns involving a series of actions, rather than one simple response. In such scenarios, parallel learning systems are important to reduce the complexity of the learning problem, as proposed in the framework of hierarchical reinforcement learning (HRL). One of the main strategies used by HRL algorithms is the computation of pseudo-reward prediction errors (PRPE) which allow the reinforcement of actions that led to a sub-goal before the final goal itself is achieved. Here we wanted to test two hypotheses. First, we hypothesized that, despite not carrying any rewarding value per se, pseudo-rewards might generate a bias in choice behavior when reward contingencies are not well-known or uncertain. Second, we hypothesized that such a behavioral bias might be related to the strength of PRPE striatal representations. In order to test these ideas, we developed a novel fMRI decision-making paradigm to assess reward prediction errors (RPE) and PRPE in a group of 23 healthy participants. Our results show that participants developed a preference for the most pseudo-rewarding option throughout the task, even though it did not lead to more reward overall. Analysis of fMRI data indicated that this preference was predicted by individual differences in the striatal sensitivity to PRPE vs RPE. In sum, our results indicate that pseudo-rewards can bias our choices despite their lack of association with actual reward. Thus, although they are critical for speeding learning in complex environments, they might potentially lead to irrational behavior in the absence of reward.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097873', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'MNI;', u'Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behavior;', u'University of Barcelona']]
[u'Common object representations for visual production and recognition', ['Judith E. Fan', 'Daniel L. K. Yamins', 'Nicholas B. Turk-Browne'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Production and comprehension have long been viewed as inseparable components of language. The study of vision, by contrast, has centered almost exclusively on comprehension. Here we investigate drawing, the most basic form of visual production. How do we convey concepts in visual form, and how does refining this skill, in turn, affect recognition? We developed a crowdsourcing platform for collecting large amounts of drawing and recognition data, and applied a deep neural network model of visual cortex to explore the hypothesis that drawing recruits the same abstract object representations that subserve visual recognition. Consistent with this hypothesis, we discovered that drawings contain the features most important for recognizing objects in photographs, and that learning to make more recognizable drawings of objects generalizes to enhanced recognition of those objects. These findings could explain why drawing is so effective for communicating visual concepts, they suggest novel approaches for evaluating and refining conceptual knowledge, and they highlight the potential of deep networks for understanding human learning.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097840', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'Existence and construction of large stable food webs', ['Jan O Haerter', 'Namiko Mitarai', 'Kim Sneppen'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Ecological diversity is ubiquitous despite the restrictions imposed by competitive exclusion and apparent competition. To explain the observed richness of species in a given habitat, food web theory has explored nonlinear functional responses, self-interaction or spatial structure and dispersal - model ingredients that have proven to promote stability and diversity. We here instead return to classical Lotka-Volterra equations, where species-species interaction is characterized by a simple product and spatial restrictions are ignored. We quantify how this idealization imposes constraints on coexistence and diversity for many species. To this end, we introduce the concept of free and controlled species and use this to demonstrate how stable food webs can be constructed by sequential addition of species. When we augment the resulting network by additional weak interactions we are able to show that it is possible to construct large food webs of arbitrary connectivity. Our model thus serves as a formal starting point for the study of sustainable interaction patterns between species.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097907', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Copenhagen;', u'Niels Bohr Institute']]
[u'Deficiency of Voltage-gated Proton Channel Hv1 Leads to hypoinsulinaemia, hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance in mice', ['Xudong Wang', 'Qing Zhao', 'Wang Xi', 'Shangrong Zhang', 'Jiwei Qin', 'Jili Lv', 'Yongzhe Che', 'Weiyan Zuo', 'Shu Jie Li'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Here, we demonstrate that the voltage-gated proton channel Hv1 represents a regulatory mechanism for insulin secretion of pancreatic islet \u03b2 cell and glucose homeostasis. In vivo, Hv1-de\ufb01cient mice display hypoinsulinaemia, hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance due to reduced insulin secretion, but normal peripheral insulin sensitivity. In vitro, islets from Hv1-de\ufb01cient and heterozygous mice, \u03b2 cells and islets with siRNA-mediated knockdown of Hv1 exhibit a marked defect in secretagogue-induced insulin secretion. A decrease in \u03b1 and \u03b2 cell masses has been observed in islets from Hv1-deficient mice. Furthermore, Hv1-deficient \u03b2 cell has an impairment on glucose- and sulfonylurea-induced intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis and membrane depolarization. Collectively, our in vitro and in vivo results indicate that Hv1 is required for insulin secretion in the \u03b2 cell and that dysfunction of Hv1 may contribute to the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes. Our study sheds light on a new biological function of the proton channel.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097816', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'Nankai University']]
[u'EXTENDING THE UTILITY OF THE WHO RECOMMENDED ASSAY FOR DIRECT DETECTION OF ENTEROVIRUSES FROM CLINICAL SPECIMEN FOR RESOLVING POLIOVIRUS CO-INFECTION', ['Temitope O.C. Faleye', 'Moses O Adewumi', 'Naomi P Ozegbe', 'Oluwaseun E Ogunsakin', 'Grace Ariyo', 'Faith W Adeshina', 'Oluwaseun S Ogunga', 'Similoluwa D Oluwadare', 'Johnson A Adeniji'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'In a polio-free world there might be reduced funding for poliovirus surveillance. There is therefore the need to ensure that enterovirologist globally, especially those outside the global polio laboratory network (GPLN), can participate in poliovirus surveillance without neglecting their enterovirus type of interest. To accomplish this, assays are needed that allow such active participation.  In this light, we used 15 previously identified enterovirus isolates as reference samples for assay development. The first eight were enterovirus species B (EV-B). The remaining seven were EV-Cs; three of which were poliovirus (PV) 1, 2 and 3, respectively. A 16th sample was compounded; a mixture of two EV-Bs, three PVs and one nonPV EV-Cs (all part of the 15). In all, four samples contained PVs with the 16th consisting of mixture of the three PV types. All were subjected to the WHO recommended RT-snPCR assay, and five other modified (with substitution of the second round PCR forward primer) assays. The new primers included the previously described Species Resolution Primers (SRPs; 187 and 189) and the Poliovirus Resolution Primers (PRPs: Sab 1, 2 and 3). All amplicons were sequenced and isolate identity confirmed using the Enterovirus Genotyping Tool.  The PRPs detected PV types in only the four samples that contained PVs. In addition, it was able to show that the sample 16 (mixture) contained all the three PV types. On the other hand, though the SRPs and the WHO assay also detected the three singleton PVs, in sample 16, they both detected only one of the three PV types present.  This study describes a sensitive and specific utility extension of the recently recommended WHO RT-snPCR assay that enables independent detection of the three poliovirus types especially in cases of co-infection.  More importantly, it piggy-backs on the first round PCR product of the WHO recommended assay and consequently ensures that enterovirologists interested in nonpolio enteroviruses can continue their investigations, and contribute significantly and specifically to poliovirus surveillance, by using the excess of their first round PCR product.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097857', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Ekiti State University, Nigeria;', u'University of Ibadan, Nigeria']]
[u'Lateral geniculate neurons show robust ocular dominance plasticity', ['Juliane Jaepel', 'Mark Huebener', 'Tobias Bonhoeffer', 'Tobias Rose'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Experience-dependent plasticity in the mature visual system is considered exclusively cortical. Using chronic two-photon Ca2+ imaging, we found evidence against this tenet: dLGN cells showed robust ocular domi-nance shifts after monocular deprivation. Most, but not all responses of dLGN cell boutons in binocular visual cortex were monocular during baseline. Following deprivation, however, deprived-eye dominated boutons became responsive to the non-deprived eye. Thus, plasticity of dLGN neurons contributes to cortical ocular dominance shifts.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097923', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Neurobiology']]
[u'CENP-A associated lncRNAs influence chromosome segregation in human cells', ['Delphine Quenet', 'David Sturgill', 'Marin Olson', 'Yamini Dalal'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Transcription occurs ubiquitously throughout non-coding parts of the genome, including at repetitive\na-satellite DNA elements which comprise the majority of human centromeres. The function of\ntemporally regulated centromeric transcription, and transcripts, is consequently a topic of intense\ninvestigation. In this study, we use high throughput approaches to identify and describe lncRNAs\nassociated with the centromere specific histone variant CENP-A that arise from the transcription of\nspecific centromeres at early G1, which we then show are physically associated with centromeres, and\nwhich are functionally necessary for accurate chromosome segregation. Targeted depletion of one such\ncentromeric RNA, which originates from a single centromere, is sufficient to increase the frequency\nof chromosome segregation defects. These data support the emerging paradigm of the necessity of\ncentromere-specific lncRNAs in the integrity of faithful chromosome segregation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097956', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Vermont;', u'National Cancer Institute']]
[u'Ultradian Oscillation of Growth Reveals Regulatory Mechanism in the Straightening Movement of Wheat Coleoptile', ['Renaud Bastien', 'Stephane Douady', 'Bruno Moulia'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Plants regulate their shape and movements in accordance with their surrounding environment. This regulation occurs by a curving movement driven by differential growth.  Recent studies has unraveled part of the mechanisms leading to differential growth though lateral polar auxin transport.  However the real interplay between elongation and curvature variation, and accordingly the regulation process of growth distribution; along and across the organ, has not been really investigated so far. This issue was addressed in this study  through gravitropic experiments on wheat coleoptiles, using a recently published kinematic approach. Here we show that median elongation is not affected by the gravitropic perturbation. However kinematics studies reveal temporal oscillation of the median elongation rate. These oscillations propagate from the apex to the base during the movement with a characteristic velocity that is similar to auxin propagation in coleoptiles. The curvature variation exhibits a similar spatiotemporal pattern to the median elongation which reveals a nontrivial link between this two parameters and potential effect on perception and biomechanics of the tissue.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/093146', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Max Planck Institute;', u'CNRS;', u'INRA']]
[u"How context alters value: Price information recruits the brain's valuation and affective regulation system for shaping experienced taste pleasantness.", ['Liane Schmidt', 'Vasilisa Skvortsova', 'Claus Kullen', 'Bernd Weber', 'Hilke Plassmann'], u'January 3, 2017.', u"Informational cues such as the price of a wine can trigger expectations about its taste quality and thereby modulate the sensory experience on a reported and neural level. Yet it is unclear how the brain translates such expectations into sensory pleasantness. We used multilevel mediation analysis of neural and behavioral data obtained in participants who tasted identical wines cued with different prices. We found that the brain's valuation system (BVS) in concert with the anterior prefrontal cortex explained the effect of price cues on taste pleasantness ratings. The sensitivity of the BVS to rewards outside the taste domain moderated the strength of these effects. Moreover, brain mediators of price cue effects overlapped with brain regions previously found to be involved in placebo analgesia. These findings provide novel evidence for the fundamental role that neural pathways linked to motivation and affective regulation play for the effect of informational cues on sensory experiences.", u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097915', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'INSEAD, LNC DEC ENS;', u'LNC DEC ENS;', u'Bonn University;', u'INSEAD']]
[u'Switching of metabolic programs in response to light availability is an essential function of the cyanobacterial circadian clock', ['Anna M Puszynska', "Erin O'Shea"], u'January 3, 2017.', u'The transcription factor RpaA is the master regulator of circadian transcription in cyanobacteria, driving genome-wide oscillations in mRNA abundance. Deletion of rpaA has no effect on viability in constant light conditions, but renders cells inviable in cycling conditions when light and dark periods alternate. We investigated the mechanisms underlying this viability defect, and demonstrate that the rpaA- strain cannot maintain appropriate energy status at night, does not accumulate carbon reserves during the day, and is defective in transcription of genes crucial for utilization of carbohydrate stores at night. Reconstruction of carbon utilization pathways combined with provision of an external carbon source restores energy charge and viability of the rpaA- strain in light/dark cycling conditions. Our observations highlight how a circadian program controls and temporally coordinates essential pathways in carbon metabolism to maximize fitness of cells facing periodic energy limitations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/090688', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'Individual movement variability magnitudes are predicted by cortical neural variability', ['Shlomi Haar', 'Opher Donchin', 'Ilan Dinstein'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Humans exhibit considerable motor variability even across trivial reaching movements. This variability can be separated into specific kinematic components such as extent and direction, which are thought to be governed by distinct neural processes. Here, we report that individual subjects exhibit different magnitudes of kinematic variability, which are consistent (within individual) across movements to different targets and regardless of which arm (dominant or non-dominant) was used to perform the movements. Simultaneous fMRI recordings revealed that individual subjects also exhibited consistent fMRI variability across movements to different targets when performed with either arm. Cortical fMRI variability of individual subjects predicted their movement extent variability. This relationship was markedly stronger in fMRI responses of posterior-parietal cortex than primary motor cortex, suggesting that individuals with more variable movement planning, exhibit larger kinematic variability. We, therefore, propose that neural and kinematic variability are reliable and interrelated personal characteristics, which may underlie individual motor capabilities.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097824', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Ben-Gurion University of the Negev']]
[u'Masking of a circadian behavior in larval zebrafish involves the thalamo-habenula pathway', ['Qian Lin', 'Suresh J Jesuthasan'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Light has the ability to disrupt or mask behavior that is normally controlled by the circadian clock. In mammals, masking requires melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells that detect blue light and project to the thalamus. It is not known whether masking is wavelength-dependent in other vertebrates, nor is it clear what higher circuits are involved. Here, we address these questions in zebrafish. We find that diel vertical migration, a circadian behavior in larval zebrafish, is effectively masked by blue, but not by red light. Two-photon calcium imaging reveals that a retino-recipient thalamic nucleus and a downstream structure, the habenula, are tuned to blue light. Lesioning the habenula inhibits light-evoked climbing. These data suggest that a thalamo-habenula pathway may be involved in the ability of blue light to mask circadian behavior.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097790', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'National University of Singapore;', u'Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine']]
[u'Karp: Accurate and fast taxonomic classification using pseudoalignment', ['Mark Reppell', 'John Novembre'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Pooled DNA from multiple unknown organisms arises in a variety of contexts, for example microbial samples from ecological or human health research. Determining the composition of pooled samples can be difficult, especially at the scale of modern sequencing data and reference databases. Here we propose the novel pooled DNA classification method Karp. Karp combines the speed and low-memory requirements of k-mer based pseudoalignment with a likelihood framework that uses base quality information to better resolve multiply mapped reads. In this text we apply Karp to the problem of classifying 16S rRNA reads, commonly used in microbiome research. Using simulations, we show Karp is accurate across a variety of read lengths and when samples contain reads originating from organisms absent from the reference. We also assess performance in real 16S data, and show that relative to other widely used classification methods Karp can reveal stronger statistical association signals and should empower future discoveries.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097949', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Chicago']]
[u'Envelope-tACS modulates intelligibility of speech in noise', ['Anna Wilsch', 'Toralf Neuling', 'Christoph S Herrmann'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Cortical entrainment of the auditory cortex to the broad-band temporal envelope of a speech signal is crucial for speech comprehension. This entrainment results in phases of high and low neural excitability which structure and decode the incoming speech signal. Entrainment to speech is strongest in the theta frequency range (4-8 Hz), the average frequency of the speech envelope. If a speech signal is degraded, for example masked by irrelevant information such as noise, entrainment to the speech envelope is weaker and speech intelligibility declines.  Besides perceptually evoked cortical entrainment, transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) can entrain neural oscillations by applying an electric signal to the brain. Accordingly, tACS-induced entrainment in auditory cortex has been shown to improve auditory perception. The aim of the current study was to externally modulate speech intelligibility by means of tACS such that the electric current corresponds to the envelope of the presented speech stream.   Participants performed the Oldenburg sentence test with sentences presented in noise in combination with tACS. Critically, the time lag between sentence presentation and tACS was manipulated from 0 to 250 ms in 50-ms steps (auditory stimuli were simultaneous to or preceded tACS).  First, we were able to show that envelope-tACS modulated sentence comprehension such that on average sentence comprehension at the time lag of the best performance was significantly better than sentence comprehension of the worst performance. Second, sentence comprehension across time lags was modulated sinusoidally.  In sum, envelope tACS modulates intelligibility of speech in noise presumably by enhancing (time lag with in-phase stimulation) and disrupting (time lag with out-of-phase stimulation) cortical entrainment to the speech envelope in auditory cortex.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097576', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Oldenburg;', u'University of Salzburg']]
[u'Your favorite color makes learning more adaptable and precise', ['Shiva Farashahi', 'Katherine Rowe', 'Zohra Aslami', 'Daeyeol Lee', 'Alireza Soltani'], u'January 3, 2017.', u'Learning from reward feedback is essential for survival but can become extremely challenging when choice options have multiple features and feature values (curse of dimensionality). Here, we propose a general framework for learning reward values in dynamic multi-dimensional environments via encoding and updating the average value of individual features. We predicted that this feature-based learning occurs not just because it can reduce dimensionality, but more importantly because it can increase adaptability without compromising precision. We experimentally tested this novel prediction and found that in dynamic environments, human subjects adopted feature-based learning even when this approach does not reduce dimensionality. Even in static low-dimensional environment, subjects initially tended to adopt feature-based learning and switched to learning individual option values only when feature values could not accurately predict all objects values. Moreover, behaviors of two alternative network models demonstrated that hierarchical decision-making and learning could account for our experimental results and thus provides a plausible mechanism for model adoption during learning in dynamic environments. Our results constrain neural mechanisms underlying learning in dynamic multi-dimensional environments, and highlight the importance of neurons encoding the value of individual features in this learning.', u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097741', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Dartmouth College;', u'Yale University']]
[u'Red Bull Gives You Incentive Motivation: Understanding Placebo Effects of Energy Drinks on Human Cognitive Performance', ['Liane Schmidt', 'Pierre Chandon', 'Mathias Pessiglione', 'Hilke Plassmann'], u'January 3, 2017.', u"The consumption of cognitive enhancers like energy drinks (EnD) is on the rise, but do they really improve cognitive performance, and, if yes, why? We examined two novel psychological mechanisms. First, we dissociated the role of expectations and actual consumption by crossing what people consumed-Red Bull Silver Edition or a similar-tasting Sprite soda-and what they thought they consumed. We found that participants performed better in a numerical Stroop task when they believed that they had consumed an EnD, irrespective of what they had actually consume, Second, we investigated the role of motivation for such a placebo effect of EnD. We found that expected, but not actual, consumption of EnD increased the effects of incentives on cognitive performance. Our results suggest that believing that one consumes an EnD increased participants' motivation to perform and thus enhanced their performance.", u'/content/early/2017/01/03/097717', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'INSEAD;', u'ICM, MBB team']]
