[u'The role of gene expression in the recent evolution of resistance in a model host parasite system', ['Brian Keith Lohman', 'Natalie Steinel', 'Jesse Weber', 'Daniel Bolnick'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Damage by parasites is a perpetual challenge for hosts, often leading to the evolution of elaborate mechanisms of avoidance, immunity, or tolerance. Host resistance can evolve via changes in immune protein coding and/or expression. Heritable population differences in gene expression following infection can reveal mechanisms of immune evolution. We compared gene expression in infected and uninfected threespine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus) from two natural populations that differ in their resistance to a native cestode parasite, Schistocephalus solidus. Genes in both the innate and adaptive immune system were differentially expressed as a function of host population, infection status, and their interaction. These genes were enriched for loci controlling immune functions that we independently verified differ between host populations, or in response to infection. For instance, populations differ strongly in reactive oxygen (ROS) production, and we observed corresponding differences in expression of ROS-affecting loci. Differentially expressed genes also were involved in fibroblast activation, B-cell activation, and leukocyte trafficking. Coexpression network analysis identified two distinct immune processes contributing to stickleback resistance; several modules of genes are correlated with parasite survival while a different set of modules are correlated with suppression of cestode growth. Comparison of networks between populations showed resistant fish have a dynamic expression profile while susceptible fish are static. In summary, recent evolutionary divergence between two vertebrate populations has generated population-specific gene expression responses to parasite infection, which reveal a few immune modules likely to separately affect cestode establishment, and growth.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102301', [], [u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'University of Montana']]
[u'A genetic basis for molecular asymmetry at vertebrate electrical synapses', ['Adam C Miller', 'Alex C Whitebirch', 'Arish N Shah', 'Kurt C Marsden', 'Michael Granato', "John O'Brien", 'Cecilia B Moens'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Neural network function is based upon the patterns and types of connections made between neurons. Neuronal synapses are adhesions specialized for communication and they come in two types, chemical and electrical. Communication at chemical synapses occurs via neurotransmitter release whereas electrical synapses utilize gap junctions for direct ionic and metabolic coupling. Electrical synapses are often viewed as symmetrical structures, with the same components making both sides of the gap junction. By contrast, we show that a broad set of electrical synapses in zebrafish, Danio rerio, require two gap-junction-forming Connexins for formation and function. We find that one Connexin functions presynaptically while the other functions postsynaptically in forming the channels. We also show that these synapses are required for the speed and coordination of escape responses. Our data identify a genetic basis for molecular asymmetry at vertebrate electrical synapses and show they are required for appropriate behavioral performance.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102319', [], [u'University of Oregon;', u'Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center;', u'University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine;', u'University of Texas Health Sciences Center at Houston']]
[u'Adaptive motivational signalling from the anterior cingulate cortex to the ventral tegmental area', ['Thomas W Elston', 'David K Bilkey'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Information gained during goal pursuit motivates adaptive behaviour. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) supports adaptive behaviour, but how ACC signals are translated into motivational signals remains unclear. Rats implanted in the ACC and ventral tegmental area (VTA), a dopaminergic brain area implicated in motivation, were trained to run laps around a rectangular track for a fixed reward, where each lap varied in physical effort. Partial directed coherence analysis of local field potentials indicated strong ACC-driven increases in VTA theta (4-12 Hz) power as well as elevated running speed as rats entered the effort-containing region of the maze on trials when the effort was absent. No increases were detected on effortful trials. These data suggest that ACC provides a top-down modulating signal which can influence the motivation with which to pursue a reward. We discuss several interpretations and conclude that our findings are, perhaps, a neural correlate of relief.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102178.1', [], [u'University of Otago']]
[u'Human microcephaly ASPM protein is a spindle pole-focusing factor', ['Ami Ito', 'Elsa A. Tungadi', 'Tomomi Kiyomitsu', 'Gohta Goshima'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Nonsense mutations in the ASPM gene have been most frequently identified among familial microcephaly patients. Depletion of ASPM causes spindle pole unfocusing during mitosis in multiple cell types of Drosophila. However, it remains unknown whether human ASPM has a similar function. Here, using CRISPR-based gene knockout (KO) and RNA interference combined with chemical inhibitors and auxin-inducible degron, we show that ASPM functions in spindle pole organisation redundantly with the centrosomes and the kinesin-14 motor HSET in human tissue culture cells. Deletion of the ASPM gene alone did not affect spindle morphology or mitotic progression. However, when CDK5RAP2, the activator of centrosomal microtubule nucleation, was degraded in ASPM KO cells, the spindle poles were unfocused and mitosis was significantly delayed. HSET inhibition in ASPM KO cells also resulted in synthetic pole disorganisation. Similarly, a hypomorphic mutation identified in microcephaly patients caused spindle pole unfocusing in the absence of CDK5RAP2, suggesting this spindle pole defect as a possible cause of microcephaly.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102236', [], [u'Nagoya University']]
[u'Heterozygous RFX6 protein truncating variants cause Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young (MODY) with reduced penetrance', ['Kashyap A Patel', 'Markku Laakso', 'Alena Stancakova', 'Thomas W Laver', 'Kevin Colclough', 'Matthew B Johnson', 'Jarno Kettunen', 'Tiinamaija Tuomi', 'Miriam Cnop', 'Maggie H Shepherd', 'Sarah E Flanagan', 'Sian Ellard', 'Andrew T Hattersley', 'Michael N Weedon'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Finding new genetic causes of monogenic diabetes can help to understand development and function of the human pancreas. We aimed to find novel protein-truncating variants causing Maturity-Onset Diabetes of the Young (MODY), a subtype of monogenic diabetes. We used a combination of next-generation sequencing of MODY cases with unknown aetiology along with comparisons to the ExAC database to identify new MODY genes. In the discovery cohort of 36 European patients, we identified two probands with novel RFX6 heterozygous nonsense variants. RFX6 protein truncating variants were enriched in the MODY discovery cohort compared to the European control population within ExAC (Odds Ratio=130, P=6x10-28). We found similar results in non-Finnish European (n=348, OR=26, P=6x10-14) and Finnish (n=80, OR=22, P=5x10-18) replication cohorts. RFX6 heterozygotes had reduced penetrance of diabetes compared to common HNF1A and HNF4A MODY mutations (27%, 70% and 55% at 25 years of age, respectively). Our study demonstrates that heterozygous RFX6 protein truncating variants are a new cause of MODY with reduced penetrance.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/101881', [], [u'Institute of Biomedical and Clinical Science, University of Exeter Medical School, Exeter, UK;', u'Department of Medicine, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland;', u'Institute of Clinical Medicine, Internal Medicine, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland;', u'Department of Molecular Genetics, Royal Devon and Exeter National Health Service Foundation Trust;', u'Department of Endocrinology, Abdominal Centre, Helsinki University Hospital; Finland;', u'Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM), University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland;', u'ULB Center for Diabetes Research, Faculty of Medicine, Universite Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels']]
[u'Cortical elasticity determines the geometry of prospective mesoderm constriction in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Konstantin Doubrovinski'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'An animal embryo begins its life as a ball of epithelial cells. In the course of development, invariably, this cellular ball will undergo a process of gastrulation to form a multilayered structure with the different germ layers designated to form organs with different shapes and functions. In the fruit fly Drosophia melanogaster, gastrulation begins with the constriction of mesodermal cells that make up a rectangular domain in the ventral part of the embryo. A remarkable aspect of this morphogenetic event is its anisotropy - the mesoderm constricts much more along one axis than along the other. In this paper we propose an explanation of this observed anisotropy. Specifically, we show that tissue contraction must be anisotropic, provided that the tissue is elastic and that the contractile domain is elongated (e.g. rectangular as opposed to square). This conclusion is generic in the sense that it does not depend on the specific values of model parameters. Since our recent study demonstrated that embryonic tissue is elastic on a developmentally relevant time-scale, it appears likely that the anisotropy of mesoderm contraction is an elastic effect. Our model makes a number of specific predictions that appear in close agreement with the available data.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102277', [], [u'UT Southwestern']]
[u'The idiosyncratic nature of confidence', ['Joaquin Navajas', 'Chandni Hindocha', 'Hebah Foda', 'Mehdi Keramati', 'Peter E Latham', 'Bahador Bahrami'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Confidence is the feeling of knowing that accompanies decision making and guides processes such as learning, error detection, and inter-personal communication. Bayesian theory proposes that confidence is a function of the probability that a decision is correct given the evidence.  Empirical research has shown, however, that humans tend to report confidence in very different ways. This idiosyncratic behaviour suggests that different individuals may perform different computations to estimate confidence from uncertain evidence. We tested this hypothesis by collecting confidence reports from healthy adults making decisions under either visual or numerical uncertainty. We found that for most individuals, confidence did indeed reflect the perceived probability of being correct. However, in approximately half of them, confidence also reflected a different probabilistic quantity: the observed Fisher information. We isolated the influence of each of these two quantities on confidence, and found that this decomposition is stable across weeks, and consistent across tasks involving uncertainty in both perceptual and cognitive domains. Our findings provide, for the first time, a mechanistic interpretation of individual differences in the human sense of confidence.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102269', [], [u'University College London']]
[u'Multi-generational silencing dynamics control cell aging', ['Yang Li', 'Meng Jin', "Richard O'Laughlin", 'Lev S Tsimring', 'Lorraine Pillus', 'Jeff Hasty', 'Nan Hao'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Cellular aging plays an important role in many diseases, such as cancers, metabolic syndromes and neurodegenerative disorders. There has been steady progress in identifying age-related factors such as reactive oxygen species and genomic instability, yet an emerging challenge is to reconcile the mechanistic contributions of these factors with the fact that genetically identical cells can age at significantly different rates. Single-cell analyses to unravel the interplay of aging dynamics and variability hold the promise to answer that challenge. We have used novel microfluidic technologies to track the replicative aging of single yeast cells, revealing that cells show sporadic waves of silencing loss in the heterochromatic ribosomal DNA (rDNA) during early phases of aging, followed by sustained loss of silencing preceding cell death. Isogenic cells have different lengths of the early intermittent silencing phase that largely determine their final lifespans. Combining computational modeling and experimental approaches, we found that the intermittent silencing dynamics is important for longevity and is dependent on the conserved Sir2 deacetylase, whereas either sustained silencing or sustained loss of silencing shortens lifespan. These findings reveal a new dynamics-based control of cell aging that could guide the design of temporally controlled nutriceutical strategies to extend lifespan.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102210', [], [u'University of California San Diego']]
[u'SynEM: Automated synapse detection for connectomics', ['Benedikt Staffler', 'Manuel Berning', 'Kevin M. Boergens', 'Anjali Gour', 'Patrick van der Smagt', 'Moritz Helmstaedter'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Nerve tissue contains a high density of chemical synapses, about 1 per \u03bcm3 in the mammalian cerebral cortex. Thus, even for small blocks of nerve tissue, dense connectomic mapping requires the identification of millions to billions of synapses, of which about 80-90% are excitatory synapses. While the focus of connectomic data analysis has been on neurite reconstruction, synapse detection becomes limiting when datasets grow in size and dense mapping is required. Here, we report SynEM, a method for automated detection of excitatory synapses from conventionally en-bloc stained 3D electron microscopy image stacks. The approach is based on a segmentation of the image data and focuses on classifying borders between neuronal processes as synaptic or non-synaptic. SynEM yields 98% precision and recall in binary excitatory cortical connectomes with no user interaction. It scales to large volumes of cortical neuropil, plausibly even whole-brain datasets. SynEM removes the burden of manual synapse annotation for large densely mapped connectomes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/099994', [], [u'Department of Connectomics, Max Planck Institute for Brain Research, D-60438 Frankfurt, Germany;', u'Data Lab, VW Group, D-80805 Munich, Germany']]
[u'Defects in Meiotic Recombination Delay Progression Through Pachytene in Mouse Spermatocytes', ['James H Crichton', 'David R Read', 'Ian R Adams'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'During meiosis, recombination, synapsis, chromosome segregation and gene expression are co-ordinately regulated to ensure successful execution of this specialised cell division. In many model organisms, checkpoint controls can delay meiotic progression to allow defects or errors in these processes to be repaired or corrected. Mouse spermatocytes possess quality control checkpoints that eliminate cells with persistent irreparable defects in chromosome synapsis or recombination, and here we show that a spermatocyte checkpoint regulates progression through pachytene to accommodate delays in meiotic recombination. We have previously show that the appearance of early recombination foci is delayed in Tex19.1-/- spermatocytes during leptotene/zygotene, but some  Tex19.1-/- spermatocytes still successfully synapse their chromosomes. Therefore, we have used autosomally synapsed  Tex19.1-/- mouse spermatocytes to assess the consequences of delayed recombination on progression through pachytene. We show that these pachytene spermatocytes are enriched for early recombination foci. This skew is not accompanied by cell death and likely reflects delays in the generation and/or maturation of recombination foci. Moreover, patterns of axis elongation, chromatin modifications, and histone H1t expression are also all skewed towards earlier substages of pachytene suggesting these events are co-ordinately regulated. Importantly, the delay in histone H1t expression in response to loss of Tex19.1 does not occur in a Spo11 mutant background, suggesting that histone H1t expression is being delayed by a recombination-dependent checkpoint. These data indicate that a recombination-dependent checkpoint operates in mouse spermatocytes that can alter progression through pachytene to accommodate spermatocytes with some types of recombination defect.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102251', [], [u'MRC Human Genetics Unit']]
[u'Challenges for Bayesian Model Selection of Dynamic Causal Models', ['Rebecca van den Honert', 'Sarah Shultz', 'Marcia K Johnson', 'Gregory McCarthy'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Achieving a mechanistic explanation of brain function requires understanding causal relationships among regions. A relatively new technique to assess effective connectivity in fMRI data is Dynamic Causal Modeling (DCM). As DCM is more frequently used, it becomes increasingly important to further validate the technique and understand its limitations. With DCM, Bayesian Model Selection (BMS) is used to select the most likely causal model. We conducted simulations to test the degree to which BMS is robust to two types of challenges when applied to DCMs, those inherent to data (Category 1) and those inherent to model space (Category 2). Category 1 challenges tested properties of the data (low signal-to-noise, different response magnitudes and shapes across regions) that could either blur the distinction between models or potentially bias model selection. These challenges are impossible or difficult to measure and control in real data, so investigating their effect upon BMS through simulation is critical. Category 2 challenges tested properties of model space that create subsets of confusable models. Our results suggest that given data that conform to the prior assumptions of DCM, BMS is robust to challenges from Category 1. However, in the face of Category 2 challenges (when a more homogenous model space was tested) the false positive rate rose above an acceptable level. We show that such errors are neither trivial nor easily avoided with existing approaches. However, we argue that it is possible to detect Category 2 challenges, and avoid inappropriate interpretations by conducting simulations prior to applying DCM.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102293', [], [u'Yale University;', u'Emory University']]
[u'Monod-Wyman-Changeux Analysis of Ligand-Gated Ion Channel Mutants', ['Tal Einav', 'Rob Phillips'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'We present a framework for computing the gating properties of ligand-gated ion channel mutants using the Monod-Wyman-Changeux (MWC) model of allostery. We derive simple analytic formulas for key functional properties such as the leakiness, dynamic range, half-maximal effective concentration ([EC50]), and effective Hill coefficient, and explore the full spectrum of phenotypes that are accessible through mutations. Specifically, we consider mutations in the channel pore of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) and the ligand binding domain of a cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) ion channel, demonstrating how each mutation can be characterized as only affecting a subset of the biophysical parameters. In addition, we show how the unifying perspective offered by the MWC model allows us, perhaps surprisingly, to collapse the plethora of dose-response data from different classes of ion channels into a universal family of curves.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102194', [], [u'California Institute of Technology']]
[u'Proteogenomics of adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing in fruit fly', ['Ksenia G Kuznetsova', 'Irina Y Ilina', 'Alexey L Chernobrovkin', 'Svetlana E Novikova', 'Tatyana E Farafonova', 'Dmitry S Karpov', 'Mark V Ivanov', 'Olga E Voronko', 'Ekaterina V Ilgisonis', 'Anna A Kliuchnikova', 'Victor G Zgoda', 'Roman A Zubarev', 'Mikhail V Gorshkov', 'Sergei A Moshkovskii'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing is one of the most common types of RNA editing, a posttranscriptional modification made by special enzymes. We present a proteomic study on this phenomenon for Drosophila melanogaster. Tree deep proteome data sets for Canton-S fruit fly line were used in the study: two taken from public repository and the third one obtained here for the isolated brains. A customized protein sequence database was generated using results of genome-wide adenosine-to-inosine RNA studies in fruit fly and applied for identifying the edited proteins. The total number of 56 edited proteins was found in all data sets, 7 of them being shared between the whole insect, head and brain proteomes. Two edited sites in syntaxin 1A (Syx1a) and complexin (cpx) belonging to a presynaptic vesicle fusion complex were selected for validation by targeted analysis. The results obtained for two selected peptides using Multiple Reaction Monitoring have shown remarkably constant ratios of unedited-to-edited protein variants in flies raised under different ambient temperatures of 10, 20 and 30oC. Specifically, these ratios were 34.5:1 and 2.1:1 for Syx1a and cpx, respectively. The work demonstrates the feasibility to identify the RNA editing event at the proteome level using shotgun proteomics and customized edited protein database.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/101949', [], [u'Institute of Biomedical Chemistry, Moscow, Russia;', u'Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden;', u'Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia.;', u'Institute of Energy Problems of Chemical Physics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia']]
[u'A New Hyperprior Distribution for Bayesian Regression Model with Application in Genomics', ['Renato Rodrigues Silva'], u'January 22, 2017.', u"In the regression analysis, there are situations where the model have more predictor\nvariables than observations of dependent variable, resulting in the problem known as\n'large p small n'. In the last fifteen years, this problem has been received a lot of\nattention, specially in the genome-wide context. Here we purposed the bayes H model, a\nbayesian regression model using mixture of two scaled inverse chi square as hyperprior\ndistribution of variance for each regression coefficient. This model is implemented in the\nR package BayesH.", u'/content/early/2017/01/22/102244', [], [u'Federal University of Goias']]
[u'Tex19.1 Regulates Meiotic DNA Double Strand Break Frequency in Mouse Spermatocytes', ['James H Crichton', 'Christopher J Playfoot', 'Marie MacLennan', 'David Read', 'Howard J Cooke', 'Ian R Adams'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Meiosis relies on the SPO11 endonuclease to generate the recombinogenic DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) required for homologous chromosome synapsis and segregation. The number of meiotic DSBs needs to be sufficient to allow chromosomes to search for and find their homologs, but not excessive to the point of causing genome instability. Here we report that meiotic DSB frequency in mouse spermatocytes is regulated by the mammal-specific gene Tex19.1. We show that the chromosome asynapsis previously reported in Tex19.1-/- spermatocytes is preceded by reduced numbers of recombination foci in leptotene and zygotene. Tex19.1 is required for the generation of normal levels of Spo11-dependent DNA damage during leptotene, but not for upstream events such as MEI4 foci formation or accumulation of H3K4me3 at recombination hotspots. Furthermore, we show that mice carrying mutations in the E3 ubiquitin ligase UBR2, a TEX19.1-interacting partner, phenocopy the Tex19.1-/- recombination defects. These data show that Tex19.1 and Ubr2 are required for mouse spermatocytes to generate sufficient meiotic DSBs to ensure that homology search is consistently successful, and reveal a hitherto unknown genetic pathway regulating meiotic DSB frequency in mammals.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/099119', [u'Genetics'], [u'MRC Human Genetics Unit']]
[u'Tuning of recombinant protein expression in Escherichia coli by manipulating transcription, translation initiation rates and incorporation of non-canonical amino acids', ['Orr Schlesinger', 'Yonatan Chemla', 'Mathias Heltberg', 'Eden Ozer', 'Ryan Marshall', 'Vincent Noireaux', 'Mogens H. Jensen', 'Lital Alfonta'], u'January 22, 2017.', u'Protein synthesis in cells has been thoroughly investigated and characterized over the past 60 years. However, some fundamental issues remain unresolved, including the reasons for genetic code redundancy and codon bias. In this study, we changed the kinetics of the E. coli transcription and translation processes by mutating the promoter and ribosome binding domains and by using genetic code expansion. The results expose a counterintuitive phenomenon, whereby an increase in the initiation rates of transcription and translation lead to a decrease in protein expression. This effect can be rescued by introducing slow translating codons into the beginning of the gene, by shortening gene length or by reducing initiation rates. Based on the results, we developed a biophysical model, which suggests that the density of co-transcriptional translation plays a role in bacterial protein synthesis. These findings indicate how cells use codon bias to tune translation speed and protein synthesis.', u'/content/early/2017/01/22/100982', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Ben-Gurion University of the Negev;', u'Niels Bohr Institute, University of Copenhagen;', u'University of Minnesota']]
