[u'CRISPulator: A Discrete Simulation Tool For Pooled Genetic Screens', ['Tamas Nagy', 'Martin Kampmann'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'The rapid adoption of CRISPR technology has enabled biomedical researchers to conduct CRISPR-based genetic screens in a pooled format. The quality of results from such screens is heavily dependent on optimal screen design, which also affects cost and scalability. We present CRISPulator, a computational tool that simulates the impact of screen parameters on the robustness of screen results, thereby enabling users to build intuition and insights that will inform their experimental strategy. We illustrate its power by deriving non-obvious rules for optimal screen design.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119131', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'clusterTools: Proximity Searches For Functional Elements To Identify Putative Biosynthetic Gene Clusters', ['Emmanuel LC de los Santos', 'Gregory L Challis'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Motivation: The low cost of DNA sequencing has accelerated research in natural product biosynthesis allowing us to rapidly link small molecules to the clusters that produce them. However, the large amount of data means that the number of putative biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs) far exceeds our ability to experimentally characterize them. This necessitates the need for development of further tools to analyze putative BGCs to flag those of interest for further characterization.  Results: clusterTools implements a framework to aid in the characterization of putative BGCs. It does this by organizing genomic information on coding sequences in a way that enables directed, hypothesis-driven queries for functional elements in close physical proximity of each other. Genomic sequence databases can be constructed in clusterTools with an interface to the NCBI Genbank and Genomes databases, or from private sequence databases. clusterTools can be used either to identify interesting BGCs from a database of putative BGCs, or on databases of genomic sequences to identify and download regions of interest in the DNA for further processing and annotation in programs such as antiSMASH. We have used clusterTools to identify putative and known biosynthetic gene clusters involved in bacterial polyketide alkaoloid and tetronate biosynthesis.  Availability and Implementation: clusterTools is implemented in Python and is available via the AGPL. Stand-alone versions of clusterTools are available for Macintosh, Windows, and Linux upon registration (https://goo.gl/forms/QRKTkpqiA0g31IWp1).  The source-code is available at https://www.github.com/emzodls/clusterArch.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119214', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'University of Warwick']]
[u'Genetic And Epigenetic Insight Into Morphospecies In A Reef Coral', ['James Dimond', 'Sanoosh Gamblewood', 'Steven Roberts'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Incongruence between conventional and molecular systematics has left the delineation of many species unresolved. Reef-building corals are no exception, with phenotypic plasticity among the most plausible explanations for alternative morphospecies. As potential molecular signatures of phenotypic plasticity, epigenetic processes may contribute to our understanding of morphospecies. We compared genetic and epigenetic variation in Caribbean branching Porites spp., testing the hypothesis that epigenetics - specifically, differential patterns of DNA methylation - play a role in alternative morphotypes of a group whose taxonomic status has been questioned. We used reduced representation genome sequencing to analyze over 1,000 single nucleotide polymorphisms and CpG sites in 27 Porites spp. exhibiting a range of morphotypes from a variety of habitats in Belize. We found stronger evidence for genetic rather than epigenetic structuring, identifying three well-defined genetic groups. One of these groups exhibited significantly thicker branches, and branch thickness was a better predictor of genetic groups than depth, habitat, or symbiont type. Epigenetic patterns were more subtle, with no clear groups. The more thickly branched individuals in one of the genetic groups exhibited some epigenetic similarity, suggesting potential covariation of genetics and epigenetics. This covariation was further supported by a positive association between pairwise genetic and epigenetic distance. We speculate that epigenetic patterns are a complex mosaic reflecting inheritance and diverse environmental histories. Given the role of genetics in branching Porites spp. morphospecies we were able to detect with genome-wide sequencing, use of such techniques throughout the geographic range may help settle their phylogeny.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119156', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Washington;', u'Western Washington University']]
[u'Multi-Tissue DNA Methylation Age Predictor In Mouse', ['Thomas M Stubbs', 'Marc Jan Bonder', 'Anne-Katrien Stark', 'Felix Krueger', 'Ferdinand von Meyenn', 'Oliver Stegle', 'Wolf Reik'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Background: DNA-methylation changes at a discrete set of sites in the human genome are predictive of chronological and biological age. However, it is not known whether these changes are causative or a consequence of an underlying ageing process. It has also not been shown whether this epigenetic clock is unique to humans or conserved in the more experimentally tractable mouse.  Results: We have generated a comprehensive set of genome-scale base-resolution methylation maps from multiple mouse tissues spanning a wide range of ages. Many CpG sites show significant tissue-independent correlations with age and allowed us to develop a multi-tissue predictor of age in the mouse. Our model, which estimates age based on DNA methylation at 329 unique CpG sites, has a median absolute error of 3.33 weeks, and has similar properties to the recently described human epigenetic clock. Using publicly available datasets, we find that the mouse clock is accurate enough to measure effects on biological age, including in the context of interventions. While females and males show no significant differences in predicted DNA methylation age, ovariectomy results in significant age acceleration in females. Furthermore, we identify significant differences in age-acceleration dependent on the lipid content of the offspring diet.  Conclusions: Here we identify and characterize an epigenetic predictor of age in mice, the mouse epigenetic clock. This clock will be instrumental for understanding the biology of ageing and will allow modulation of its ticking rate and resetting the clock in vivo to study the impact on biological age.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119206', [u'Genomics'], [u'Epigenetics Programme, The Babraham Institute;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute, European Molecular Biology Laboratory;', u'Immunology Programme, The Babraham Institute;', u'Bioinformatics Group, The Babraham Institute']]
[u'Protein Fingerprinting With A Binary Alphabet', ['G Sampath'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Proteins can be identified by partitioning a proteome into eight mutually exclusive sets of peptides, recoding them with a binary alphabet obtained by dividing the 20 amino acids into two ordered sets based on amino acid volume, and searching for the recoded peptides in a protein sequence database. With this approach over 89.7% of all protein sequences in the human proteome (http://www.uniprot.org; database id UP000005640, 20207 curated sequences) can be uniquely identified. Implementation issues are briefly discussed. In particular, nanopore-based sequencing of partitioned peptides becomes less difficult as the signal processing involved is largely a matter of  thresholding the current blockade signal due to a translocating peptide and generating a binary sequence from it.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119313', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Unaffiliated']]
[u'Assessing The Efficiency Of Catch-Up Campaigns For Introduction Of Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine; A Modelling Study Based On Data From Kilifi, Kenya', ['Stefan Flasche', 'John Ojal', 'Olivier Le Polain De Waroux', 'Mark Otiende', "Katherine O'Brien", 'Moses Kiti', 'D. James Nokes', 'W John Edmunds', 'J Anthony G Scott'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Background: The World Health Organisation recommends the use of catch-up campaigns as part of the introduction of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (PCVs) to accelerate herd protection and hence PCV impact. The value of a catch-up campaign is a trade-off between the costs of vaccinating additional age groups and the benefit of additional direct and indirect protection. There is a paucity of observational data, particularly from low-middle income countries to quantify the optimal breadth of such catch-up campaigns.  Methods: In Kilifi, Kenya PCV10 was introduced in 2011 using the 3-dose EPI infant schedule and a catch-up campaign in children <5 years old. We fitted a transmission dynamic model to detailed local data including nasopharyngeal carriage and invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) to infer the marginal impact of the PCV catch-up campaign over hypothetical routine cohort vaccination in that setting, and to estimate the likely impact of alternative campaigns and their dose-efficiency.  Results: We estimated that, within 10 years of introduction, the catch-up campaign among <5y olds prevents an additional 65 (48 to 84) IPD cases, compared to PCV cohort introduction alone. Vaccination without any catch-up campaign prevented 155 (121 to 193) IPD cases and used 1321 (1058 to 1698) PCV doses per IPD case prevented. In the years after implementation, the PCV programme gradually accrues herd protection and hence its dose-efficiency increases: 10 years after the start of cohort vaccination alone the programme used 910 (732 to 1184) doses per IPD case averted. We estimated that a two-dose catch-up among <1y olds uses an additional 910 (732 to 1184) doses per additional IPD case averted. Furthermore, by extending a single dose catch-up campaign to children 1 to <2y old and subsequently to 2 to <5y olds the campaign uses an additional 412 (296 to 606) and 543 (403 to 763) doses per additional IPD case averted. These results were not sensitive to vaccine coverage, serotype competition, the duration of vaccine protection or the relative protection of infants.  Conclusions: We find that catch-up campaigns are a highly dose-efficient way to accelerate population protection against pneumococcal disease.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/118976', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'LSHTM;', u'Kenya Medical Research Institute (KEMRI)-Wellcome Trust Research Programme;', u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine;', u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health']]
[u'Data-Driven Prediction of CRISPR-Based Transcription Regulation for Programmable Control of Metabolic Flux', ['Jiayuan Sheng', 'Weihua Guo', 'Christine Ash', 'Brendan Freitas', 'Mitchell Paoletti', 'Xueyang Feng'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Multiplex and multi-directional control of metabolic pathways is crucial for metabolic engineering to improve product yield of fuels, chemicals, and pharmaceuticals. To achieve this goal, artificial transcriptional regulators such as CRISPR-based transcription regulators have been developed to specifically activate or repress genes of interest. Here, we found that by deploying guide RNAs to target on DNA sites at different locations of genetic cassettes, we could use just one synthetic CRISPR-based transcriptional regulator to simultaneously activate and repress gene expressions. By using the pairwise datasets of guide RNAs and gene expressions, we developed a data-driven predictive model to rationally design this system for fine-tuning expression of target genes. We demonstrated that this system could achieve programmable control of metabolic fluxes when using yeast to produce versatile chemicals. We anticipate that this master CRISPR-based transcription regulator will be a valuable addition to the synthetic biology toolkit for metabolic engineering, speeding up the \u2018design-build-test\u2019 cycle in industrial biomanufacturing as well as generating new biological insights on the fates of eukaryotic cells.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119396', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Virginia Tech']]
[u'Antibody-Mediated Depletion Of Protein Variant Expression In Living Cells (Protein Interference)', ['Vijay Kumar Ulaganathan', 'Axel Ullrich'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'A significant development in the field of human biology is the revelation of millions of un-annotated protein sequence variants emerging from the several human genotyping and genome sequencing initiatives. This presents unique opportunities as well as confounding challenges such as to understand how molecular signalling outcomes vary among individuals in the general population and how to break-away from the conventional one drug fits all lines of approach to an innovative genotype-specific approaches targeting protein sequence variants instead of a reference protein target. In this short communication we report a remarkable observation of antibody-mediated knockdown of intracellular protein expression. This suggests allele-specific inhibition of protein-variant expression can be achieved by intracellular delivery of lipid conjugated linear epitope-specific monoclonal antibodies. The results presented here demonstrate novel opportunities for interrogating the protein coding variations in the human genomes and new therapeutic strategies for the inhibition of pathogenic protein variants in a genotype-centric manner.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119305', [u'Genomics'], [u'Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry']]
[u'Toxicity Of Chlordane At Early Developmental Stage Of Zebrafish', ['Jingxuan Xiong'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Chlordane is highly toxic organochlorine pesticides that have been widely used throughout the world for decades and posing adverse effects on the environment. Contents detected in tissue and blood samples have resulted in a raising concern for their potential effects on wildlife and humans. In this study, we investigate the potential effect of chlordane on the development of zebrafish embryos. Zebrafish larvae were treated with different concentrations (0, 25, 50, 100, 200 ng/L) of chlordane from 12 hours post-fertilization (hpf). Different early stage parameters were observed at 1, 2, 3 and 4 day post-fertilization (dpf). Chlordane-exposed zebrafish larvae appeared significant lower survival rate, developmental and hatching time delay and decreased embryo productivity. The heartbeat rate and blood flow were decreased in a dose dependent manner. These results suggested that exposure to real life of chlordane led to direct morphological and phenotypic changes and effects systems related to development and reproduction even in short-term manner.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119248', [u'Pharmacology and Toxicology'], [u'Jianghan University']]
[u'Expanding Gene Families Helps Generate The Metabolic Robustness Required For Antibiotic Biosynthesis', ['Jana K Schniete', 'Pablo Cruz-Morales', 'Nelly Selem', 'Lorena T Fernandez-Martinez', 'Iain S Hunter', 'Francisco Barona-Gomez', 'Paul Hoskisson'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Expanding the genetic repertoire of an organism by gene duplication or horizontal gene transfer (HGT) can aid adaptation. Streptomyces species are prolific producers of bioactive specialised metabolites with adaptive functions in nature and some have found utility in human medicine such as antibiotics. Whilst the biosynthesis of these specialised metabolites is directed by dedicated biosynthetic gene clusters (BGCs), little attention has been focussed on how these organisms have evolved robustness into their genomes to facilitate the metabolic plasticity required to provide chemical precursors for biosynthesis. Here we show that specific expansions of gene families in central carbon metabolism have evolved and become fixed in Streptomyces bacteria to enable plasticity and robustness that maintain cell functionality whilst costly specialised metabolites are produced. These expanded gene families, in addition to being a metabolic adaptation, make excellent targets for metabolic engineering of industrial specialised metabolite producing bacteria.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119354', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Strathclyde;', u'Langebio;', u'Edgehill University']]
[u'Thermal Decomposition Of The Amino Acids Glycine, Cysteine, Aspartic Acid, Asparagine, Glutamic Acid, Glutamine, Arginine And Histidine', ['Ingrid M Weiss', 'Christina Muth', 'Robert Drumm', 'Helmut O K Kirchner'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Calorimetry, thermogravimetry and mass spectrometry were used to follow the thermal decomposition of the eight amino acids G, C, D, N, E, Q, R and H between 185 \xb0C and 280 \xb0C. Endothermic heats of decomposition between 72 and 151 kJ/mol are needed to form 12 to 70 % volatile products. This process is neither melting nor sublimation. With exception of cysteine they emit mainly H2O, some NH3 and no CO2. Cysteine produces CO2 and little else. The reactions are described by polynomials, AA \u2192 a (NH3) + b (H2O) + c (CO2) + d (H2S) + e (residue), with integer or half integer coefficients. The solid monomolecular residues are rich in peptide bonds.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119123', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'University of Stuttgart;', u'INM - Leibniz Institute for New Materials']]
[u'Approach To Insect Wing Shape And Deformation Field Measurement', ['Duo Yin', 'Zhen Wei', 'Zeyu Wang'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'For measuring the shape and deformation of insect wing, a scanning setup adopting line laser and coaxial LED light is developed. Wing shape can be directly acquired from the line laser images by triangulation. Yet the wing deformation field can also be obtained by a self-devised algorithm that processes the images from line laser and coaxial LED simultaneously. During the experiment, three wing samples from termite and mosquito under concentrated force are scanned. The venation and corrugation could be significantly identified from shape measurement result. The deformation field is sufficiently accurate to demonstrate its variation from wing base to tip. The load conditions in experiments are also be discussed. For softer wings, local deformation is apparent if pinhead is employed to impose force. The similarity analysis is better than 5% deformation ratio as a static criterion, if the wing is simplified as a cantilever beam. The setup is proved to be effective and versatile. The shape and deformation fields would give enough details for the measurement of wing stiffness distribution.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119230', [u'Zoology'], [u'Chongqing University']]
[u'The Cross-Frequency Mediation Mechanism Of Intracortical Information Transactions', ['Roberto D Pascual-Marqui', 'Pascal Faber', 'Patricia Milz', 'Kieko Kochi', 'Toshihiko Kinoshita', 'Keiichiro Nishida', 'Masafumi Yoshimura', 'Yuichi Kitaura', 'Shunichiro Ikeda', 'Ryouhei Ishii'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'In a seminal paper by von Stein and Sarnthein (2000), it was hypothesized that \u201cbottom-up\u201d information processing of \u201ccontent\u201d elicits local, high frequency (beta-gamma) oscillations, whereas \u201ctop-down\u201d processing is \u201ccontextual\u201d, characterized by large scale integration spanning distant cortical regions, and implemented by slower frequency (theta-alpha) oscillations. This corresponds to a mechanism of cortical information transactions, where synchronization of beta-gamma oscillations between distant cortical regions is mediated by widespread theta-alpha oscillations. It is the aim of this paper to express this hypothesis quantitatively, in terms of a model that will allow testing this type of information transaction mechanism. The basic methodology used here corresponds to statistical mediation analysis, originally developed by (Baron and Kenny 1986). We generalize the classical mediator model to the case of multivariate complex-valued data, consisting of the discrete Fourier transform coefficients of signals of electric neuronal activity, at different frequencies, and at different cortical locations. The \u201cmediation effect\u201d is quantified here in a novel way, as the product of \u201cdual frequency RV-coupling coefficients\u201d, that were introduced in (Pascual-Marqui et al 2016, http://arxiv.org/abs/1603.05343). Relevant statistical procedures are presented for testing the cross-frequency mediation mechanism in general, and in particular for testing the von Stein & Sarnthein hypothesis.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119362', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'KEY Institute for Brain-Mind Research, Univ Zurich; Neuropsychiatry, Kansai Medical Univ;', u'The KEY Institute for Brain-Mind Research;', u'Department of Neuropsychiatry, Kansai Medical University, Osaka, Japan;', u'Department of Psychiatry, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan']]
[u'Light Sheet Theta Microscopy for High-resolution Quantitative Imaging of Large Biological Systems', ['Bianca Migliori', 'Malika S Datta', 'Mehmet C Apak', 'Raju Tomer'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Recent advances in tissue clearing methods are enabling unprecedented optical access to large intact biological systems. These advances fuel the need for high-speed microscopy approaches to image large transparent samples quantitatively and at high resolution. While Light Sheet Microscopy (LSM), with its high planar imaging speed and low photo-bleaching, can be effective, scaling up to larger imaging volumes has been hindered by the use of orthogonal light-sheet illumination. To address this fundamental limitation, we have developed an approach \u2212 Light Sheet Theta Microscopy (LSTM) \u2212 that uniformly illuminates samples from the same side as the detection objective, eliminating limits on lateral dimensions without sacrificing imaging depth and speed. We present detailed characterization of LSTM, and show that this approach achieves rapid high-resolution imaging of large intact samples with superior uniform image quality than LSM. LSTM is a significant step in high-resolution quantitative mapping of structure and function of large intact biological systems.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119289', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Columbia University']]
[u'Marine Fish Intestine Responds To Ocean Acidification Producing More Carbonate Aggregates', ['Silvia F Gregorio', 'Ignacio Ruiz-Jarabo', 'Edison SM Carvalho', 'Juan Fuentes'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Marine fish contribute to the carbon cycle by producing mineralized intestinal aggregates generated as by-products of their osmoregulation. Here we aimed at characterizing the control of intestinal aggregate production in the gilthead sea bream in response to near future increases of environmental CO2. Our results demonstrate that hypercapnia (800 and 1200 \u03bcatm CO2) elicits higher intestine epithelial HCO3- secretion and the subsequent parallel increase of intestinal aggregate production when compared to present values (400 \u03bcatm CO2). Intestinal gene expression analysis revealed the up-regulation of crucial transport mechanisms involved not only in the intestinal secretion cascade (Slc4a4, Slc26a3 and Slc26a6) of sea bream, but also in other mechanisms involved in intestinal ion uptake linked to water absorption such as NKCC2 and the Aquaporin 1b. These results highlight the important role of fish in the marine carbon cycle, and their potential growing impact of intestinal biomineralization processes in the scenario of ocean acidification.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119388', [u'Physiology'], [u'Centre of Marine Sciences (CCMar), Universidade do Algarve, Campus de Gambelas']]
[u'Polymersomes Targeting Mononuclear Phagocytes', ['Loris Rizzello', 'James D. Robertson', 'Philip M Elks', 'Alessandro Poma', 'Nooshin Daneshpour', 'Tomasz K Prajsnar', 'Dimitrios Evangelopoulos', 'Julio Ortiz Canseco', 'Simon Yona', 'Helen M Marriott', 'David H Dockrell', 'Simon Foster', 'Bruno De Geest', 'Stefaan De Koker', 'Timothy McHugh', 'Stephen A Renshaw', 'Giuseppe Battaglia'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Mononuclear phagocytes such as monocytes, tissue-specific macrophages and dendritic cells are primary actors in both innate and adaptive immunity, as well as tissue homoeostasis. They have key roles in a range of physiological and pathological processes, so any strategy targeting these cells will have wide-ranging impact. These phagocytes can be parasitized by intracellular bacteria, turning them from housekeepers to hiding places and favouring chronic or disseminated infection. Here we demonstrate the effective targeting and intracellular delivery of antibiotics to both circulating monocytes and resident macrophages, using pH sensitive nanoscopic polymersomes made of poly(2-(methacryloyloxy)ethyl phosphorylcholine)-co-poly(2-(di-isopropylamino)ethyl methacrylate) (PMPC-PDPA). Polymersome selectivity to mononuclear phagocytes is demonstrated and ascribed to the polymerised phosphorylcholine motifs affinity toward scavenger receptors. Finally, we demonstrate the successful exploitation of this targeting for the effective eradication of several intracellular bacteria, including the hazardous human pathogens Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Staphylococcus aureus', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119297', [u'Immunology'], [u'University College London;', u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Ghent']]
[u'Assembly Of Whole-Chromosome Pseudomolecules For Polyploid Plant Genomes Using Outcrossed Mapping Populations', ['Chenxi Zhou', 'Bode Olukolu', 'Dorcus Gemenet', 'Shan Wu', 'Wolfgang Gruneberg', 'Minh Duc Cao', 'Zhangjun Fei', 'Zhao-Bang Zeng', 'Andrew George', 'Awais Khan', 'Craig Yencho', 'Lachlan Coin'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'The assembly of whole-chromosome pseudomolecules for plant genomes remains challenging due to polyploidy and high repeat content. We developed an approach for constructing complete pseudomolecules for polyploid species using genotyping-by-sequencing data from outcrossing mapping populations coupled with high coverage whole genome sequence data of a reference genome. Our approach combines de novo assembly with linkage mapping to arrange scaffolds into pseudomolecules. We show that the method is able to reconstruct simulated chromosomes for both diploid and tetraploid genomes. Comparisons to three existing genetic mapping tools show that our method outperforms the other methods in accuracy on both grouping and ordering, and is robust to the presence of substantial amounts of missing data and genotyping errors. We applied our method to three real datasets including a diploid Ipomoea trifida and two tetraploid potato mapping populations. The linkage maps show significant concordance with the reference chromosomes. We resolved seven assembly errors for the published Ipomoea trifida genome assembly as well as anchored an unplaced scaffold in the published potato genome.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119271', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Institute for Molecular Bioscience, University of Queensland;', u'Department of Horticulture, North Carolina State University;', u'International Potato Center;', u'Boyce Thompson Institute, Cornell University;', u'Department of Statistics and Bioinformatics Research Center, North Carolina State University;', u'Data61, CSIRO;', u'Department of Plant Pathology and Plant-microbe Biology, Cornell University']]
[u'The physical boundaries of public goods cooperation between surface-attached bacterial cells', ['Michael Weigert', 'Rolf Kummerli'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Bacteria secrete a variety of compounds important for nutrient scavenging, competition mediation and infection establishment. While there is a general consensus that secreted compounds can be shared and therefore have social consequences for the bacterial collective, we know little about the physical limits of such bacterial social interactions. Here, we address this issue by studying the sharing of iron-scavenging siderophores between surface-attached microcolonies of the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Using single-cell fluorescent microscopy, we show that siderophores, secreted by producers, quickly reach non-producers within a range of 100 \u03bcm, and significantly boost their fitness. Producers in turn respond to variation in sharing efficiency by adjusting their pyoverdine investment levels. These social effects wane with larger cell-to-cell distances and on hard surfaces. Thus, our findings reveal the boundaries of compound sharing, and show that sharing is particularly relevant between nearby yet physically separated bacteria on soft surfaces, matching realistic natural conditions.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119032', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Zurich']]
[u'Estimation Of Genomic Prediction Accuracy From Reference Populations With Varying Degrees Of Relationship', ['Sang Hong Lee', 'Sam Clark', 'Julius van der Werf'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'We present a theoretical framework for genomic prediction accuracy when the reference data consists of information sources with varying degrees of relationship to the target individuals. A reference set can contain both close and distant relatives as well as unrelated individuals from the wider population, assuming they all come from the same homogeneous population. The various sources of information were modeled as different populations with different effective population sizes (Ne). With a similar amount of data available for each source, we show that close relatives can have a substantially larger effect on genomic prediction accuracy than lesser related individuals. However, the number of individuals from the wider population can be far greater than that of close relatives. We validate our theory with analysis of real data, and illustrate that the variation in genomic relationships with the target, rather than the variation in genomic relationship as a deviation for the expected relationship, is a predictor of the information content of the reference set and information from pedigree relationships is then naturally included in the prediction framework. Both the effective number of chromosome segments (Me) and Ne are considered to be a function of the data used for prediction rather than being population parameters. We illustrate that when prediction also relies on closer relatives, there is less improvement in prediction accuracy with an increase in training data or marker panel density. We release software that can estimate the expected prediction accuracy and power when combining different reference sources with various degrees of relationship to the target, which is useful when planning genomic prediction (i.e. before collecting data) in animal, plant and human genetics.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119164', [u'Genetics'], [u'University of New England;', u'UNE']]
[u'UBiT2: a client-side web-application for gene expression data analysis', ['Jean Fan', 'David Fan', 'Kamil Slowikowski', 'Nils Gehlenborg', 'Peter Kharchenko'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'We present a purely client-side web-application, UBiT2 (User-friendly BioInformatics Tools), that provides installation-free, offline alignment, analysis, and visualization of RNA-sequencing as well as qPCR data. Analysis modules were designed with single cell transcriptomic analysis in mind. Using just a browser, users can perform standard analyses such as quality control, filtering, hierarchical clustering, principal component analysis, differential expression analysis, gene set enrichment testing, and more, all with interactive visualizations and exportable publication-quality figures. We apply UBiT2 to recapitulate findings from single cell RNA-seq and Fluidigm BiomarkTM multiplex RT-qPCR gene expression datasets. UBiT2 is available at http://pklab.med.harvard.edu/jean/ubit2/index.html with open-source code available at https://github.com/JEFworks/ubit2.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/118992', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Harvard Medical School;', u'Princeton University']]
[u'Single-Cell Transcriptome Sequencing Of 18,787 Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells Identifies Differentially Primed Subpopulations', ['Quan Nguyen', 'Samuel Lukowski', 'Han Chiu', 'Anne Senabouth', 'Timothy Bruxner', 'Angelika Christ', 'Nathan Palpant', 'Joseph Powell'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'For pluripotent stem cells, transcriptional profiling is central to discovering the key genes and gene networks governing the undifferentiated state. However, the heterogeneity of cell states represented in pluripotent cultures have not been described at the transcriptional level. Since gene expression is highly heterogeneous between cells, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) can be used to increase our understanding of how individual pluripotent cells function. Here, we present the scRNA-seq results of 18,787 individual WTC CRISPRi human induced pluripotent stem cells. Four subpopulations were distinguishable on the basis of their pluripotent state including: quiescent (48.3%), proliferative (47.8%), early-primed for differentiation (2.8%) and late-primed for differentiation (1.1%). We identified novel genes and pathways defining each of the subpopulations and developed a multigenic prediction model to accurately classify single cells into subpopulations. This study provides a benchmark single cell dataset that expands our understanding of the cellular complexity of pluripotency.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119255', [u'Genomics'], [u'Institute for Molecular Bioscience']]
[u'Gene Length And Detection Bias In Single Cell RNA Sequencing Protocols', ['Belinda Phipson', 'Luke Zappia', 'Alicia Oshlack'], u'March 22, 2017.', u'Single cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has rapidly gained popularity for profiling transcriptomes of hundreds to thousands of single cells. This technology has led to the discovery of novel cell types and revealed insights into the development of complex tissues. However, many technical challenges need to be overcome during data generation. Due to minute amounts of starting material, samples undergo extensive amplification, increasing technical variability. A solution for mitigating amplification biases is to include Unique Molecular Identifiers (UMIs), which tag individual molecules. Transcript abundances are then estimated from the number of unique UMIs aligning to a specific gene and PCR duplicates resulting in copies of the UMI are not included in expression estimates.  Here we investigate the effect of gene length bias in scRNA-Seq across a variety of datasets differing in terms of capture technology, library preparation, cell types and species.  We find that scRNA-seq datasets that have been sequenced using a full-length transcript protocol exhibit gene length bias akin to bulk RNA-seq data. Specifically, shorter genes tend to have lower counts and a higher rate of dropout. In contrast, protocols that include UMIs do not exhibit gene length bias, and have a mostly uniform rate of dropout across genes of varying length. Across four different scRNA-Seq datasets profiling mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), we found the subset of genes that are only detected in the UMI datasets tended to be shorter, while the subset of genes detected only in the full-length datasets tended to be longer. We briefly discuss the role of these genes in the context of differential expression testing and GO analysis. In addition, despite clear differences between UMI and full-length transcript data, we illustrate that full-length and UMI data can be combined to reveal underlying biology influencing expression of mESCs.', u'/content/early/2017/03/22/119222', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u"Murdoch Children's Research Institute;", u'Murdoch Childrens Research Institute']]
