[u'Captive-bred Orangutans voluntarily choose to reward themselves with cabbage containing greater amounts of anthocyanin in a two-alternative decision task.', ['Neil R Mennie', 'Rachael Symonds', 'Mazrul Mahadzir'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Anthocyanins are an important part of the human diet and the most commonly consumed plant secondary metabolites. They are potent antioxidants, and in several recent studies the ingestion of anthocyanins has been linked to positive health benefits for humans. Here, we show that when given a choice between two alternative samples of cabbage to ingest, captive born orangutans (n = 6) voluntarily chose the sample that contained greater amounts of anthocyanin. This occurred when they had to decide between samples of red cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata f. rubra) from the same plant (p<0.05), and samples from green cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata) (p<0.01). This indicates that anthocyanin holds a reward value for these hominids. There was no difference in L*a*b* colour between ingested and discarded samples in red cabbage, but when the choice was between two green samples, the animals chose samples that were more green and yellow. There was also no difference in the amount of lightness (L*) between chosen and discarded samples of either plant. It is therefore unclear if the animals use leaf colour in decision-making. In addition to other macro nutrients provided by plants, anthocyanin is also chosen by these endangered apes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099432.1', [], [u'University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus;', u'University of Nottingham Malaysia']]
[u'Glucocorticoids change neural decoding in the middle cingulate cortex accompanied by a reduction of subjective fear in patients with spider phobia', ['Simon Schwab', 'Andrea Federspiel', 'Yosuke Morishima', 'Masahito Nakataki', 'Werner Strik', 'Roland Wiest', 'Markus Heinrichs', 'Dominique de Quervain', 'Leila M Soravia'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Background. Corticosteroids-stress hormones released from the adrenal cortex-reduce phobic fear in humans and enhance psychotherapy, possibly by reducing the retrieval of fear memory. However, the underlying neural mechanism is not yet fully understood.  Methods. We investigated the neural correlates of the acute fear-reducing effect of glucocorticoid administration in phobia with a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. We analysed fMRI data of participants diagnosed with spider phobia (n = 28) and healthy controls (n = 18) using multivoxel pattern analysis (MVPA). The spider-phobic patients received oral glucocorticoids (20 mg of hydrocortisone) or placebos. Participants rated their subjective fear while viewing spider or non-phobic pictures in the scanner.  Results. Patients in the placebo and cortisol group exhibited increased decoding of phobic images in the middle cingulate cortex (MCC) and bilateral anterior insula compared to healthy controls with decoding at chance level. Patients with cortisol had less decoding in the MCC. Decoding of spider pictures in the MCC explained 38% of subjective fear across all individuals. In the placebo group, a causal model explained 12% variance in subjective fear influenced by the right anterior insula and the MCC; this relationship was changed in the cortisol group.  Conclusions. These results suggest that the anterior insula and the MCC are strongly related to the decoding of phobic stimuli. Glucocorticoids seem to modulate the circuitry of MCC and anterior insula leading to a reduction in subjective fear.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099697', [], [u'University of Warwick, United Kingdom;', u'University of Bern, Switzerland;', u'University of Tokushima, Japan;', u'University of Freiburg, Germany;', u'University of Basel, Switzerland']]
[u'The leading-edge vortex of swift wings', ['Ignazio Maria Viola', 'Rowan Eveline Muir'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Recent investigations on the aerodynamics of natural fliers have illuminated the significance of the Leading-Edge Vortex (LEV) for lift generation in a variety of flight conditions. A well documented example of an LEV is that generated by aircraft with highly swept, delta shaped wings. While the wing aerodynamics of a manoeuvring aircraft, a bird gliding and a bird in flapping flight vary significantly, it is believed that this existing knowledge will serve to add understanding to the complex aerodynamics of natural fliers. In this investigation, the wing of a common swift Apus apus is simplified to a model with swept wings and a sharp leading-edge, making it readily comparable to a model delta shaped wing of the same leading-edge geometry. Particle image velocimetry provides an understanding of the effect of the tapering swift wing on LEV development and stability, compared with the delta wing model. For the first time a dual LEV is recorded on a swift shaped wing, where it is found across all tested conditions. It is shown that the spanwise location of LEV breakdown is governed by the local chord rather than Reynolds number or angle of attack. These findings suggest that the common swift is able to generate a dual LEV while gliding, potentially delaying vortex breakdown by exploiting other features non explored here, such as wing twist and flexibility. It is further suggested that the vortex system could be used to damp loading fluctuations, reducing energy expenditure, rather than for lift augmentation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099713', [], [u'Institute for Energy Systems, School of Engineering, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Small RNAs reflect grandparental environments in apomictic dandelion', ['Lionel Morgado', 'Veronica Preite', 'Carla Oplaat', 'Sarit Anava', 'Julie Ferreira de Carvalho', 'Oded Rechavi', 'Frank Johannes', 'Koen Verhoeven'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Plants can show long-term effects of environmental stresses and in some cases a stress memory has been reported to persist across generations, potentially mediated by epigenetic mechanisms. However, few documented cases exist of transgenerational effects that persist for multiple generations and it remains unclear if or how epigenetic mechanisms are involved. Here we show that the composition of small regulatory RNAs in apomictic dandelion lineages reveals a footprint of drought stress and salicylic acid treatment experienced two generations ago. Overall proportions of 21nt and 24nt RNA pools were shifted due to grandparental treatments. While individual genes did not show strong up- or downregulation of associated sRNAs, the subset of genes that showed the strongest shifts in sRNA abundance was significantly enriched for several GO terms including stress-specific functions. This indicates that a stress-induced signal was transmitted across multiple unexposed generations leading to persistent and functional changes in epigenetic gene regulation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099572', [], [u'University of Groningen;', u'Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW);', u'Tel Aviv University;', u'Technical University of Munich']]
[u'Genomic and Environmental Contributions to Chronic Diseases in Urban Populations', ['Marie-Julie Fave', 'Fabien Lamaze', 'Alan Hodgkinson', 'Heloise Gauvin', 'Vanessa Bruat', 'Jean-Christophe Grenier', 'Elias Gbeha', 'Kimberly Skead', 'Audrey Smargiassi', 'Markey Johnson', 'Youssef Idaghdour', 'Philip Awadalla'], u'January 11, 2017.', u"Uncovering the interaction between genomes and the environment is a principal challenge of modern genomics and preventive medicine. While theoretical models are well defined, little is known of the GxE interactions in humans. We used a system biology approach to comprehensively assess the interactions between 1.6 million environmental exposure data, health, and expression phenotypes, together with whole genome genetic variation, for 1000 individuals from a founder-population in Quebec. We reveal a substantial impact of the urbanization gradient on the transcriptome and clinical endophenotypes, overpowering that of genetic ancestry. In detail, air pollution impacts gene expression and pathways affecting cardio-metabolic and respiratory traits when controlling for genetic ancestry. Finally, we capture 34 clinically associated expression quantitative trait loci that interact with the environment (air pollution). Our findings demonstrate how the local environment directly affects chronic disease development, and that genetic variation, including rare variants, can modulate individual's response to environmental challenges.", u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099770', [], [u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research and Sainte-Justine Research Center;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research;', u"Guy's Hospital, King's college;", u'Sainte-Justine Research Center and Statistics Canada;', u'University of Montreal;', u'Health Canada;', u'NYU Aby Dhabi;', u'Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, University of Toronto and University of Montreal']]
[u'Detection and quantification of viral RNA in human tumors using open source pipeline: viGEN', ['Krithika Bhuvaneshwar', 'Lei Song', 'Subha Madhavan', 'Yuriy Gusev'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'An estimated 17% of cancers worldwide are associated with infectious causes. The extent and biological significance of viral presence/infection in actual tumor samples is generally unknown but could be measured using human transcriptome (RNA-seq) data from tumor samples.\nWe present an open source bioinformatics pipeline viGEN that combines existing well-known and novel RNA-seq tools for not only detection and quantification of viral RNA, but also variants in the viral transcripts.\n\nThe pipeline includes 4 major modules: The first module allows to align and filter out human RNA sequences; second module maps and count (remaining un-aligned) reads against reference genomes of all known and sequenced human viruses; the third module quantifies read counts at the individual viral genes level thus allowing for downstream differential expression analysis of viral genes between experimental and controls groups. The fourth module calls variants in these viruses. To the best of our knowledge, there are no publicly available pipelines or packages that would provide this type of complete analysis in one open source package.\n\nIn this paper, we use this pipeline in a case study to examine viruses present in RNA-seq data from 75 TCGA liver cancer patients. We were able to quantify viral transcriptomes at a viral-gene/CDS level, find differentially expressed viral transcripts between the groups of patients, extract variants, and connect them to clinical outcome. The results presented corresponded with published literature in terms of rate of detection, viral gene expression patterns and impact of several known variants of HBV genome. Results also show novel information about distinct patterns of expression and co-expression in Hepatitis B, Hepatitis C, Human Endogenous Retrovirus (HERV) K113 viruses.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099788', [], [u'Georgetown University']]
[u'Locomotor activity modulates associative learning in mouse cerebellum', ['Catarina Albergaria', 'N. Tatiana Silva', 'Dominique Pritchett', 'Megan R. Carey'], u'January 11, 2017.', u"Changes in behavioral state are associated with modulation of sensory responses across visual, auditory and somatosensory cortices. Here we show that locomotor activity independently modulates performance in delay eyeblink conditioning, a cerebellum-dependent form of associative learning. Increased locomotor speed in head-fixed mice was associated with earlier onset of learning and trial-by-trial enhancement of learned responses. The influence of locomotion on conditioned responses was dissociable from changes in arousal and was independent of the sensory modality of the conditioned stimulus. Eyelid responses evoked by optogenetic stimulation of mossy fiber terminals within the cerebellar cortex, but not at sites downstream, were also positively modulated by ongoing locomotion. We conclude that locomotor activity modulates delay eyeblink conditioning through mechanisms acting on the mossy fiber pathway within the cerebellar cortex. Taken together, these results suggest a novel role for behavioral state modulation in associative learning and provide a potential mechanism through which engaging in movement can improve an individual's ability to learn.", u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099721', [], [u'Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown']]
[u'Surface-driven RNA-refolding by the OB-fold proteins of the Trypanosoma brucei editosome', ['Christin Voigt', 'Mateusz Dobrychop', 'Elisabeth Kruse', 'Anna Czerwoniec', 'Joanna M. Kasprzak', 'Patrycia Bytner', 'Janusz M. Bujnicki', 'H. Ulrich Goringer'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'RNA editing in African trypanosomes represents an RNA-processing reaction that generates functional mitochondrial transcripts from sequence-deficient pre-mRNAs. The reaction is catalyzed by a macromolecular protein complex known as the editosome. Editosomes have been demonstrated to execute RNA-chaperone activity to overcome the highly folded nature of pre-edited substrate mRNAs. The molecular basis of this activity is unknown. Here we test five OB-fold proteins of the editosome as potential candidates. We show that the different proteins interact by hetero-oligomerization and we demonstrate that all proteins execute RNA-chaperone activity. Activity differences correlate with the surface areas of the proteins and map predominantly to the intrinsically disordered subdomains of the polypeptides. To provide a structural context for our findings we present a coarse-grained model of the editosome. The model suggests that an inner core of catalytically active editosome components is separated from an outer shell of IDP-domains that act as RNA-remodeling sites.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099705', [], [u'Darmstadt University of Technology;', u'Adam Mickiewicz University']]
[u'Dynamic patterning by the Drosophila pair-rule network reconciles long-germ and short-germ segmentation', ['Erik Clark'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Drosophila segmentation is a well-established paradigm for developmental pattern formation. However, the later stages of segment patterning, regulated by the "pair-rule" genes, are still not well understood at the systems level. Building on established genetic interactions, I construct a logical model of the pair-rule system that takes into account the demonstrated stage-specific architecture of the pair-rule gene network. Simulation of this model can accurately recapitulate the observed spatiotemporal expression of the pair-rule genes, but only when the system is provided with dynamic "gap" inputs. This result suggests that dynamic shifts of pair-rule stripes are essential for segment patterning, and provides a functional role for the observed posterior-to-anterior gap domain shifts that occur during cellularisation. The model also suggests revised patterning mechanisms for the parasegment boundaries, and accounts for the even-skipped null mutant phenotype. Strikingly, a slightly modified version of the model is able to pattern segments in either simultaneous or sequential modes, depending only on initial conditions. This suggest that fundamentally similar mechanisms may underlie segmentation in short-germ and long-germ arthropods.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099671', [], [u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Soft drug-resistant ovarian cancer cells invade via two distinct mechanisms utilizing myosin IIB', ['Aastha Kapoor', 'Bhushan Thakur', 'Melissa Monteiro', 'Alakesh Das', 'Sejal Desai', 'Snehal Gaikwad', 'Amirali B Bukhari', 'Pankaj Mogha', 'Abhijit Majumder', 'Abhijit De', 'Pritha Ray', 'Shamik Sen'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'The failure of chemotherapeutic drugs in treatment of various cancers is attributed to the acquisition of drug resistance. However, the invasion mechanisms of drug-resistant cancer cells remains incompletely understood. Here we address this question from a biophysical perspective by mapping the phenotypic alterations in ovarian cancer cells (OCCs) resistant to cisplatin and paclitaxel. We show that cisplatin-resistant (CisR), paclitaxel-resistant (PacR) and dual drug-resistant (i.e., resistant to both drugs) OCCs are softer and more contractile than drug-sensitive cells. Protease inhibition suppresses invasion of CisR cells but not of PacR and dual cells, suggesting protease-dependent mode of invasion in CisR cells and protease-independent mode in PacR and dual cells. Despite these differences, actomyosin contractility, mediated by the RhoA-ROCK2-Myosin IIB signaling pathway regulates both modes of invasion. Myosin IIB modulates matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) secretion in CisR cells and nuclear squeezing in PacR and dual cells, thereby highlighting its importance as a potential therapeutic target for treatment of drug-resistant ovarian cancer cells.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099655', [], [u'IIT Bombay;', u'ACTREC']]
[u'An Adaptive Geometric Search Algorithm for Macromolecular Scaffold Selection', ['Tian Jiang', 'Douglas Renfrew', 'Kevin Drew', 'Noah Youngs', 'Glenn Butterfoss', 'Dennis Shasha', 'Richard Bonneau'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'A wide variety of protein and peptidomimetic design tasks require matching functional three-dimensional motifs to potential oligomeric scaffolds. Enzyme design, for example, aims to graft active-site patterns typically consisting of 3 to 15 residues onto new protein surfaces. Identifying suitable proteins capable of scaffolding such active-site engraftment requires costly searches to identify protein folds that can provide the correct positioning of side chains to host the desired active site. Other examples of biodesign tasks that require simpler fast exact geometric searches of potential side chain positioning include mimicking binding hotspots, design of metal binding clusters and the design of modular hydrogen binding networks for specificity. In these applications the speed and scaling of geometric search limits downstream design to small patterns. Here we present an adaptive algorithm to searching for side chain take-off angles compatible with an arbitrarily specified functional pattern that enjoys substantive performance improvements over previous methods. We demonstrate this method in both genetically encoded (protein) and synthetic (peptidomimetic) design scenarios. Examples of using this method with the Rosetta framework for protein design are provided but our implementation is compatible with multiple protein design frameworks and is freely available as a set of python scripts (https://github.com/JiangTian/adaptive- geometric-search-for-protein-design).', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099762', [], [u'Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Computer Science Department, New York University;', u'Simons Foundation;', u'University of Texas at Austin;', u'NYU;', u'NYU Abu Dhabi']]
[u'No evidence for the radiation time lag model after whole genome duplications in Teleostei', ['Sacha Laurent', 'Nicolas Salamin', 'Marc Robinson-Rechavi'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'The short and long term effects of polyploidization on the evolutionary fate of lineages is still unclear despite much interest. First recognized in land plants, it has become clear that polyploidization is widespread in eukaryotes, notably at the origin of vertebrates and teleost fishes. Many hypotheses have been proposed to link the evolutionary success of lineages and whole genome duplications. For instance, the radiation time lag model suggests that paleopolyploidy would favour the apparition of key innovations, although the evolutionary success would not become apparent until a later dispersion event. Some results indicate that this model may be observed during land plant evolution. In this work, we test predictions of the radiation time lag model using both fossil data and molecular phylogenies in ancient and more recent teleost whole genome duplications. We fail to find any evidence of delayed evolutionary success after any of these events and conclude that paleopolyploidization still remains to be unambiguously linked to evolutionary success in fishes.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099663', [], [u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Capturing in vivo RNA transcriptional dynamics from the malaria parasite P. falciparum', ['Heather J Painter', 'Manuela Carrasquilla', 'Manuel M Llinas'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'To capture the transcriptional dynamics within proliferating cells, methods to differentiate nascent transcription from preexisting mRNAs are desired. One approach is to label newly synthesized mRNA transcripts in vivo through the incorporation of modified pyrimidines. However, the human malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum, is incapable of pyrimidine salvage for mRNA biogenesis. To capture cellular mRNA dynamics during Plasmodium development, we have engineered parasites that can salvage pyrimidines through the expression of a single bifunctional yeast fusion gene, cytosine deaminase/uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (FCU). We show that expression of FCU allows for the direct incorporation of thiol-modified pyrimidines into nascent mRNAs. Using developmental stage-specific promoters to express FCU-GFP enables the biosynthetic capture and in-depth analysis of mRNA dynamics from subpopulations of cells undergoing differentiation. We demonstrate the utility of this method by examining the transcriptional dynamics of the sexual gametocyte stage transition, a process that is essential to malaria transmission between hosts. We find that sexual stage commitment is governed by transcriptional reprogramming and the stabilization of a subset of essential gametocyte transcripts.  This new method for biosynthetic labeling of Plasmodium mRNAs is incredibly versatile and can be used to measure transcriptional dynamics at any stage of parasite development, and thiol-modified RNAs will allow for future applications to measure RNA-protein interactions in the malaria parasite.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099549', [], [u'Pennsylvania State University;', u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute']]
[u'Direct visualization of transcriptional activation by physical enhancer-promoter proximity', ['Hongtao Chen', 'Miki Fujioka', 'Thomas Gregor'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'A long-standing question in metazoan gene regulation is how remote enhancers communicate with their target promoters over long distances. Combining genome editing and quantitative live imaging we simultaneously visualize physical enhancer-promoter communication and transcription in Drosophila embryos. Enhancers regulating pair rule stripes of even-skipped expression activate transcription of a reporter gene over a distance of 150 kb. We show in individual cells that activation only occurs after the enhancer comes into close proximity with its regulatory target and that upon dissociation transcription ceases almost immediately. We further observe distinct topological conformations of the eve locus, depending on the spatial identity of the activating stripe enhancer. In addition, long-range activation results in transcriptional competition at the endogenous eve locus, causing corresponding developmental defects. Overall, we demonstrate that sustained physical proximity and enhancer-promoter engagement are required for enhancer action, and we provide a path to probe the implications of long-range regulation on cellular fates.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099523', [], [u'Princeton University;', u'Thomas Jeferson University']]
[u'Mapping and explaining wolf recolonization in France using dynamic occupancy models and opportunistic data', ['Julie Louvrier', 'Christophe Duchamp', 'Eric Marboutin', 'Sarah Cubaynes', 'Remi Choquet', 'Christian Miquel', 'Olivier Gimenez'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'While large carnivores are recovering in Europe, assessing their\ndistributions can help to predict and mitigate conflicts with human\nactivities. Modeling their distributions presents several challenges due to i)\ntheir imperfect detectability, ii) their dynamic ranges over time and iii)\ntheir monitoring at large scales consisting mainly of opportunistic data\nwithout a formal measure of the sampling effort. Not accounting for these\nissues can lead to flawed inference about the distribution.\nHere, we focused on the wolf (Canis lupus) that has been recolonizing\nFrance since the early 90s. We evaluated the sampling effort a posteriori\nas the number of observers present per year in a cell based on their\nlocation and professional activities. We then assessed wolf range dynamics\nfrom 1993 to 2014, while accounting for species imperfect detection and\ntime- and space-varying sampling effort using dynamic site-occupancy\nmodels.\nIgnoring the effect of sampling effort on species detectability led to\nunderestimating the number of occupied sites by 50% on average.\nColonization increased with increasing number of occupied sites at short\nand long-distances, as well as with increasing forest cover, farmland cover\nand mean altitude. Colonization decreased when high-altitude increased.\nThe growth rate, defined as the number of sites newly occupied in a given\nyear divided by the number of occupied sites in the previous year,\ndecreased over time, from over 100% in 1994 to 5% in 2014. This\nsuggests that wolves are expanding in France but at a rate that is slowing\ndown. Our work shows that opportunistic data can be analyzed with\nspecies distribution models that control for imperfect detection, pending a\nquantification of sampling effort. Our approach has the potential for being\nused by decision-makers to target sites where large carnivores are likely to\noccur and mitigate conflicts.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099424', [], [u'ONCFS & CNRS;', u'ONCFS;', u'EPHE;', u'CNRS']]
[u'Reversibility of chemotherapy-induced senescence is independent of autophagy and a potential model for tumor dormancy and cancer recurrence.', ['Tareq Saleh', 'Emmanuel K Cudjoe', 'S. Lauren Kyte', 'Scott C Henderson', 'Lynne W Elmore', 'David Gewirtz'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Autophagy and senescence are both well-established responses to chemotherapy and radiation that often occur in parallel, contributing to growth arrest in tumor cells. However, it has not been established whether this growth arrest is reversible. This question was addressed using non-small cell lung cancer models exposed to the cancer chemotherapeutic drug, etoposide.  Senescent cells that were sorted, identified by \u03b2-galactosidase staining and alterations in morphology, isolated by flow cytometric cell sorting based on C12FDG staining, and real-time live microscopy were found to be capable of recovering proliferative capacity. Autophagy, monitored by vacuole formation, SQSTM1/p62 degradation, and LC3BII generation did not interfere with either the senescence arrest or proliferative recovery and was nonprotective in function (i.e. autophagy inhibition via both pharmacological and genetic strategies had negligible impact on the response to etoposide).  \nThese observations argue against the premise that (chemotherapy-induced) senescence is irreversible and indicate that therapy-induced senescence may ultimately be a transient process in that at least a subpopulation of tumor cells can and will remain metabolically active and recover proliferative capacity independently of autophagic turnover. We therefore propose that dormant tumor cells may be capable of prolonged survival in a state of autophagy/senescence and that disease recurrence may reflect escape from this senescence-arrested state.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099812', [], [u'Virginia Commonwealth University']]
[u'Persistence of antibiotic resistance plasmids in bacterial biofilms', ['Benjamin Ridenhour', 'Genevieve Metzger', 'Michael France', 'Karol Gliniewicz', 'Jack Millstein', 'Larry Forney', 'Eva Top'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'The emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance is a crisis in health care today. Antibiotic resistance is often horizontally transferred to susceptible bacteria by means of multi-drug resistance plasmids that may or may not persist in the absence of antibiotics. Because bacterial pathogens often grow as biofilms, there is a need to better understand the evolution of plasmid persistence in these environments. Here we compared the evolution of plasmid persistence in the pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii when grown under antibiotic selection in biofilms versus well-mixed liquid cultures. After four weeks, clones in which the plasmid was more stably maintained in the absence of antibiotic selection were present in both populations. On average plasmid persistence increased more in liquid batch cultures, but variation in the degree of persistence was greater among biofilm-derived clones. The results of this study show for the first time that the persistence of MDR plasmids improves in biofilms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/098368', [], [u'University of Idaho']]
[u'Targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway potentiates immunoediting to counterbalance neutral evolution in a mouse model of colorectal cancer', ['Zlatko Trajanoski', 'Mirjana Efremova', 'Victoria Klepsch', 'Pornpimol Charoentong', 'Francesca Finotello', 'Dietmar Rieder', 'Hubert Hackl', 'Natasch Hermann-Kleiter', 'Gottfried Baier', 'Anne Krogsdam'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Background: The cancer immunoediting hypothesis postulates a dual role of the immune system: protecting the host by eliminating tumor cells, and shaping the developing tumor by editing the cancer genome. However, to what extent immunoediting is shaping the cancer genome in common malignancies is still a matter of debate. Moreover, the impact of cancer immunotherapy with checkpoint blockers on modulating immunoediting remains largely unexplored.  Results: Here we employed a mouse model of colorectal cancer (CRC), next-generation sequencing, and computational analyses to elucidate the impact of evolutionary and immune-related forces on editing the tumor. We first carried out genomic and transcriptomic analyses of a widely-used model, MC38 cell line and show that this is a valid model for hypermutated and microsatellite-unstable CRC. Analyses of the data from longitudinal samples of wild type and immunodeficient RAG1 knockout mice transplanted with MC38 cells revealed that upregulation of checkpoint molecules and infiltration of Tregs are the major tumor escape mechanisms. Strikingly, the impact of neutral evolution on sculpting the tumor outweighed immunoediting by T cell dependent and T cell independent mechanisms in the progressing tumors. We also show that targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway potentiated immunoediting and rendered tumors more homogeneous.  Conclusions: In summary, our study demonstrates that neutral evolution is the major force that sculpts the tumor during progression, and that checkpoint blockade effectively enforces T cell dependent immunoselective pressure in this model. The results have important implication for basic research studies on the mechanisms of resistance to checkpoint blockade and for clinical translation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099747', [], [u'Medical University of Innsbruck']]
[u'Biowheel: interactive visualization and exploration of biomedical data', ['Chenyue Hu', 'Alex J Bisberg', 'Amina A Qutub'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'We introduce Biowheel (https://biowheel.dibsvis.com/), a web-based award-winning data visualization tool, for exploring high-dimensional and heterogeneous biomedical data. Through interactive sorting and filtering of data, Biowheel enables researchers to quickly detect data outliers, evaluate data consistency, and discover mixed trends. Its interactive data presentation, visually-engaging design, and friendly user interface opens the door to easier, faster and better high-dimensional data interpretation for biomedical professionals with and without programming training.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099739', [], [u'Rice University']]
[u'Group size constraints may mask underlying similarities in social structure: a comparison of female elephant societies', ['Nandini Shetty', 'P. Keerthipriya', 'T.N.C. Vidya'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'We report on female Asian elephant social structure in Nagarahole and Bandipur National Parks (Kabini population), southern India, and examine the role of group size in affecting the outcome of social structure analysis in female elephants, which show high fission-fusion dynamics. Based on five years of data, we found the Kabini association network structured into highly modular communities that we call clans. We then modified the dataset (to obtain the Kabini 500-m dataset) to match sampling methods previously used in a study each of Asian (Uda Walawe) and African savannah (Samburu) elephants, so that network and association statistics could be compared across populations. Measures of association and network structure previously used were more similar amongst the Asian elephant populations compared to Samburu. The Samburu population formed a hierarchically-nested multilevel society whereas the Asian populations did not. However, we found hierarchical clustering levels in all three populations using Louvain community detection. Moreover, the average community sizes obtained through the Louvain method were not significantly different across populations, indicating basic similarities in social structure. Since fission-fusion dynamics allow for community members to form groups of different sizes, we examined the effect of average group size on association and network statistics. Higher average association index and degree, and lower average path length in Samburu compared to the Kabini 500-m dataset were explained by the larger average group size in Samburu. Thus, underlying similarities in the social networks of species showing fission-fusion dynamics may be obscured by differences in average group size.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099614', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research']]
[u'Association between urinary biomarkers of total sugars and sucrose intake and BMI in a cross-sectional study', ['Rachel Campbell', 'Natasha Tasevska', 'Kim G Jackson', 'Virag Sagi-Kiss', 'Nick di Paolo', 'Jennifer S Mindell', 'Susan J Lister', 'Kay-Tee Khaw', 'Gunter Georg Christian Kuhnle'], u'January 11, 2017.', u'Obesity is an important modifiable risk factors for chronic diseases. While there is increasing focus on the role of dietary sugars, there remains a paucity of data establishing the association between sugar intake and obesity in the general public. The objective of this study was to investigate associations of estimated sugar intake with odds for obesity in a representative samples of English adults. We used data from 434 participants of the 2005 Health Survey of England. Biomarkers for total sugar intake were measured in 24h urine samples and used to estimate intake. Linear and logistic regression analyses were used to investigate associations between estimated intake and measures of obesity (BMI, waist circumference and waist-to-hip ratio) and obesity risk, respectively. Estimated sugars intake was significantly associated with BMI, waist circumference  and waist-to-hip ratio, and these associations remained significant after adjustment for estimated protein intake. Estimated sugars intake was also associated with increased odds for obesity based on BMI (OR 1.02; 95% CI 1.00; 1.04 per 10 g), waist-circumference (OR 1.03; 95% CI 1.01; 1.05) and waist-to-hip ratio (OR 1.04; 95% CI 1.02; 1.06); all OR estimates remained significant after adjusting for estimated protein intake. Our results show a significant association between biomarker-estimated total sugars intake and both measures of obesity and obesity risk, confirming positive associations between total sugar intake, measures of obesity and obesity risk. This biomarker could be used to monitor the efficacy of public health interventions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/11/099556', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Reading;', u'Arizona State University;', u'NatCen;', u'UCL;', u'University of Aberystwyth;', u'University of Cambridge']]
[u'Local Control of Intracellular Microtubule Dynamics by End Binding Protein 1 (EB1) Photo-Dissociation', ['Jeffrey van Haren', 'Andreas Ettinger', 'Hui Wang', 'Klaus Hahn', 'Torsten Wittmann'], u'January 10, 2017.', u'Dynamic remodelling of the microtubule cytoskeleton and local interactions with intracellular targets are central to many polarized cell biological processes, an idea first formalized as search-and-capture hypothesis three decades ago. However, because of the rapid timescale of microtubule polymerization dynamics, it is difficult to directly ask how, when and where dynamic microtubules participate in specific biological processes. Here, we employ a blue light-sensitive interaction with the oat phototropin LOV2 domain to generate a photo-inactivated variant of the microtubule end-binding protein EB1, a small adaptor that is central to the interaction of functionally and structurally diverse proteins with growing microtubule ends, that can replace endogenous EB1 function. Acute and reversible blue light-mediated \u03c0-EB1 photo-dissociation allows spatially and temporally precise control of intracellular microtubule polymerization dynamics. In addition to demonstrating that neither the GTP cap nor the MT polymerase CKAP5 are sufficient to sustain persistent MT polymerization at physiological growth rates, our data illustrate accurate subcellular control of a freely diffusible, cytoplasmic protein at the second and micrometer scale. This novel design may serve as a template for precise control of many other intracellular protein activities.', u'/content/early/2017/01/10/099598', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'UCSF;', u'Helmholtz Center Munich;', u'University of North Carolina Chapel Hill']]
