[u'Diverse yet highly selective interorgan crosstalk mechanisms shape the bodywide transcriptome landscape', ['Norio Takada', 'Madoka Omae', 'Fumihiko Sagawa', 'Neil Chi', 'Satsuki Endo', 'Satoshi Kozawa', 'Thomas N Sato'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'The network of functionally diverse organs is vital for organismal development and function. Despite such importance, the knowledge of the bodywide interorgan communication network is severely limited. Hence, we generate comprehensive bodywide transcriptome datasets following the systematic organ-ablations and organ-specific gene mutations in zebrafish and the data are integrated into a mechanistic interorgan network model. The experimental validation of the model unveils unexpectedly more diverse and selective interorgan crosstalk mechanisms than conventionally assumed to orchestrate the expression of 73 genes implicated for differential organ development and function across 8 organs. The findings provide an important insight into how differential organ development and function may be regulated at the organismal level by the cardiovascular system, which is a primary mediator of the interogan crosstalk in all vertebrates. Furthermore, the panoramic bodywide landscape shown herein and available at i-organs.atr.jp serves as a platform resource for studying organ-to-organ interactions at the organismal level.', u'/content/early/2017/01/24/102723', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'ATR;', u'UCSD']]
[u'The complex origins of strigolactone signalling in land plants', ['Rohan Bythell-Douglas', 'Carl J. Rothfels', 'Dennis W.D. Stevenson', 'Sean W. Graham', 'Gane Ka-Shu Wong', 'David C. Nelson', 'Tom Bennett'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Strigolactones (SLs) are a class of plant hormones that control many aspects of plant growth. The SL signaling mechanism is homologous to that of karrikins (KARs), a smoke-derived compounds that stimulate seed germination. In angiosperms, the SL receptor is an \u03b1/\u03b2 hydrolase known as DWARF14 (D14); its close homologue, KARRIKIN INSENSITIVE2 (KAI2), functions as a KAR receptor, and likely recognizes an uncharacterized, endogenous signal. Previous phylogenetic analyses have suggested that the KAI2 lineage is ancestral in land plants, and that canonical D14-type SL receptors only arose in seed plants; this is paradoxical, however, as non-vascular plants synthesize and respond to SLs. Here, we have used a combination of phylogenetic and structural approaches to understand the evolution of the D14/KAI2 family in land plants. We analyzed 339 members of the D14/KAI2 family from land plants and charophyte algae. Our phylogenetic analyses show that the divergence between the eu-KAI2 clade and the DDK (D14/DLK2/KAI2) clade occurred very early in land plant evolution. We identify characteristic structural features of D14 and KAI2 proteins, and show that the earliest members of the DDK lineage structurally resemble KAI2, and not D14 proteins. We also show that proteins in the KAI2 lineage have exceptional sequence conservation across land plants. Our results suggest that SL perception has relatively relaxed structural requirements, and that the evolution from KAI2-like to D14-like protein structure in the DDK lineage may have been driven by interactions with protein partners, rather than being required for SL perception itself.', u'/content/early/2017/01/24/102715', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Imperial College London;', u'University of California, Berkeley;', u'The New York Botanical Garden;', u'University of British Columbia;', u'University of Alberta;', u'University of California, Riverside;', u'University of Leeds']]
[u'Prolonged exposure does not increase soil microbial community response to warming along geothermal gradients', ['Dajana Radujkovic', 'Erik Verbruggen', 'Bjarni D Sigurdsson', 'Niki IW Leblans', 'Sara Vica', 'James T Weedon'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Predicting effects of climate change on ecosystem functioning requires knowledge of soil microbial community responses to warming. We used natural geothermal gradients (from +1\xb0C to +19\xb0C above ambient) in two subarctic grasslands to test the hypothesis that long-term exposure (>50 years) intensifies microbial community responses to warming compared to short-term exposure (5-7 years). Community profiles from amplicon sequencing of bacterial and fungal rRNA genes did not support this hypothesis: significant changes relative to ambient were observed from +9\xb0C and upwards in the long-term and from 7\xb0C to 11\xb0C / +3\xb0C to +5\xb0C and upwards in the short-term, for bacteria and fungi, respectively. Our results suggest that bacterial communities in high-latitude grasslands will not undergo lasting shifts in community composition under the warming predicted for the coming 100 years. Fungal communities do appear to be temperature sensitive to the warming within this range, but only for short-term exposures.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102459', [u'Ecology'], [u'University of Antwerp;', u'Agricultural University of Iceland;', u'University of Antwerp, Agricultural University of Iceland;', u'University of Antwerp, VU University Amsterdam']]
[u"Family history and APOE4 risk for Alzheimer's Disease impact the neural correlates of episodic memory by early midlife", ['Maria Natasha Rajah', 'Lindsay M. K. Wallace', 'Elizabeth Ankudowich', 'Darya Naumova', 'Jens C. Pruessner', 'Ridha Joober', 'Serge Gauthier', 'Stamatoula Pasvanis'], u'January 24, 2017.', u"Episodic memory impairment is a consistent, pronounced deficit in preclinical stages of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD).  Individuals with risk factors for AD exhibit altered brain function several decades prior to the onset of AD-related symptoms. In the current fMRI study of spatial context memory we tested the hypothesis that middle-aged adults (MA; 40-58yrs) with a family history of late onset AD (MA+FH), or a combined +FH and apolipoprotein E e4 allele risk factors for AD (MA+FH+APOE4), will exhibit differences in encoding and retrieval-related brain activity , compared to -FH -APOE4 MA controls.  We also hypothesized that the two at-risk MA groups will exhibit distinct patterns of correlation between brain activity and memory performance, compared to controls.  To test these hypotheses we conducted multivariate task, and behavior, partial least squares analysis of fMRI data obtained during successful context encoding and retrieval.  Our results indicate that even though there were no significant group differences in context memory performance, there were significant differences in brain activity and brain-behavior correlations involving hippocampus, left angular gyrus, cingulate, and precuneus in MA with AD risk factors, compared to controls. In addition, we observed that brain activity and brain-behavior correlations in anterior medial PFC and in ventral visual cortex differentiated the two MA risk groups from each other, and from MA controls. This is the first study to show that there are differences in the brain areas engaged during context memory encoding and retrieval in middle-aged adults with +FH and +APOE-4 risk factors for late onset AD, compared to controls.", u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102699', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Dept. Psychiatry, McGill University;', u'Dalhousie University;', u'IPN, McGill University;', u'Dept of Psychiatry, McGill University;', u'Dept. of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University;', u'Douglas Hospital Research Centre']]
[u'Locomotion enhances neural encoding of visual stimuli in mouse V1', ['Maria C. Dadarlat', 'Michael P. Stryker'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Neurons in mouse primary visual cortex (V1) are selective for particular properties of visual stimuli. Locomotion causes a change in cortical state that leaves their selectivity unchanged but strengthens their responses. Both locomotion and the change in cortical state are initiated by projections from the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR), the latter through a disinhibitory circuit in V1.  The function served by this change in cortical state is unknown. By recording simultaneously from a large number of single neurons in alert mice viewing moving gratings, we investigated the relationship between locomotion and the information contained within the neural population. We found that locomotion improved encoding of visual stimuli in V1 by two mechanisms. First, locomotion-induced increases in firing rates enhanced the mutual information between visual stimuli and single neuron responses over a fixed window of time. Second, stimulus discriminability was improved, even for fixed population firing rates, because of a decrease in noise correlations across the population during locomotion. These two mechanisms contributed differently to improvements in discriminability across cortical layers, with changes in firing rates most important in the upper layers and changes in noise correlations most important in layer V. Together, these changes resulted in a three- to five-fold reduction in the time needed to precisely encode grating direction and orientation. These results support the hypothesis that cortical state shifts during locomotion to accommodate an increased load on the visual system when mice are moving.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102673', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'UCSF']]
[u'Medicago truncatula MOT1.3 is a plasma membrane molybdenum transporter required for nitrogenase activity in root nodules', ['Manuel Tejada-Jimenez', 'Patricia Gil-Diez', 'Javier Leon-Mediavilla', 'Jiangqi Wen', 'Kirankumar Mysore', 'Juan Imperial', 'Manuel Gonzalez-Guerrero'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Molybdenum has a critical role in biological nitrogen fixation since nitrogenase activity, the central enzyme of this process, requires the presence of this element in its active center. Therefore, any strategy of sustainable agriculture based on biological nitrogen fixation as nitrogen source for crops, requires an efficient molybdenum supply to the nitrogen-fixing tissues. However, in legumes, where symbiotic nitrogen fixation takes place, transporters mediating molybdenum transport have not been identified so far. Here, we report the Medicago truncatula molybdate transporter MtMOT1.3 as responsible for molybdenum supply for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. MtMOT1.3 is a member of the molybdate transporter family MOT1, and the only member of this family in M. truncatula showing a nodule-specific expression. Immunolocalization studies revealed that MtMOT1.3 is expressed in the plasma membrane of nodule cells where nitrogen fixation occurs. A mot1.3 knockout mutant showed an impaired growth concomitant with a reduction in nitrogenase activity. This phenotype was rescued upon addition of an assimilable nitrogen source or, under nitrogen-limiting conditions, by increasing molybdate concentrations in the nutritive solution. Furthermore, mot1.3 mutant plants transformed with a functional copy of MtMOT1.3 showed a wild type-like phenotype. These results are important to understand how legumes supply molybdenum for symbiotic nitrogen fixation', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102517', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Centro de Biotecnologia y Genomica de Plantas (UPM-INIA);', u'The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation;', u'Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas']]
[u'Mass-spectrometry of single mammalian cells quantifies proteome heterogeneity during cell differentiation', ['Bogdan Budnik', 'Ezra Levy', 'Nikolai Slavov'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Cellular heterogeneity is important to biological processes, including cancer and development. However, proteome heterogeneity is largely unexplored because of the limitations of existing methods for quantifying protein levels in single cells. To alleviate these limitations, we developed Single Cell ProtEomics by Mass Spectrometry (SCoPE-MS), and validated its ability to identify distinct human cancer cell types based on their proteomes. We used SCoPE-MS to quantify over a thousand proteins in differentiating mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells. The single-cell proteomes enabled us to deconstruct cell populations and infer protein abundance relationships. Comparison between single-cell proteomes and transcriptomes indicated coordinated mRNA and protein covariation. Yet many genes exhibited functionally concerted and distinct regulatory patterns at the mRNA and the protein levels, suggesting that post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms contribute to proteome remodeling during lineage specification, especially for developmental genes. SCoPE-MS is broadly applicable to measuring proteome configurations of single cells and linking them to functional phenotypes, such as cell type and differentiation potentials.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102681', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Harvard University;', u'Northeastern University']]
[u'The butterfly effect: amplification of local changes along the temporal processing hierarchy', ['Yaara Yeshurun', 'Mai Nguyen', 'Uri Hasson'], u'January 24, 2017.', u"Changing just a few words in a story can induce a substantial change in the overall narrative. How does the brain accumulate and process local and sparse changes, creating a unique situation model of the story, over the course of a real-life narrative? Recently, we mapped a hierarchy of processing timescales in the brain: from early sensory areas that integrate information over 10s-100s ms, to high-order areas that integrate information over many seconds to minutes. Based on this hierarchy, we hypothesize that early sensory areas would be sensitive to local changes in word use, but that there will be increasingly divergent neural responses along the processing hierarchy as higher-order areas accumulate and amplify these local changes. To test this hypothesis, we created two structurally related but interpretively distinct narratives by changing some individual words.  We found that the neural response distance between the stories was amplified as story information is transferred from low-level regions (e.g. early auditory cortex) to high-level regions (e.g precuneus and prefrontal cortex) and that the neural difference between stories is highly correlated with an area's ability to integrate information over time. Our results suggest a neural mechanism by which two similar situations become easy to distinguish.", u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102590', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Princeton University']]
[u'Invasion fitness for gene-culture co-evolution in the family and an application to cumulative culture under vertical transmission', ['Charles Mullon', 'Laurent Lehmann'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Human evolution depends on gene-culture co-evolution: genetically determined behavior rules co-evolve with socially learned information. Social transmission of information can occur vertically from parent to child, horizontally from peer to peer, or obliquely from unrelated individuals of different generations. Models for the emergence of cumulative culture have in their majority studied gene-culture co-evolution under random interactions between individuals, which rules out vertical transmission. Yet, vertical transmission is thought to be a primary form of transmission in nature. In order to study gene-culture co-evolution within the family, we derive here the invasion fitness of a mutant allele that influence a deterministic environmental state variable (e.g., amount of knowledge or skill, stock of culture, or any other non-innate environmental feature) to which diploid carriers of the mutant are exposed in subsequent generations. Under the assumption that this environment has a single attractor point, we show that singular strategies and the concomitant environmental state they generate can be evaluated analytically, thereby making gene-culture co-evolution in the family with multigenerational effects mathematically tractable. We then apply our results to model the co-evolution between individual and social learning rules on one hand, and the amount of adaptive information these rules generate on the other. We find that vertical transmission generally favours the accumulation of adaptive information due to kin selection effects, but that when adaptive information is learned as efficiently between family members as between unrelated individuals, this effect is moderate in diploids. We also show that vertical transmission prevents evolutionary branching and therefore can have a qualitative impact on gene-culture co-evolutionary dynamics. More generally, our model is of relevance to study scenarios of niche construction and gene-culture co-evolution within the family, where modifications of the environment by individuals have long-lasting effects on genetic lines of descent.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102624', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Lausanne']]
[u'Genome-wide association mapping of correlated traits in cassava: dry matter and total carotenoid content', ['Ismail Yusuf Rabbi', 'Lovina I Udoh', 'Marnin Wolfe', 'Elizabeth Y Parkes', 'Melaku A Gedil', 'Alfred Dixon', 'Punna Ramu', 'Jean-Luc Jannink', 'Peter Kulakow'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Cassava (Manihot esculenta (L.) Crantz) is a starchy root crop cultivated in the tropics for fresh consumption and commercial processing. Dry matter content and micronutrient density, particularly of provitamin A, traits that are negatively correlated, are among the primary selection objectives in cassava breeding. This study aimed at identifying genetic markers associated with these traits and uncovering the potential underlying cause of their negative correlation - whether linkage and/or pleiotropy. A genome-wide association mapping using 672 clones genotyped at 72,279 SNP loci was carried out. Root yellowness was used indirectly to assess variation in carotenoid content. Two major loci for root yellowness was identified on chromosome 1 at positions 24.1 and 30.5 Mbp. A single locus for dry matter content that co-located with the 24.1 Mbp peak for carotenoid content was identified. Haplotypes at these loci explained a large proportion of the phenotypic variability. Evidence of mega-base-scale linkage disequilibrium around the major loci of the two traits and detection of the major dry matter locus in independent analysis for the white- and yellow-root subpopulations suggests that physical linkage rather that pleiotropy is more likely to be the cause of the negative correlation between the target traits. Moreover, candidate genes for carotenoid (phytoene synthase) and starch biosynthesis (UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase and sucrose synthase) occurred in the vicinity of the identified locus at 24.1 Mbp. These findings elucidate on the genetic architecture of carotenoids and dry matter in cassava and provides an opportunity to accelerate genetic improvement of these traits.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102665', [u'Genetics'], [u'International Institute of Tropical Agriculture;', u'Cornell University']]
[u'Elucidating interplay of speed and accuracy in biological error correction', ['Kinshuk Banerjee', 'Anatoly B. Kolomeisky', 'Oleg A Igoshin'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'One of the most fascinating features of biological systems is the ability to sustain high accuracy of all major cellular processes despite the stochastic nature of underlying chemical processes. It is widely believed that such low errors are the result of the error correcting mechanism known as kinetic proofreading. However, it is usually argued that enhancing the accuracy should result in slowing down the process leading to so-called speed-accuracy trade-off. We developed a discrete-state stochastic framework that allowed us to investigate the mechanisms of the proofreading using the method of first-passage processes. With this framework, we simultaneously analyzed speed and accuracy of the two fundamental biological processes, DNA replication and tRNA selection during the translation. The results indicate that speed-accuracy trade-off is not always observed. However, when the trade-off is present, the biological systems tend to optimize the speed rather than the accuracy of the processes, as long as the error level is tolerable. Additional constraints due to the energetic cost of proofreading also play a role in the error correcting process. Our theoretical findings provide a new microscopic picture of how complex biological processes are able to function so fast with a high accuracy.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102608', [u'Biophysics'], [u'Rice University']]
[u'An analytic approach for interpretable predictive models in high dimensional data, in the presence of interactions with exposures', ['Sahir R Bhatnagar', 'Yi Yang', 'Budhachandra S Khundrakpam', 'Alan Evans', 'Mathieu Blanchette', 'Luigi Bouchard', 'Celia MT Greenwood'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Computational approaches to variable selection have become increasingly important with the advent of high-throughput technologies in genomics and brain imaging studies, where the data has become massive, yet where it is believed that the number of truly important variables is small relative to the total number of variables.  Although many approaches have been developed for main effects, less attention has been paid to interaction models. Here, starting from the hypothesis that a binary exposure variable can alter correlation patterns between clusters of high-dimensional variables, i.e. alter network properties of the variables, we explore whether such exposure-dependent clustering relationships can improve predictive modelling of an outcome or phenotype variable.\nHence, we propose a modelling framework called ECLUST to test this hypothesis, and evaluate performance through extensive simulations. We see improved model fit in  many scenarios. We further illustrate the framework through the analysis of three data sets from very different fields, each with high dimensional data, a binary exposure, and a phenotype of interest. Our method is available in the eclust CRAN package.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102475', [u'Genomics'], [u'Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University;', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, McGill University;', u'Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University;', u'Department of Computer Science, McGill University;', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Sherbrooke;', u'Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research']]
[u'A Molecular Signature for Anastasis, Recovery from the Brink of Apoptotic Cell Death', ['Gongping Sun', 'Elmer Guzman', 'Hongjun Robin Zhou', 'Kenneth Kosik', 'Denise J Montell'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'During apoptosis, executioner caspase activity has been considered a point of no return. However, recent studies show that cells can survive caspase activation following transient apoptotic stimuli, a process named anastasis. To identify a molecular signature, we performed whole transcriptome RNA sequencing of untreated, apoptotic, and recovering HeLa cells. We found that anastasis is an active, two-stage program. During the early stage, cells transition from growth-arrested to growing. In the late stage, cells change from proliferating to migratory. Strikingly, some early recovery mRNAs were elevated first during apoptosis, implying that dying cells poise to recover, even while still under apoptotic stress. Furthermore, TGF\u03b2-induced Snail expression is required for anastasis, and recovering cells exhibit prolonged elevation of pro-angiogenic factors. This study demonstrates similarities in the anastasis genes, pathways, and cell behaviors to those activated in wound healing. This study identifies a repertoire of potential targets for therapeutic manipulation of this process.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102640', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of California']]
[u'From affect to control: Functional specialization of the insula in motivation and regulation', ['Tor D Wager', 'Lisa Feldman Barrett'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'The insula plays a key role in a wide range of brain processes, from viscerosensation and pain to motivation, emotion, and cognitive control. While human neuroimaging studies in all these domains report activations in the insula, little systematic attention is paid to anatomical subdivisions that may provide the basis for functional sub-regions. We conducted a meta-analysis of insular tasks across studies in four domains: emotion, pain, attention switching, and working memory. Using a priori subdivision of the insula based on anatomical studies, we provide evidence that different sub-regions are preferentially activated in different tasks. We suggest that the ventral anterior insula is most important for core affect, a term that describes broadly-tuned motivational states (e.g., excitement) with associated subjective feelings. The dorsal anterior insula, by contrast, may be critical for developing and updating motivational states with specific associated actions (i.e., goals). This region is activated by cognitive control tasks, pain, and some tasks that elicit affective processing. The posterior insula, including SII and portions of parietal operculum, is distinctly activated by pain, providing a double dissociation between pain and tasks that elicit emotions.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102368', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Colorado, Boulder;', u'Northeastern University']]
[u'Photorelease of Diacylglycerol Increases the Amplitude and Duration of Protein Kinase C-BetaII Relocation in cyto', ['Joachim Goedhart', 'Theodorus W.J. Gadella'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Diacylglycerol (DAG) is a lipid second messenger produced by receptor stimulated phospholipase C and is capable of activating several PKC isoforms. Classical PKC isoforms require simultaneous presence of calcium and DAG for activation and relocation to membranes. The aim of this study was to synthesize a photolabile precursor of DAG and examine the effect of an immediate increase of the signaling lipid on PKC relocation. Caged DAG was synthesized using a photoreleasable 7-diethyl-aminocoumarin (DEACM) group. Photolysis was monitored in vitro by an increase in coumarin fluorescence from which an uncaging quantum yield of 1.1% was determined. This quantum yield proved ideal for efficient uncaging at high UV power while allowing localization of the fluorescent compound at low UV power. Taking advantage of the coumarin fluorescence, it was demonstrated that DEACM-DiC8 accumulated inside cells. Effects of DAG photorelease on periodic relocations of PKCbetaII, induced by histamine, UTP or EGF, were studied. Photorelease of DAG in cyto immediately increased the amplitude and duration of relocation events, regardless of the agonist used. Together, the results demonstrate the usefulness of caged DAG for dissecting PKC signaling and suggest that DAG levels are limiting during signaling.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102657', [u'Cell Biology'], [u'University of Amsterdam']]
[u'Production of Multilayer Cell Mass from Olfactory Stem Cell and Its Utilization Potential in Nervous Tissue Regeneration', ['Olga Nehir Nehir Oztel', 'Adil M. Allahverdiyev', 'Aysegul Batioglu Karaaltin', 'Melahat Bagirova', 'Ercument Ovali'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Background- Experimental studies performed with human olfactory tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (OTD-MSCs) have shown that these cells can ameliorate nerve cell regeneration. However, three dimensional cell cultures with various supporting scaffolds are required in order to use OTD-MSCs in tissue engineering. Preparation of such scaffolds is both difficult and expensive. Developing a method of repairing nerve damage solely using stem cells without the need of any supporting material is important.\nMethods- First, human OTD-MSCs were isolated, cultured, and characterized. Next, consecutive passages were conducted to obtain multilayer cell growth. The resulting cell mass could be suitable for tissue engineering models as well as nerve cell or tissue regeneration studies in the future.\nResults- Viability and adhesive properties of the resulting cell mass were examined and found to be suitable for use in nerve tissue regeneration. \nConclusion- It is suggested that an in vitro-produced OTD-MSCs mass can be applied to a very small damaged region and could have a high potential for microenvironment formation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102434', [u'Bioengineering'], [u'Ph.D.;', u'Prof. Dr.;', u'M.D.']]
[u'Basal forebrain gating by somatostatin neurons drives cortical activity', ['Nelson Espinosa', 'Alejandra Alonso', 'Cristian Morales', 'Pablo Fuentealba'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'The basal forebrain provides modulatory input to the cortex regulating brain states and cognitive processing. Somatostatin-expressing cells constitute a local GABAergic source known to functionally inhibit the major cortically-projecting cell types. However, it remains unclear if somatostatin cells can regulate the basal forebrain synaptic output and thus control cortical dynamics. Here, we demonstrate in mice that somatostatin neurons regulate the corticopetal synaptic output of the basal forebrain impinging on cortical activity and behavior. Optogenetic inactivation of somatostatin neurons in vivo increased spiking of some basal forebrain cells, rapidly enhancing and desynchronizing neural activity in the prefrontal cortex, inhibiting slow rhythms and increasing gamma oscillations. Locomotor activity was specifically increased in quiescent animals, but not in active mice. Altogether, we provide physiological and behavioral evidence indicating that somatostatin cells are pivotal in gating the synaptic output of the basal forebrain, thus indirectly controlling cortical operations via both cholinergic and non-cholinergic mechanisms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102582', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Chile']]
[u'A defined platform of human peri-gastrulation-like biological fate patterning reveals coordination between Reaction-Diffusion and Positional-Information', ['Mukul Tewary', 'Joel E Ostblom', 'Nika Shakiba', 'Peter W Zandstra'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'How position dependent cell fate acquisition occurs during embryogenesis has been a central question in developmental biology. To study this process, we developed a defined, high-throughput assay using BMP4 to induce peri-gastrulation-like fate patterning in geometrically constrained human pluripotent stem cell colonies. We observed that, upon BMP4 treatment, phosphorylated SMAD1 (pSMAD1) activity in the colonies organized into a radial gradient - an observation mechanistically compliant with a BMP4-NOGGIN Reaction-Diffusion (RD) model. Consequent fate acquisition occurred as a function of both the pSMAD1 signaling strength, and induction time - consistent with the Positional-Information (PI) paradigm. Our findings implicate coordination between RD and PI underlying the peri-gastrulation-like fate patterning. This model not only predicts experimental results of perturbing key parameters like colony size, and BMP4 dose, but also identifies experimental conditions that rescue patterning in colonies of sizes that have been reported to be patterning-reticent, and recapitulate RD-like periodic patterns in large colonies.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102376', [u'Developmental Biology'], [u'University of Toronto']]
[u'Medicago truncatula Zinc-Iron Permease6 provides zinc to rhizobia-infected nodule cells', ['Isidro Abreu', 'Angela Saez', 'Rosario Castro-Rodriguez', 'Viviana Escudero', 'Benjamin Rodriguez-Haas', 'Marta Senovilla', 'Camille Laure', 'Daniel Grolimund', 'Manuel Tejada-Jimenez', 'Juan Imperial', 'Manuel Gonzalez-Guerrero'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'Zinc is a micronutrient required for symbiotic nitrogen fixation. It has been proposed that in model legume Medicago truncatula, zinc is delivered in a similar fashion as iron, i.e. by the root vasculature into the nodule and released in the infection/differentiation zone. There, zinc transporters must introduce this element into rhizobia-infected cells to metallate the apoproteins that use zinc as a cofactor. MtZIP6(Medtr4g083570) is a M. truncatula Zinc-Iron Permease (ZIP) that is expressed only in roots and nodules, with the highest expression levels in the infection/differentiation zone. Immunolocalization studies indicate that it is located in the plasma membrane of rhizobia-infected cells in the nodule. Down-regulating MtZIP6 expression levels with RNAi does not result in any strong phenotype when plants are being watered with mineral nitrogen. However, these silenced plants displayed severe growth defects when they depended on nitrogen fixed by their nodules, as a consequence of the loss of 80% of their nitrogenase activity. The reduction of this activity was not the result of iron not reaching the nodule, but an indirect effect of zinc being retained in the infection/differentiation zone and not reaching the cytosol of rhizobia-infected cells. These data are consistent with a model in which MtZIP6 would be responsible for zinc uptake by rhizobia-infected nodule cells in the infection/differentiation zone.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102426', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Centro de Biotecnologia y Genomica de Plantas (UPM-INIA);', u'ECOLAB. Universite de Toulouse.;', u'Paul Scherrer Institute.;', u'Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas']]
[u'Machine learning identifies SNPs predictive of advanced coronary artery calcium in ClinSeq\xae and Framingham Heart Study cohorts', ['Cihan Oguz', 'Shurjo K Sen', 'Adam R Davis', 'Yi-Ping Fu', "Christopher J O'Donnell", 'Gary H Gibbons'], u'January 24, 2017.', u'One goal of personalized medicine is leveraging the emerging tools of data science to guide medical decision-making. Achieving this using disparate data sources is most daunting for polygenic traits and requires systems level approaches. To this end, we employed random forests (RF) and neural networks (NN) for predictive modeling of coronary artery calcification (CAC), which is an intermediate end-phenotype of coronary artery disease (CAD). Model inputs were derived from advanced cases in the ClinSeq\xae discovery cohort (n=16) and the FHS replication cohort (n=36) from 89th-99th CAC score percentile range, and age-matching controls (ClinSeq\xae n=16, FHS n=36) with no detectable CAC (all subjects were Caucasian males). These inputs included clinical variables (CLIN), genotypes of 57 SNPs associated with CAC in past GWAS (SNP Set-1), and an alternative set of 56 SNPs (SNP Set-2) ranked highest in terms of their nominal correlation with advanced CAC state in the discovery cohort. Predictive performance was assessed by computing the areas under receiver operating characteristics curves (AUC). Within the discovery cohort, RF models generated AUC values of 0.69 with CLIN, 0.72 with SNP Set-1, and 0.77 with their combination. In the replication cohort, SNP Set-1 was again more predictive (AUC=0.78) than CLIN (AUC=0.61), but also more predictive than the combination (AUC=0.75). In contrast, in both cohorts, SNP Set-2 generated enhanced predictive performance with or without CLIN (AUC>0.8). Using the 21 SNPs of SNP Set-2 that produced optimal predictive performance in both cohorts, we developed NN models trained with ClinSeq\xae data and tested with FHS data and replicated the high predictive accuracy (AUC>0.8) with several topologies, thereby identifying several potential susceptibility loci for advanced CAD. Several CAD-related biological processes were found to be enriched in the network of genes constructed from these loci. In both cohorts, SNP Set-1 derived from past CAC GWAS yielded lower performance than SNP Set-2 derived from "extreme" CAC cases within the discovery cohort. Machine learning tools hold promise for surpassing the capacity of conventional GWAS-based approaches for creating predictive models utilizing the complex interactions between disease predictors intrinsic to the pathogenesis of polygenic disorders.', u'/content/early/2017/01/23/102350', [u'Genomics'], [u'National Institutes of Health;', u'VA Healthcare System']]
