[u'Evolutionarily Conserved Roles For Blood-Brain Barrier Xenobiotic Transporters In Endogenous Steroid Partitioning And Behavior', ['Samantha Hindle', 'Roeben Munji', 'Elena Dolghih', 'Garrett Gaskins', 'Souvinh Orng', 'Hiroshi Ishimoto', 'Allison Soung', 'Michael DeSalvo', 'Toshihiro Kitamoto', 'Michael Keiser', 'Matthew Jacobson', 'Richard Daneman', 'Roland Bainton'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'Optimal brain function depends upon efficient control over the brain entry of blood components; this is provided by the blood-brain barrier (BBB).  Curiously, some brain-impermeable drugs can still cause behavioral side effects. To investigate this phenomenon, we asked whether the promiscuous drug efflux transporter Mdr1 has dual functions in transporting drugs and endogenous molecules. If this is true, brain-impermeable drugs may cause behavioral side effects by affecting brain levels of endogenous molecules. Using computational, genetic and pharmacologic approaches across diverse organisms we demonstrate that BBB-localized efflux transporters are critical for regulating brain levels of endogenous steroids, and steroid-regulated behaviors (sleep in Drosophila and anxiety in mice). Furthermore, we show that Mdr1-interacting drugs are associated with anxiety-related behaviors in humans. We propose a general mechanism for common behavioral side effects of prescription drugs: pharmacologically challenging BBB efflux transporters disrupts brain levels of endogenous substrates, and implicates the BBB in behavioral regulation.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/131698', [], [u'University of California, San Francisco;', u'University of California, San Diego;', u'Nagoya University;', u'University of Iowa']]
[u'Signaling Pathway Activities Improve Prognosis for Breast Cancer', ['Yunlong Jiao', 'Marta R. Hidalgo', 'Cankut Cubuk', 'Alicia Amadoz', 'Jose Carbonell-Caballero', 'Jean-Philippe Vert', 'Joaquin Dopazo'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'With the advent of high-throughput technologies for genome-wide expression profiling, a large number of methods have been proposed to discover gene-based signatures as biomarkers to guide cancer prognosis. However, it is often difficult to interpret the list of genes in a prognostic signature regarding the underlying biological processes responsible for disease progression or therapeutic response. A particularly interesting alternative to gene-based biomarkers is mechanistic biomarkers, derived from signaling pathway activities, which are known to play a key role in cancer progression and thus provide more informative insights into cellular functions involved in cancer mechanism. In this study, we demonstrate that pathway-level features, such as the activity of signaling circuits, outperform conventional gene-level features in prediction performance in breast cancer prognosis. We also show that the proposed classification scheme can even suggest, in addition to relevant signaling circuits related to disease outcome, a list of genes that do not code for signaling proteins whose contribution to cancer prognosis potentially supplements the mechanisms detected by pathway analysis.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/132357', [], [u'MINES ParisTech, PSL Research University, Centre for Computational Biology;', u'Computational Genomics Department, Centro de Investigacion Principe Felipe;', u'Clinical Bioinformatic Research Area, Fundacion Progreso y Salud;', u'MINES ParisTech']]
[u'Universal Patterns Of Selection In Cancer And Somatic Tissues', ['Inigo Martincorena', 'Keiran M. Raine', 'Moritz Gerstung', 'Kevin J. Dawson', 'Kerstin Haase', 'Peter Van Loo', 'Helen Davies', 'Michael R. Stratton', 'Peter J. Campbell'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'Cancer develops as a result of somatic mutation and clonal selection, but quantitative measures of selection in cancer evolution are lacking. We applied methods from evolutionary genomics to 7,664 human cancers across 29 tumor types. Unlike species evolution, positive selection outweighs negative selection during cancer development. On average, <1 coding base substitution/tumor is lost through negative selection, with purifying selection only detected for truncating mutations in essential genes in haploid regions. This allows exome-wide enumeration of all driver mutations, including outside known cancer genes. On average, tumors carry ~4 coding substitutions under positive selection, ranging from <1/tumor in thyroid and testicular cancers to >10/tumor in endometrial and colorectal cancers. Half of driver substitutions occur in yet-to-be-discovered cancer genes. With increasing mutation burden, numbers of driver mutations increase, but not linearly. We identify novel cancer genes and show that genes vary extensively in what proportion of mutations are drivers versus passengers.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/132324', [], [u'Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute;', u'European Bioinformatics Institute EMBL-EBI;', u'The Francis Crick Institute']]
[u'Mycophenolate mofetil increases susceptibility to opportunistic fungal infection independent of lymphocytes', ['Rory H Gibson', 'Richard Hotham', 'Aleksandra Bojarczuk', 'Amy Lewis', 'Ewa Bielska', 'Robin C May', 'Philip Elks', 'Stephen A Renshaw', 'Simon A Johnston'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'Anti-proliferative agents that target lymphoid cells are common immunosuppressive agents used in the treatment of diverse autoimmune, graft versus host and inflammatory diseases. Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) is an anti-proliferative agent that targets lymphoid dependence on inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase for the de novo purine synthesis of deoxyguanosine triphosphate (dGTP) for DNA replication. Here we show that MMF has a distinct and specific in vivo effect on macrophages, in the absence of lymphoid cells. This results in increased macrophage cell death that is dependent on the depletion of cellular GTP, independent of DNA synthesis. Furthermore, the macrophage specific effect of MMF treatment causes an increase in susceptibility to the opportunistic fungal infection Cryptococcus neoformans by reducing phagocytosis and increasing the release of intracellular pathogens via macrophage lysis. Our study demonstrates the need for a better mechanistic understanding of immunosuppressive treatments used in clinical practice and of the specific infection risks associated with certain treatment regimens.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/131540', [u'Immunology'], [u'University of Sheffield;', u'University of Birmingham']]
[u'The effector TepP mediates the recruitment and activation of Phosphoinositide 3 Kinase on early Chlamydia trachomatis vacuoles', ['Raphael H Valdivia', 'Victoria Carpenter', 'Yi-Shan Chen', 'Lee Dolat'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'Chlamydia trachomatis delivers multiple Type 3 secreted effector proteins to host epithelial cells to manipulate cytoskeletal functions, membrane dynamics and signaling pathways. TepP is the most abundant effector protein secreted early in infection but its molecular function is poorly understood. In this report, we provide evidence that TepP is important for bacterial replication in cervical epithelial cells, the activation of Type I IFN genes, and the recruitment of Class I phosphoinositide 3 kinases (PI3K) and the signaling adaptor protein CrkL to nascent pathogen-containing vacuoles (inclusions).  We also show that TepP is a target of tyrosine phosphorylation by Src kinases but these modifications do not appear to influence the recruitment of PI3K or CrkL. The translocation of TepP correlated with an increase in the intracellular pools of phosphoinositide 3,4,5 triphosphate but not the activation of the pro-survival kinase Akt, suggesting that TepP-mediated activation of PI3K is spatially restricted to early inclusions.  Furthermore, we linked PI3K activity to the dampening of transcription of Type I IFN induced genes early in infection. Overall, these findings indicate that TepP can modulate cell signaling and potentially membrane trafficking events by spatially restricted activation of PI3K.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/132282', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Duke University School of Medicine']]
[u'Structure Of The Cpf1 Endonuclease R-Loop Complex After Target DNA Cleavage', ['Stefano Stella', 'Pablo Alcon', 'Guillermo Montoya'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'Cpf1 is a single RNA-guided endonuclease of class 2 type V CRISPR-Cas system, emerging as a powerful genome editing tool. To provide insight into its DNA targeting mechanism, we have determined the crystal structure of Francisella novicida Cpf1 (FnCpf1) in complex with the triple strand R-loop formed after target DNA cleavage. The structure reveals a unique machinery for target DNA unwinding to form a crRNA-DNA hybrid and a displaced DNA strand inside FnCpf1. The protospacer adjacent motif (PAM) is recognised by the PAM interacting (PI) domain. In this domain, the conserved K667, K671 and K677 are arranged in a dentate manner in a loop-lysine helix-loop motif (LKL). The helix is inserted at a 45\xb0 angle to the dsDNA longitudinal axis. Unzipping of the dsDNA in a cleft arranged by acidic and hydrophobic residues facilitates the hybridization of the target DNA strand with crRNA. K667 initiates unwinding by pushing away the guanine after the PAM sequence of the dsDNA. The PAM ssDNA is funnelled towards the nuclease site, which is located 70 \xc5 away, through a hydrophobic protein cavity with basic patches that interact with the phosphate backbone. In this catalytically active conformation the PI and the helix-loop-helix (HLH) motif in the REC1 domain adopt a \u2018rail shape\u2019 and \u2018flap-on\u2019 conformations, channelling the PAM strand into the cavity. A steric barrier between the RuvC-II and REC1 domains forms a \u2018septum\u2019 that separates the displaced PAM strand and the crRNA-DNA hybrid, avoiding re-annealing of the DNA. Mutations in key residues reveal a novel mechanism to determine the DNA product length, thereby linking the PAM and DNA nuclease sites. Our study reveals a singular working model of RNA-guided DNA cleavage by Cpf1, opening up new avenues for engineering this genome modification system.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/122648', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Protein Struct. & Funct. Programme, Macromolec. Crystallography Grp., Novo Nordisk Found.']]
[u'Ranking quantitative resistance to Septoria tritici blotch in elite wheat cultivars using automated image analysis', ['Petteri Karisto', 'Andreas Hund', 'Kang Yu', 'Jonas Anderegg', 'Achim Walter', 'Fabio Mascher', 'Bruce A. McDonald', 'Alexey Mikaberidze'], u'April 29, 2017.', u'Quantitative resistance is likely to be more durable than major gene resistance for controlling Septoria tritici blotch (STB) on wheat. Earlier studies hypothesized that resistance affecting the degree of host damage, as measured by the percentage of leaf area covered by STB lesions, is distinct from resistance that affects pathogen reproduction, as measured by the density of pycnidia produced within lesions. We tested this hypothesis using a collection of 335 elite European winter wheat cultivars that was naturally infected by a diverse population of Zymoseptoria tritici in a replicated feld experiment. We used automated analysis of 21214 scanned wheat leaves to obtain quantitative measures of STB conditional severity that were precise, objective, and reproducible. These measures allowed us to explicitly separate resistance affecting host damage from resistance affecting pathogen reproduction, enabling us to confirm that these resistance traits are largely independent. The cultivar rankings based on host damage were different from the rankings based on pathogen reproduction, indicating that the two forms of resistance should be considered separately in breeding programs aiming to increase STB resistance. We hypothesize that these different forms of resistance are under separate genetic control, enabling them to be recombined to form new cultivars that are highly resistant to STB. We found a significant correlation between rankings based on automated image analysis and rankings based on traditional visual scoring, suggesting that image analysis can complement conventional measurements of STB resistance, based largely on host damage, while enabling a much more precise measure of pathogen reproduction. We showed that measures of pathogen reproduction early in the growing season were the best predictors of host damage late in the growing season, illustrating the importance of breeding for resistance that reduces pathogen reproduction in order to minimize yield losses caused by STB. These data can already be used by breeding programs aiming to increase STB resistance to choose wheat cultivars that are broadly resistant to naturally diverse Z. tritici populations according to the different classes of resistance.', u'/content/early/2017/04/29/129353', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH  Zurich;', u'Institute for Plant Production Sciences, Agroscope, Nyon, Switzerland']]
