[u'Polyclonal HIV envelope-specific breast milk antibodies limit founder SHIV acquisition and cell-associated virus loads in infant rhesus monkeys.', ['Jonathon E. Himes', 'Ria Goswami', 'Riley J. Mangan', 'Amit Kumar', 'Thomas L. Jeffries', 'Joshua A. Eudailey', 'Holly Heimsath', 'Quang N. Nguyen', 'Justin Pollara', 'Celia LaBranche', 'Meng Chen', 'Nathan A. Vandergrift', 'James W. Peacock', 'Faith Schiro', 'Cecily Midkiff', 'Guido Ferrari', 'David C. Montefiori', 'Xavier Alvarez-Hernandez', 'Pyone Pyone Aye', 'Sallie R. Permar'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Vertical HIV-1 transmission via breastfeeding is the predominant contributor to pediatric infections that are ongoing in this era of highly effective antiretroviral therapy (ART). Remarkably, only ~10% of infants chronically exposed to the virus via breastfeeding from untreated HIV-infected mothers become infected, suggesting the presence of naturally protective factors in breast milk. HIV-specific maternal antibodies are obvious candidates as potential contributors to this protection. This study assessed the protective capacity of common HIV envelope-specific non-broadly neutralizing antibodies isolated from breast milk of HIV-infected women in an infant rhesus monkey (RM), tier 2 SHIV oral challenge model. Prior to oral SHIV challenge, infant RMs were i.v. infused with either a single weakly-neutralizing monoclonal antibody (mAb), a tri-mAb cocktail with neutralizing and ADCC functionalities, or an anti-influenza HA control mAb. Of these groups, the fewest tri-mAb-treated infants developed plasma viremia (2/6, 3/6, and 6/8 animals viremic in tri-mAb, single-mAb, and control mAb groups, respectively). Tri-mAb-treated infants demonstrated significantly fewer transmitted/founder SHIV variants in plasma and decreased peripheral CD4+ T cell proviral loads at 8 week post-challenge compared to control mAb-treated infants. Abortive infection was observed as detectable CD4+ T cell provirus in non-viremic control mAb- and single-mAb-, but not tri-mAb-treated animals. Taken together, these results support the potential viability of maternal or infant vaccine strategies that elicit non-broadly neutralizing antibodies to prevent vertical transmission of HIV through breastfeeding.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145524', [], [u'Duke University;', u'Tulane University']]
[u'Clarinet (CLA-1), a novel active zone protein required for synaptic vesicle clustering and release', ['Zhao Xuan', 'Laura Manning', 'Jessica Nelson', 'Janet E. Richmond', 'Daniel Colon-Ramos', 'Kang Shen', 'Peri T. Kurshan'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Active zone proteins cluster synaptic vesicles at presynaptic terminals and coordinate their release. In forward genetic screens we isolated a novel C. elegans active zone gene, clarinet (cla-1). cla-1 mutants exhibit defects in synaptic vesicle clustering, reduced spontaneous neurotransmitter release, increased synaptic depression and reduced synapse number. Ultrastructurally, cla-1 mutants have fewer synaptic vesicles adjacent to the dense projection and an increased number of docked vesicles. Cla-1 encodes 3 isoforms containing common C-terminal PDZ and C2 domains with homology to vertebrate active zone proteins Piccolo and RIM. The short isoform localizes exclusively to the active zone while a longer ~9000 amino acid isoform colocalizes with synaptic vesicles. Specific loss of CLA-1L results in synaptic vesicle clustering defects and increased synaptic depression, but not in reduced synapse number or mini frequency. Together our data indicate that specific isoforms of clarinet serve distinct functions, regulating synapse development, synaptic vesicle clustering and release.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145789', [], [u'Yale University;', u'University of Illinois at Chicago;', u'Stanford University']]
[u'The \u03b23-integrin endothelial adhesome regulates microtubule dependent cell migration', ['Samuel J. Atkinson', 'Aleksander M. Gontarczyk', 'Tim S. Ellison', 'Robert T. Johnson', 'Benjamin M. Kirkup', 'Abdullah Alghamdi', 'Wesley J. Fowler', 'Bernardo C. Silva', 'Jochen J. Schneider', 'Katherine N. Weilbaecher', 'Mette M. Mogensen', 'Mark D. Bass', 'Dylan R. Edwards', 'Stephen D. Robinson'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels from those that already exist, plays an essential role in tumour growth. As such, targeting angiogenesis is seen as crucial in many anti-cancer strategies. Therapies directed against vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its major receptor, VEGF-receptor-2 (VEGFR2), whilst effective in a number of cancers, are not without side-effects due to the role this signaling pathway plays in vascular homeostasis. Fibronectin (FN)-binding endothelial integrins, especially \u03b1v\u03b23- and \u03b15\u03b21-integrins, have emerged as alternative anti-angiogenic targets because of their expression in neovasculature. However, neither global nor conditional knockouts of these integrins block tumour angiogenesis long-term, and clinical trials of blocking antibodies and peptides directed against these extracellular matrix (ECM) receptors have been disappointing. To gain novel insight into how \u03b1v\u03b23-integrin regulates outside-in signal transmission, we have undertaken an unbiased analysis of the molecular composition of the mature endothelial adhesome, and profiled changes that occur when \u03b23-integrin function or expression are manipulated. In so doing, we have uncovered \u03b23-integrin dependent changes in microtubule behaviour that regulate cell migration.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145839', [], [u'University of East Anglia;', u'University of Luxembourg;', u'Washington University;', u'University of Sheffield']]
[u'Dynamical predictors of an imminent phenotypic switch in bacteria', ['Huijing Wang', 'J. Christian J. Ray'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Single cells can stochastically switch across thresholds imposed by regulatory networks. Such thresholds can act as a tipping point, drastically changing global phenotypic states. In ecology and economics, imminent transitions across such tipping points can be predicted using dynamical early warning indicators. A typical example is \u201cflickering\u201d of a fast variable, predicting a longer-lasting switch from a low to a high state or vice versa. Considering the different timescales between metabolite and protein fluctuations in bacteria, we hypothesized that metabolic early warning indicators predict imminent transitions across a network threshold caused by enzyme saturation. We used stochastic simulations to determine if flickering predicts phenotypic transitions, accounting for a variety of molecular physiological parameters, including enzyme affinity, burstiness of enzyme gene expression, homeostatic feedback, and rates of metabolic precursor influx. In most cases, we found that metabolic flickering rates are robustly peaked near the enzyme saturation threshold. The degree of fluctuation was amplified by product inhibition of the enzyme. We conclude that sensitivity to flickering in fast variables may be a possible natural or synthetic strategy to prepare physiological states for an imminent transition.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145821', [], [u'University of Kansas']]
[u'Widespread signatures of negative selection in the genetic architecture of human complex traits', ['Jian Zeng', 'Ronald de Vlaming', 'Yang Wu', 'Matthew Robinson', 'Luke Lloyd-Jones', 'Loic Yengo', 'Chloe Yap', 'Angli Xue', 'Julia Sidorenko', 'Allan McRae', 'Joseph Powell', 'Grant Montgomery', 'Andres Metspalu', 'Tonu Esko', 'Greg Gibson', 'Naomi Wray', 'Peter Visscher', 'Jian Yang'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Estimation of the joint distribution of effect size and minor allele frequency (MAF) for genetic variants is important for understanding the genetic basis of complex trait variation and can be used to detect signature of natural selection. We develop a Bayesian mixed linear model that simultaneously estimates SNP-based heritability, polygenicity (i.e. the proportion of SNPs with nonzero effects) and the relationship between effect size and MAF for complex traits in conventionally unrelated individuals using genome-wide SNP data. We apply the method to 28 complex traits in the UK Biobank data (N = 126,752), and show that on average across 28 traits, 6% of SNPs have nonzero effects, which in total explain 22% of phenotypic variance. We detect significant (p < 0.05/28 = 1.8\xd710-3) signatures of natural selection for 23 out of 28 traits including reproductive, cardiovascular, and anthropometric traits, as well as educational attainment. We further apply the method to 27,869 gene expression traits (N = 1,748), and identify 30 genes that show significant (p < 2.3\xd710-6) evidence of natural selection. All the significant estimates of the relationship between effect size and MAF in either complex traits or gene expression traits are consistent with a model of negative selection, as confirmed by forward simulation. We conclude that natural selection acts pervasively on human complex traits shaping genetic variation in the form of negative selection.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145755', [], [u'The University of Queensland;', u'VU University;', u'University of Lausanne;', u'University of Tartu;', u'Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Improving the value of public RNA-seq expression data by phenotype prediction', ['Shannon E Ellis', 'Leonardo Collado Torres', 'Jeffrey Leek'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Background: \nPublicly available genomic data are a valuable resource for studying normal human variation and disease, but these data are often not well labeled or annotated. The lack of phenotype information for public genomic data severely limits their utility for addressing targeted biological questions.  Results: We develop an in silico phenotyping approach for predicting critical missing annotation directly from genomic measurements using, well-annotated genomic and phenotypic\ndata produced by consortia like TCGA and GTEx as training data. We apply in silico phenotyping to a set of 70,000 RNA-seq samples we recently processed on a common pipeline as part of the recount2 project (https://jhubiostatistics.shinyapps.io/recount/). We use gene expression data to build and evaluate predictors for both biological phenotypes (sex, tissue, sample source) and experimental conditions (sequencing strategy). We demonstrate how these predictions can be used to study cross-sample properties of public genomic data, select genomic projects with specific characteristics, and perform downstream analyses using predicted phenotypes. The methods to perform phenotype prediction are available in the phenopredict R\npackage (https://github.com/leekgroup/phenopredict) and the predictions for recount2 are available from the recount R package (https://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/recount.html). Conclusion: Having leveraging massive public data sets to generate a well-phenotyped set of expression data for more than 70,000 human samples, expression data is available for use on a scale that was not previously feasible.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145656', [], [u'Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health;', u'Lieber Institute for Brain Development']]
[u'Chondroitin Sulfate Flourishes Gut Sulfatase-Secreting Bacteria To Damage Mucus Layers, Leak Bacterial Debris, And Trigger Inflammatory Lesions In Mice', ['Tao Liao', 'Yan-Ping Chen', 'Li-Li Tan', 'Chang-Qing Li', 'Qi Wang', 'Shui-Qing Huang', 'Xin-An Huang', 'Qin Xu', 'Qing-Ping Zeng'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Background: An interaction of the food types with the gut microbiota changes is deeply implicated in human health and disease. To verify whether animal-based diets would lead to gut dysbiosis, systemic inflammation and inflammatory pathogenesis, we fed mice with chondroitin sulfate (CS), a sulfate-containing O-glycan naturally occurring in livestock and poultry products, and monitored the dynamic changes of microbial flores, inflammatory signatures, and pathogenic hallmarks.  Results: A metagenomic gut microbiota analysis revealed the overgrowth of sulfatase-secreting bacteria and sulfate-reducing bacteria in the gastrointestinal tracts of mice upon daily CS feeding. Sulfatase-secreting bacteria compromise gut integrity through prompting mucin degradation and mucus lesions, which were evident from the upregulation of secretary leukocyte protease inhibitor (SLPI) and mucin 1/4 (MUC-1/4). A synchronous elevation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and tumor necrosis factor \u03b1 (TNF-\u03b1) levels in the serum as well as cerebral, hepatic, cardiac and muscular tissues suggests bacterial endotoxinemia, chronic low-grade inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction, eventually leading to the onset of global inflammatory pathogenesis towards arthritis, dementia, tumor, and fatty liver.  Conclusions: CS triggers the early-phase and multi-systemic pathogenesis like arthritis, dementia, tumor, and fatty liver by enhancing gut opportunistic infection and evoking low-grade inflammation in mice. A plausible reason for the inconsistency of CS in treatment of osteoarthritis (OA) was also discussed.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145714', [], [u'Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine']]
[u'GOLabeler: Improving Sequence-based Large-scale Protein Function Prediction by Learning to Rank', ['Ronghui You', 'Zihan Zhang', 'Yi Xiong', 'Fengzhu Sun', 'Hiroshi Mamitsuka', 'Shanfeng Zhu'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Motivation: Gene Ontology (GO) has been widely used to annotate functions of proteins and understand their biological roles. Currently only <1% of more than 70 million proteins in UniProtKB have experimental GO annotations, implying the strong necessity of automated function prediction (AFP) of proteins, where AFP is a hard multi-label classification problem due to one protein with a diverse number of GO terms. Most of these proteins have only sequences as input information, indicating the importance of sequence-based AFP (SAFP: sequences are the only input). Furthermore, homology-based SAFP tools are competitive in AFP competitions, while they do not necessarily work well for so-called difficult proteins, which have <60% sequence identity to proteins with annotations already. Thus, the vital and challenging problem now is to develop a method for SAFP, particularly for difficult proteins.  Methods: The key of this method is to extract not only homology information but also diverse, deep-rooted information/evidence from sequence inputs and integrate them into a predictor in an efficient and also effective manner. We propose GOLabeler, which integrates five component classifiers, trained from different features, including GO term frequency, sequence alignment, amino acid trigram, domains and motifs, and\nbiophysical properties, etc., in the framework of learning to rank (LTR), a new paradigm of machine learning, especially powerful for multi-label classification.  Results: The empirical results obtained by examining GOLabeler extensively and thoroughly by using large-scale datasets revealed numerous favorable aspects of GOLabeler, including significant performance advantage over state-of-the-art AFP methods.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145763', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'School of Computer Science and Technology, Fudan University;', u'Department of Bioinformatics and Biostatistics, Shanghai Jiaotong University;', u'University of Southern California;', u'Bioinformatics Center, Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University']]
[u'Spike-Timing Patterns Conform to Gamma Distribution with Regional and Cell Type-Specific Characteristics', ['Meng Li', 'Kun Xie', 'Hui Kuang', 'Jun Liu', 'Deheng Wang', 'Grace E. Fox', 'Xiaojian Li', 'Yuhui Li', 'Fang Zhao', 'He Cui', 'Joe Z. Tsien'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Spike-timing patterns are crucial for synaptic plasticity and neural computation, yet their statistical patterns in various brain regions which cross different mammalian species have not been examined in a systematic manner. Neurons in vivo discharge spikes with enormous variability; this irregularity is widely viewed as noise and thus often model as a Poisson-like random process. Here, we systematically examine statistical behaviors of spike-time irregularity in 13 different cortical and subcortical regions from mouse, hamster, cat and monkey brains. We show that spike-timing patterns of various projection neurons - including cortical excitatory principal cells, hippocampal pyramidal cells, inhibitory striatal medium spiny neurons, as well as dopaminergic neurons - all conform to the gamma distribution model. Moreover, gamma shapes of spike-timing patterns remain robust over different states, such as sleep vs. awake periods. Interestingly, there are significant regional variations with DA neurons, the somatosensory cortex and motor cortices showing increased regularity, whereas the V1 cortex, retrosplenial cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, striatum, amygdala and hippocampus tend to exhibit greater irregularity. Such a conserved Gamma-distribution pattern, coupled with characteristic regional variations, may influence how spike-timing patterns exert dynamic actions on neural coding and network-level plasticity.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145813', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Augusta University;', u'Institute of Neuroscience, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Tandem histone-binding domains enhance the activity of a synthetic chromatin effector', ['Stefan J. Tekel', 'Daniel A. Vargas', 'Lusheng Song', 'Joshua LaBaer', 'Karmella A. Haynes'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Fusion proteins that specifically interact with biochemical marks on chromosomes represent a new class of synthetic transcriptional regulators that decode cell state information rather than DNA sequences. In multicellular organisms, information relevant to cell state, tissue identity, and oncogenesis is often encoded as biochemical modifications of histones, which are bound to DNA in eukaryotic nuclei and regulate gene expression states. We have previously reported the development and validation of the \u201cPolycomb-based transcription factor\u201d (PcTF), a fusion protein that recognizes histone modifications through a protein-protein interaction between its polycomb chromodomain (PCD) motif and trimethylated lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me3) at genomic sites. We demonstrated that PcTF activates genes at methyl-histone-enriched loci in cancer-derived cell lines. However, PcTF induces modest activation of a methyl-histone associated reporter compared to a DNA-binding activator. Therefore, we modified PcTF to enhance its target affinity. Here, we demonstrate the activity of a modified regulator called Pc2TF, which has two tandem copies of the H3K27me3-binding PCD at the N-terminus. Pc2TF shows higher affinity for H3K27me3 in vitro and shows enhanced gene activation in HEK293 cells compared to PcTF. These results provide compelling evidence that the intrinsic histone-binding activity of the PCD motif can be used to tune the activity of synthetic histone-binding transcriptional regulators.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145730', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Arizona State University']]
[u'The Gene Regulatory Landscape of Local Adaptation', ['Billie A. Gould', 'Yani Chen', 'David B. Lowry'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Local adaptation is a key driver of ecological specialization. Despite its importance, the evolution of gene regulatory divergence among locally-adapted populations is poorly understood. Here, we evaluate allele-specific gene expression responses for locally-adapted coastal and inland accessions of the plant Mimulus guttatus in a field reciprocal transplant experiment. We found 18% of transcripts were characterized by habitat-specific differential expression, a pattern consistent with the minimization of fitness trade-offs through expression plasticity. Cis-regulatory variation was pervasive, affecting 92% of differentially expressed genes. Chromosomal inversions were enriched for genes with expression divergence between ecotypes in a habitat-dependent manner, and gene expression heterosis was prevalent across habitats. These results provide multiple new insights into the evolution of transcriptome-wide gene regulatory divergence and plasticity among locally adapted populations.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145805', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Michigan State University']]
[u'Discovery Of The First Genome-Wide Significant Risk Loci For ADHD', ['Ditte Demontis', 'Raymond K. Walters', 'Joanna Martin', 'Manuel Mattheisen', 'Thomas Damm Als', 'Esben Agerbo', 'Rich Belliveau', 'Jonas Bybjerg-Grauholm', 'Marie Bkved-Hansen', 'Felecia Cerrato', 'Kimberly Chambert', 'Claire Churchhouse', 'Ashley Dumont', 'Nicholas Eriksson', 'Michael Gandal', 'Jacqueline Goldstein', 'Jakob Grove', 'Christine S. Hansen', 'Mads Hauberg', 'Mads Hollegaard', 'Daniel P. Howrigan', 'Hailiang Huang', 'Julian Maller', 'Alicia R. Martin', 'Jennifer Moran', 'Jonatan Pallesen', 'Duncan S. Palmer', 'Carsten Bcker Pedersen', 'Marianne Girtz Pedersen', 'Timothy Poterba', 'Jesper Buchhave Poulsen', 'Stephan Ripke', 'Elise B. Robinson', 'F. Kyle Satterstrom', 'Christine Stevens', 'Patrick Turley', 'Hyejung Won', 'Ole A. Andreassen', 'Christie Burton', 'Dorret Boomsma', 'Bru Cormand', 'Sren Dalsgaard', 'Barbara Franke', 'Joel Gelernter', 'Daniel Geschwind', 'Hakon Hakonarson', 'Jan Haavik', 'Henry Kranzler', 'Jonna Kuntsi', 'Kate Langley', 'Klaus-Peter Lesch', 'Christel Middeldorp', 'Andreas Reif', 'Luis Augusto Rohde', 'Panos Roussos', 'Russell Schachar', 'Pamela Sklar', 'Edmund Sonuga-Barke', 'Patrick F. Sullivan', 'Anita Thapar', 'Joyce Tung', 'Irwin Waldman', 'Merete Nordentoft', 'David M. Hougaard', 'Thomas Werge', 'Ole Mors', 'Preben Bo Mortensen', 'Mark J. Daly', 'Stephen V. Faraone', 'Anders D. Brglum', 'Benjamin M. Neale'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a highly heritable childhood behavioral disorder affecting 5% of school-age children and 2.5% of adults. Common genetic variants contribute substantially to ADHD susceptibility, but no individual variants have been robustly associated with ADHD. We report a genome-wide association meta-analysis of 20,183 ADHD cases and 35,191 controls that identifies variants surpassing genome-wide significance in 12 independent loci, revealing new and important information on the underlying biology of ADHD. Associations are enriched in evolutionarily constrained genomic regions and loss-of-function intolerant genes, as well as around brain-expressed regulatory marks. These findings, based on clinical interviews and/or medical records are supported by additional analyses of a self-reported ADHD sample and a study of quantitative measures of ADHD symptoms in the population. Meta-analyzing these data with our primary scan yielded a total of 16 genome-wide significant loci. The results support the hypothesis that clinical diagnosis of ADHD is an extreme expression of one or more continuous heritable traits.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145581', [u'Genetics'], [u'iPSYCH/Aarhus University;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital/Broad Institute;', u'Broad Institute/Karolinska Institutet/Cardiff University;', u'iPSYCH/Aarhus University/Karolinska Institutet/Stockholm County Council;', u'Broad Institute;', u'iPSYCH/Statens Serum Institut;', u'23andMe;', u'University of California, Los Angeles;', u'iPSYCH/Aarhus;', u'iPSYCH/Statens Serum Institut/Mental Health Services Copenhagen;', u'Broad Institute/Genomics plc;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital/Broad Institute/Charite Universitatsmedizin Berlin;', u'Massachusetts General Hospital/Harvard Chan School of Public Health;', u'-;', u'Oslo University Hospital;', u'Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto;', u'VU University Amsterdam/EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research;', u'Universitat de Barcelona/CIBERER/Hospital Sant Joan de D\xe9u;', u'Aarhus University;', u'Radboud University Medical Centre;', u'Yale University School of Medicine/Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare Center;', u"Children's Hospital of Philadelphia;", u'University of Pennslyvania/Crescenz VA Medical Center;', u"King's College London;", u'Cardiff University;', u'University of Wuerzburg/Maastricht University;', u"VU University/Univ. of Queensland/Children's Health Queensland Hospital Health and Service;", u'University Hospital, Frankfurt;', u'Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul/Hospital de Cl\xednicas de Porto Alegre;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai/James J. Peters VA Medical Center;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u"University of Southampton/Ghent University/King's College London;", u'University of North Carolina/Karolinska Institutet;', u'Emory University;', u'iPSYCH/University of Copenhagen;', u'iPSYCH/University of Copenhagen/Mental Health Services Copenhagen;', u'SUNY Upstate Medical University']]
[u'Classifying Drosophila Olfactory Projection Neuron Subtypes by Single-cell RNA Sequencing', ['Hongjie Li', 'Felix Horns', 'Bing Wu', 'Qijing Xie', 'Jiefu Li', 'Tongchao Li', 'David Luginbuhl', 'Stephen R Quake', 'Liqun Luo'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'How a neuronal cell type is defined and how this relates to its transcriptome are still open questions. The Drosophila olfactory projection neurons (PNs) are among the best-characterized neuronal types: Different PN classes target dendrites to distinct olfactory glomeruli and PNs of the same class exhibit indistinguishable anatomical and physiological properties. Using single-cell RNA-sequencing, we comprehensively characterized the transcriptomes of 40 PN classes and unequivocally identified transcriptomes for 6 classes. We found a new lineage-specific transcription factor that instructs PN dendrite targeting. Transcriptomes of closely-related PN classes exhibit the largest difference during circuit assembly, but become indistinguishable in adults, suggesting that neuronal subtype diversity peaks during development. Genes encoding transcription factors and cell-surface molecules are the most differentially expressed, indicating their central roles in specifying neuronal identity. Finally, we show that PNs use highly redundant combinatorial molecular codes to distinguish subtypes, enabling robust specification of cell identity and circuit assembly.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/145045', [u'Genomics'], [u'Stanford University']]
[u'An exact and efficient score test for variance components models', ['Regev Schweiger', 'Omer Weissbrod', 'Elior Rahmani', 'Martina Muller-Nurasyid', 'Sonja Kunze', 'Christian Gieger', 'Melanie Waldenberger', 'Saharon Rosset', 'Eran Halperin'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Testing for the existence of variance components in linear mixed models is a fundamental task in many applicative fields. In statistical genetics, the score test has recently become instrumental in the task of testing an association between a set of genetic markers and a phenotype. With few markers, this amounts to set-based variance component tests, which attempt to increase power in association studies by aggregating weak individual effects. When the entire genome is considered, it allows testing for the heritability of a phenotype, defined as the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by genetics. In the popular score-based Sequence Kernel Association Test (SKAT) method, the assumed distribution of the score test statistic is uncalibrated in small samples, with a correction being computationally expensive. This may cause severe inflation or deflation of p-values, even when the null hypothesis is true. Here, we characterize the conditions under which this discrepancy holds, and show it may occur also in large real datasets, such as a dataset from the Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium 2 (n=13,950) study, and in particular when the individuals in the sample are unrelated. In these cases the SKAT approximation tends to be highly over-conservative and therefore underpowered. To address this limitation, we suggest an efficient method to calculate exact p-values for the score test in the case of a single variance component and a continuous response vector, which can speed up the analysis by orders of magnitude. Our results enable fast and accurate application of the score test in heritability and in set-based association tests. Our method is available in http://github.com/cozygene/RL-SKAT.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/140889', [u'Genetics'], [u'Tel Aviv University;', u'Weizmann Institute;', u'Helmholtz Zentrum Munchen;', u'University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Parallel radiations of Cremastosperma and Mosannona (Annonaceae), tropical rainforest trees tracking Neogene upheaval of the South American continent', ['Michael D. Pirie', 'Paul J.M. Maas', 'Rutger Wilschut', 'Heleen Melchers-Sharrott', 'Lars Chatrou'], u'June 3, 2017.', u'Much of the immense present day biological diversity of Neotropical rainforests originated from the Miocene onwards, a period of geological and ecological upheaval in South America. We assess the impact of the Andean orogeny, drainage of lake Pebas, and closure of the Panama Isthmus on two clades of trees (Cremastosperma, c. 31 spp.; and Mosannona, c. 14 spp.; both Annonaceae) found in humid forest distributed across the transition zones between the Andes and Western (lowland) Amazonia and between Central and South America. We inferred phylogenies based on c. 80% of recognised species of each clade and plastid and nuclear encoded sequence markers, revealing similar patterns of geographically restricted clades. Using molecular dating we showed that the timing of diversifications in the different areas largely overlap and are consistent with Andean vicariance and Central American geodispersal. In apparent contradiction of high dispersal abilities of rainforest trees, Cremastosperma clades within Amazonia are also geographically restricted, with a southern/montane clade that appears to have diversified along the foothills of the Andes sister to one of more northern/lowland species that diversified in a region once inundated by lake Pebas. Ecological niche modelling approaches show phylogenetically conserved niche differentiation, particularly within Cremastosperma. Niche similarity and recent common ancestry of Amazon and Guianan Mosannona species contrasts with dissimilar niches and more distant ancestry of Amazon, Venezuelan and Guianan species of Cremastosperma suggesting that this element of the similar patterns of disjunct distributions in the two genera had different biogeographic origins. The results provide further independent evidence for the importance of the Andean orogeny, the drainage of Lake Pebas, and the formation of links between South and Central America in the evolutionary history of Neotropical lowland rainforest trees.', u'/content/early/2017/06/03/141127', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Johannes Gutenberg-Universitat Mainz;', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center;', u'Netherlands Institute of Ecology;', u'Omgevingsdienst Haaglanden;', u'Wageningen University']]
