[u'The emerging British Verticillium longisporum population consists of aggressive Brassica pathogens', ['Jasper Depotter', 'Luis Rodriguez-Moreno', 'Bart Thomma', 'Tom Wood'], u'February 26, 2017.', u'The impact of diseases depends on the dynamic interplay between host, pathogen and the environment. Newly emerging diseases may be the consequence of novel pathogen introductions that are typically associated with unpredictable outcomes, as their interaction with the host in a novel environment is unprecedented. Alternatively, new diseases may emerge from latent, previously established, pathogen populations that are triggered by changes in environmental factors like weather, agricultural practices and ecosystem management. Verticillium stem striping recently emerged in British oilseed rape (Brassica napus) production from a latent Verticillium longisporum population. V. longisporum is a hybrid fungal pathogen consisting of three lineages, each representing a separate hybridization event. Despite its prevalence, little is known of the pathogenicity of the British V. longisporum population. In this study, the pathogenicity of British isolates was tested on four different cultivars of three different Brassica crop species as well as on the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and compared with previously characterized V. longisporum strains from other regions of the world, including representatives of all three hybrid lineages. Intriguingly, the British isolates appeared to be amongst the most pathogenic strains on Brassica crops. In conclusion, Verticillium stem striping poses a genuine threat to oilseed rape production as the British V. longisporum population consists of aggressive pathogens that have the potential to significantly impact Brassica crops.', u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111922', [], [u'Wageningen University;', u'NIAB Cambridge']]
[u"A common haplotype lowers SPI1 (PU.1) expression in myeloid cells and delays age at onset for Alzheimer's disease", ['Kuan-lin Huang', 'Edoardo Marcora', 'Anna Pimenova', 'Antonio Di Narzo', 'Manav Kapoor', 'Sheng Chih Jin', 'Oscar Harari', 'Sarah Bertelsen', 'Benjamin Fairfax', 'Jake Czajkowski', 'Vincent Chouraki', 'Benjamin Grenier-Boley', 'Celine Bellenguez', 'Yuetiva Deming', 'Andrew McKenzie', 'Towfique Raj', 'Alan Renton', 'John Budde', 'Albert Smith', 'Annette Fitzpatrick', 'Joshua Bis', 'Anita DeStefano', 'Hieab Adams', 'M Arfan Ikram', 'Sven van der Lee', 'Jorge Del-Aguila', 'Maria Fernandez', 'Laura Ibanez', 'Rebecca Sims', 'Valentina Escott-Price', 'Richard Mayeux', 'Jonathan Haines', 'Lindsay Farrer', 'Margaret Pericak-Vance', 'Jean Charles Lambert', 'Cornelia van Duijn', 'Lenore Launer', 'Sudha Seshadri', 'Julie Williams', 'Philippe Amouyel', 'Gerard Schellenberg', 'Bin Zhang', 'Ingrid Borecki', 'John Kauwe', 'Carlos Cruchaga', 'Ke Hao', 'Alison Goate'], u'February 26, 2017.', u"In this study we used age at onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and eQTL datasets to fine map AD-associated GWAS loci and investigate the underlying mechanisms. In a genome-wide survival analysis of 40,255 samples, eight of the previously reported AD risk loci are significantly (p<5\xd710-8) or suggestively (p<1\xd710-5) associated with age at onset-defined survival and a further fourteen novel loci reached suggestive significance. One third (8/22) of these SNPs are cis-eQTLs in monocytes and/or macrophages, including rs7930318 associated with expression of MS4A4A and MS4A6A. The minor allele of rs1057233 (G), within the previously reported CELF1 AD risk locus, shows association with higher age at onset of AD (p=8.40\xd710-6), higher CSF levels of A\u03b242 (p=1.2\xd710-4), and lower expression of SPI1 in monocytes (p=1.50\xd710-105) and macrophages (p=6.41\xd710-87). SPI1 encodes PU.1, a transcription factor critical for myeloid cell development and function. AD heritability is enriched within the SPI1 cistromes of monocytes and macrophages, implicating a myeloid PU.1 target gene network in the etiology of AD. Finally, experimentally altered PU.1 levels are correlated with phagocytic activity of BV2 mouse microglial cells and specific changes in the expression of multiple myeloid-expressed genes, including the mouse orthologs of AD risk genes, MS4A4A and MS4A6A. Our results collectively suggest that lower SPI1 expression reduces AD risk by modulating myeloid cell gene expression and function.", u'/content/early/2017/02/26/110957', [], [u'Washington University in St. Louis;', u'Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai;', u'Yale University School of Medicine;', u'University of Oxford;', u'Boston University School of Medicine;', u'Institut Pasteur de Lille;', u'University of Iceland;', u'University of Washington;', u'Boston University School of Public Health;', u'Erasmus University Medical Center;', u'Cardiff University;', u'Columbia University;', u'Case Western Reserve University;', u'University of Miami;', u'National Institute on Aging;', u'University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine;', u'Regeneron Pharmaceuticals;', u'Brigham Young University']]
[u'Short DNA sequence patterns accurately identify broadly active human enhancers', ['Laura L Colbran', 'Ling Chen', 'John Anthony Capra'], u'February 26, 2017.', u"Enhancers are DNA regulatory elements that influence gene expression. There is substantial diversity in enhancers' activity patterns: some enhancers drive expression in a single cellular context, while others are active across many. Sequence characteristics, such as transcription factor (TF) binding motifs, influence the activity pattern of regulatory sequences; however the regulatory logic through which specific sequences drive enhancer activity is poorly understood. Recent analysis of Drosophila enhancers suggested that short dinucleotide repeat motifs (DRMs) are general enhancer sequence features that drive broad regulatory activity. However, it is not known whether the regulatory role of DRMs is conserved across species. We performs a comprehensive analysis of the relationship between short DNA sequence patterns, including DRMs, and human enhancer activity in 38,538 enhancers across 411 different contexts. In a machine-learning framework, the occurrence patterns of short sequence motifs accurately predicted broadly active human enhancers. However, DRMs alone were weakly predictive of broad enhancer activity in humans, and showed different enrichment patterns than in Drosophila. In general, GC-rich sequence motifs were significantly associated with broad enhancer activity; consistent with this enrichment, broadly active human TFs recognize GC-rich motifs. Our results reveal the importance of specific sequence motifs in broadly active human enhancers, demonstrate the lack of evolutionary conservation of the role of DRMs, and provide a computational framework for investigating the logic of enhancer sequences.", u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111955', [], [u'Vanderbilt University']]
[u'No effect of hippocampal lesions on stimulus-response bindings', ['Richard Henson', 'Aidan Horner', 'Andrea Greve', 'Elisa Cooper', 'Mariella Gregori', 'Jon Simons', 'Sharon Erzinclioglu', 'Georgina Browne', 'Narinder Kapur'], u'February 26, 2017.', u'The hippocampus is believed to be important for rapid learning of arbitrary stimulus-response contingencies, or S-R bindings. In support of this, Schnyer et al., 2006 (Experiment 2) measured priming of reaction times (RTs) to categorise visual objects, and found that patients with medial temporal lobe damage, unlike healthy controls, failed to show evidence of reduced priming when response contingencies were reversed between initial and repeated categorisation of objects (a signature of S-R bindings). We ran a similar though extended object classification task on 6 patients who appear to have selective hippocampal lesions, together with 24 age-matched controls. Unlike Schnyer et al., 2006, we found that reversing response contingencies abolished priming in both controls and patients. Bayes Factors provided no reason to believe that response reversal had less effect on patients than controls. We therefore conclude that it is unlikely that the hippocampus is needed for S-R bindings.', u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111898', [], [u'MRC Cognition & Brain Sciences Unit;', u'Department of Psychology, University of York, UK;', u'Neuropsychology Dept, Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Tr;', u'Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK;', u'Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health Psychology, University College London']]
[u'Engineering pulsatile communication in bacterial consortia', ['James Parkin', 'Victoria Hsiao', 'Richard M Murray'], u'February 26, 2017.', u'Lux-type quorum sensing systems enable communication in bacteria with only two protein components: a signal synthase and an inducible transcription activator.  The simplicity of these systems makes them a popular choice for engineering collaborative behaviors in synthetic bacterial consortia, such as photographic edge detection and synchronized oscillation.  To add to this body of work, we propose a pulsatile communication circuit that enables dynamic patterning and long-distance communication analogous to action potentials traveling through nerve tissue.  We employed a model-driven design paradigm involving incremental characterization of in vivo design candidates with increasing circuit complexity.  Beginning with a simple inducible reporter system, we screened a small number of circuits varying in their promoter and ribosomal binding site strengths.  From this candidate pool, we selected a candidate to be the seed network for the subsequent round of more complex circuit variants, likewise variable in promoter and RBS strengths.  The selection criteria at each level of complexity is tailored to optimize a different desirable performance characteristic.  By this approach we individually optimized reporter signal-to-background ratio, pulsatile response to induction, and quiescent basal transcription, avoiding large library screens while ensuring robust performance of the composite circuit.', u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111906', [], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Amyris Inc;', u'Caltech']]
[u'Costs and benefits of sub-lethal Drosophila C virus infection', ['Pedro F Vale', 'Vanika Gupta', 'Charlotte O Stewart', 'Samuel S.C. Rund', 'Katy M Monteith'], u'February 26, 2017.', u'Viruses are major evolutionary drivers of insect immune systems. Much of our knowledge of insect immune responses derives from experimental infections using the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. Most experiments, however, employ lethal pathogen doses through septic injury, frequently overwhelming host physiology. While this approach has revealed a number of immune mechanisms, it is less informative about the fitness costs hosts may experience during infection in the wild. Using both systemic and oral infection routes we find that even apparently benign, sub-lethal infections with the horizontally transmitted Drosophila C Virus (DCV) can cause significant physiological and behavioral morbidity that is relevant for host fitness. We describe DCV-induced effects on fly reproductive output, digestive health, and locomotor activity, and we find that viral morbidity varies according to the concentration of pathogen inoculum, host genetic background and sex. Notably, sub-lethal DCV infection resulted in a significant increase in fly reproduction, but this effect depended on host genotype. We discuss the relevance of sub-lethal morbidity for Drosophila ecology and evolution, and more broadly, we remark on the implications of deleterious and beneficial infections for the evolution of insect immunity.', u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111930', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'CAR T Cells Secreting IL18 Augment Antitumor Immunity and Increase T Cell Proliferation and Costimulation', ['Biliang Hu', 'Jiangtao Ren', 'Yanping Luo', 'Brian Keith', 'Regina M. Young', 'John Scholler', 'Yangbing Zhao', 'Carl H. June'], u'February 26, 2017.', u'Interleukin 18 (IL18) is known to induce the expression of interferon\u2010\u03b3 (IFNG), but its effects on T cell proliferation and costimulation are not completely understood. In this study, we demonstrate that ectopic expression of IL18 in CART cells caused significant T cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, and enhanced antitumor effects in xenograft models. Moreover, IL18 mediated T cell expansion required neither tumor antigen nor CAR expression, and produced severe GVHD in NSG mice. Furthermore, recombinant IL18 costimulated IFNG secretion and proliferation of anti-CD3 beads treated T cells. Interestingly, IL18 costimulation could expand purified CD4 T cells, but not CD8 T cells. However, CD8 T cells proliferated greater than CD4 T cells in magnitude within bulk T cells, suggesting CD4 help effect was involved. Using CRISPR/Cas9 gene editing, we confirmed that IL18\u2010driven expansion was both TCR and IL18 receptor (IL18R) dependent. Importantly, we demonstrated that TCR\u2010deficient, IL18\u2010expressing CD19 CART cells exhibited remarkable proliferation and persistent antitumor activity against CD19\u2010expressing tumor cells in vivo. Finally, we describe APACHE T cells, a novel strategy for coupling IL18 expression in CART cells to antigen stimulation, thereby limiting potential toxicity associated with persistent IL18 production. In sum, our study supports human IL18 as a T cell costimulatory cytokine for fueling CART therapy.', u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111260', [u'Synthetic Biology'], [u'UPENN']]
[u'PHESANT: a tool for performing automated phenome scans in UK Biobank', ['Louise Millard', 'Neil M Davies', 'Tom Gaunt', 'George Davey Smith', 'Kate Tilling'], u'February 26, 2017.', u'Motivation:  Epidemiological cohorts typically contain a diverse set of phenotypes such that automation of phenome scans is non-trivial, because they require highly heterogeneous models. For this reason, phenome scans have to date tended to use a smaller homogeneous set of phenotypes that can be analysed in a consistent fashion. We present PHESANT (PHEnome Scan ANalysis Tool), a software package for performing comprehensive phenome scans in UK Biobank.  General features: PHESANT tests the association of a specified trait with all continuous, integer and categorical variables in UK Biobank, or a specified subset. PHESANT uses a novel rule-based algorithm to determine how to appropriately test each trait, then performs the analyses and produces plots and summary tables.  Implementation: The PHESANT phenome scan is implemented in R. PHESANT includes a novel Javascript D3.js visualization, and accompanying Java code that converts the phenome scan results to the required JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) format.  Availability: PHESANT is available on GitHub at [https://github.com/MRCIEU/PHESANT]. Git tag v0.2 corresponds to the version presented here.', u'/content/early/2017/02/26/111500', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Bristol']]
