[u'Selectivity matters: rules of thumb for management of plate-sized, sex-changing fish in the live reef food fish trade', ['Holly Kindsvater', 'John Reynolds', 'Yvonne Sadovy de Mitcheson', 'Marc Mangel'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Effective management of fisheries depends on the selectivity of different fishing methods, control of fishing effort, and the life history and mating system of the target species. For sex-changing species, it is unclear how the truncation of age structure or selection of specific size or age classes (by fishing for specific markets) affects population dynamics. We specifically address the consequences of plate-sized selectivity, whereby sub-mature, plate-sized fish are preferred in the live reef food fish trade. We use an age-structured model to investigate the decline and recovery of populations fished with three different selectivity scenarios (asymptotic, dome-shaped, and plate-sized) applied to two sexual systems (female-first hermaphroditism and gonochorism). We parameterized our model with life-history data from Brown-marbled grouper (Epinephelus fuscoguttatus) and Napoleon fish (Cheilinus undulatus). Plate-sized selectivity had the greatest negative effect on population trajectories, assuming accumulated fishing effort across ages was equal, while the relative effect of fishing on biomass was greatest with low natural mortality. Fishing such sex-changing species before maturation decreased egg production (and the spawning potential ratio) in two ways: average individual size decreased, and, assuming plasticity, females became males at a smaller size. Somatic growth rate affected biomass if selectivity was based on size-at-age because in slow growers, a smaller proportion of total biomass was vulnerable to fishing. We recommend fisheries avoid taking individuals near their maturation age, regardless of mating system, unless catch is tightly controlled. We also discuss the implications of fishing post-settlement individuals on population dynamics and offer practical management recommendations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098624', [], [u'Rutgers University;', u'Simon Fraser University;', u'Hong Kong University;', u'University of California Santa Cruz']]
[u'When invisible noise obscures the signal: the consequences of nonlinearity in motion detection', ['Ghaith Tarawneh', 'Vivek Nityananda', 'Ronny Rosner', 'Steven Errington', 'William Herbert', 'Bruce G. Cumming', 'Jenny C. A. Read', 'Ignacio Serrano-Pedraza'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'The motion energy model is the standard account of motion detection in animals from beetles to humans. Despite this common basis, we show here that a difference in the early stages of visual processing between mammals and insects leads this model to make radically different behavioural predictions. In insects, early filtering is spatially lowpass, which makes the surprising prediction that motion detection can be impaired by \u201cinvisible\u201d noise, i.e.  noise at a spatial frequency that elicits no response when presented on its own as a signal. We confirm this prediction using the optomotor response of praying mantis Sphodromantis lineola. This does not occur in mammals, where spatially bandpass early filtering means that linear systems techniques, such as deriving channel sensitivity from masking functions, remain approximately valid. Counter-intuitive effects such as masking by invisible noise may occur in neural circuits wherever a nonlinearity is followed by a difference operation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098459', [], [u'Newcastle University;', u'National Eye Institute;', u'Universidad Complutense de Madrid']]
[u'Pharmacogenetic testing through the direct-to-consumer genetic testing company 23andMe', ['Mengfei Lu', 'Cathryn M Lewis', 'Matthew Traylor'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Background: Rapid advances in scientific research have led to an increase in public awareness of genetic testing and pharmacogenetics. Direct-to-consumer (DTC) genetic testing companies, such as 23andMe, allow consumers to access their genetic information directly through an online service without the involvement of healthcare professionals. Here, we evaluate the clinical relevance of such pharmacogenetic tests reported by 23andMe.\n\nMethods: The research papers listed under each 23andMe report were evaluated, extracting information on effect size, sample size and ethnicity. A wider literature search was performed to provide a fuller assessment of the pharmacogenetic test and variants were matched to FDA recommendations. Additional evidence from CPIC guidelines, PharmGKB, and Dutch Pharmacogenetics Working Group was reviewed to determine current clinical practice. The value of the tests across ethnic groups was determined, including information on linkage disequilibrium between the tested SNP and causal pharmacogenetic variant, where relevant.  \n\nResults: 23andMe offers 12 pharmacogenetic tests, some of which are in standard clinical practice, and others which are less widely applied.  The clinical validity and clinical utility varies extensively between tests. The variants tested are likely to have different degrees of sensitivity due to different risk allele frequencies and linkage disequilibrium patterns across populations. The clinical relevance depends on the ethnicity of the individual and variability of pharmacogenetic markers. Further research is required to determine causal variants and provide more complete assessment of drug response and side effects.\n\nConclusion: 23andMe reports provide some useful pharmacogenetics information, mirroring clinical tests that are in standard use.  Other tests are unspecific, providing limited guidance and may not be useful for patients without professional interpretation. Nevertheless, DTC companies like 23andMe act as a powerful intermediate step to integrate pharmacogenetic testing into clinical practice.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098541', [], [u"King's College London"]]
[u'Rps3/uS3 promotes mRNA binding at the 40S ribosome entry channel and stabilizes preinitiation complexes at start codons', ['Jinsheng Dong', 'Colin Aitken', 'Anil Thakur', 'Byung-Sik Shin', 'Jon Lorsch', 'Alan G Hinnebusch'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'The eukaryotic 43S pre-initiation complex (PIC) bearing Met-tRNAiMet in a ternary complex (TC) with eIF2-GTP scans the mRNA leader for an AUG codon in favorable Kozak context. AUG recognition provokes rearrangement from an open PIC conformation with TC bound in a state not fully engaged with the P site (POUT) to a closed, arrested conformation with TC tightly bound in the PIN state. Yeast ribosomal protein Rps3/uS3 resides in the mRNA entry channel of the 40S subunit and contacts mRNA via conserved residues whose functional importance was unknown. We show that substitutions of these residues reduce bulk translation initiation and diminish initiation at near-cognate UUG start codons in yeast mutants in which UUG selection is abnormally high (Sui phenotype), conferring the Ssu phenotype. Two such Ssu substitutions, R116D and R117D, also increase discrimination against an AUG codon in suboptimal Kozak context. Consistently, the Arg116 and Arg117 substitutions destabilize TC binding to 48S PICs reconstituted in vitro with mRNA harboring a UUG start codon, indicating destabilization of the closed PIN state with a UUG:anticodon mismatch. Using model mRNAs lacking contacts with either the mRNA entry or exit channels of the 40S subunit, we demonstrate that Arg116/Arg117 are crucial for stabilizing PIC:mRNA contacts at the entry channel, complementing the function of eIF3 at both entry and exit channels. The corresponding residues in bacterial uS3 promote the helicase activity of the elongating ribosome, suggesting that uS3 contacts with mRNA enhance multiple phases of translation across different domains of life.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098699', [], [u'NIH']]
[u'Decoding sequence-level information to predict membrane protein expression', ['Shyam M Saladi', 'Axel Muller', 'Nauman Javed', 'William M Clemons'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'The expression and purification of integral membrane proteins remains a major bottleneck in the characterization of these important proteins. Expression levels are currently unpredictable, which renders the pursuit of these targets challenging and highly inefficient. Evidence demonstrates that small changes in the nucleotide or amino-acid sequence can dramatically affect membrane protein biogenesis; yet these observations have not resulted in generalizable approaches to improve expression. In this study, we develop a data-driven statistical model that predicts membrane protein expression in E. coli directly from sequence. The model, trained on experimental data, combines a set of sequence-derived variables resulting in a score that predicts the likelihood of expression. We test the model against various independent datasets from the literature that contain a variety of scales and experimental outcomes demonstrating that the model significantly enriches expressed proteins. The model is then used to score expression for membrane proteomes and protein families highlighting areas where the model excels. Surprisingly, analysis of the underlying features reveals an importance in nucleotide sequence-derived parameters for expression. This computational model, as illustrated here, can immediately be used to identify favorable targets for characterization.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098673', [], [u'California Institute of Technology;', u'Caltech']]
[u'Epistatic networks jointly influence phenotypes related to metabolic disease and gene expression in Diversity Outbred mice', ['Anna L. Tyler', 'Bo Ji', 'Daniel M. Gatti', 'Steven C. Munger', 'Gary A. Churchill', 'Karen L. Svenson', 'Greg W Carter'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Multiple genetic and environmental factors contribute to metabolic disease, with effects that range across molecular, organ, and whole-organism levels. Dissecting this multi-scale complexity requires systems genetics approaches to infer polygenic networks that influence gene expression, serum biomarkers, and physiological measures. In recent years, multi-parent model organism crosses, such as the Diversity Outbred (DO) mice, have emerged as a powerful platform for such systems approaches. The DO mice harbor extensive phenotypic and genetic diversity, allowing for detection of multiple quantitative trait loci (QTL) and their interactions at high genomic resolution. In this study, we used 474 DO mice to model genetic interactions influencing hepatic transcriptome expression and physiological traits related to metabolic disease. Body composition, serum biomarker, and liver transcriptome data from mice fed either a high-fat or standard chow diet were combined and simultaneously modeled. Modules of co-expressed transcripts were identified with weighted gene co-expression network analysis, with summary module phenotypes representing coordinated transcriptional programs linked to specific biological functions. We then used the Combined Analysis of Pleiotropy and Epistasis (CAPE) to simultaneously detect directed epistatic interactions between haplotype-specific QTL for transcript modules and physiological phenotypes. By combining information across multiple phenotypic levels, we identified networks of QTL with numerous interactions that reveal how genetic architecture affects metabolic traits at multiple scales. Specifically, these networks model how gene regulatory programs from different inbred founder strains influence more complex physiological traits. By connecting three levels of the organismal hierarchy \u2014 genetic variation, transcript abundance, and physiology \u2014 we revealed a detailed picture of genetic interactions influencing complex traits through differential gene expression.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098681', [], [u'The Jackson Laboratory, United States']]
[u'Nucleotide-dependent stiffness suggests role of interprotofilament bonds in microtubule assembly', ['Katja M Taute', 'Ernst-Ludwig Florin'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Many eukaryotic cell functions depend on dynamic instability, meaning the nucleotide-driven assembly and disassembly of microtubules. Assembly requires the constituent tubulin dimers to bind the nucleotide GTP, and its subsequent hydrolysis to GDP induces disassembly. The underlying structural mechanisms, however, are not well understood. Here, we determine the strength of contacts in the microtubule lattice by combining high precision measurements of the bending stiffness of analogues of GTP and GDP microtubules with a recent theoretical model. While previous structural studies have focussed on how the curvature of the tubulin dimer is affected by nucleotide binding, we present evidence of a dramatic regulation of the lateral interactions between the parallel protofilaments that dimers form in the microtubule. We conclude that the shear coupling between neighboring protofilaments is at least two orders of magnitude stronger in the GTP state than in the GDP state, and discuss the implications for the microtubule assembly.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098608', [], [u'The Rowland Institute at Harvard;', u'University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'D-Alanine esterification of teichoic acids contributes to Lactobacillus plantarum mediated intestinal peptidase expression and Drosophila growth promotion upon chronic undernutrition', ['Renata C Matos', 'Hugo Gervais', 'Pauline Joncour', 'Martin Schwarzer', 'Benjamin Gillet', 'Maria Elena Martino', 'Pascal Courtin', 'Sandrine Hughes', 'Marie-Pierre Chapot-Chartier', 'Francois Leulier'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'The microbial environment influence animal physiology. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of such functional interactions are largely undefined. Previously, we showed that upon chronic undernutrition, strains of Lactobacillus plantarum, a dominant commensal partner of Drosophila, promote host juvenile growth and maturation partly via enhanced expression of intestinal peptidases. By screening a transposon insertion library of Lactobacillus plantarum in gnotobiotic Drosophila larvae, we identify a bacterial cell wall modifying machinery encoded by the pbpX2-dltXABCD operon that is critical to enhance host digestive capabilities and promote growth and maturation. Deletion of this operon leads to bacterial cell wall alteration with a complete loss of teichoic acids D-alanylation. We thus conclude that teichoic acids modifications participate in commensal-host interactions and specifically, D-alanine esterification of teichoic acids contributes to optimal L. plantarum mediated intestinal peptidase expression and Drosophila juvenile growth upon chronic undernutrition.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098434', [], [u'Universite de Lyon;', u'Micalis Institute, INRA']]
[u'OrthoFiller: utilising data from multiple species to improve the completeness of genome annotations.', ['Michael P Dunne', 'Steven Kelly'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Complete and accurate annotation of sequenced genomes is of paramount importance to their utility and analysis. Differences in gene prediction pipelines mean that genome sequences for a species can differ considerably in the quality and quantity of their predicted genes. Furthermore, genes that are present in genome sequences sometimes fail to be detected by computational gene prediction methods. Erroneously unannotated genes can lead to oversights and inaccurate assertions in biological investigations, especially for smaller-scale genome projects which rely heavily on computational prediction.\nHere we present OrthoFiller, a tool designed to address the problem of finding and adding such missing genes to genome annotations. OrthoFiller leverages information from multiple related species to identify those genes whose existence can be verified through comparison with known gene families, but which have not been predicted. By simulating missing gene annotations in real sequence datasets from both plants and fungi we demonstrate the accuracy and utility of OrthoFiller for finding missing genes and improving genome annotation. Furthermore, we show that applying OrthoFiller to existing complete genome annotations can identify and correct substantial numbers of erroneously missing genes in these two sets of species. We show that significant improvements in the completeness of genome annotations can be made by leveraging information from multiple species.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098566', [], [u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Transcriptome-wide splicing quantification in single cells', ['Yuanhua Huang', 'Guido Sanguinetti'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Single cell RNA-seq (scRNA-seq) has revolutionised our understanding of transcriptome variability, with profound implications both fundamental and translational. While scRNA-seq provides a comprehensive measurement of stochasticity in transcription, the limitations of the technology have prevented its application to dissect variability in RNA processing events such as splicing. Here we present BRIE (Bayesian Regression for Isoform Estimation), a Bayesian hierarchical model which resolves these problems by learning an informative prior distribution from multiple single cells. BRIE combines the mixture modelling approach for isoform quantification with a regression approach to learn sequence features which are predictive of splicing events. We validate BRIE on several scRNA-seq data sets, showing that BRIE yields reproducible estimates of exon inclusion ratios in single cells and provides an effective tool for differential isoform quantification between scRNA-seq data sets. BRIE therefore expands the scope of scRNA-seq experiments to probe the stochasticity of RNA-processing.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098517', [], [u'University of Edinburgh']]
[u'An overexpressed Q allele leads to increased spike density and improved processing quality', ['Bin-Jie Xu', 'Qing Chen', 'Ting Zheng', 'Yun-Feng Jiang', 'Yuan-Yuan Qiao', 'Zhen-Ru Guo', 'Yong-Li Cao', 'Yan Wang', 'Ya-Zhou Zhang', 'Lu-Juan Zong', 'Jing Zhu', 'Cai-Hong Liu', 'Qian-Tao Jiang', 'Xiu-Jin Lan', 'Jian Ma', 'Ji-Rui Wang', 'You-Liang Zheng', 'Yu-Ming Wei', 'Peng-Fei Qi'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Spike density and processing quality are important traits during the evolution of wheat, which is controlled by multiple gene loci. The associated gene loci have been heavily studied with slow progress. A common wheat mutant with extremely compact spikes and good processing quality was isolated. The gene (Qc1) responsible for the mutant phenotype was mapped and cloned, and the cellular mechanism for the mutant phenotype was investigated. Qc1 originated from a point mutation that interferes with the miR172-directed cleavage of the Q gene, leading to its overexpression. Qc1 reduces the longitudinal cell size of rachises, resulting in an increased spike density. Qc1 increases the number of vascular bundles, which suggests a higher efficiency in the transportation of assimilates in the spikes of the mutant than in the WT. This could account for the improved processing quality. The effects of Qc1 on spike density and wheat processing quality were confirmed by the identification of nine common wheat mutants having four different Qc alleles. These results deepen our understanding of the key role of Q gene, one of the most important domestication gene for wheat, and provide new insights for the potential application of Qc allele in wheat breeding.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098558', [], [u'Triticeae Research Institute, Sichuan Agricultural University']]
[u'Egocentric and Allocentric Representations in Auditory Cortex', ['Stephen Michael Town', 'W. Owen Brimijoin', 'Jennifer Kim Bizley'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'A key function of the brain is to provide a stable representation of an objects location in the world. In hearing, sound azimuth and elevation are encoded by neurons throughout the auditory system and auditory cortex is necessary for sound localization. However the coordinate frame in which neurons represent sound space remains undefined: classical spatial receptive fields in head-fixed subjects can be explained either by sensitivity to sound source location relative to the head (egocentric) or relative to the world (allocentric encoding). This coordinate frame ambiguity can be resolved by studying freely moving subjects and here we recorded spatial receptive fields in auditory cortex freely moving ferrets. We found two distinct populations of neurons: While the majority (~80%) of spatially tuned neurons represented sound source location relative to the head, we provide novel evidence for a group of neurons in which space was represented in an allocentric world-centered coordinate frame. We also use our ability to measure spatial tuning in moving subjects to explore the influence of sound source distance and speed of head movements on auditory cortical activity and spatial tuning. Modulation depth of spatial tuning increased with distance for egocentric but not allocentric units, whereas for both populations modulation was stronger at faster movement speeds. Our findings argue that auditory cortex is involved in the representation of both sound source location relative to ourselves and sound location in the world independent of our own position.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098525', [], [u'University College London;', u'Medical Research Council/Chief Scientist Office Institute of Hearing Research - Scottish Section']]
[u'Allee dynamics: growth, extinction and range expansion', ['Indrani Bose', 'Mainak Pal', 'Chiranjit Karmakar'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'In population biology, the Allee dynamics refer to negative growth rates below a critical population density. In this Letter, we study a reaction-diffusion (RD) model of population growth and dispersion in one dimension, which incorporates the Allee effect in both the growth and mortality rates. In the absence of diffusion, the bifurcation diagram displays regions of both finite population density and zero population density, i.e., extinction. The early signatures of the transition to extinction at a bifurcation point are computed in the presence of additive noise. For the full RD model, the existence of travelling wave solutions of the population density is demonstrated. The parameter regimes in which the travelling wave advances (range expansion) and retreats are identified. In the weak Allee regime, the transition from the pushed to the pulled wave is shown as a function of the mortality rate constant. The results obtained are in agreement with the recent experimental observations on budding yeast populations.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098418', [], [u'Bose Institute;', u'Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati']]
[u'The Effects of Sex and Diet on Physiology and Liver Gene Expression in Diversity Outbred Mice', ['Daniel M Gatti', 'Petr Simecek', 'Lisa Somes', 'Clifton T Jeffery', 'Matthew J Vincent', 'Kwangbom Choi', 'Xingyao Chen', 'Gary A Churchill', 'Karen L Svenson'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Inter-individual variation in metabolic health and adiposity is driven by many factors. Diet composition and genetic background and the interactions between these two factors affect adiposity and related traits such as circulating cholesterol levels.  In this study, we fed 850 Diversity Outbred mice, half females and half males, with either a standard chow diet or a high fat, high sucrose diet beginning at weaning and aged them to 26 weeks. We measured clinical chemistry and body composition at early and late time points during the study, and liver transcription at euthanasia.  Males weighed more than females and mice on a high fat diet generally weighed more than those on chow.  Many traits showed sex- or diet-specific changes as well as more complex sex by diet interactions. We mapped both the physiological and molecular traits and found that the genetic architecture of the physiological traits is complex, with many single locus associations potentially being driven by more than one polymorphism. For liver transcription, we find that local polymorphisms affect constitutive and sex-specific transcription, but that the response to diet is not affected by local polymorphisms. We identified two loci for circulating cholesterol levels. We performed mediation analysis by mapping the physiological traits, given liver transcript abundance and propose several genes that may be modifiers of the physiological traits.  By including both physiological and molecular traits in our analyses, we have created deeper phenotypic profiles to identify additional significant contributors to complex metabolic outcomes such as polygenic obesity. We make the phenotype, liver transcript and genotype data publicly available as a resource for the research community.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098657', [], [u'The Jackson Laboratory, United States']]
[u'A Two-Process Model for Circadian and Sleep-dependent Modulation of Pain Sensitivity', ['Natalia Toporikova', 'Megan Hastings Hagenauer', 'Paige Ferguson', 'Victoria Booth'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Pain sensitivity is strongly modulated by time of day and by prior sleep behavior. These two factors, governed by the circadian rhythm and homeostatic sleep drive, respectively, likewise dictate the timing and duration of sleep. The fields of sleep and circadian research have identified much of the physiology underlying the circadian rhythm and homeostatic sleep drive with mathematical modeling playing an important role in understanding how these two processes interact to affect sleep behavior. We hypothesize that the daily rhythm of pain sensitivity and its sleep- dependent modulation reflect an interaction of the circadian rhythm and homeostatic sleep drive. To investigate this hypothesis, we adapt the formalism of a classic mathematical model for the regulation of sleep behavior by the circadian rhythm and homeostatic sleep drive, called the Two Process model, to simulate the interaction of these two processes on pain sensitivity. To construct the model, we utilize data from experimental reports on the daily rhythmicity of pain sensitivity in humans to define a "daily pain sensitivity" function. We decompose this function into two pro- cesses: a sleep-dependent process S(t) that follows the homeostatic sleep drive and a circadian process C(t) that is dictated by the circadian rhythm. By simulating different sleep schedules with the original Two Process model, we compute changes in the sleep-dependent process S(t) that modulates pain sensitivity. By combining S(t) with the circadian process C(t), our model predicts resultant changes in the daily pain sensitivity rhythm. We illustrate model predictions for changes in pain sensitivity due to sleep deprivation, sleep restriction and shift work schedules. We believe that this model may be a useful tool for pain management by providing predictions of the variations in pain sensitivity due to changing sleep schedules.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098319', [], [u'Washington and Lee University;', u'University of Michigan;', u'University of Alabama']]
[u'Metacognitive impairments extend perceptual decision making weaknesses in compulsivity', ['Tobias U. Hauser', 'Micah Allen', 'Geraint Rees', 'Raymond J. Dolan'], u'January 5, 2017.', u"Awareness of one's own abilities is of paramount importance in adaptive decision making. Psychotherapeutic theories assume such metacognitive insight is impaired in compulsivity, though this is supported by scant empirical evidence. In this study, we investigate metacognitive abilities in compulsive participants using computational models, where these enable a segregation between metacognitive and perceptual decision making impairments. We examined twenty low-compulsive and twenty high-compulsive participants, recruited from a large population-based sample, and matched for other psychiatric and cognitive dimensions. Hierarchical computational modelling of the participants' metacognitive abilities on a visual global motion detection paradigm revealed that high-compulsive participants had a reduced metacognitive ability. This impairment was accompanied by a perceptual decision making deficit whereby motion-related evidence was accumulated more slowly in high compulsive participants. Our study shows that the compulsivity spectrum is associated with a reduced ability to monitor one's own performance, over and above any perceptual decision making difficulty.", u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098277', [], [u'University College London;', u'Max Planck UCL Centre for Computational Psychiatry and Ageing Research']]
[u'Semaphorin-Plexin signaling influences early ventral telencephalic development and thalamocortical axon guidance', ['Manuela D. Mitsogiannis', 'Graham E. Little', 'Kevin J Mitchell'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Background: Sensory processing relies on projections from the thalamus to the neocortex being established during development. Information from different sensory modalities reaching the thalamus is segregated into specialized nuclei, whose neurons then send inputs to cognate cortical areas through topographically defined axonal connections.  Developing thalamocortical axons (TCAs) normally approach the cortex by extending through the subpallium; here, axonal navigation is aided by distributed guidance cues and discrete cell populations, such as the corridor neurons and the internal capsule (IC) guidepost cells. In mice lacking Semaphorin-6A, axons from the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) bypass the IC and extend aberrantly in the ventral subpallium. The functions normally mediated by Semaphorin-6A in this system remain unknown, but might depend on interactions with Plexin-A2 and Plexin-A4, which have been implicated in other neurodevelopmental processes.  Methods: We performed immunohistochemical and neuroanatomical analyses of thalamocortical wiring and subpallial development in Sema6a and Plxna2;Plxna4 null mutant mice and analyzed the expression of these genes in relevant structures.  Results: In Plxna2;Plxna4 double mutants we discovered TCA pathfinding defects that mirrored those observed in Sema6a mutants, suggesting that Semaphorin-6A\u2212Plexin-A2/Plexin-A4 signaling might mediate dLGN axon guidance at subpallial level. In order to understand where and when Semaphorin-6A, Plexin-A2 and Plexin-A4 may be required for proper subpallial TCA guidance, we then characterized their spatiotemporal expression dynamics during early TCA development. We observed that the thalamic neurons whose axons are misrouted in these mutants normally express Semaphorin-6A but not Plexin-A2 or Plexin-A4. By contrast, all three proteins are expressed in corridor cells and other structures in the developing basal ganglia. This could be consistent with the Plexins acting as guidance signals through Sema6A as a receptor on dLGN axons, and/or with an indirect effect on TCA guidance due to functions in morphogenesis of subpallial intermediate targets. In support of the latter possibility, we observed that in both Plxna2;Plxna4 and Sema6a mutants some IC guidepost cells abnormally localize in correspondence of the ventral path misrouted TCAs elongate into.  Conclusions: These findings implicate Semaphorin-6A\u2212Plexin-A2/Plexin-A4 interactions in dLGN axon guidance and in the spatiotemporal organization of guidepost cell populations in the mammalian subpallium.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098236', [], [u'Trinity College Dublin']]
[u'Lineage-specific rediploidization is a mechanism to explain time-lags between genome duplication and evolutionary diversification', ['Fiona Robertson', 'Manu Kumar Gundappa', 'Fabian Grammes', 'Torgeir Hvidsten', 'Anthony Redmond', 'Sigbjorn Lien', 'Samuel Martin', 'Peter Holland', 'Simen Sandve', 'Daniel Macqueen'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'The functional divergence of duplicate genes (ohnologues) retained from whole genome duplication (WGD) is thought to promote evolutionary diversification. However, species radiation and phenotypic diversification is often highly temporally-detached from WGD. Salmonid fish, whose ancestor experienced WGD by autotetraploidization ~95 Ma (i.e. Ss4R), fit such a time-lag model of post-WGD radiation, which occured alongside a major delay in the rediploidization process. Here we propose a model called Lineage-specific Ohnologue Resolution (LORe) to address the phylogenetic and functional consequences of delayed rediploidization. Under LORe, speciation precedes rediploidization, allowing independent ohnologue divergence in sister lineages sharing an ancestral WGD event.  Using cross-species sequence capture, phylogenomics and genome-wide analyses of ohnologue expression divergence, we demonstrate the major impact of LORe on salmonid evolution. One quarter of each salmonid genome, harbouring at least 4,500 ohnologues, has evolved under LORe, with rediploidization and functional divergence occurring on multiple independent occasions > 50 Myr post-WGD. We demonstrate the existence and regulatory divergence of many LORe ohnologues with functions in lineage-specific physiological adaptations that promoted salmonid species radiation. We show that LORe ohnologues are enriched for different functions than older ohnologues that began diverging in the salmonid ancestor.  LORe has unappreciated significance as a nested component of post-WGD divergence that impacts the functional properties of genes, whilst providing ohnologues available solely for lineage-specific adaptation. Under LORe, which is predicted following many WGD events, the functional outcomes of WGD need not appear explosively, but can arise gradually over tens of Myr, promoting lineage-specific diversification regimes under prevailing ecological pressures.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098582', [], [u'University of Aberdeen;', u'Norwegian University of Life Sciences;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'Evidence for Transcriptome-wide RNA Editing Among Sus scrofa PRE-1 SINE Elements', ['Scott A Funkhouser', 'Juan P Steibel', 'Ronald O Bates', 'Nancy E Raney', 'Darius Schenk', 'Catherine W Ernst'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Background: RNA editing by ADAR (adenosine deaminase acting on RNA) proteins is a form of transcriptional regulation that is widespread among humans and other primates. Based on high-throughput scans used to identify putative RNA editing sites, ADAR appears to catalyze a substantial number of adenosine to inosine transitions within repetitive regions of the primate transcriptome, thereby dramatically enhancing genetic variation beyond what is encoded in the genome.  Results: Here, we demonstrate the editing potential of the pig transcriptome by utilizing DNA and RNA sequence data from the same pig. We identified a total of 8550 mismatches between DNA and RNA sequences across three tissues, with 75% of these exhibiting an A-to-G (DNA to RNA) discrepancy, indicative of a canonical ADAR-catalyzed RNA editing event. When we consider only mismatches within repetitive regions of the genome, the A-to-G percentage increases to 94%, with the majority of these located within the swine specific SINE retrotransposon PRE-1. We also observe evidence of A-to-G editing within coding regions that were previously verified in primates.  Conclusions: Thus, our high-throughput evidence suggests that pervasive RNA editing by ADAR can exist outside of the primate lineage to dramatically enhance genetic variation in pigs.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/096321', [], [u'Michigan State University;', u'Heinrich-Heine University']]
[u'EvoKEN: evolutionary knowledge extraction in networks', ['Benjamin Linard', 'Ngoc-hoan Nguyen', 'Odile Lecompte', 'Olivier Poch', 'Julie Thompson'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'We introduce a multi-factorial, multi-level approach to build and explore evolutionary scenarios of complex protein networks. EvoKEN combines a unique formalism for integrating multiple types of data associated with network molecular components and knowledge extraction techniques for detecting cohesive/anomalous evolutionary processes. We analyzed known human pathway maps and identified perturbations or specializations at the local topology level that reveal important evolutionary and functional aspects of these cellular systems.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098285', [], [u'LIRMM;', u'IGBMC;', u'LBGI']]
[u'Noise suppression in cell-size control', ['Abhyudai Singh'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Diverse cell types employ mechanisms to maintain size homeostasis and minimize aberrant fluctuations in cell size. It is well known that exponential cellular growth can drive unbounded intercellular variations in cell size, if the timing of cell division is size independent. Hence coupling of division timing to size is an essential feature of size control.  We formulate a stochastic model, where exponential cellular growth is coupled with random cell division events, and the rate at which division events occur increases as a power function of cell size. Interestingly, in spite of nonlinearities in the stochastic dynamical model, statistical moments of the newborn cell size can be determined in closed form, providing fundamental limits to suppression of size fluctuations. In particular, formulas reveal that the magnitude of fluctuations in the newborn size is determined by the inverse of the size exponent in the division rate, and this relationship is independent of other model parameters, such as the growth rate. We further expand these results to consider randomness in the partitioning of mother cell size among daughters at the time of division. The sensitivity of newborn size fluctuations to partitioning noise is found to monotonically decrease, and approach a non-zero value, with increasing size exponent in the division rate. Finally, we discuss how our analytical results provide limits on noise control in commonly used models for cell size regulation.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098640', [], [u'University of Delaware']]
[u'Measuring physiological responses to stressors using a novel Hmox1 reporter mouse', ['Michael McMahon', 'Shaohong Ding', 'Lourdes P Acosta-Jimenez', 'Tania G Frangova', 'Colin J Henderson', 'C. Roland Wolf'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Hmox1 protein holds great promise as a biomarker of organismal health as it is highly expressed in stressed or damaged cells. However, documenting Hmox1 expression patterns has thus far only been feasible in simple model organisms with limited relevance to humans. We now report a new Hmox1 reporter line that makes it possible to access this information in mice, the premiere model system for studying human disease and toxicology. Using a state-of-the-art strategy, we express multiple complementary reporter molecules from the murine Hmox1 locus, including firefly luciferase to allow long-term, non-invasive imaging of Hmox1 expression, and beta-galactosidase for high-resolution mapping of expression patterns post-mortem. We validate the model by confirming the absence of haplo-insufficiency effects, the fidelity of reporter expression, and its responsiveness to oxidative and inflammatory stimuli. In addition to providing blueprints for Hmox1 expression in mice that provide novel biological insights for follow-up, this work paves the way for the broad application of this model to regulatory toxicology studies and, also, pre-clinical investigations into human degenerative diseases.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098467', [], [u'University of Dundee']]
[u'The evolution of p53 network behavior', ['Hari Sivakumar', 'Joao P Hespanha', 'Kyoungmin Roh', 'Stephen R Proulx'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'We study the evolution of the p53 core regulation network across the taxonomic span of humans to protozoans and nematodes. We introduce a new model for the core regulation network in mammalian cells, and conduct a formal analysis of the different network configurations that emerge in the evolutionary path to complexity. Solving the high dimensional equations associated with this model is typically challenging, and we develop a novel algorithm to overcome this problem. A key technical tool used is the representation of the distinct pathways in the core regulation networks as "modules", such that the behavior of the composite of two or more modules can be inferred from the characteristics of each of the individual modules. Apart from simplifying the complexity of the algorithm, this modular representation also allows us to qualitatively compare the distinct types of switching behaviors each network can exhibit. This then allows us to demonstrate how our model for the core regulation network in mammalian cells matches experimentally observed phenomena, and contrast this with the plausible behaviors admitted by the network configurations in putative primordial organisms. We show that the complexity of the p53 core regulation network in vertebrates permits a range of behaviors that can bring about distinct cell fate decisions not possible in the putative primordial organisms.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/098376', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'University of California Santa Barbara']]
[u'Optimal homotopy analysis of a chaotic HIV-1 model incorporating AIDS-related cancer cells', ['Jorge Duarte', 'Cristina Januario', 'Nuno Martins', 'Carlos Correia Ramos', 'Carla Rodrigues', 'Josep Sardanyes'], u'January 5, 2017.', u"The studies of nonlinear models in epidemiology have generated a deep interest in gaining insight into the mechanisms that underlie AIDS-related cancers, providing us with a better understanding of cancer immunity and viral oncogenesis. In this article, we analyse an HIV-1 model incorporating the relations between three dynamical variables: cancer cells, healthy CD4+ T lymphocytes and infected CD4+ T lymphocytes. Recent theoretical investigations indicate that these cells interactions lead to different dynamical outcomes, for instance to periodic or chaotic behavior. Firstly, we analytically prove the boundedness of the trajectories in the system's attractor. The complexity of the coupling between the dynamical variables is quantified using observability indices. Our calculations reveal that the highest observable variable is the population of cancer cells, thus indicating that these cells could be monitored in future experiments in order to obtain time series for attractor's reconstruction. We identify different dynamical behaviors of the system varying two biologically meaningful parameters: r1, representing the uncontrolled proliferation rate of cancer cells, and k1, denoting the immune system's killing rate of cancer cells. The maximum Lyapunov exponent is computed to identify the chaotic regimes.  Considering very recent developments in the literature related to the homotopy analysis method (HAM), we construct the explicit series solution of the cancer model and focus our analysis on the dynamical variable with the highest observability index. An optimal homotopy analysis approach is used to improve the computational efficiency of HAM by means of appropriate values for the convergence control parameter, which greatly accelerate the convergence of the series solution", u'/content/early/2017/01/05/097865', [u'Systems Biology'], [u'Instituto Superior de Engenharia de Lisboa - ISEL, Department of Mathematics;', u'Center for Mathematical Analysis, Geometry and Dynamical Systems, Mathematics Department, Instituto;', u'Department of Mathematics, University of \xc9vora;', u'ESTS - Technology Superior School of Setubal, Department of Mathematics;', u'Centre de Recerca Matematica (CRM)']]
[u'Glimma: interactive graphics for gene expression analysis', ['Shian Su', 'Charity W Law', 'Casey Ah-Cann', 'Marie-Liesse Asselin-Labat', 'Marnie Blewitt', 'Matthew Ritchie'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Motivation: Summary graphics for RNA-sequencing and microarray gene expression analyses may contain upwards of tens of thousands of points. Details about certain genes or samples of interest are easily obscured in such dense summary displays. Incorporating interactivity into summary plots would enable additional information to be displayed on demand and facilitate intuitive data exploration.  Results: The open-source Glimma package creates interactive graphics for exploring gene expression analysis with a few simple R commands. It extends popular plots found in the limma package, such as multi-dimensional scaling plots and mean-difference plots, to allow individual data points to be queried and additional annotation information to be displayed upon hovering or selecting particular points. It also offers links between plots so that more information can be revealed on demand. Glimma is widely applicable, supporting data analyses from a number of well established Bioconductor workflows (limma, edgeR and DESeq2) and uses D3/JavaScript to produce HTML pages with interactive displays that enable more effective data exploration by end-users. Results from Glimma can be easily shared between bioinformaticians and biologists, enhancing reporting capabilities while maintaining reproducibility.  Availability and Implementation: The Glimma R package is available from http://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/html/Glimma.html.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/096107', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research']]
[u'The Impact of Vitamin A and Carotenoids on the Risk of Tuberculosis Progression', ['Omowunmi Aibana', 'Molly F. Franke', 'Chuan-Chin Huang', 'Jerome T. Galea', 'Roger Calderon', 'Zibiao Zhang', 'Mercedes C. Becerra', 'Emily R. Smith', 'Alayne G. Ronnenberg', 'Carmen Contreras', 'Rosa Yataco', 'Leonid Lecca', 'Megan B. Murray'], u'January 5, 2017.', u'Background: Low and deficient levels of vitamin A are common in low and middle income countries where tuberculosis burden is high. We assessed the impact of baseline levels of vitamins A and carotenoids on TB disease risk.  Methods and Findings: We conducted a case-control study nested within a longitudinal cohort of household contacts of pulmonary TB cases in Lima, Peru. We screened all contacts for TB disease at 2, 6, and 12 months after enrollment. We defined cases as HIV-negative household contacts with blood samples who developed TB disease at least 15 days after enrollment of the index patient. For each case, we randomly selected 4 controls from among contacts who did not develop TB disease, matching on gender and year of age. We used conditional logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (ORs) for incident TB disease by vitamin A and carotenoids levels, controlling for other nutritional and socioeconomic factors. Among 6751 HIV-negative household contacts with baseline blood samples, 192 developed secondary TB disease during follow-up. We analyzed 180 cases with viable samples and 709 matched controls. After controlling for possible confounders, we found that baseline vitamin A deficiency was associated with a 10-fold increase in risk of TB disease among household contacts (aOR 10.42; 95% CI 4.01-27.05; p < 0.001). This association was dose-dependent with stepwise increases in TB disease risk with each decreasing quartile of vitamin A level. Carotenoid levels were also inversely associated with TB risk among adolescents. Our study is limited by the one year duration of follow up and by the relatively few blood samples available from household contacts under ten years of age.  Conclusions: Vitamin A deficiency strongly predicted risk of incident TB disease among household contacts of TB patients. Vitamin A supplementation among individuals at high risk of TB may provide an effective means of preventing TB disease.', u'/content/early/2017/01/05/095232', [u'Epidemiology'], [u'University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, McGovern Medical School;', u'Harvard Medical School;', u"Brigham and Women's Hospital;", u'Partners In Health, Socios En Salud Sucursal;', u'Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health;', u'University of Massachusetts Amherst']]
