[u'High-throughput live-imaging of embryos in microwell arrays using a modular, inexpensive specimen mounting system', ['Seth Donoughe', 'Chiyoung Kim', 'Cassandra Extavour'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Live-imaging embryos in a high-throughput manner is essential for shedding light on a wide range of questions in developmental biology, but it is difficult and costly to mount and image embryos in consistent conditions. Here, we present OMMAwell, a simple, reusable device that makes it easy to mount up to hundreds of embryos in arrays of agarose microwells with customizable dimensions and spacing. OMMAwell can be configured to mount specimens for upright or inverted microscopes, and includes a reservoir to hold live-imaging medium to maintain constant moisture and osmolarity of specimens during time-lapse imaging. All device components can be cut from a sheet of acrylic using a laser cutter. Even a novice user will be able to cut the pieces and assemble the device in less than an hour. At the time of writing, the total materials cost is less than five US dollars. We include all device design files in a commonly used format, as well as complete instructions for its fabrication and use. We demonstrate a detailed workflow for designing a custom mold and employing it to simultaneously live-image dozens of embryos at a time for more than five days, using embryos of the cricket Gryllus bimaculatus as an example. Further, we include descriptions, schematics, and design files for molds that can be used with 14 additional vertebrate and invertebrate species, including most major traditional laboratory models and a number of emerging model systems. Molds have been user-tested for embryos including zebrafish (Danio rerio), fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster), coqui frog (Eleutherodactylus coqui), annelid worm (Capitella teleta), amphipod crustacean (Parhyale hawaiensis), red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum), and three-banded panther worm (Hofstenia miamia), as well mouse organoids (Mus musculus). Finally, we provide instructions for researchers to customize OMMAwell inserts for embryos or tissues not described herein.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111583', [], [u'Harvard University']]
[u'How to name and classify your phage: an informal guide', ['Evelien M Adriaenssens', 'J. Rodney Brister'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'With this informal guide, we try to assist both new and experienced phage researchers through two important stages that follow phage discovery, i.e. naming and classification. Providing an appropriate name for a bacteriophage is not as trivial as it sounds and the effects might be long-lasting in databases and in official taxon names. Phage classification is the responsibility of the Bacterial and Archaeal Viruses Subcommittee (BAVS) of the International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV). While the BAVS aims at providing a holistic approach to phage taxonomy, for individual researchers who have isolated and sequenced a new phage, this can be a little overwhelming. We are now providing these researchers with an informal guide to phage naming and classification, taking a "bottom-up" approach from the phage isolate level.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111526', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Liverpool;', u'National Center for Biotechnology Information, NLM, NIH']]
[u'Eelgrass leaf surface microbiomes are locally variable and highly correlated with epibiotic eukaryotes', ['Mia M Bengtsson', 'Anton Buhler', 'Anne Brauer', 'Sven Dahlke', 'Hendrik Schubert', 'Irmgard Blindow'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Eelgrass (Zostera marina) is a marine foundation species essential for coastal ecosystem services around the northern hemisphere. Like all macroscopic organisms, it possesses a microbiome which may play critical roles in modulating the interaction of eelgrass with its environment. For example, its leaf surface microbiome could inhibit or attract eukaryotic epibionts which may overgrow the eelgrass leading to reduced primary productivity and subsequent eelgrass meadow decline. We used amplicon sequencing of the 16S and 18S rRNA genes of prokaryotes and eukaryotes to assess the leaf surface micro biome (prokaryotes) as well as eukaryotic epibionts in- and outside lagoons on the German Baltic Sea coast. Bacterial microbiomes varied substantially both between sites inside lagoons and between open coastal and lagoon sites. Water depth, leaf area and biofilm chlorophyll a concentration explained a large amount of variation in both bacterial and eukaryotic community composition. Communities of bacterial and eukaryotic epibionts were highly correlated, and network analysis revealed disproportionate co-occurrence between a limited number of eukaryotic taxa and several bacterial taxa. This suggests that eelgrass leaf surface biofilms are a mosaic of the microbiomes of several eukaryotes, in addition to that of the eelgrass itself, and underlines that eukaryotic microbial diversity should be taken into account in order to explain microbiome assembly and dynamics in aquatic environments.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111559', [u'Microbiology'], [u'University of Greifswald;', u'University of Rostock']]
[u'16GT: a fast and sensitive variant caller using a 16-genotype probabilistic model', ['Ruibang Luo', 'Michael C Schatz', 'Steven Salzberg'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'16GT is a variant caller for Illumina WGS and WES germline data. It uses a new 16- genotype probabilistic model to unify SNP and indel calling in a single variant calling algorithm. In benchmark comparisons with five other widely used variant callers on a modern 36-core server, 16GT ran faster and demonstrated improved sensitivity in calling SNPs, and it provided comparable sensitivity and accuracy in calling indels as compared to the GATK HaplotypeCaller.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111393', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The Johns Hopkins University;', u'Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory;', u'Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Poly(A)-ClickSeq: click-chemistry for next-generation 3\u2032-end sequencing without RNA enrichment or fragmentation', ['Andrew Routh', 'Ping Ji', 'Elizabeth Jaworski', 'Zheng Xia', 'Wei Li', 'Eric J Wagner'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'The recent emergence of alternative polyadenylation (APA) as an engine driving transcriptomic diversity has stimulated the development of sequencing methodologies designed to assess genome-wide polyadenylation events. The goal of these approaches is to enrich, partition, capture, and ultimately sequence poly(A) site junctions. However, these methods often require poly(A) enrichment, 3\u2032 linker ligation steps, and RNA fragmentation, which can necessitate higher levels of starting RNA, increase experimental error, and potentially introduce bias. We recently reported a click-chemistry based method for generating RNAseq libraries called \u2033ClickSeq\u2033. Here, we adapt this method to direct the cDNA synthesis specifically toward the 3\u2032UTR/poly(A) tail junction of cellular RNA. With this novel approach, we demonstrate sensitive and specific enrichment for poly(A) site junctions without the need for complex sample preparation, fragmentation or purification. Poly(A)-ClickSeq (PAC-seq) is therefore a simple procedure that generates high-quality RNA-seq poly(A) libraries. As a proof-of-principle, we utilized PAC-seq to explore the poly(A) landscape of both human and Drosophila cells in culture and observed outstanding overlap with existing poly(A) databases and also identified previously unannotated poly(A) sites. Moreover, we utilize PAC-seq to quantify and analyze APA events regulated by CFIm25 illustrating how this technology can be harnessed to identify alternatively polyadenylated RNA.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/109272', [u'Molecular Biology'], [u'University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston;', u'Oregon Health and Science University, Portland;', u'Baylor College of Medicine']]
[u'Beyond the limitation of randomized controlled trials (RCTs)-current drug repositioning by using human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells technology-', ['Midori Okabe'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'To ensure the clinical value of medical interventions, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) are necessary. However, the results of conventional RCTs cannot show individual therapeutic efficacy and safety for medical intervention to a targeted patient. It is the most important weak point of conventional RCTs. Here I show that the new clinical research method by using human induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells technology will be able to complement the most important weak point of conventional RCTs.\n As the representative examples, I show the new clinical values of statins (inhibitors of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase) found by using human iPS cells technology in achondroplasia or hanatophoric dysplasia (type 1) case and hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection case. Furthermore, they are also important examples for drug repositioning.\u3000\n Therefore, my article would be valuable as a scientific communication for physicians and/or scientists.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111435', [u'Scientific Communication and Education'], [u'Reproductive Medicine Institute Japan']]
[u'Conserved changes in secondary structure and aggregation properties of in vitro evolved proteins for thermo stability', ['Satyamurthy Kundharapu'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Most of the screening strategies of directed evolution involved in thermo stability deals with aggregation of proteins either directly or indirectly. Here in this work I investigated what happens in aggregation property and secondary structure of the protein when it improved its thermo stability by incorporating certain amino acid changes in the protein. To study these changes I picked randomly 12 different proteins and I analyzed their 25 different thermo stable mutants.I used  open access online Software to get the aggregation propensity values and values for different secondary structure elements  propensities of proteins. I compared the aggregation propensity and predicted secondary structure values of thermo stable mutants with their parent Wild type proteins. The stable mutants followed three different conserved patterns to improve their thermo stability.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111443', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'NISER']]
[u'Widespread impact of DNA replication on mutational mechanisms in cancer', ['Marketa Tomkova', 'Jakub Tomek', 'Skirmantas Kriaucionis', 'Benjamin Schuster-Boeckler'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Although mutagens can attack DNA at any time, at least one round of replication is required before damage becomes a fixed mutation. DNA replication therefore plays an important role in mutagenesis, yet little is known about how replication and various mutagenic mechanisms interact. Here, we present the first pan-cancer analysis of the relationship between mutagenic mechanisms, represented by their sequence signatures, and DNA replication. Using whole-genome sequencing data from 3056 patients spanning 19 cancer types, we observe a significant impact of replication on 22 out of 29 detected mutational signatures. Association with replication timing and asymmetry around replication origins shed new light on several mutagenic processes, such as suggesting that oxidative damage to the nucleotide pool substantially contributes to the mutational landscape of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Together, our results indicate an involvement of DNA replication and the associated damage repair in most mutagenic processes.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111302', [u'Cancer Biology'], [u'Oxford University;', u'University of Oxford']]
[u'PGC-1\u03b1 coordinates with Bcl-2 to control cell cycle in U251 cells through reducing ROS', ['Kun Yao', 'Xufeng Fu', 'Xing Du', 'Yan Li', 'Bing Han', 'Zexi Chen', 'Shanshan Yang', 'Ran Wei', 'Jiaqi Zhou', 'Qinghua Cui'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2) has a dual function, acting both as an oncogene and an anti-tumor gene. It is well known that Bcl-2 exerts its tumor promoting function through the mitochondrial pathway. However, the mechanism by which Bcl-2 suppresses tumor formation is not well understood. We have previously shown that Bcl-2 inhibits cell cycle progression from the G0/G1 to the S phase after serum starvation, and that quiescent Bcl-2 expressing cells maintained a significant lower level of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) than the control cells. Based on the fact that ROS mediate cell cycle progression, and are controlled by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-\u03b3 co-activator 1\u03b1 (PGC-1\u03b1), a key molecule induced by prolonged starvation and involved in mitochondrial metabolism, we hypothesized that PGC-1\u03b1 might be related with the cell cycle function of Bcl-2. Here, we showed that PGC-1\u03b1 was upregulated upon Bcl-2 overexpression and downregulated following Bcl-2 knockdown during serum starvation. Knockdown of PGC-1\u03b1 activated Bcl-2 expression. Taken together, our results suggest that after serum depletion, PGC-1\u03b1 might coordinate with Bcl-2 to reduce ROS, which in turn delay cell cycle progression.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111567', [u'Biochemistry'], [u'Yunnan University, China']]
[u'Improved LC-MS chromatographic alignment increases the accuracy of label-free quantitative proteomics: Comparison of spectral counting versus ion intensity-based proteomic quantification strategies.', ['Daniel H J Ng', 'Jonathan D Humphries', 'Julian N Selley', 'Stacey Warwood', 'David Knight', 'Adam Byron', 'Martin J Humphries'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'The ability to provide an unbiased qualitative and quantitative description of the global changes to proteins in a cell or an organism would permit the systems-wide study of complex biological systems. Label-free quantitative shotgun proteomic strategies (including LC-MS ion intensity quantification and spectral counting) are attractive because of their relatively low cost, ease of implementation, and the lack of multiplexing restrictions when comparing multiple samples. Owing to improvements in the resolution and sensitivity of mass spectrometers, and the availability of analytical software packages, protein quantification by LC-MS ion intensity has increased in popularity. Here, we have addressed the importance of chromatographic alignment on protein quantification, and then assessed how spectral counting compares to ion intensity-based proteomic quantification. Using a spiked-in protein strategy, we analysed two situations that commonly arise in the application of proteomics to cell biology: (i) samples with a small number of proteins of differential abundance in a larger non-changing background, and (ii) samples with a larger number of proteins of differential abundance. To perform these assessments on biologically relevant samples, we used isolated integrin adhesion complexes (IACs). Technical replicate analysis of isolated IACs resulted in a range of alignment scores using the Progenesis QI software package and demonstrated that higher LC-MS chromatographic alignment scores increased the precision of protein quantification. Furthermore, implementation of a simple sample batch-running strategy enabled good chromatographic alignment for hundreds of samples over multiple batches. Finally, we applied the sample batch-running strategy and compared quantification by LC-MS ion intensity to spectral counting and found that quantification by LC-MS ion intensity was more accurate and precise. In summary, these results demonstrate that chromatographic alignment is important for precise and accurate protein quantification based on LC-MS ion intensity and accordingly we present a simple sample re-ordering strategy to facilitate improved alignment. These findings are not only relevant to label-free quantification using Progenesis QI but may be useful to the wide range of MS-based quantification strategies that rely on chromatographic alignment.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111476', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'The University of Manchester;', u'The University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Evolutionary dynamics of male reproductive genes in the Drosophila virilis subgroup', ['Yasir H Ahmed-Braimah', 'Robert L Unckless', 'Andrew G Clark'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Postcopulatory sexual selection (PCSS) is a potent evolutionary force that can drive rapid changes of reproductive genes within species, and thus has the potential to generate reproductive incompatibilities between species. Male seminal fluid proteins (SFPs) are major players in postmating interactions, and likely the main targets of PCSS in males. The virilis subgroup of Drosophila exhibits strong interspecific gametic incompatibilities, and can serve as a model to study the genetic basis of PCSS and gametic isolation. However, reproductive genes in this group have not been characterized. Here we use short-read RNA sequencing of male reproductive organs to examine the evolutionary dynamics of reproductive genes in members of the virilis subgroup: D. americana, D. lummei, D. novamexicana, and D. virilis. For each of the three male reproductive organs (accessory glands, ejaculatory bulb, and testes), we identify genes that show strong expression bias in a given tissue relative to the remaining tissues. We find that the majority of male reproductive transcripts are testes-biased, accounting for ~15% of all annotated genes. Ejaculatory bulb-biased transcripts largely code for lipid metabolic enzymes, and contain orthologs of the D. melnaogaster ejaculatory bulb protein, Peb-me, which is involved in mating-plug formation. In addition, we identify 71 candidate SFPs, and show that this set of genes has the highest rate of nonsynonymous codon substitution relative to testes- and ejaculatory bulb-biased genes. Furthermore, these SFPs are underrepresented on the X chromosome and are enriched for proteolytic enzymes, which is consistent with SFPs in other insect species. Surprisingly, we find 35 D. melanogaster SFPs with conserved accessory gland expression in the virilis group, suggesting these genes may have conserved reproductive roles in Drosophila. Finally, we show that several of the SFPs that have the highest rate of nonsynonymous codon substitutions reside on the centromeric half of chromosome 2, which contributes to paternal gametic incompatibility between species. Our results suggest that SFPs are under strong selection in the virilis group, and likely play a major role in PCSS and/or gametic isolation.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111377', [u'Evolutionary Biology'], [u'Cornell University;', u'University of Kansas']]
[u'MRIQC: Predicting Quality in Manual MRI Assessment Protocols Using No-Reference Image Quality Measures', ['Oscar Esteban', 'Daniel Birman', 'Marie Schaer', 'Oluwasanmi O Koyejo', 'Russell A Poldrack', 'Krzysztof J Gorgolewski'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Quality control of MR images is essential for excluding problematic acquisitions and avoiding bias in subsequent image processing and analysis. However, the visual inspection of individual images is time-consuming and limited by both intra- and inter-rater variance. The difficulty of visual inspection scales with study size and with the heterogeneity of multi-site data. Here, we describe a tool for the automated assessment of T1-weighted MR images of the brain - MRIQC. MRIQC calculates a set of quality measures from each image and uses them as features in a binary (include/exclude) classifier. The classifier was designed to ensure generalization to new samples acquired in different centers and using different scanning parameters from our training dataset. To achieve that goal, the classifier was trained on the Autism Brain Imaging Data Exchange (ABIDE) dataset (N=1102), acquired at 17 locations with heterogeneous scanning parameters. We selected random forests from a set of models and pre-processing options using nested cross-validation on the ABIDE dataset. We report a performance of \u223c89% accuracy of the best model evaluated with nested cross-validation. The best performing classifier was then evaluated on a held-out (unseen) dataset, unrelated to ABIDE and labeled by a different expert, yielding \u223c73% accuracy. The MRIQC software package and the trained classifier are released as an open source project, so that individual researchers and large consortia can readily curate their data regardless the size of their databases. Robust QC is crucial to identify early structured imaging artifacts in ongoing acquisition efforts, and helps detect individual substandard images that may bias downstream analyses.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111294', [u'Bioinformatics'], [u'Stanford University;', u'University of Geneva School of Medicine;', u'University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Stable association of a Drosophila-derived microbiota with its animal partner and the nutritional environment upon transfer between populations and generations', ['Melisandre Tefit', 'Benjamin Gillet', 'Pauline Joncour', 'Sandrine Hughes', 'Francois Leulier'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'In the past years, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has been extensively used to study the relationship between animals and their associated microbes. Compared to the one of wild populations, the microbiota of laboratory-reared flies is less diverse, and comprises fewer bacterial taxa; nevertheless, the main commensal bacteria found in fly microbiota always belong to the Acetobacteraceae and Lactobacillaceae families. The bacterial communities associated with the fly are environmentally acquired, and the partners engage in a perpetual re-association process. Adult flies constantly ingest and excrete microbes from and onto their feeding substrate, which are then transmitted to the next generation developing within this shared habitat. We wanted to analyze the potential changes in the bacterial community during its reciprocal transfer between the two compartments of the niche (i.e. the fly and the diet). To address this question, we used a diverse, wild-derived microbial community and analyzed its relationship with the fly population and the nutritive substrate in a given habitat. Here we show that the community was overall well maintained upon transmission to a new niche, to a new fly population and to their progeny, illustrating the stable association of a Drosophila-derived microbiota with its fly partner and the nutritional environment. These results highlight the preponderant role of the nutritional substrate in the dynamics of Drosophila/microbiota interactions, and the need to fully integrate this variable when performing such studies.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111492', [u'Microbiology'], [u'Ecole Normale Superieure de Lyon;', u'Ecole Normale Superieure de Lyonn']]
[u'Oxygen consumption rate in Gasterosteus aculeatus-Schistocephalus solidus system from a non-migratory naturally infected population.', ['Andrea Tarallo', "Giuseppe D'Onofrio", 'Claudio Agnisola'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'The three spine stickleback Gasterosteus aculeatus is a specific obligatory intermediate host for the cestode worm Schistocephalus solidus. This system is commonly used to investigate the host-parasite interaction in fishes. Despite the interesting attempts which have been made to quantify the impact of the parasite over the respiration rate of the host fish, none of the previous reports took in consideration that stickleback is diversified in different ecotypes according to its ability to made reproductive migration, from and to the sea. Here the oxygen consumption rate in specimens of three-spine stickleback collected from a non-migratory population was quantified with the aim to test if the S. solidus infection drives a change in the oxygen consumption level of the host fish. The results showed that the infected fishes have a higher rate of oxygen consumption compared with the uninfected one. The differences were due to a direct effect of the parasite, not merely to its contribution to the whole oxygen consumption rate. The data were compared with previous reports, showing that the non-migratory population was characterized by a different level of oxygen consumption rate. The differences were interpreted in terms of divergence in physiological adaptations which had to be appeared in different populations.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111112', [u'Zoology'], [u'Dept. of Biology and Evolution of Marine Organisms, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn;', u'Dept. of Biology, University of Naples Federico II']]
[u'A genome-wide interactome of DNA-associated proteins in the human liver', ['Ryne C Ramaker', 'Daniel Savic', 'Andrew A Hardigan', 'Kimberly Newberry', 'Gregory M Cooper', 'Richard M. Myers', 'Sara J Cooper'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Large-scale efforts like the Encyclopedia of DNA Elements (ENCODE) Project have made tremendous progress in cataloging the genomic binding patterns of DNA-associated proteins (DAPs), such as transcription factors (TFs). However most chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) analyses have focused on a few immortalized cell lines whose activities and physiology deviate in important ways from endogenous cells and tissues. Consequently, binding data from primary human tissue are essential to improving our understanding of in vivo gene regulation. Here we analyze ChIP-seq data for 20 DAPs assayed in two healthy human liver tissue samples, identifying more than 450,000 binding sites. We integrated binding data with transcriptome and phased whole genome data to investigate allelic DAP interactions and the impact of heterozygous sequence variation on the expression of neighboring genes. We find our tissue-based dataset demonstrates binding patterns more consistent with liver biology than cell lines, and describe uses of these data to better prioritize impactful non-coding variation. Collectively, our rich dataset offers novel insights into genome function in healthy liver tissue and provides a valuable research resource for assessing disease-related disruptions.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111385', [u'Genomics'], [u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology;', u"St. Jude's Childrens Research Hospital;", u'HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechology']]
[u"Accumulation of sensory evidence is impaired in Parkinson's disease with visual hallucinations", ["Claire O'Callaghan", 'Julie Hall', 'Alessandro Tomassini', 'Alana Muller', 'Ishan Walpola', 'Ahmed Moustafa', 'James Shine', 'Simon Lewis'], u'February 24, 2017.', u"Models of hallucinations across disorders emphasise an imbalance between sensory input and top-down influences over perception. However, the psychological and mechanistic correlates of this imbalance remain underspecified. Visual hallucinations in Parkinson's disease (PD) are associated with impairments in lower level visual processes and attention, accompanied by over activity and connectivity in higher-order association brain networks. PD therefore provides an attractive framework to explore the relative contributions of bottom-up versus top-down disturbances in hallucinations. Here, we characterised sensory processing in PD patients with and without visual hallucinations, and in healthy controls, by fitting a hierarchical drift diffusion model (hDDM) to an attentional task. The hDDM uses Bayesian estimates to decompose reaction time and response output into parameters reflecting drift rates of evidence accumulation, decision thresholds and non-decision time. We observed slower drift rates in PD patients with hallucinations, which were insensitive to changes in task demand. In contrast, wider decision boundaries and shorter non-decision times relative to controls were found in PD regardless of hallucinator status. Inefficient and less flexible sensory evidence accumulation emerge as unique features of PD hallucinators. We integrate these results with current models of hallucinations, suggesting that slow and inefficient sensory input in PD is less informative, and may therefore be down-weighted leading to an over reliance on top-down influences. Our findings provide a novel computational framework to better specify the impairments in dynamic sensory processing that are a risk factor for visual hallucinations.", u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111278', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'University of Cambridge;', u'University of Sydney;', u'University of Western Sydney']]
[u'Flexibility to contingency changes distinguishes habitual and goal-directed strategies in humans', ['Julie Lee', 'Mehdi Keramati'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Decision-making in the real world presents the challenge of requiring flexible yet prompt behavior, a balance that has been characterized in terms of a trade-off between a slower, prospective goal-directed model-based (MB) strategy and a fast, retrospective habitual model-free (MF) strategy. Theory predicts that flexibility to changes in both reward values and transition contingencies can determine the relative influence of the two systems in reinforcement learning, but few studies have manipulated the latter. Therefore, we developed a novel two-level contingency change task in which transition contingencies between states change every few trials; MB and MF control predict different responses following these contingency changes, allowing their relative influence to be inferred. Additionally, we manipulated the rate of contingency changes in order to determine whether contingency change volatility would play a role in shifting subjects between a MB or MF strategy. We found that human subjects employed a hybrid MB/MF strategy on the task, corroborating the parallel contribution of MB and MF systems in reinforcement learning. Further, subjects did not remain at one level of MB/MF behaviour but rather displayed a shift towards more MB behavior over the first two blocks that was not attributable to the rate of contingency changes but was rather a more general effect of block order. The extent to which each subject used MB control was also related to reward earned, with a correlation between MB weight and reward rate. We demonstrate that flexibility to contingency changes can distinguish MB and MF strategies, with human subjects utilising a hybrid strategy that shifts towards more MB behavior over blocks, consequently corresponding to a higher payoff.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/107078', [u'Animal Behavior and Cognition'], [u'Institute of Ophthalmology;', u'Max Planck University College London Centre for Computational Psychiatry and Ageing Research']]
[u'Modern machine learning far outperforms GLMs at predicting spikes', ['Ari S. Benjamin', 'Hugo L. Fernandes', 'Tucker Tomlinson', 'Pavan Ramkumar', 'Chris VerSteeg', 'Lee Miller', 'Konrad Paul Kording'], u'February 24, 2017.', u"Neuroscience has long focused on finding encoding models that effectively ask 'what predicts neural spiking?' and generalized linear models (GLMs) are a typical approach. Modern machine learning techniques have the potential to perform better. Here we directly compared GLMs to three leading methods: feedforward neural networks, gradient boosted trees, and stacked ensembles that combine the predictions of several methods. We predicted spike counts in macaque motor (M1) and somatosensory (S1) cortices from reaching kinematics, and in rat hippocampal cells from open field location and orientation. In general, the modern methods produced far better spike predictions and were less sensitive to the preprocessing of features. XGBoost and the ensemble were the best-performing methods and worked well even on neural data with very low spike rates. This overall performance suggests that tuning curves built with GLMs are at times inaccurate and can be easily improved upon. Our publicly shared code uses standard packages and can be quickly applied to other datasets. Encoding models built with machine learning techniques more accurately predict spikes and can offer meaningful benchmarks for simpler models.", u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111450', [u'Neuroscience'], [u'Northwestern University']]
[u'RNA Stores Tau Reversibly in Complex Coacervates', ['Xuemei Zhang', 'Neil E. Eschmann', 'Yanxian Lin', 'Hongjun Zhou', 'Jennifer Rauch', 'Israel Hernandez', 'Elmer Guzman', 'Kenneth S. Kosik', 'Songi Han'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Non-membrane bound organelles that behave like liquid droplets are widespread among eukaryotic cells. Their dysregulation appears to be a critical step in several neurodegenerative conditions. Here we report that Tau protein, the primary constituent of Alzheimer neurofibrillary tangles, can form liquid droplets and therefore has the necessary biophysical properties to undergo a liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) in cells. Consonant with the factors that induce LLPS, Tau is an intrinsically disordered protein that electrostatically complexes with RNA to form droplets that can be tuned by salt concentration and temperature and exhibit low interfacial tension. Uniquely, the pool of RNAs to which Tau binds in living cells are tRNAs. This phase state of Tau is held in 1:1 charge balance across large blocks of the protein and the nucleic acid and forms optimal complexes at multiple RNA:Tau mass ratios. These features define a complex co-acervate in which undergo free diffusion in their interior, despite the high concentration of protein, and rapid exchange with their exterior environment. Counter to most closely packed protein assemblies, the condensed phase state of Tau is not associated with changes in local Tau conformations as verified by distance measurements across a pair of spin labels by pulsed dipolar spectroscopy. In contrast, fibrillar states of Tau are accompanied by large changes in local Tau conformations. Importantly, prolonged residency within a droplet results in the emergence of detectable beta-structure by thioflavin labeling, suggesting that the droplet state can incubate Tau and pre-dispose it toward beta sheet structures typical of insoluble Tau fibrils.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111245', [u'Biophysics'], [u'University of California Santa Barbara']]
[u'\u03b1-tubulin acetylation and detyrosination correlate with starvation-induced autophagy in tobacco cells', ['Dmytro Lytvyn', 'Alla Yemets', 'Yaroslav Blume'], u'February 24, 2017.', u'Recent data has enabled discovery of novel functions of microtubules (MTs) in the regulation of autophagy development under physiologic/stressful conditions in yeast and animal cells. MTs participate in maturation and traffic of autophagosomes through their dynamic state changes and post-translational modifications of tubulin, including acetylation. We demonstrated the involvement of tobacco cell MTs in the development of starvation-induced autophagy via tubulin acetylation and denitrotyrosination. Induced metabolic stress caused by prolonged cultivation of BY-2 suspension cells results in glucose depletion in the culture medium and following increased rates of protein hydrolysis and autophagy. Development of autophagy was strongly accompanied by \u03b1-tubulin acetylation and detyrosination. Both post-translational modifications were caused by changes in the molecular microenvironment of the tobacco cell MTs that was revealed via Co-IP assay. The termination of autophagy led to the development of programmed cell death that was characterised by nucleosomal DNA fragmentation and decreases in \u03b1-tubulin acetylation and detyrosination. Our data suggest the role of the functional state of MTs in the mediation of plant autophagy via changes in the tubulin microenvironment and in its post-translational modifications.', u'/content/early/2017/02/24/111484', [u'Plant Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Biotechnology and Genomics']]
