[u'A library of structurally homogeneous human N-glycans synthesized from microbial oligosaccharide precursors', ['Brian S. Hamilton', 'Joshua D. Wilson', 'Marina A. Shumakovich', 'Adam C. Fisher', 'James C. Brooks', 'Alyssa Pontes', 'Radnaa Naran', 'Christian Heiss', 'Chao Gao', 'Robert Kurdish', 'Jamie Heimburg-Molinaro', 'Parastoo Azadi', 'Richard D. Cummings', 'Judith H. Merritt', 'Matthew P DeLisa'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Synthesis of homogenous glycans in quantitative yields represents a major bottleneck to the production of molecular tools for glycoscience, such as glycan microarrays, affinity resins, and reference standards. Here, we describe a combined biological/enzymatic method termed bioenzymatic synthesis that is capable of efficiently converting microbially-derived precursor oligosaccharides into structurally uniform human-type N-glycans. Unlike starting material obtained by chemical synthesis or direct isolation from natural sources, which can be time consuming and costly to generate, bioenzymatic synthesis involves precursors derived from renewable sources including wild-type Saccharomyces cerevisiae glycoproteins and lipid-linked oligosaccharides from glycoengineered Escherichia coli. Following deglycosylation of these biosynthetic precursors, the resulting microbial oligosaccharides are subjected to a greatly simplified purification scheme followed by structural remodeling using commercially available and recombinantly produced glycosyltransferases including key N-acetylglucosaminyltransferases (e.g., GnTI, GnTII, and GnTIV) involved in early remodeling of glycans in the mammalian glycosylation pathway. Using this approach, preparative quantities of hybrid and complex-type N-glycans including asymmetric multi-antennary structures were generated all without the need of a specialized skillset. Collectively, our results reveal bioenzymatic synthesis to be a user-friendly methodology for rapidly supplying homogeneous oligosaccharide structures that can be used to understand the human glycome and probe the biological roles of glycans in health and disease.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118216', [], [u'Glycobia;', u'Complex Carbohydrate Research Center, The University of Georgia;', u'Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School,;', u'Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School;', u'Cornell University']]
[u'Identification, Isolation, and Characterization of Human LGR5-positive Colon Adenoma Cells', ['Michael K Dame', 'Durga Attili', 'Shannon D McClintock', 'Priya H Dedhia', 'Peter Ouilette', 'Olaf Hardt', 'Alana M Chin', 'Xiang Xue', 'Julie Laliberte', 'Erica L Katz', 'Gina M Newsome', 'David Hill', 'Alyssa Miller', 'David Agorku', 'Christopher H Altheim', 'Andreas Bosio', 'Becky Simon', 'Linda C Samuelson', 'Jay A Stoerker', 'Henry D Appelman', 'James Varani', 'Max S Wicha', 'Dean E Brenner', 'Yatrik M Shah', 'Jason R Spence', 'Justin A Colacino'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'The intestine is maintained by stem cells, marked by LGR5 expression, located at the base of crypts. Genetically engineered mouse models have provided information about marker genes and stem cell pathways. Less is known about human intestinal stem cells due to difficulty detecting and isolating these cells. We established an organoid repository from patient-derived adenomas, adenocarcinomas, and normal colon, which we analyzed for variants in 71 colorectal cancer (CRC) associated genes. Normal and neoplastic colon tissue organoids were analyzed for LGR5 expression by immunohistochemistry. LGR5-positive cells were isolated from 4 adenoma organoid lines and analyzed by RNA-sequencing. LGR5 expression in epithelium and stroma was associated with tumor stage. Integrating functional experiments with RNA-seq data from LGR5-positive adenoma organoid cells and normal colon, we associated expression of CRC-specific genes, including DKK4, with LGR5 expression. This system can be used to study LGR5-expressing cells in human tissue homeostasis and carcinogenesis.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118034', [], [u'University of Michigan;', u'Miltenyi Biotec GmbH;', u'Progenity, Inc.;', u'University of Michigan School of Public Health']]
[u'Synthesis And Modification Of A Mesoporous Material Type MCM-41 By An Amine For The Adsorption Of Organic Pollutants: Anionic And Cationic Dyes.', ['Benyoub Nassima', 'Benhamou Abdallah', 'Debab Abdelkader'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'The main objective of this work was to synthesize the MCM-41 material from optimized protocols. In the second step, the pore size and the specific surface area of the parent material was increased by the incorporation of swelling agents (long chain carbon amines N-N, Dimethyl-dodecylamine -DMDDA-) in post-synthesis. Then the selective extraction of the amine and the calcination allowed us to obtain materials with pore sizes and even larger surfaces than those of the starting materials (parent materials). The adsorbents, identified as MCM-41 (P), DMDDA-41 (A), DMDDA-41 (B), DMDDA-41 (C) and MCM-41 (P/C), were characterized regarding their texture, mesoscopic ordering and chemical surface and finally their adsorption capacity was evaluated using two diffrent dyes (anionic: Orange II sodium and cationic: Janus Green B). The results obtained during the adsorption study show the efficiency of these materials, in particular the (amine and calcined) materials for decolorizing aqueous media contaminated with organic dyes. The kinetic studies and the adsorption isotherms were carried out to clarify the method of fixing each of the two dyes on the two materials tested. The experiments showed that the amine material had a maximum capacity for fixing Orange II (221.06 mg / g) (anionic dye), whereas for a maximum adsorption capacity (455.23 mg / g ) Of the Janus GB (cationic dye), the calcined material is more efficient.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118182', [], [u'University of Science and Technology of Oran Mohamed Boudiaf']]
[u'Mapping pollution in a megalopolis: the case for atmospheric biomonitors of nitrogen deposition', ['Edison A. Diaz-Alvarez', 'Erick de la Barrera'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'An increase of nitrogen deposition resulting from human activities is not only a major threat for global biodiversity, but also for human health, especially in highly populated regions. It is thus important and in some instances legally mandated to monitor reactive nitrogen species in the atmosphere. However, deployment of automated networks can be excessively costly for most cities so the utilization of widely distributed biological species suitable for biomonitoring may be a good alternative. The aim of this work was thus to assess the suitability of different atmospheric organisms as biomonitors of nitrogen deposition, by means of an extensive sampling of a lichen, two mosses, and one bromeliad throughout the Valley of Mexico, the basin where the megalopolis of Mexico City (population 20 million) is located, and subsequent measurements of nitrogen metabolism parameters. In all cases significant responses of nitrogen content, C:N ratio and \u03b415N were found for the lichen Anaptychia sp. the mosses Grimmia sp. and Fabronia sp., and the bromeliad Tillandsia recurvata in response to season and collected site. In turn, \u03b415N for the mosses responded linearly to the wet deposition (R2= 0.7 for Grimmia sp. and R2=0.2 for Fabronia sp.). Also, the nitrogen content (R2=0.7), the C:N ratio (R2=0.6), and \u03b415N (R2=0.5) for the bromeliad had a linear response to NOx. However, latter species was not found in sites with NOx concentrations above 212 ppm. These biomonitors can be utilized in tandem to determine the status of nitrogenous pollution in regions without monitoring networks.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118257', [], [u'Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico']]
[u'ChIPSeqFPro, a pipeline for sequential processing of ChIP-Seq fastq to bigwig files', ['Milos Pjanic'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'ChIPSeqFPro is a pipeline that automates processing of a collection of ChIPSeq or ATAC-Seq data starting from the gzip compressed fastq files. It performs the quality control using FastQC, mapping to the human genome hg19 or mouse mm10 using BWA mapper, for both single read or paired end sequencing fastq files, followed with sam to bam conversion using samtools view, creates statistics on bam files using samtools flagstat, peak calling with MACS, and finally creates high resolution bigwig files from bam files using a custom script bam2bigwig that invokes bedtools bamtobed and UCSC scripts, bedItemOverlapCount, bedGraphToBigWig and fetchChromSizes.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118281', [], [u'Stanford University Cardiovascular Medicine']]
[u'Bacterial glycoengineering as a biosynthetic route to customized glycomolecules', ['Laura E. Yates', 'Dominic C. Mills', 'Matthew P DeLisa'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Bacteria have garnered increased interest in recent years as a platform for the biosynthesis of a variety of glycomolecules such as soluble oligosaccharides, surface-exposed carbohydrates and glycoproteins. The ability to flexibly engineer commonly used laboratory species such as Escherichia coli to efficiently synthesize non-native sugar structures by recombinant expression of enzymes from various carbohydrate biosynthesis pathways has allowed for the facile generation of important products such as conjugate vaccines, glycosylated outer membrane vesicles, and a variety of other research reagents for studying and understanding the role of glycans in living systems. This chapter highlights some of the key discoveries and technologies for equipping bacteria with the requisite biosynthetic machinery to generate such products. As the bacterial glyco-toolbox continues to grow, these technologies are expected to expand the range of glycomolecules produced recombinantly in bacterial systems, thereby opening up this platform to an even larger number of applications.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118224', [], [u'Cornell University']]
[u'Conserved processes of metazoan whole-body regeneration identified in sea star larvae', ['Veronica Hinman', 'Greg Cary'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Regeneration is pervasive among the metazoa, but to vastly varying degrees. Platyhelminthes, Cnidaria, and Echinodermata are phyla whose members are capable of whole-body regeneration (WBR). While planaria and hydra have been exemplary models of this phenomenon, the details of echinoderm WBR are less established. We characterize regeneration in the larval sea star (Patiria miniata). Normal cell proliferation is reduced following bisection and prior to the onset of wound-proximal proliferation. This blastema-like proliferation is preceded by the restoration of axial patterning. Transcriptome responses highlight functions common to regeneration, such as wound healing and proliferation. Finally, we find evidence for conserved temporal expression of orthologs from published Platyhelminth and Cnidarian regeneration datasets. These analyses show that sea star larvae undergo regeneration through a trajectory including wound response, axis respecification, and blastemal proliferation. Commonalities between this Deuterostome model and other WBR models suggest a deep conservation of whole-body regeneration among the metazoa.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118232', [], [u'Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'A Species-Specific Nematocide that Results in Terminal Embryogenesis', ['Ray L Hong', 'Tess Renahan'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Nematode-insect interactions are ubiquitous, complex, and constantly changing as the host and nematode coevolve. The entomophilic nematode Pristionchus pacificus is found on a myriad of beetle species worldwide, though the molecular dynamics of this relationship are largely unknown. To better understand how host cues affect P. pacificus embryogenesis, we characterized the threshold of sensitivity to the pheromone (Z)-7-tetradecen-2-one (ZTDO) by determining the minimum exposure duration and developmental window that results in P. pacificus embryonic lethality. We found early-stage embryos exposed to volatile ZTDO for as few as four hours all display terminal embryogenesis, characterized by punctuated development up to 48 hours later, with abnormal morphology and limited lumen formation. To determine if the pheromone arrests pre-hatching development by suffocating or permeabilizing the eggshells, we raised embryos under anoxic condition as well as examined eggshell permeability using the lipophilic dye FM4-64. We found that asphyxiating the embryos arrested embryogenesis in a reversible manner but did not phenocopy the effects of ZTDO exposure, whereas the ZTDO-induced disruption of embryogenesis did correlate with increased eggshell permeability. The effects of ZTDO are also highly specific, as other lipid insect compounds do not produce any detectable embryocidal effect. The high specificity and unusual teratogenic effect of ZTDO may be important in mediating the host-nematode relationship by regulating P. pacificus development.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118141', [], [u'California State University Northridge;', u'Max-Planck Institute for Developmental Biology']]
[u'Positive interactions support the formation of complex spatial networks', ['Gianalberto Losapio', 'Marcelino de la Cruz', 'Adrian Escudero', 'Bernhard Schmid', 'Christian Schob'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'Ecosystems are structured by networks of interactions among species, but this hypothesis has rarely been tested in plant communities. Indeed, the structure and functioning of plant interaction networks have remained elusive so far and the mechanisms underlying their origin and maintenance remain unknown. By developing a novel approach that integrates the ecology of plant interactions with network theory and using spatial pattern analysis, we show that plant communities are organised in spatially variable and complex networks. Specifically, we found that positive plant interactions promote the formation and cohesiveness of large networks. At small spatial scale, where positive mutual interactions prevailed, the network was characterised by a large connected component. With increasing scale, when negative interactions took over, network structure became more hierarchical with many detached components. These findings shade new light on the complex networks of interactions occurring in plant communities.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118166', [], [u'University of Zurich;', u'University King Juan Carlos']]
[u'Electrically Conductive Pili from Pilin Genes of Phylogenetically Diverse Microorganisms', ['David J.F. Walker', 'Ramesh Y Adhikari', 'Dawn E Holmes', 'Joy E Ward', 'Trevor L Woodard', 'Kelly P Nevin', 'Derek R Lovley'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'The possibility that bacteria other than Geobacter species might contain genes for electrically conductive pili (e-pili) was investigated by heterologously expressing pilin genes of interest in Geobacter sulfurreducens. Strains of G. sulfurreducens producing high current densities, which are only possible with e-pili, were obtained with pilin genes from Flexistipes sinusarabici, Calditerrivibrio nitroreducens, and Desulfurivibrio alkaliphilus. The conductance of pili from these strains was comparable to native G. sulfurreducens e-pili. The e-pili derived from C. nitroreducens, and D. alkaliphilus pilin genes are the first examples of relatively long (> 100 amino acids) pilin monomers assembling into e-pili. The pilin gene from Desulfofervidus auxilii did not yield e-pili, suggesting that the hypothesis that this sulfate reducer wires itself to ANME-1 microbes with e-pili to promote anaerobic methane oxidation should be reevaluated. A high density of aromatic amino acids and a lack of substantial aromatic-free gaps along the length of long pilins may be important characteristics leading to e-pili. This study demonstrates a simple method to screen pilin genes from difficult-to-culture microorganisms for their potential to yield e-pili; reveals new potential sources for biologically based electronic materials; and suggests that a wide phylogenetic diversity of microorganisms may employ e-pili for extracellular electron exchange.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118059', [], [u'University of Massachusetts, Amherst;', u'Jacksonville University']]
[u'Eyes closed or Eyes open? Exploring the alpha desynchronization hypothesis in resting state functional connectivity networks with intracranial EEG', ['Jaime Gomez-Ramirez', 'Shelagh Freedman', 'Diego Mateos', 'Jose Luis Perez Velazquez', 'Taufik Valiante'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'This paper addresses a fundamental question, are eyes closed and eyes open resting states equivalent baseline  conditions, or do they have consistently different electrophysiological signatures?\nWe compare the functional connectivity patterns in an eyes closed resting state with an eyes open resting state, and show that functional connectivity in the alpha band decreases in the eyes open condition compared to eyes closed. This "alpha desynchronization" or reduction in the number of connections from  eyes closed to eyes open, is here, for the first time, studied with intracranial recordings.\nWe provide two calculations of the wiring cost, local and mesoscopic, defined in terms of the distance between the electrodes and the likelihood that they are functionally connected.\nWe find that, in agreement with the "alpha desynchronization" hypothesis, the local wiring cost decreases going from eyes closed to eyes open. However, when the wiring cost calculation takes into account the connectivity pattern, the wiring cost variation from eyes closed to eyes open is not as consistent and shows regional specificity.\nThe wiring cost measure defined here, provides a new avenue for understanding the electrophysiology of resting state.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118174', [], [u'The Hospital fo Sick Children;', u'{Concordia University, Canada;', u'Toronto Western Hospital']]
[u'Lysinibacillus fusiformis M5 induces increased complexity in Bacillus subtilis 168 colony biofilms via hypoxanthine', ['Ramses Gallegos Monterrosa', 'Stefanie Kankel', 'Sebastian Goetze', 'Robert Barnett', 'Pierre Stallforth', 'Akos T Kovacs'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'In recent years, biofilms have become a central subject of research in the fields of microbiology, medicine, agriculture, or systems biology amongst others. The sociomicrobiology of multispecies biofilms, however, is still poorly understood. Here, we report a screening system that allowed us to identify soil bacteria, which induce architectural changes in biofilm colonies when cocultured with B. subtilis. We identified the soil bacterium Lysinibacillus fusiformis M5 as inducer of wrinkle-formation in B. subtilis colonies mediated by a diffusible signaling molecule. This compound was isolated by bioassay-guided chromatographic fractionation. The elicitor was identified to be the purine hypoxanthine using mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. We show that the induction of wrinkle formation by hypoxanthine is not dependent on signal recognition by the histidine kinases KinA, KinB, KinC, and KinD, which are generally involved in phosphorylation of the master regulator Spo0A. Likewise, we show that hypoxanthine signaling does not induce the expression of biofilm-matrix related operons epsA-O and tasA-sipW-tapA. Finally, we demonstrate that the purine permease PbuO, but not PbuG, is necessary for hypoxanthine to induce an increase in wrinkleality of B. subtilis biofilm colonies. Our results suggest that hypoxanthine-stimulated wrinkle development is not due to a direct induction of biofilm-related gene expression, but rather caused by the metabolic changes derived from the excess of hypoxanthine in B. subtilis cells.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118125', [], [u'Terrestrial Biofilms Group, Institute of Microbiology, Friedrich Schiller University Jena;', u'Leibniz Institute for Natural Product Research and Infection Biology, Hans Knoell Institute, HKI;', u'Terrestrial Biofilms Group, Institute of Microbiology, Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Jena']]
[u'A Genome-wide Survey of Mutations in the Jurkat Cell Line', ['Louis Gioia', 'Azeem Siddique', 'Steven R Head', 'Daniel R Salomon', 'Andrew I Su'], u'March 18, 2017.', u"The Jurkat cell line has an extensive history as a model of T cell signaling. But at the turn of the 21st century, some irregularities were observed in Jurkat's expression of central regulators of T cell receptor signaling, which raised doubts about how closely the cell line paralleled normal human T cells. While numerous expression deficiencies have been described in Jurkat, genetic explanations have only been provided for a handful of defects. Here, we report a comprehensive catolog of genomic variation in the Jurkat cell line based on whole-genome sequencing. With this list of all detectable, non-reference sequences, we prioritize potentially damaging mutations by mining public databases for functional effects. We confirm the majority of documented mutations in Jurkat and propose links from detrimental gene variants to observed expression abnormalities in the cell line. This work ties together decades of molecular experiments and serves as a resource that will streamline both the interpretation of past research and the design of future Jurkat studies.", u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118117', [], [u'The Scripps Research Institute']]
[u'The genomic footprint of climate adaptation in Chironomus riparius', ['Ann-Marie Oppold', 'Andreas Wieser', 'Tilman Schell', 'Simit Patel', 'Hanno Schmidt', 'Thomas Hankeln', 'Barbara Feldmeyer', 'Markus Pfenninger'], u'March 18, 2017.', u'The gradual heterogeneity of climatic factors produces continuously varying selection pressures across geographic distances that leave signatures of clinal variation in the genome. Separating signatures of clinal adaptation from signatures of other evolutionary forces, such as neutral processes and adaptation to specific non-clinal conditions of the immediate local environment is a major challenge. Here, we examine climate adaptation in natural populations of the non-biting midge Chironomus riparius sampled along a climatic gradient across Europe. Our study integrates experimental data, individual genome resequencing, Pool-Seq data, and population genetic modelling. Common-garden experiments revealed a significant difference in population growth rates corresponding to the population origin along the climate gradient, suggesting thermal adaptation on the phenotypic level. In a population genomic analysis, we derived empirical estimates of demography and migration as parameters for species-specific models to simulate neutral divergence among populations. Despite the effort, the modelling approach consistently underestimated the empirical population differentiation. This highlights important challenges and pitfalls in population genetic modelling of the evolutionary dynamics in multivoltine ectotherms. We instead used a more conservative statistical FST outlier threshold based on empirical data to infer positive selection across the climate gradient, and combined the results with an environmental association analysis. Through this integration, it was possible to disentangle 999 candidate genes for local adaptation among populations from 162 candidate genes for clinal adaptation along the climate gradients. GO term enrichment analysis revealed that the functional basis of climate adaptation involves the apoptotic process and molecular response to heat.', u'/content/early/2017/03/18/118190', [], [u'Senckenberg BIK-F, Goethe University Frankfurt am Main, Germany;', u'Senckenberg BIK-F, Frankfurt am Main, , Germany;', u'Senckenberg BIK-F, Frankfurt am Main, Germany;', u'Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany']]
