[u"We examine the possible role of 'noise' as a control signal for large-scale cognitive biological phenomena that recruit simpler cognitive modules into temporary, dynamic working coalitions. Noise color, as well as magnitude, may convey essential control information, a possibly important extension of the Data Rate Theorem. An adaptation of the Black-Scholes model suggests the availability of metabolic free energy can determine rates of coalition biocognition in the presence of noise. Evolutionary process may have exapted colored noise as a subtle tool for the regulation of biological phenomena, supplementing direct molecular signals. Experimental verification of this conjecture may be similarly subtle.", u'Background: Research is published in indexed, online scholarly journals so that published knowledge can be easily found and built upon by others. Most scholars rely on relatively few online indexing service providers to search for relevant scholarly content. It is under-appreciated that the quality of indexing can vary across different journals and that this can have an adverse effect on the quality of research. Objective: In this short paper I compare the recall of commonly used online indexers; Google Scholar, Web of Knowledge, Scopus, Microsoft Academic Search and Mendeley Search against a selection of over 20,000 papers published in two different high-volume journals: PLOS ONE and Zootaxa. Results: When using Google Scholar, content in Zootaxa has low recall for search terms that are known to occur in it, significantly lower than the near-perfect recall of the same terms in PLOS ONE. All other indexers tend to have lower recall than Google Scholar except Scopus which outperformed Google Scholar for recall on Zootaxa searches. I also elaborate why Dark Research is undesirable for optimal scientific progress with some recommendations for change. Conclusion: This research is a basic proof-of-concept which demonstrates that when searching for published scholarly content, relevant studies can remain hidden as \u2019Dark Research\u2019 in poorly-indexed journals, even despite expertise-informed efforts to find the content. The technological capability to do full text indexing on all modern scholarly journal content certainly exists, it is perhaps just publisher-imposed access-restrictions on content that prevents this from happening.', u'We have identified a small dynamic population of opaque cells in Ishikawa endometrial cultures whose unusual characteristics include the fact that chromosomes become enveloped during the final stages of cytokinesis by material staining for endogenous biotin. Endogenous biotin, ultimately shown to be due to mitochondrial carboxylases, was detected in a membrane that wraps around aggregated nuclei in syncytia that develop as part of the differentiation of domes in Ishikawa cells. (Fleming H et al. 1998). The \u201cwrapped chromosomes\u201d in individual opaque Ishikawa cells stain similarly suggesting a similar origin. We were able to show that opaque cells form from transparent monolayer cells, can be polyploid, and often appear to be detaching from the colony and from the underlying substrate. We were also able to show an opaque cell fissioning asymmetrically, to give rise to a monolayer cell whose nucleus appeared to be wrapped. We believe that the cycle of differentiation of monolayer cells into opaque, polyploid cells and depolyploidization back into monolayer cells is involved in the spatial extension of cells as they develop from discrete colonies into a confluent monolayer. Wrapping of chromosomes may ensure that complete genomes are inherited by daughter cells during depolyploidization.', u'An ongoing and politically sensitive aspect of proper ecological stewardship revolves around improving the conditions and health of all of the species in the area of concern including both predator and prey species. Human industrial activities have dramatically reduced the land area available to the native species which has placed stresses and fragility into the ecological web. Maintaining proper ecological dynamics has become a critical aspect of policy initiatives designed to safeguard our natural reserves including the establishment of ecological forests and sanctuaries. Herein we outline our proposal to tackle a central issue in wildlife management: improving our knowledge of predator-prey dynamics that vary both temporally and specially in non-linear ways. By leveraging techniques pioneered in other disciplines in addition to the traditional methods, we aim to drastically improve our understanding of the Moose-Grey Wolf interaction and to develop a system with applicability in other regions and other species.', u'The accelerated increase of nitrogen deposition is the third cause of biodiversity loss, as a result of saturation of ecosystems worldwide. The effects of nitrogen deposition on the endemic and endangered neotropical epiphytic orchid, Laelia speciosa, were evaluated via a dose-response experiment and a stable isotopic field assessment for individuals from a city and from an oak forest, in order to evaluate the potential risk facing this orchid, and record the history of the nitrogen deposition of series of consecutive annually produced pseudobulbs. Lower doses of nitrogen of up to 20 kg N ha yr\u20131 the dose that led to optimal performance of plants, acted as fertilizer. For instance, chlorophyll content and chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm) peaked at 0.66 \xb1 0.03 g m-2 and 0.85 \xb1 0.01, respectively. In contrast, toxic effects were observed at the higher doses of 40 and 80 kg N ha yr\u20131, leading a decrease of 38% of the chlorophyll content and 23% of the chlorophyll fluorescence. For the field assessment, a tissue nitrogen content of 1.2 \xb1 0.1% (dry mass basis) for the orchids suggested non-toxic deposition rates both at the city and the oak forest. However, their respective isotopic signatures revealed different sources of N at each site. Indeed, in the oak forest \u03b415N amounted \u20133.1 \xb1 0.3\u2030, typical of places with low industrial activities, while in the city the \u03b415N reached 5.6 \xb1 0.2\u2030, typical of sites with some degree of industrial and automobile activity. Laelia speciosa would be an adequate bioindicator of nitrogen deposition because its ability to take up nitrogen from the atmosphere while preserving its isotopic signature and showing a clear physiological response to increasing inputs of nitrogen. However, its limited geographical distribution precludes the orchid as an ideal candidate for biomonitoring. Thus other vascular epiphytes should be considered for this purpose.', u'This study has established a successful protocol to cryopreserve lumpfish Cyclopterus lumpus (Linnaeus, 1758) milt. Three cryosolutions were tested based on Mounib\u2019s medium; the original medium including reduced l-glutathione (L-Glu), the basic sucrose and potassium bicarbonate medium without L-Glu, or with hen\u2019s egg yolk (EY). Dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) was used as the cryoprotectant along with all three diluents in a 1 to 2 dilution. Cryopreservation was performed with the mentioned cryosolutions at two freezing rates. Motility percentages of spermatozoa were evaluated using ImageJ with a computer assisted sperm analyzer (CASA) plug-in. Findings revealed that spermatozoa cryopreserved in Mounib\u2019s medium without L-Glu had a post-thaw motility score of 8.64 percentage points (pp) higher than to that with added L-Glu, and an addition of EY to the Mounib\u2019s medium lowered the post-thaw motility score by 15.07 pp. The difference in motility between both freezing rates was 5.23 pp, and samples cryopreserved on a 4.8 cm high tray resulted in a better post-thaw motility score. Cryopreserved milt had a 23.76 pp lower post-thaw motility score when compared with fresh milt. Cryopreservation of lumpfish milt has, to our knowledge, never been successfully carried out before. The established protocol will be a main contributing factor in a stable production of lumpfish juveniles in future.', u'Metabolically active pathways tend to be more highly conserved between ecologically similar relatives than other pathways for their critical role in life-functions. The developmental features of Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae may have become quite divergent, but their ecological niche is still quite similar. The functional homology between S. cerevisiae\u2019s MET16p and S. pombe\u2019s was investigated through plasmid insertion and sulfate assimilation assays in S. pombe. Although the S. cerevisiae:MET16p was produced, the S. pombe colonies were unable to utilize extracellular sulfate in the synthesis of Methionine.', u'Introduction: Behavioral attention, working memory (WM), and academic achievement share significant variance, but the direction of relationships across development are unknown. The aim of the present study was to determine whether WM mediates the pathway between inattentive behaviour and subsequent academic outcomes. Methods: 204 students from grades 1-4 (50% female) were recruited from elementary schools. Participants received assessments of WM and achievement at baseline and one year later. Teachers completed the SWAN behaviour rating scale both years. Mediation analysis with PROCESS (Hayes, 2013) was used to determine mediation pathways. Results: Inattention indirectly and directly influenced math addition, subtraction and calculation scores through its effect on visual-spatial WM. Children who displayed better attention had higher WM scores, and children with higher WM scores had stronger scores on math outcomes. Bias-corrected bootstrap confidence intervals for the indirect effects were entirely below zero for three out of four math outcomes. WM did not mediate the direct relationship between inattention and math and reading fluency scores. Discussion: Findings identify inattention and WM as longitudinal predictors for math addition, subtraction and calculation outcomes one year later, with visual-spatial WM as significant mediator. Results highlight the close relationship between inattention and WM and their importance in the development of math skills.', u'Respiratory problems are a major cause of mortality in people with spinal cord injury. More than 2000 veterans with spinal cord injury live in Iran. This study aimed to evaluate the pulmonary function of veterans with spinal cord injury participating in the health-screening program in Tehran-2013. This retrospective descriptive study was conducted by reviewing participants\u2019 medical records. All veterans (368) were male with the mean age of 49.62 \xb1 6.45 years. The mean time since injury was 27.17 \xb1 5.03 years; 32 veterans (8.7%) suffered from tetraplegia and 336 (91.3%) were paraplegic; 120 veterans (32.6%) had complete spinal cord injury and 248 had incomplete spinal cord injury (67.4%). Among them, 159 veterans had difficulty coughing; 198 complained of dyspnea and 119 had a history of hospitalization for pneumonia during the last year. It seems that veterans\u2019 pulmonary status in the screening was appropriate indicating the suitability of periodic visits to veterans in the home care program. It is suggested that future studies be conducted simultaneously with health screening programs.', u'The present study assesses swimbladder dynamics in natural occurring sardine, Sardina pilchardus, populations with the aim to examine whether this is affected by bathymetric positioning and the physiological state of the individuals. To do so swimbladder size and shape were modeled in relation to catch depth and the size of various visceral compartments such as gonad, liver, fat and stomach. Swimbladder size was shown to be related to depth in a way that individuals with smaller swimbladders occurred at larger depths. Moreover, evidence is provided that swimbladder in sardine might have a functional relationship both with the reproductive and the feeding state of individuals since none of the fish with hydrated gonads and/or large stomachs displayed distended swimbladders.', u'Introduction:\nThere is scarcity of global data with regards to rates of asymptomatic carrier state due to 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus. It will be interesting to study asymptomatic carrier state in the year 2012 when the global pandemic has been controlled. In this study we have attempted to evaluate the rates of asymptomatic carrier state due to this virus in a remote rural community from South India.\nMethods:\n380 consecutive, asymptomatic, community living adults without history of respiratory illness in the last 30 days were studied. Demographic and clinical profile was noted. Throat swab was obtained and tested by RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction) for swine influenza A (HINI) as per CDC (Centers for Disease Control) protocol. Participants who were positive in this test were followed weekly by clinical evaluation for a period of 4 weeks to look for onset of respiratory symptoms.\nResults:\nMean age was 42.58 yrs. Males formed 48.3% of the cohort. Mean body mass index was 23.62 kg/m2. 16.3% and 10.5% were diagnosed to have diabetes mellitus and hypertension respectively. None of the study participants had received seasonal influenza vaccine or pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccine. RT-PCR identified asymptomatic infection in 41 participants (10.8%). In uni-variate and multi-variate logistic regression analysis there were no significant associations between having asymptomatic carrier state, diabetes diagnosis, gender, age, BMI, hemoglobin A1C%. On follow-up none of the 41 positive participants developed respiratory symptoms.\nConclusion:\nHigh prevalence of asymptomatic carrier state after 2009 H1N1 influenza virus pandemic was found in our study in the year 2012. The significance of asymptomatic infection remains unclear.', u'Background. Integration of reductionist and holistic approaches is one of the great challenges for mathematical modeling. Mathematical models of complex systems are divided into black-box, white-box and grey-box types. A black-box model is completely nonmechanistic as internal mechanisms of a modeled complex system are hidden. A white-box model demonstrates direct mechanisms of functioning of a complex system. It holistically shows all events at microlevel, mesolevel and macrolevel of a modeled system at all stages of its dynamics. Earlier we have used the white-box modeling for verification and reformulation of the competitive exlusion principle. Here we investigate our white-box model of single-species population dynamics. This is fundamentally important because most basic ecological models are of black-box type, including Malthusian, Verhulst, Lotka-Volterra models. Methods. Our white-box model of single-species population growth is a purely logical deterministic individual-based cellular automata model. A biological prototype of the model is a vegetative propagation of rhizomatous lawn grasses. Using the Monte Carlo method, we investigate a role of different initial positioning of an individual in the habitat. We also investigate different size and structure of the habitat and two types of fecundity. Results. We have created and investigated a logical white-box model of an ecosystem with one species. This model demonstrates mechanisms of the S-shaped and double S-shaped population growth. We have investigated population growth limited by different factors, in particular by resources, habitat structure, intraspecific competition, lifetime of individuals, regeneration time and fecundity of individuals. We have compared the S-shaped curves with J-shaped curves of population growth. Conclusion. We present a basic white-box model of population dynamics which combines reductionist and holistic approaches. Integration of reductionist and holistic approaches is provided by the simultaneous modeling of both part-whole and cause-effect relations in complex system. We consider this holystic multi-level white-box modeling approach as a method of artificial intelligence which works as hyper-logical automatic deductive inference that provides direct mechanistic insights into complex systems. The white-box modeling by logical deterministic cellular automata is a perspective way for investigation not only of population dynamics but also of any complex systems.', u'The aim of the present study is to examine the relation between understanding of emotions and cardiovascular related diseases, namely coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus and obesity. Coronary heart disease is a type of cardiovascular disease that usually coexists with other diseases, such as diabetes mellitus and obesity. The uniqueness of this study lies in the fact that examined the relationship between the cardiovascular related diseases named above and the understanding of emotions in the context of Emotional Intelligence (EI). The latter consists of a wide range of psychological factors that reflect many aspects of human thought and behavior, providing a very comprehensive picture of each person. The experimental design through the observed variables were approached, has not been applied in previous studies internationally. The study was conducted in 300 participants during a 3 year period. All participants completed a self-report questionnaire, assessing various aspects of EI, such as self-emotion appraisal, other emotion appraisal, emotion regulation and use of emotions. As hypothesized, coronary heart disease is a prognostic factor of regulation of emotions. The results of this study extend and reinforce the findings of previous studies, which emphasize on the relationship of cardiovascular related diseases and psychological characteristics, such as anxiety and anger, being aspects of EI. Additionally, this work fills a gap in the relevant Greek literature, as a first attempt to examine the correlation of EI with cardiovascular related diseases. New approaches are needed to improve primary prevention, early detection and clinical management of those diseases. Furthermore, this study focused on the need to cultivate and improve EI of patients, in order to eliminate the effects of the diseases.', u'Projected increases in the magnitude and frequency of sea surface temperature anomalies present a significant threat to the persistence of tropical coral reefs, however, detailed studies of community level responses to thermal stress are needed if its effect on reef resilience are to be understood. While many studies report on broad, regional scale responses to thermal stress (e.g., proportion of corals bleached), far fewer examine variation in susceptibility among taxa and change in coral community structure, before, during and after bleaching on individual reefs. Furthermore, relatively few studies of bleaching response come from highly urbanised reefs that experience chronic disturbances such as elevated sedimentation and turbidity. Here we report in detail on the bleaching response of corals at a highly urbanised reef site south of mainland Singapore during (June, July) and immediately after (October) a major thermal coral bleaching event in 2010. To estimate the capacity for resistance and resilience to thermal stress, we report on a) the overall bleaching severity during and after the event, b) differences in bleaching susceptibility among taxa during the event and c) the response of the reef in terms of taxonomic community structure before (2009) and after (2012) bleaching. Despite severe bleaching in 2010 (66% of colonies bleached), post-bleaching recovery appeared to be relatively rapid and coral taxa that are usually highly susceptible (e.g., Acropora and Pocillopora) were relatively unaffected, i.e., either they did not bleach or they bleached and recovered. Although there was no significant change in coral taxonomic community structure among years, taxa that bleached most severely tended to have the greatest reductions in relative cover. Several factors may have contributed to the overall high resistance of this site to bleaching including turbidity, symbiont affiliation and heterotrophy. A parsimonious explanation for the reversed pattern of bleaching susceptibility among taxa is that these coral populations have adapted and/or acclimatised to thermal stress. Despite ongoing chronic anthropogenic impacts, we suggest that this site has potential for rapid recovery of coral cover due to the dominant coral taxa and growth forms being capable of rapid regrowth from remnant colonies.', u'Children\u2019s ability to delay gratification is correlated with a range of positive outcomes in adulthood, showing the potential impact of helping young children increase their competence in this area. This study investigated the influence of symbolic models on 3-year-old children\u2019s self-control. Eighty-three children were randomly assigned to one of three modelling conditions: personal story-telling, impersonal story-telling, and control. Children were tested on the delay-of-gratification maintenance paradigm both before and after being exposed to a symbolic model or control condition. Repeated measures ANOVA revealed no significant differences between the two story-telling groups and the control group, indicating that the symbolic models did not influence children\u2019s ability to delay gratification. A serendipitous finding showed a positive relationship between children\u2019s ability to wait and their production and accurate use of temporal terms, which was more pronounced in girls than boys. This finding may be an indication that a higher temporal vocabulary is linked to a continuous representation of the self in time, facilitating children\u2019s representation of the future-self receiving a larger reward than what the present-self could receive.', u'Carrying out playbacks of visual or audio stimuli to wild animals is a widely used experimental tool in behavioral ecology. In many cases, however, playback experiments are constrained by observer limitations such as the time observers can be present, or the accuracy of observation. These problems are particularly apparent when playbacks are triggered by specific events or are targeted to specific individuals. We developed a low-cost automated playback/recording system, using two field-deployable devices: radio-frequency identification (RFID) readers and Raspberry Pi micro-computers. This system detects a specific passive integrated transponder (PIT) tag attached to an individual, and subsequently plays back the stimuli, or records audio or visual information. To demonstrate the utility of this system, we tagged female and male tree swallows from two box-nesting populations with PIT tags and carried out playbacks of nestling begging calls every time females entered the nestbox over a six-hour period. We show that the RFID-Raspberry Pi system presents a versatile, low-cost, field-deployable system that can be adapted for many audio and visual playback purposes. The low cost and the small learning curve make this set-up a feasible system for use by field biologists.', u'Insects have been used as an exemplary model in studying longevity, from extrinsic mortality pressures to intrinsic senescence. In the highly eusocial insects great degrees of variation in lifespan exist between morphological castes in relation to extreme divisions of labour, but of particular interest is the primitively eusocial orders. These species represent the ancestral beginnings of eusociality, in which castes are flexible and based on behaviour rather than morphology. Here we present data on the longevity of the primitively eusocial Neotropical paper wasp Polistes canadensis, in a captive setting removed of all environmental hazards. In comparison to other eusocial wasps\u2019 P. canadensis had an average lifespan of 193\xb110.5 days, with one individual living longer than 450 days. Although this is shorter than most highly eusocial bee and ant queens. Natal colony variation does exist between P. canadensis colonies, possibly due to nutritional and genetic factors. This study provides a foundation for future investigations on the effects of intrinsic and extrinsic factors on longevity in primitively eusocial insects, as well as the relationship with caste and genome.', u'Background: Datasets consisting of synthetic neural data generated with quantifiable and controlled parameters are a valuable asset in the process of testing and validating directed connectivity metrics. Considering the recent debate in the neuroimaging community concerning the use of directed functional connectivity metrics for fMRI data, synthetic datasets that emulate BOLD dynamics have played a central role by supporting claims that argue in favor, or against, certain metrics. Generative models often used in studies that simulate neuronal activity, with the aim of gaining insight into specific brain regions and functions, have different requirements from the generative models for benchmarking datasets. Even though the latter must be realistic, there is a tradeoff between realism and computational demand that needs to be contemplated and simulations that efficiently mimic the real behavior of single neurons or neuronal populations are preferred, instead of more cumbersome and marginally precise ones. Methods: this work explores how simple generative models are able to produce neuronal datasets, for benchmarking purposes, that reflect the simulated effective connectivity and, how these can be used to obtain synthetic recordings of EEG and fMRI BOLD. The generative models covered here are AR processes, neural mass models consisting of linear and non-linear stochastic differential equations and populations with thousands of spiking units. Forward models for EEG consist in the simple three-shell head model while fMRI BOLD is modeled with the Balloon-Windkessel model or by convolution with a hemodynamic response function. Results: the simulated datasets are tested for causality with the original spectral formulation for Granger causality. Modeled effective connectivity can be detected in the generated data for varying connection strengths and interaction delays. Discussion: all generative models produce synthetic neuronal data with detectable causal effects although the relation between modeled and detected causality varies and less biophysically realistic models offer more control in causal relations such as modeled strength and frequency location.', u'Hypoxia and hyperthermia are two connected consequences of the ongoing global change that constitute major threats for coastal marine organisms. In the present study, we used a proteomic approach to characterize the changes induced by hypoxia in individuals of the great scallop, Pecten maximus, subjected to three different temperatures, i.e. 10\xb0C, 18\xb0C and 25\xb0C. We did not observe any significant change induced by hypoxia in animals acclimated at 10\xb0C. Contrastingly at 18\xb0C and 25\xb0C, 16 and 11 protein spots were differentially accumulated between normoxia and hypoxia, respectively. Moreover, biochemical data, i.e. octopine dehydrogenase activity and arginine assays suggests that animals grown at 25\xb0C switched their metabolism towards anaerobic metabolism when exposed to either normoxia or hypoxia, suggesting that this temperature is out of the scallops\u2019 optimal thermal window. In all, 11 proteins could be unambiguously identified by mass spectrometry, involved in protein modifications and signaling (e.g. CK2, TBK1), metabolism (e.g. ENO3) or cytoskeleton (GSN). The potential roles of these proteins in the thermal-dependent response of scallops to hypoxia are discussed.', u'Achnanthidium minutissimum is a benthic diatom that may form biofilms on submerged, aquatic surfaces. Within these biofilms, A. minutissimum cells produce extracellular structures which facilitate substrate adhesion, such as stalks and capsules. Both consist of extracellular polymeric substance (EPS), but the microstructure and development stages of the capsules are so far unknown, despite a number of hypotheses about their function, inlcuding attachment and protection. We coupled scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to bright-field microscopy (BFM) and found that A. minutissimum capsules mostly possess an unstructured surface. However, capsule material that was mechanically stressed by being stretched between or around cells displayed fibrillar substructures. Fibrils were also found on the frustules of non-encapsulated cells, implicating that A. minutissimum capsules may develop from fibrillar precursors. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy revealed that the capsule material contains little to no silicon, suggesting that the capsule does not arise from the cell wall. We furthermore show that bacteria attach preferentially to capsules, instead of non-encapsulated A. minutissimum cells, which supports the idea that capsules mediate diatom-bacteria interactions.', u'Metagenomics by next generation sequencing has become an important tool for interrogating complex microbial communities. In this study we analyzed several pairs of metagenomic samples obtained by different methods and observed biases, resulting in different nucleotide composition of the sequenced reads. The pairwise sample comparison was based on the principal component analysis of dinucleotide word frequencies in sequences obtained from different platforms. We found bias in the sequences obtained from the different platforms for the amplified hypervariable regions in 16S rRNA but not in shotgun metagenome reads aligned to such hypervariable regions. The differences and consistency of the distributions of the nucleotides suggest that the biases are likely due to a combination of biases introduced by PCR and different sequencing protocols, and they are related to the GC content of the reads produced. For this reason, caution should be exercised when interpreting the results of comparative metagenomics studies, as they may vary depending on the sequencing technology.', u'The present study tested the Dysexecutive Luck hypothesis by examining whether deficits in the early stage of top down attentional control led to an increase of neural activity in later stages of response related selection process among those who thought themselves to be unlucky. Individuals with these beliefs were compared to a control group using an Event-Related Potential (ERP) measure assessing underlying neural activity of semantic inhibition while completing a Stroop test. Results showed stronger main interference effects in the former group, via greater reaction times and a more negative distributed scalp late ERP component during incongruent trials in the time window of 450 \u2013 780 ms post stimulus onset. Further, less efficient maintenance of task set among the former group was associated with greater late ERP response-related activation to compensate for the lack of top-down attentional control. These findings provide electrophysiological evidence to support the Dysexecutive Luck hypothesis.', u'Background: Failure among pet owners to neuter their pets results in increased straying and overpopulation problems. Variations in neutering levels can be explained by cultural differences, differences in economic status in rural and urban locations, and owner perceptions about their pet. There are also differences between male and female pet owners. There is no research pertaining to Irish pet owner attitudes towards neutering their pets. This paper identified the perceptions of Irish cat and dog owners that influenced their decisions on pet neutering. Results: Focus groups were conducted with 43 pet (cats and dogs) owners. Two major categories relating to the decision to neuter were identified: (1) enabling perceptions in the decision to neuter (subcategories were: controlling unwanted pet behaviour; positive perceptions regarding pet health and welfare outcomes; perceived owner responsibility; pet function; and the influence of veterinary advice), and (2) disabling perceptions in the decision to neuter (subcategories were: perceived financial cost of neutering; perceived adequacy of existing controls; and negative perceptions regarding pet health and welfare outcomes). Conclusions: Pet owner sense of responsibility and control are two central issues. Understanding how pet owners feel about topics such as pet neutering, can help improve initiatives aimed at emphasising the responsibility of population control of cats and dogs.', u'Effective monitoring, prevention and impact mitigation of nonindigenous aquatic species (NAS) relies upon the ability to predict dispersal pathways and receiving habitats with the greatest risk of establishment. To examine mechanisms affecting species establishment within a large lake, we combined observations of recreational boater movements with empirical measurements of habitat suitability represented by nearshore wave energy to assess the relative risk (RR) of Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum) establishment. The model was evaluated using information from a 17 year (1995-2012) sequence of M. spicatum presence and absence monitoring. M. spicatum presence was not specifically correlated with recreational boater movements; however its establishment appears to be limited by wave action in Lake Tahoe. Of the sites in the "High" risk category (n=37), 54% had current or historical infestations, which included 8 of the 10 sites with the highest RR. Of the 11 sites in the "Medium" risk category, 5 had current or historical M. spicatum populations. Most (76%) of the sites in the "Low" risk category were observed in locations with higher wave action. Four sites that received zero boater visits from infested locations were occupied by M. spicatum. This suggests that the boater survey either represents incomplete coverage of boater movement, or other processes, such as the movement of propagules by surface currents or introductions from external sources are important to the establishment of this species. This study showed the combination of habitat specific and dispersal data in a relative risk framework can potentially reduce uncertainty in estimates of invasion risk.', u'Group II introns are closely linked to eukaryote evolution because nuclear spliceosomal introns and the small RNAs associated with the spliceosome are thought to trace their ancient origins to these mobile elements. Therefore, elucidating how group II introns move, and how they lose mobility can potentially shed light on fundamental aspects of eukaryote biology. To this end, we studied five strains of the unicellular red alga Porphyridium purpureum that surprisingly contain 42 group II introns in their plastid genomes. We focused on a subset of these introns that encode mobility-conferring intron-encoded proteins (IEPs) and found them to be distributed among the strains in a lineage-specific manner. The reverse transcriptase and maturase domains were present in all lineages but the DNA endonuclease domain was deleted in vertically inherited introns, demonstrating a key step in the loss of mobility. P. purpureum plastid intron RNAs had a classic group IIB secondary structure despite variability in the DIII and DVI domains. We report for the first time the presence of twintrons (introns-within-introns, derived from the same mobile element) in Rhodophyta. The P. purpureum IEPs and their mobile introns provide a valuable model for the study of mobile retroelements in eukaryotes and offer promise for biotechnological applications.', u'Urine, by accumulating all kinds of changes, was proposed to be a better source for biomarker discovery. As one of the most common post-translational modifications, phosphorylation plays a vital role in many biological activities. However, the urine phosphoproteome has been largely neglected due to the low abundance of phosphoproteins and the presence of various phosphatases in urine. The low level of background phosphorylation in urine is actually advantageous, as urinary phosphopeptides/proteins that are stable to the phosphatases present in urine have the potential to serve as valuable disease biomarkers. Using a TiO2 enrichment strategy, this study aimed to create a comprehensive proteomic profile of human urinary phosphoproteins and to characterize the changes in the urine phosphoproteome after incubation of urine with cell lysates. In total, 106 urine phosphorylation sites corresponding to 64 proteins, including 80 previously unidentified human urine protein phosphorylation sites, were identified by mass spectrometry. Fifteen phosphopeptides, together averaging 47% of the total phosphopeptides, were found in samples from three individuals. Addition of cellular proteins to urine did not significantly change the phosphorylation level of urine proteins. But there were still a few phosphopeptides from cell lysates survived urinary phosphatases; such phosphopeptides represent potential biomarkers in urine.', u'We measure how leg actions of cadaver monkeys are transferred within the hip-joint, and we compare physical femoral mobility of wild and captive monkeys in Panama, Costa Rica, and in zoological parks of California. We acquire leg movement data of howler, capuchin and spider monkeys with random 1 second digital photography during 4 months in Central America, and weekly visits for 2 months in California zoos (n=47 wild primates, 1879 focal events; 24 captive primates, 959 focal events). We employ computer software to objectively assess leg angle in regards to flexion, neutral and extension postures of the femur, relative to the hip socket. We apply leg action data to cadaver pelvises in primate bone collections at University of California, Davis, University of Oregon Osteology Lab, and the Denver Museum. Our study reveals that extreme femoral action translates as high diversity of articular contacts within the primate hip joint, and that captive monkeys in artificial habitats have less femoral movements than wild monkeys, with statistical comparisons being: Full leg flexion P = 0.0012; Flexion P = 0.023; Ambulatory as in walking P = 0.075; Extension P = 0.002; and Full extension with leg in line with body P = 0.00011. We speculate that the primate body is built to move in extreme but non-traumatic, wide-ranging appendicular actions. Such movements may help to simulate peripheral articular cartilage, contributing to the longevity of joints, and perhaps extending the life of primates who move in this manner.', u'In this study, the bioemulsifying potential of exopolysaccharide produced by an indigenous species of Aureobasidium pullulans RYLF10 has been determined and various factors affecting the emulsification activity has been evaluated. The emulsification activity was determined with 8 different vegetable oils (olive, soybean, sesame, sunflower, coconut, mustard, groundnut and almond oil) which are mainly used for various food purposes. The result obtained revealed the emulsification activity (%EA) of the test EPS was quite fair with all the vegetable oils used in the study. However, it was found maximum (56%) with olive oil at the concentration of 1.5% and was very much comparable with the emulsification activity of gum Arabic, the standard emulsifier. Therefore, the olive oil was used for studies related to various factors affecting the emulsification activity of the test emulsifier. The emulsion formed was found to be oil in water (o/w) type which possessed remarkable temperature, pH and salt for 24 hours. Droplet size analysis of the test emulsifier revealed to possess monomodal type of size distribution with droplet size of 105 \xb5m which was responsible for stabilizing the emulsion. The result obtained suggest that the emulsion of the test EPS with olive oil can potentially be used in various food applications where olive oil is used.', u'We identify an osteoglossoid teleost fish - Paralycoptera - from Late Jurassic volcaniclastic mudstones from the Lai Chi Chong Formation of Hong Kong, China. This partially preserved postcranial skeleton represents the first Mesozoic fish from Hong Kong and the most southerly Paralycoptera to date. A radiometric date for the Lai Chi Chong Formation of ~146 Ma implies a temporal range expansion for Paralycoptera of approximately 40 million years back from the Early Cretaceous (~110Ma). However, spores found in the Formation suggest an Early Cretaceous age that is consistent with the existing age assignment to Paralycoptera. We argue that the proposed temporal range extension is genuine because it is based on recent precise and accurate radiometric data, but given the discrepancies with the biostratigraphic ages further investigation is needed to confirm this. This study provides an important step towards revealing Hong Kong\u2019s Mesozoic vertebrate fauna and understanding its relationship to well-studied mainland Chinese ones.', u'Body dissatisfaction (BD) is a highly prevalent feature amongst females in society, with the majority of individuals regarding themselves to be overweight compared to their personal ideal, and very few self-describing as underweight. To date, explanations of this dramatic pattern have centred on extrinsic social and media factors, or intrinsic factors connected to individuals\u2019 knowledge and belief structures regarding eating and body shape, with little research examining links between BD and basic cognitive mechanisms. This paper reports a correlational study in which visual and executive cognitive processes that could potentially impact on BD were assessed. Visual memory span and self-rated visual imagery were found to be predictive of BD, alongside a measure of inhibition derived from the Stroop task. In contrast, spatial memory and global precedence were not related to BD. Results are interpreted with reference to the influential multi-component model of working memory.', u'Interspecific competition between herbivores is widely recognized as an important determinant of community structure. Although researchers have identified a number of factors capable of altering competitive interactions, few studies have addressed the influence of neighboring plant species. If adaptation to/ epigenetic effects of an herbivore\u2019s natal host plant alter its performance on other host plants, then interspecific herbivore interactions may play out differently in heterogeneous and homogenous plant communities. We tested the impact of natal host plants on interactions between the Middle-east Asia Minor 1 (MEAM1) and Mediterranean (MED) cryptic species of the whitefly Bemisia tabaci by rearing the offspring of a cabbage-derived MEAM1 population and a poinsettia-derived MED population together on three different host plants: cotton, poinsettia, and cabbage. We found that MED excluded MEAM1 on poinsettia and that MEAM1 excluded MED on cabbage, results consistent with previous research. MED also excluded MEAM1 when reared together on cotton, however, a result at odds with multiple otherwise-similar studies that reared both species on the same natal plant. Our work provides evidence that natal plants affect competitive interactions on another plant species, and highlights the potential importance of neighboring plant species on herbivore community composition.', u'The objective of this study was to relate earthworm assemblage structure with three different soil use intensities, and to indentify the physical, chemical, and microbiological variables that are associated to the observed differences in earthworm assemblage structure between soils. Three soil uses were evaluated: 1- Fifty year old naturalized grasslands; 2- Cattle-grazing fields converted to feedlot within the two years before the start of this work, and 3- Fifty year old intensive agricultural fields. Three different sites for each soil use were evaluated from winter 2008 through summer 2011. Nine earthworm species were identified across all sampling sites. The sites shared five species: the native Microscolex dubius, and the introduced Aporrectodea caliginosa, A. rosea, Octalasion cyaneum, and O. lacteum, but they differed in their relative abundances according to the system. The results show that earthworm community structure is linked to and modulated by soil properties. Both, species abundance and diversity showed significant differences depending on soil use intensity. A PCA analysis showed that species composition is closely related to the environmental variability. The ratio of native to exotic species was significantly lower in the intensive agricultural system when compared to the other two, lower disturbance Systems. Microscolex dubius was shown to be related to the naturalized grasslands and it was associated to Ca, pH, Mechanical Resistance, and to respiration. Aporrectodea caliginosa was related to high K levels, low enzymatic activity, slightly low pH, and low Ca, and appeared related to the highly disturbed environment. Eukerria stagnalis and Aporrectodea rosea, commonly found un the cattle-grazing system, were related to high soil humidity, low pH, low Ca and low enzymatic activity. These results show that earthworm assamblages can be good descriptors of different soil use intensities. In particular, Microscolex dubius, Aporrectodea caliginosa, and Aporrectodea rosea, showed different temporal patterns and species associations, due to the changes in soil properties attributable tos oil use intensity.', u'Edaphic fauna play a crucial role in soil processes such as organic matter incorporation and cycling, nutrient content, soil structure, and stability. Collembolans in particular, play a very significant role in nutrient cycling and soil structure. The structure and functioning of the soil fauna can in turn be affected by soil use, leading to changes in soil characteristics and its sustainability. Therefore, the responses of soil fauna to different soil management practices, can be used as ecological indicators. Three different soil uses were researched: agricultural fields (AG) with 50 years of continuous farming, pastures entering the agricultural cycle (CG), and naturalized grasslands (NG). For each soil use, three fields were selected. Each sampling consisted of three soil samples per replicate. Collembolans were extracted from the samples and identified to family level. Five families were found: Hypogastruridae, Onychiuridae, Isotomidae, Entomobryidae, and Katiannidae. Soils were also characterized by means of physical and chemical analyses. The index of degree of change of diversity, was calculated. The results show that the biological index of degree of change can detect soil use effects on the collembolan community. Somewhat surprisingly the index showed that the diversity of collembolans is higher in the high anthropic impact site AG, followed by CG and being lower in lower impact sites, NG. The results also show that collembolan families respond differently to soil use. The families Hypogastruridae, Onychiuridae, and Isotomidae presented differences between systems. Therefore collembolan community structure can be a useful tool to assess agricultural practices\xb4 impacts on soil.', u'Water shortage is a common problem in the high density settlement along the riverbank of Ciromban and Cibeureum River, Tasikmalaya, as the quality of the water also decreases. One of the solution is to maximize the use of river water. This study aims to investigate the interaction between river and groundwater along the riverbank as a function of land use impact. A river water and unconfined groundwater level mapping has been conducted to make water flow map, assuming both waters are in the same flow system. Physical parameters, temperature, TDS, and pH were measured at each stations to understand water characteristics. Based on observations at 50 dug wells and 12 river stations on July-August 2014, a close interaction between both water bodies has been identified with two flow systems: effluent flow (or gaining stream) at Cibereum river segment and influent flow (losing stream) at Ciromban river segment. Physical parameters show a high correlation in temperature, pH, and TDS. Hence, further evaluation from health point of view should be taken before using river water as raw water supply in Tasikmalaya area.', u'Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR) is a previously unstudied sensory phenomenon, in which individuals experience a tingling, static-like sensation across the scalp, back of the neck and at times further areas in response to specific triggering audio and visual stimuli. This sensation is widely reported to be accompanied by feelings of relaxation and wellbeing. The current study identifies several common triggers used to achieve ASMR, including whispering, personal attention, crisp sounds and slow movements. Data obtained also illustrates temporary improvements in symptoms of depression and chronic pain in those who engage in ASMR. A high prevalence of synaesthesia (5.9%) within the sample suggests a possible link between ASMR and synaesthesia, similar to that of misophonia. Links between number of effective triggers and heightened flow state suggest that flow may be necessary to achieve sensations associated with ASMR.', u'There has been a steady decline in the number of applications to nephrology training programs. One solution is to decrease the number of available fellowship positions. Proponents believe that training programs have grown too big but the method for reduction has not been established. This investigation analyzes two models that decrease the number of available training positions and compares them head-to-head to identify the least burdensome method by which this reduction should occur. In the survival of the fittest model (SotFM) fellowship positions are eliminated if they were unfilled in the National Residency Match Program\u2019s (NRMP) 2013 Specialty Match. In the equal proportions model (EPM) a formula is used to calculate a priority score using ESRD prevalence data from the 2013 USRDS Report and the geometric mean between a given jurisdiction\u2019s current apportionment (n) and its next position (n+1). The least burdensome model is that which results in the 1) least number of jurisdictions losing fellow positions and 2) lowest percent reduction for any single jurisdiction. There were 416 nephrology positions offered and 47 unfilled in 2013. In the SotFM, 23 jurisdictions would sacrifice these 47 positions. In the EPM, 369 positions were apportioned (=416-47); only 9 jurisdictions would experience a reduction. The largest single-jurisdiction reduction in fellow positions was 67% (SotFM) and 50% (EPM). The EPM results in a less burdensome reduction of fellow positions nationwide. The EPM is a time-tested model that injects fairness into the painful process of reducing the total number of fellow positions across America.', u'Theory and empirical evidence for the impacts of fire and herbivory in savannas is well established \u2013 they are top-down disturbances that maintain savannas in disequilibrium states away from potential tree cover. In African savannas the demand for fuelwood is extremely high, so tree harvest likely also has an impact, both directly and indirectly, on tree cover, density, and biomass. Many savanna trees resprout vigorously from the base after harvest. However, harvested trees regenerate as saplings susceptible to fire and browsing, so harvest may have important demographic consequences. Here, we report the effects of tree harvest, and its interaction with fire and herbivory, on savanna dynamics by analyzing woody regrowth following a harvest in arid Sahelian and mesic Guinean savannas in Mali, West Africa. Tree harvest resulted in an overall reduction in wood production per tree compared to growth in non-harvested trees. Regrowth, either biomass or height, did not differ among fire and herbivory treatments. Our results suggest that the resprouting abilities that savanna trees have evolved to cope with frequent fire are essential for surviving tree harvest and subsequent disturbance. In these savannas, regrowth is rapid enough in the first growing season to escape the impact of dry season fires.', u'Background: Open access (OA) journals disseminate research papers free of charge to the reader. Traditionally, biomedical researchers use databases like MEDLINE and EMBASE to discover new advances. However, biomedical OA journals might not fulfil such databases\u2019 criteria, hindering dissemination. The Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) is a database searchable at article level, focusing exclusively on OA journals.\nThe aim of this study was to investigate DOAJ\u2019s coverage of biomedical OA journals compared with the conventional biomedical databases.\nMethods: Information on all journals listed in five conventional biomedical databases (MEDLINE, National Library of Medicine, PubMed Central, EMBASE and SCOPUS) and DOAJ were gathered. Journals were included if they were 1) actively publishing, 2) full OA, 3) prospectively indexed in one or more database, and 4) of biomedical subject. Impact factor and journal language were also collected. DOAJ was compared with conventional databases regarding the proportion of journals covered, along with their impact factor and publishing language. The proportion of journals with articles indexed by DOAJ was determined.\nResults: In total, 3,236 biomedical OA journals were included in the study. Of the included journals, 86.7% were listed in DOAJ. Combined, the conventional biomedical databases listed 75.0% of the journals; 18.7 % in MEDLINE; 36.5% in PubMed Central; 51.5% in SCOPUS and 50.6% in EMBASE. Of the journals in DOAJ, 88.7% published in English and 20.6% had received impact factor for 2012 compared with 93.5% and 26.0%, respectively, for journals in the conventional biomedical databases. Of journals exclusively listed in DOAJ, only one had received an impact factor. A subset of 51.1% and 48.5% of the journals in DOAJ had articles indexed from 2012 and 2013, respectively.\nConclusions: DOAJ is the most complete registry of biomedical OA journals compared with five conventional biomedical databases. However, DOAJ only indexes articles for half of the biomedical journals listed, making it an incomplete source for biomedical research papers in general.', u'Over the past decade, researchers have discovered that apart from the essential genes, bacterial genomes also contain a variable amount of accessory genes acquired by horizontal gene transfer (HGT) that are categorized as genomic islands (GIs). GIs encode adaptive traits, which might be beneficial for the species under certain growth or environmental conditions. It has always been a challenge for biologists to identify GIs within a bacterial genome as they evolve very rapidly. This paper proposes a standalone software, IslanHunter, that has been developed using Java and BioJava and can extract GI regions using GC content, codon usage bias, dinucleotide frequency bias, tetranucleotide frequency bias, k-mer signature analysis (2-mer, 3-mer, 4-mer, 5-mer, and 6-mer) and presence of mobility genes. IslandHunter provides a simple graphical user interface where disclosed GIs are displayed in a tree-view and a circular graph. Users are presented with options to save the GI regions as blocks of DNA sequences in FASTA format. They can later use these predicted GI regions for further analysis. IslandHunter can take as input, files in GenBank, EMBL or FASTA formats. IslandHunter provides flexible display options and save options. The software has been evaluated against exiting tools with good performance. It is available for evaluation at https://github.com/ShakunBaichoo/IslandHunter .', u'Pet obesity contributes to increased risk of various diseases, such as cancer and diabetes mellitus as well as worsening of orthopaedic problems, and a reduction in survival rate. Changes in feeding regimes and increased amounts of exercise have been an important component of weight management programs. This study identifies the self-reported beliefs and factors that influence owner behaviour around feeding and exercising their pet. Pet owners were recruited through six different private veterinary practices (three city practices; two in regional towns; and one in a rural area).\nSeven focus groups were conducted with 43 participants in total. Feeding one\u2019s pet is influenced by beliefs about pet specific needs and pet food and pet health, pet owners\u2019 perceived control over the feeding regime, and the implications for feeding for the pet owner. Treats are used in the absence of owner control over pet begging and emotional attachment, and to influence pet behaviour. Pet exercise is influenced by beliefs about pet specific exercise needs, and the implications of exercising one\u2019s pet for the pet owner.\nBeliefs, and barriers to appropriate feeding and exercise are useful in explaining pet owners\u2019 behaviour and are; associated with the level of control over the feeding regime, control relating to pet behaviour, and the perceived ease of feeding and exercise. Understanding owner behaviours on feeding and exercise allows for a more targeted approach to preventing and treating pet obesity.', u'Self-medication is a common practice not only in Brazil but also in other countries. It consists of "the selection and use of drugs by people to treat self-diagnosed diseases or symptoms and must be understood as an element of self-care". Included in this prescription generic name (or orientation) of drugs by non-qualified people, as friends, family or the pharmacy clerks, these cases are also called "illegal medical practice". The present data confirm the importance of the study of self-medication and support the hypothesis of a naive and excessive belief of our society in the power of drugs, which contributes to the growing demand for pharmaceutical products for any type of disorder, as banal and self-limited. Thus, the drug was incorporated into the dynamics of consumer society and therefore is subject to the same tensions, interests and stiff competition in any market sector, moving away from its primary aim, the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases. These results reinforce the need to inform people on the proper use of medications, as well as appropriate measures to ensure the supply of products needed, effective, safe and affordable.', u'With ongoing climate change, coral susceptibility to thermal stress constitutes a central concern in reef conservation. In the Persian Gulf, coral reefs are confronted with the most extreme temperatures. Over the last decades, both annual hot and cold peak periods in this region have been associated with episodes of coral bleaching and mortality. Using physiological performance as a measure of coral health, we investigated the thermal susceptibility of the common acroporid coral from the Persian Gulf, Acropora downingi, in Hengam Island where temperature oscillates seasonally in the range 20.2-34.2\xb0C. In a series of two short-term experiments, we exposed corals (1) to the constant temperature levels of summer versus winter, and (2) to progressive temperature deviations from the annual mean toward the two extreme seasonal values and beyond. We monitored four indictors of coral physiological performance: net photosynthesis (Pn), dark respiration (R), autotrophic capability (Pn/R), and survival. Warming revealed detrimental for Pn and survival of corals, while equivalent cooling did not. Pn/R was lower at the warmer thermal level within each season, and during summer compared to winter. Corals exposed to the maximum temperature of summer displayed Pn/R<1, inferring that photosynthetic performance could not support basal metabolic needs under this environment and that corals had to import organic matter or draw on their reserves to compensate for carbon losses during respiration. We therefore suggest that the Persian Gulf populations of A. downingi are more sensitive to the extreme temperatures endured in summer compared to that experienced in winter; and they may be impacted by future increases in water temperature.', u'Demographic rates, such as annual survival rate, are generally difficult to estimate for long-lived seabirds, because of the length of time required for this kind of study and the remoteness of colonies. However, a small colony of northern royal albatross (Diomedea sanfordi) established itself on the mainland of New Zealand at Taiaroa Head, making possible regular banding and monitoring of its individuals since the first chick fledged, in 1938. Data on the presence/absence of birds, as well as on breeding outcomes, were available for the period from 1989\u201390 to 2011\u201312, and included 2128 annual resightings of 355 banded individuals of known age. The main goal of the present study was to estimate the annual survival rate of juveniles, pre-breeders, and adults at Taiaroa Head. These rates were estimated simultaneously in a single Bayesian multi-state capture-recapture model. Several models were fitted to the data, with different levels of complexity. From the most parsimonious model, the overall annual adult survival rate was estimated as 0.950 (95% c.i.: 0.941\u20130.959). In this model, adult survival declined with age, from 0.976 (95% c.i.: 0.963\u20130.988) at 6 years, the minimum age at first breeding, to 0.915 (95% c.i.: 0.879\u20130.946) at 40 years. Mean annual survival of pre-breeders was 0.966 (95% c.i.: 0.950\u20130.980), and 0.933 (95% c.i.: 0.908\u20130.966) for juveniles. There was no discernible difference in survival between males and females, and there was no apparent trend in survival over time. Estimates of other demographic rates were also obtained during the estimation process. The mean age at first return of juveniles to the colony was estimated as 4.8 years (95% c.i.: 4.6\u20135.1), and the mean age at first breeding as 8.9 years (95% c.i.: 8.5\u20139.3). Because all the birds of the colony were banded, it was possible to estimate the total population size. The number of northern royal albatross present annually at the Taiaroa Head colony has doubled since 1989\u201390, and the current total population size was estimated to be over 200 individuals. The ratio of the total population size to the number of annual breeding pairs varied from 5 to 12 among years, with an overall mean of 7.65 (95% c.i.: 7.56\u20137.78), and this high variability highlights the need for a sufficient number of surveys of seabird breeding populations before reliable conclusions on population trends can be made. Although long-term data allowed estimates of demographic rates of northern royal albatross at Taiaroa Head, the location of the colony and the ongoing management by staff mean that the population dynamics may differ from those of the main population on the Chatham Islands.', u'Local increases in sea level caused by global climate change pose a significant threat to the persistence of many coastal plant species through exacerbating inundation, flooding, and erosion. In addition to sea level rise (SLR), climate changes in the form of air temperature and precipitation regimes will also alter habitats of coastal plant species. Although numerous studies have analyzed the effect of climate change on future habitats through species distribution models (SDMs), none have incorporated the threat of exposure to SLR. We developed a model that quantified the effect of both SLR and climate change on habitat for 88 rare coastal plant species in San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties, California, USA. Our SLR model projects that by the year 2100, 60 of the 88 species will be threatened by SLR. We found that the probability of being threatened by SLR strongly correlates with a species\u2019 area, elevation, and distance from the coast, and that ten species could lose their entire current habitat in the study region. We modeled the habitat suitability of these 10 species under future climate using a species distribution model (SDM). Our SDM projects that 4 of the 10 species will lose all suitable current habitats in the region as a result of climate change. While SLR accounts for up to 9.2 km2 loss in habitat, climate change accounts for habitat suitability changes ranging from a loss of 1439 km2 for one species to a gain of 9795 km2 for another species. For three species, SLR is projected to reduce future suitable area by as much as 28% of total area. This suggests that while SLR poses a higher risk, climate changes in precipitation and air temperature represents a lesser known but potentially larger risk and a small cumulative effect from both.', u'Plant decomposition is dependant on the activity of the soil biota and its interactions with climate, soil properties, and plant residue inputs. This work assessed the roles of different groups of the soil biota on litter decomposition, and the way they are modulated by soil use. Litterbags of different mesh sizes were filled with standardized dried leaves and placed on the same soil different use intensities: Naturalized grasslands, recent agriculture, and intensive agriculture fields. During sixth months, litterbags of each mesh size were collected once a month per system with five replicates. The remaining mass was measured and decomposition rates calculated. Differences were found for the different biota groups, and they were dependant on soil use. Within systems, the results show that in the naturalized grasslands, the macrofauna had the highest contribution to decomposition. In the recent agricultural system it was the combined activity of the macro and mesofauna, and in the intensive agricultural use it was the mesofauna activity. These results underscore the relative importance and activity of the different groups of the edaphic biota and the effects of different soil uses on soil biota activity.', u"A common goal in biological sciences is to model a complex web of connections using a small number of interacting units. We present a general approach for dividing up elements in a spatial map based on their connectivity properties, allowing for the discovery of local regions underlying large-scale connectivity matrices. Our method is specifically designed to respect spatial layout and identify locally-connected clusters, corresponding to plausible coherent units such as strings of adjacent DNA base pairs, subregions of the brain, animal communities, or geographic ecosystems. Instead of using approximate greedy clustering, our nonparametric Bayesian model infers a precise parcellation using collapsed Gibbs sampling. We utilize an infinite clustering prior that intrinsically incorporates spatial constraints, allowing the model to search directly in the space of spatially-coherent parcellations. After showing results on synthetic datasets, we apply our method to both functional and structural connectivity data from the human brain. We find that our parcellation is substantially more effective than previous approaches at summarizing the brain's connectivity structure using a small number of clusters, produces better generalization to individual subject data, and reveals functional parcels related to known retinotopic maps in visual cortex. Additionally, we demonstrate the generality of our method by applying the same model to human migration data within the United States. This analysis reveals that migration behavior is generally influenced by state borders, but also identifies regional communities which cut across state lines. Our parcellation approach has a wide range of potential applications in understanding the spatial structure of complex biological networks.", u'Shark depredation (damage to gear and loss of bait or hooked fish by a non-target species) is a common global occurrence. Depredation events by sharks can have negative impacts for the fishers, fishery targeted species and the sharks. It is, therefore important to better understand if learning behaviour of sharks can influence rates of depredation. Recreational fishers within the World Heritage Ningaloo Reef have reported increased rates of depredation by sharks over the last 5 years. This study aimed to determine if sharks are capable of learning to associate intensive recreational fishing activities with a food reward. We also aimed to test if sharks in areas frequently fished were more habituated to recreational fishing activities than those sharks within a no-take marine sanctuary. To simulate fishing activities baited underwater video systems were deployed in the morning (A.M.), midday, and afternoon (P.M.) for six consecutive days in Fished and Unfished sites. A significant decrease in time of arrival and time to first feed of sharks was seen across days at the Fished sites. The Unfished sites had very low numbers of sharks observed (n=3) and therefore was not statistically analysed. The relative abundance of sharks did not significantly increase across days, however there was a negative correlation between lemon sharks (Negaprion sp.) and whalers (Carcharhinus sp.). Our study suggests sharks are capable of being classically conditioned to recreational fishing activities and depredation rates are influenced by fisher behaviour. We have highlighted possible mitigation strategies designed to un-condition sharks to recreational fishing, including modifying fishing practices, use of deterrents based on the sensitivity of shark senses and management strategies. The best approach is likely to be enabling fishers to become more knowledgeable of how and why shark depredation events happen and take appropriate steps to avoid them.', u'Introduction: Medicine is one of the most stressful fields of education because of its highly demanding professional and academic requirements. Psychological stress, anxiety, depression and sleep disturbances are highly prevalent in medical students. Methods: This cross-sectional study was undertaken at CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry in Lahore, Pakistan, and was approved by the CMH LMC Research Ethics Committee. Students enrolled in all yearly courses for the MBBS degree were included. The questionnaire consisted of four sections: 1) demographics 2) a table listing 34 potential stressors, 3) the 14-item Perceived Stress Scale (PSS-14), and 4) the Pittsburgh Quality of Sleep Index (PSQI). Data were analyzed in SPSS v. 20. Logistic regression was run to identify associations between group of stressors, gender, year of study, student\u2019s background, stress and quality of sleep. Results: Total response rate was 93.9% (263/280 respondents returned the questionnaire). The mean PSS-14 score was 30.04 (6.97). Logistic regression analysis showed that cases of high-level stress were associated with year of study and academic-related stressors only. Univariate analysis identified 157 cases with high stress levels (59.7%). The mean PSQI score was 8.09 (3.12). According to PSQI score, 203/263 respondents (77.02%) were poor sleepers. Logistic regression showed that mean PSS-14 score was a significant predictor of PSQI score (OR 1.99, P<0.05). Conclusion: We found a very high prevalence of academic stress and poor sleep quality among medical students. Many medical students reported using sedatives more than once a week. Academic stressors contributed significantly to stress and sleep disorders in medical students.', u'Food limitation may interact with nest predation and influence nesting patterns, such as breeding season length and renesting intervals. If so, reproductive effort should change with food availability. Thus, when food is limited, birds should have fewer attempts and shorter seasons than when food is not limiting. Here we experimentally test that increased food availability results in increased reproductive effort in a fragmented landscape in the Variable Antshrike (Thamnophilus caerulescens) in southern Brazil. We followed nesting pairs in five natural fragments (4, 23, 24, 112, 214 ha) in which food was supplemented for half of those pairs, beginning with the first nest. Nest success in the largest (214 ha) fragment was 59%, compared to 5% in the 112 ha fragment and no nest was successful in the smallest (24 ha) fragment. Birds were seen, but evidence of nesting was never found in the two smallest fragments. Pairs with supplemented food were more likely to increase clutch size from two to three eggs, tended to renest sooner (20 d on average) than control pairs. Also, fragment size interacted with breeding and pairs in the largest fragment had greater daily nest survival rates, and so nests tended to last longer, and so these pairs had fewer nesting attempts than those in the 112 ha fragment while more than those in the smallest fragment with nesting (24 ha). Clearly, pairs increased their reproductive effort when food was supplemented in comparison to control pairs and fragment size seems to influence both predation risk and food abundance.', u'A new parvicursorine alvarezsauroid theropod specimen IVPP V20341 from the Upper Cretaceous Wulansuhai Formation of Bayan Mandahu, Inner Mongolia, China is described. IVPP V20341 appears to be distinguishable amongst alvarezsauroids by cervical proceoly and relatively larger semi-circular neural canals, but these features are not proposed as autapomorphies because current knowledge of alvarezsauroid necks and tails remains sparse. IVPP V20341 is distinguishable from Linhenykus - the sole parvicursorine at Bayan Mandahu - by 13 anatomical features that mostly relate to cervical and caudal vertebrae. However, it is unclear how these vertebral elements compare positionally along the spine, so more complete future finds could revise the observed differences. Thus, there are still seven parvicursorine species from the Cretaceous Gobi Basin after the discovery of IVPP V20341.', u'A combined methodology of the Root Zone Water Quality Model (RZWQM), the generation of stochastic rainfall realizations, and an historical meteorological record were used to determine the supplementary irrigation requirement for an experimental site located in northern Alberta. The site receives an annual rainfall of approximately 500 mm yr -1, and contains a fluctuating water table. The simulated results showed maximum irrigation requirements of 270 mm, however, half that amount can be required during an average or wet growing season of mean rainfall of 350 and 500 mm, respectively. The irrigation requirements were influenced by rainfall amount and distribution, downward flux and the subsequent fluctuation of the water table and the depth of water table at the beginning of the growing season, which was influenced by the winter season precipitation. The simulated results suggested that a water table less than 2 m deep from the ground surface can significantly reduce the irrigation requirements. Therefore, the winter precipitation and initial depth of the water table are suitable indicators of the likely requirement of irrigation during the growing season.', u'Locomotion is an important characteristic of many animals\u2019 natural history. With the increasing availability of high-speed video cameras, videography is a powerful tool for analyzing fast or subtle motions with unprecedented resolution. However, the programs currently available for analyzing these videos are either dauntingly time intensive or prohibitively expensive. We have developed a free, open-source video analysis program, SAVRA, that enables the quick capture of scaled position data. Here we demonstrate its use with an analysis of several videos of the Aegean wall lizard (Podarcis erhardii). We hope making this program freely available will facilitate the analysis of video data across taxa, not just in laboratory settings but also in natural contexts.', u'Aim: In recent years, connectivity studies using neuroimaging data have increased the understanding of the organization of large-scale structural and functional brain networks. However, data analysis is time consuming as rigorous procedures must be assured, from structuring data and pre-processing to modality specific data procedures. Until now, no single toolbox was able to perform such investigations on truly multimodal image data from beginning to end, including the combination of different connectivity analyses. Thus, we have developed the Multimodal Imaging Brain Connectivity Analysis (MIBCA) toolbox with the goal of diminishing time waste in data processing and to allow an innovative and comprehensive approach to brain connectivity. Materials and Methods: The MIBCA toolbox is a fully automated all-in-one connectivity toolbox that offers pre-processing, connectivity and graph theoretical analyses of multimodal image data such as diffusion-weighted imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). It was developed in MATLAB environment and pipelines well-known neuroimaging softwares such as Freesurfer, SPM, FSL, and Diffusion Toolkit. It further implements routines for the construction of structural, functional and effective or combined connectivity matrices, as well as, routines for the extraction and calculation of imaging and graph-theory metrics, the latter using also functions from the the Brain Connectivity Toolbox. Finally, the toolbox performs group statistical analysis and enables data visualization in the form of matrices, 3D brain graphs and connectograms. In this paper the MIBCA toolbox is presented by illustrating its capabilities using multimodal image data from a group of 35 healthy subjects (19-73 years old) with volumetric T1-weighted, diffusion tensor imaging, and resting state fMRI data, and 10 subjets with 18F-Altanserin PET data also. Results: It was observed both a high inter-hemispheric symmetry and an intra-hemispheric modularity associated with structural data, whilst functional data presented lower inter-hemispheric symmetry and a high inter-hemispheric modularity. Furthermore, when testing for differences between two subgroups (<40 and >40 years old adults) we observed a significant reduction in the volume and thickness, and an increase in the mean diffusivity of most of the subcortical/cortical regions. Conclusion: While bridging the gap between the high numbers of packages and tools widely available for the neuroimaging community in one toolbox, MIBCA also offers different possibilities for combining, analysing and visualising data in novel ways, enabling a better understanding of the human brain.', u'Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is one of most common vaginal infection and its diagnosis by classical methods reveals low specificity. Our goal was to compare the accuracy of BV diagnosis between the gold standard method, Nugent score, and our novel Peptide Nucleic Acid Fluorescence in situ Hybridization (PNA-FISH) methodology, which targets Lactobacillus and Gardnerella vaginalis populations. Epidemiological characteristic of the population under study (n=150) mirrored what has been described before in other major studies. Our results have shown a sensitivity of 84.6% (95% confidence interval (CI), from 64.3 to 95.0%) and a specificity of 97.6% (95% CI, from 92.6 to 99.4%), which attests the clinical value of this PNA-FISH approach. This methodology combines the specificity of PNA probes for Lactobacillus species and G. vaginalis visualization, and the criteria defined by Nugent score, allowing a trustful evaluation of the bacteria present in vaginal microflora and avoiding the occurrence of misleading diagnostics. Therefore, the PNA-FISH methodology represents a valuable alternative for BV diagnosis.', u'Global change is predicted to have large and rapid impact on polar and alpine regions. Bryophytes and lichens increase their importance in terms of biomass, carbon/nutrient cycling, cover and ecosystem functioning at higher latitudes/altitudes. Here we report from a seven year factorial experiment with nutrient addition and warming on the abundance of bryophytes and lichens in an alpine meadow and heath community. Treatments had significant negative effect on relative change of total abundance bryophytes and lichens, the largest decline to the nutrient addition and the combined nutrient addition and warming treatments, bryophytes decreasing most in the meadow, lichens most in the heath. Nutrient addition, and the combined nutrient addition and warming brought rapid decrease in both bryophytes and lichens, while warming had a delayed negative impact. Of sixteen species that were included the statistical analyses, we found significant negative effects on seven species. We show that impact of simulated global change on bryophytes and lichens differ in in time and magnitude among treatments and plant communities. Our results underscore the importance of longer-term studies to improve the quality of climate change models, as short-term studies are poor predictors of longer-term responses of bryophytes and lichens, similar to what have been shown for vascular plants. Species-specific responses may differ in time, and this will likely cause changes in the dominance structures of bryophytes and lichens over time.', u'Introduction: Pediatric specialty hospitals may be experiencing increases in the number of lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and queer (LGBTQ) patients and parents seen. There is no published information on the attitudes, beliefs and information needs of the broad range of staff and physicians that provide care in a hospital context, although recent surveys have considered individual professional groups. We undertook such a hospital-wide survey to assess the climate and information needs of care providers. Methods: A web-based survey was opened to all staff and physicians at a tertiary care pediatric hospital in Ottawa, Canada in June 2013. Results: 315 completed surveys were analyzed. Most respondents identified as heterosexual and none identified as transgender. Approximately half were directly involved in patient care. Approximately 90% were fully comfortable around LGBTQ patients and coworkers and most felt the hospital provided fair and equitable care for all. LGBTQ-identified respondents were somewhat less positive about the climate than heterosexual respondents, and front line staff less positive than managers. Many respondents identified knowledge deficits and were receptive to additional training. Conclusions: In the context of a socially and legally liberal jurisdiction, most pediatric hospital staff are accepting of LGBTQ clientele and co-workers while some identify areas where knowledge and skill could be improved and are willing to undergo additional training in working with LGBTQ clientele. Survey results can inform policy and procedural changes as well as training initiatives.', u'Prion diseases are a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders that affect humans and animals. They are characterized by the accumulation in the central nervous system of a pathological form of the host-encoded prion protein (PrPC). The prion protein is a membrane glycoprotein that consists of two domains: a globular, structured C-terminus and an unstructured N-terminus. The N-terminal part of the protein is involved in different functions in both health and disease. In the present work we discuss the production and biochemical characterization of a panel of four monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the distal N-terminus of PrPC using a well-established methodology based on the immunization of Prnp0/0 mice. Additionally, we show their ability to block prion (PrPSc) replication at nanomolar concentrations in a cell culture model of prion infection. These mAbs represent a promising tool for prion diagnostics and for studying the physiological role of the N-terminal domain of PrPC.', u'The success of the proposed HIV testing and counselling (HTC) initiative among learners at high school in South Africa depends on their acceptability of the service, which may be influenced by their HIV/AIDSknowledge, perceptions, and attitudes. The study assessed high school learners\u2019 HIV knowledge and attitudes towards learners infected with HIV. The survey was part of formative evaluation with grade 10-12 learners in order to assess the acceptability of HTC at schools. The study consisted of 17 high schools in two provinces in South Africa.  T-  tests were used to compare the differences in the mean HIV knowledge scores. Logistic regressions were performed to establish relationships between demographic variables, attitudes, and HIV knowledge scores. The sample consisted of 2970 learners aged 14-27years, 1810 (61%) had had sex, and 1494 (50.3%) had tested for HIV in the past year. The majority had high knowledge scores: 87% on HIV-related knowledge, 98.6% on the modes of transmission, and 73% on prevention. Overall, HIV knowledge was high, with a total mean score of 20.5 out of 26 points. There were significant differences in the HIV knowledge total mean scores; females had higher scores (M= 20.6, SD=2.3) than males (M=20.3, SD=2.4), and the younger age group (M= 20.5, SD=2.4) had higher scores than the older age group (M=20.1, SD=2.1). A quarter (25.4%) exhibited negative attitudes, 13.9% felt that HIV-positive learners should be isolated, and 75% would not date HIV-positive learners. Attitudes were associated with gender (OR=0.48, CI: 0.41-0.57), grades (OR=3.24, CI: 2.36-4.44), and total HIV knowledge scores (OR=2.21, CI: 1.43-3.43). Despite substantial HIV knowledge, there were knowledge gaps and misconceptions, which resulted in negative attitudes towards the disease. Appropriate sexual health education and HIV prevention interventions in school are crucial in correcting the knowledge gaps as well as reducing stigma and discrimination to assist learners to be accepting of HIV-positive persons.', u'Protein chemical shifts are routinely used to augment molecular mechanics force fields in protein structure simulations, with weights of the chemical shift restraints determined empirically. These weights, however, might not be an optimal descriptor of a given protein structure and predictive model, and a bias is introduced which might result in incorrect structures. In the inferential structure determination framework, both the unknown structure and the disagreement between experimental and back-calculated data are formulated as a joint probability distribution, thus utilizing the full information content of the data. Here, we present the formulation of such a probability distribution where the error in chemical shift prediction is described by either a Gaussian or Cauchy distribution. The methodology is demonstrated and compared to a set of empirically weighted potentials through Markov chain Monte Carlo simulations of three small proteins (ENHD, Protein G and the SMN Tudor Domain) using the PROFASI force field and the chemical shift predictor CamShift. Using a clustering-criterion for identifying the best structure, together with the addition of a solvent exposure scoring term, the simulations suggests that sampling both the structure and the uncertainties in chemical shift prediction leads more accurate structures compared to conventional methods using empirical determined weights. The Cauchy distribution, using either sampled uncertainties or predetermined weights, did, however, result in overall better convergence to the native fold, suggesting that both types of distribution might be useful in different aspects of the protein structure prediction.', u'Sharks and rays are increasingly being identified as high-risk species for extinction, prompting urgent assessments of their local or regional populations. Advanced genetic analyses can contribute relevant information on effective population size and connectivity among populations although acquiring sufficient regional sample sizes can be challenging. DNA is typically amplified from tissue samples which are collected by hand spears with modified biopsy punch tips. This technique is not always popular due mainly to a perception that invasive sampling might harm the rays, change their behaviour, or have a negative impact on tourism. To explore alternative methods, we evaluated the yields and PCR success of DNA template prepared from the manta ray mucus collected underwater and captured and stored on a Whatman FTATM Elute card. The pilot study demonstrated that mucus can be effectively collected underwater using toothbrush. DNA stored on cards was found to be reliable for PCR-based population genetics studies. We successfully amplified mtDNA ND5, nuclear DNA RAG1, and microsatellite loci for all samples. As the yields of DNA with the tested method were low, further improvements are desirable for assays that may require larger amounts of DNA, such as population genomic studies using emerging next-gen sequencing.', u'Biomedical research networks need to integrate research data among their members and with external partners. To support such data sharing activities, adequate information technology infrastructure is necessary. To facilitate the establishments of such an infrastructure, we developed a reference model for requirements. The reference model consists of five reference goals and 15 reference requirements. Using the Unified Modeling Language, the goals and requirements are set into relation to each other. In addition, all goals and requirements are described textually in tables. This reference model can be used by research networks as a basis for the resource efficient acquisition of their project specific requirements. Further, a concrete instance of the reference model is described for a research network on liver cancer. The reference model is transferred into a requirements model of the specific network. Based on this concrete requirements model, a service-oriented information technology architecture is derived and also described in this paper.', u"CITED1 is a non-DNA binding transcriptional co-regulator whose expression can distinguish the \u2018proliferative\u2019 from \u2018invasive\u2019 signature in the phenotype-switching model of melanoma. We have found that, in addition to other 'proliferative' signature genes, CITED1 expression is repressed by TGF\u03b2 while the \u2018invasive\u2019 signature genes are upregulated. In agreement, CITED1 positively correlates with MITF expression and can discriminate the MITF-high/pigmentation tumor molecular subtype in a large cohort (120) of melanoma cell lines. Interestingly, CITED1 overexpression significantly suppressed MITF promoter activation, mRNA and protein expression levels while MITF was transiently upregulated following siRNA mediated CITED1 silencing. Conversely, MITF siRNA silencing resulted in CITED1 downregulation indicating a reciprocal relationship. Whole genome expression analysis identified a phenotype shift induced by CITED1 silencing and driven mainly by expression of MITF and a cohort of MITF target genes that were significantly altered. Concomitantly, we found changes in the cell-cycle profile that manifest as transient G1 accumulation, increased expression of CDKN1A and a reduction in cell viability. Additionally, we could predict survival outcome by classifying primary melanoma tumors using our in vitro derived \u2018CITED1-silenced\u2019 gene expression signature. We hypothesize that CITED1 acts a regulator of MITF, functioning to maintain MITF levels in a range compatible with tumourigenesis.", u'The teosinte branched1 (tb1) gene is a major QTL controlling branching differences between maize and its wild progenitor, teosinte. The insertion of a transposable element (Hopscotch) upstream of tb1 is known to enhance the gene\u2019s expression, causing reduced tillering in maize. Observations of the maize tb1 allele in teosinte and estimates of an insertion age of the Hopscotch that predates domestication led us to investigate its prevalence and potential role in teosinte. We assessed the prevalence of the Hopscotch element across an Americas-wide sample of 837 maize and teosinte individuals using a co-dominant PCR assay. Additionally, we calculated population genetic summaries using sequence data from a subset of individuals from four teosinte populations and collected phenotypic data using seed from a single teosinte population where Hopscotch was found segregating at high frequency. Genotyping results indicate the Hopscotch element is found in a number of teosinte populations and linkage disequilibrium near tb1 does not support recent introgression from maize. Population genetic signatures are consistent with selection on the tb1 locus revealing a potential ecological role, but a greenhouse experiment does not detect a strong association between the Hopscotch and tillering in teosinte. Our findings suggest the role of Hopscotch differs between maize and teosinte. Future work should assess tb1 expression levels in teosinte with and without the Hopscotch and more comprehensively phenotype teosinte to assess the ecological significance of the Hopscotch insertion and, more broadly, the tb1 locus in teosinte.', u'The nemoral forests of the montane level are especially interesting, because they are on the edge of their distribution. We want to see the influence of some environmental conditions (temperature and rainfall) on the litterfall and growth, in three kinds of these forests. The Montseny massif in the NE part of Iberian Peninsula, with a maximum altitude of 1.706 m, has a strong gradient of climate and vegetation, from the lowlands to the top of the mountains. We analyze three forests in the Montseny massif, two of them are composed by deciduous species not very extensive in the region (beech and sessile oak) and the other is a Mediterranean species, the mountain holm oak. We recollect data since 2007, monthly litterfall was measured and radial growth, and correlated with the climate of the study area. Our results shows that Fagus sylvatica recorded the biggest drop in annual litterfall (6.3 Mg / ha), followed by Q. ilex (5.3 Mg / ha) and Q. petraea (4.6 Mg / ha) all recorded values \u200b\u200bare similar to those observed in other forests and mountains of the same state of maturity equivalent. The start of the growth took place in the spring and Quercus spp. occurred more gradually than in F. sylvatica. We found that the accumulated rainfall in late spring has had a positive effect specially on the growth of Quercus species while the effect of summer temperature has been especially prominent in beech. Mediterranean species show larger fluctuations growth than Central European ones in response to lower water availability.', u'Objectives: To determine test re-test reliability and construct validity of the star-track test of manual dexterity. Design: Test re-test reliability was tested in a controlled study. Construct validity was tested in a blinded randomized crossover study. Setting: The study was performed at a university hospital in Denmark.Participants: A total of 11 subjects for test re-test and 20 subjects for the construct validity study were included. All were healthy volunteers. Intervention: The test re-test trial had two measurements with 2 days pause in between. The interventions in the construct validity study included baseline measurement, intervention 1: fatigue, intervention 2: stress, and intervention 3: fatigue and stress. There was a 2 day pause between each intervention. Main outcome measure: Integrated measure of completion time and number of errors. Results: All participants completed the study (test re-test n = 11; construct validity n=20). Test re-test showed a strong Pearson product-moment correlation (r= 0.90, n= 11, P < 0.01) with no sign of learning effect. The 20 subjects in the construct validity trial were randomized to the order of the four interventions, so that all subjects completed each intervention once. A repeated measures ANOVA determined that mean integrated measure differed between interventions (p = 0.003). Post hoc tests using Bonferroni correction revealed that compared with baseline all interventions had significantly higher integrated scores ranging from 47-59% difference in mean. Conclusion: The star track test of manual dexterity had a strong test re-test reliability, and was able to discriminate between a subject\xb4s normal manual dexterity and dexterity after exposure to fatigue and/or stress.', u'Aedes aegypti is the major vector of dengue, yellow fever and chikungunya viruses that put millions of people in endemic countries at risk. Mass rearing of this mosquito is crucial for strategies that use modified insects to reduce vector populations and transmission of pathogens, such as sterile insect technique or population replacement. A major problem for vector mosquito mass rearing is the requirement of vertebrate blood for egg production since it poses significant costs as well as potential health hazards. Also regulations for human and animal use as blood source can pose a significant obstacle. A completely artificial diet that supports egg production in vector mosquitoes can solve this problem. In this study, we compared different blood fractions as dietary protein sources for mosquito egg production. We also tested artificial diets made from commercially available blood proteins (bovine serum albumin (BSA) and hemoglobin). We found that Ae. aegypti performed vitellogenesis and produced eggs when given whole bovine blood, serum, or an artificial diet containing BSA. Conversely, egg production was impaired after feeding of the red blood cell fraction or an artificial diet containing only hemoglobin. Our results indicate that serum proteins, not hemoglobin, may replace vertebrate blood in artificial diets for mass mosquito rearing.', u'The present study investigates the possibility of integrating an existing industrial large scale biomass production with the treatment of waste water in which a mixture of organic and inorganic rich pollutants was used as a medium. This study suggests that the replacement of a defined medium with a complete mixotrophic medium gives a significant statistical difference in terms of growth parameters i.e. biomass production and specific growth rate. The green microalga C. pyrenoidosa was cultivated under different mixotrophic conditions for evaluation of biomass production. Inorganic defined fog\u2019s medium supplemented, with raw dairy wastewater led to 1.37g/L biomass production in comparison to 1.2g/L obtained with pure glucose revealing 14.16% increase. The study also involves the supplementation of raw dairy wastewater as an organic carbon source in an inorganic medium comprising municipal treated water and reverse osmosis (RO) treated wastewater and attained 2.4g/L and 1.6g/L of biomass respectively, as compared to 0.3g/L and 0.16g/L obtained in the wastewaters alone revealing 700% and 900% increase respectively. Mixotrophic regimen cells as analyzed by a 2D Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy for its biochemical content revealed that fog\u2019s blended raw dairy waste (RDW) regimen cells had maximum Carbohydrate/Amide ratio. The study suggests that the mixotrophic regimen C. pyrenoidosa cells can show appropriate growth in a mixture of waste waters and the same comes out to be a cost effective and feasible alternative commercial medium for biomass production without requiring any expensive organic carbon sources in the culture medium.', u'Sexual dimorphism in immunocompetence, with males having lower immune function, is a prevalent pattern in nature. The main evolutionary explanation for this pattern is that males preferentially allocate resources away from immune function and towards reproductive effort to increase their competitiveness for limited females. However, the role of differential predation risk between the sexes has not been considered, despite predation risk being a major driver of life history strategies and male sexual traits often having associated predation costs. It is unclear whether increased predation risk should increase or decrease investment in immune function, as males have been shown to utilize both behavioural (e.g. decrease foraging activity) and/or life-history (e.g. decrease investment in sexual trait) defense strategies to manage predation risk. Here, we modelled optimal resource acquisition and allocation towards immune function under differential predation risk with multiple defense strategies. If males have limited defense strategies, increasing predation risk caused males to trade-off immune function for reproductive effort, leading to reduced immunocompetence. In contrast, if males can only decrease predation risk through reduction of reproductive effort (e.g. decrease colouration or calling rates), then increasing predation risk causes immune function to increase. If males can utilize multiple defense strategies and sexual selection is low, then males maintain a constant immune function as predation risk increases. Sexual selection robustly resulted in decreased immunocompetence. Overall, our results suggest that predation plays an important role in the evolution of sexual dimorphism in immunocompetence, but predicting its effect requires understanding the integrated defense strategies available.', u'The Permo-Triassic archosauromorph record is crucial to understand the impact of the Permo-Triassic mass extinction on the early evolution of the group and its subsequent dominance in Mesozoic terrestrial ecosystems. However, the Permo-Triassic archosauromorph record is still very poor in most continents and hampers the identification of global macroevolutionary patterns. Here we describe cranial and postcranial bones from the Permo-Triassic Buena Vista Formation of northeastern Uruguay that contribute to increase the meagre early archosauromorph record from South America. A basioccipital fused to both partial exoccipitals and three cervical vertebrae are assigned to Archosauromorpha based on apomorphies or a unique combination of characters. The archosauromorph remains of the Buena Vista Formation probably represent a multi-taxonomic assemblage composed of non-archosauriform archosauromorphs and a \u2018proterosuchid-grade\u2019 animal. This assemblage does not contribute in the discussion of a Late Permian or Early Triassic age for the Buena Vista Formation, but reinforces the broad palaeobiogeographic distribution of \u2018proterosuchid grade\u2019 diapsids in Permo-Triassic beds worldwide.', u'Aboveground production in terrestrial plant communities is commonly expressed in amount of carbon, or biomass, per unit surface. Alternatively, expressing production per unit volume allows the comparison of communities by their fundamental limits in packing carbon. In this work we reanalyzed published data from more than 900 plant communities across nine ecosystems to show that standing dry biomass per unit volume (biomass packing) consistently averages around 1 kg/m3 and rarely exceeds 5 kg/m3 across ecosystem types. Furthermore, we examined how empirical relationships between aboveground production and plant species richness are modified when standing biomass is expressed per unit volume rather than surface. We propose that biomass packing emphasizes species coexistence mechanisms and is an indicator of resource use efficiency in plant communities.', u'This article outlines a protocol for a systematic review into consumer attitudes, beliefs and perceived ethical obligations towards farm animal welfare, utilizing both the Theory of Reasoned Action and the Theory of Planned Behavior. A number of secondary objectives will also be explored in relation to the heterogeneity within the data relating to a number of variables known to vary within existing data including; animal species, welfare measures, socio-demographic and socio-economic characteristics. The protocol outlines the rationale, objectives, inclusion criteria, search strategy and screening processes for the meta-analysis, and the plans for data extraction, risk of bias and data synthesis.', u"This article outlines a protocol for a meta-analysis into willingness-to-pay (WTP) for farm animal welfare. The analysis seeks to establish the public's WTP for farm animal welfare and whether there is evidence to support niche markets for products produced to designated and usually higher welfare standards. A number of secondary objectives will also be explored in relation to the heterogeneity within the data relating to a number of variables known to vary within existing data including; animal species, welfare measures, socio-demographic and socio-economic characteristics. The protocol outlines the rationale, objectives, inclusion criteria, search strategy and screening processes for the meta-analysis, and the plans for data extraction, risk of bias and data synthesis.", u'One of the most remarkable characteristics of collective motion of fish is the emergence of complex migration patterns in which swimming fish are synchronised by remaining together and moving in the same direction. These migration patterns, referred to as fish schools, are often explained using individual based models (IBM\u2019s) that focus on interactions between single individuals. The IBM\u2019s appear to be realistic and robust; however, they are computationally unable to efficiently describe migration of large groups of fish. Here, an approach for developing computationally efficient super-individual based models from simple individual based models for fish migration is proposed. This approach accentuates on ecological mechanisms underlying collective motion of fish, and interaction between them; it explicitly incorporates such important mechanisms in collective motion of fish as fish school splitting and merging.', u'Burul ulcer disease is an infection of the subcutaneous layer. The causative organism, Mycobacterium ulcerans is a slow-growing environmental pathogen often associated with wetland and slow moving streams. One insect order believed to be associated with M.ulcerans is the order hemiptera, in which the aquatic bugs (Naucoris sp and Belostoma sp) belong. Some Mycobacteria species are endosymbiont of Acanthamoeba and laboratory experiments has confirmed this in M. ulcerans in an endemic area in Benin persisting in an amoeba for 14 days. Aquatic insect are believed to feed on amoeba, planktons, snail and fish from which they get infected. Protozoan and planktons may be the true resorvior or host of M. ulcerans but little research has been done in this area. Though many studies have found M. ulcerans in these insects, the exact mechanism of transmission to humans is still elusive. This study aims to review the available data on aquatic bugs, protozoans and other invertebrates (snail and fish) to ascertain if aquatic insects are themselves victims of the M. ulcerans through feeding.', u'A persistent challenge in materials science is the characterization of a large ensemble of heterogeneous nanostructures in a set of images. This often leads to practices such as manual particle counting, and sampling bias of a favorable region of the \u201cbest\u201d image. Herein, we present the open-source software, imaging criteria and workflow necessary to fully characterize an ensemble of SEM nanoparticle images. Such characterization is critical to nanoparticle biosensors, whose performance and characteristics are determined by the distribution of the underlying nanoparticle film. We utilize novel artificial SEM images to objectively compare commonly-found image processing methods through each stage of the workflow: acquistion, preprocessing, segmentation, labeling and object classification. Using the semi- supervised machine learning application, Ilastik, we demonstrate the decomposition of a nanoparticle image into particle subtypes relevant to our application: singles, dimers, flat aggregates and piles. We outline a workflow for characterizing and classifying nanoscale features on low-magnification images with thousands of nanoparticles. This work is accompanied by a repository of supplementary materials, including videos, a bank of real and artificial SEM images, and ten IPython Notebook tutorials to reproduce and extend the presented results.', u'We used the virtual hand illusion paradigm to study the relationship between two aspects of the minimal self: the sense of agency and the sense of (body) ownership. Converging evidence for the (at least) partial independence of agency and ownership was found. For instance, sense of agency was a better predictor of individual anxiety levels than sense of ownership, and males showed stronger effects related to agency, presumably due to gender-specific attribution styles and empathy skills. Taken together, our findings suggest that the sense of agency and the sense of ownership are driven by different kinds of information and related to different psychological functions.', u'Attempts to reconstruct the neutral neck posture of sauropod dinosaurs, or indeed any tetrapod, are doomed to failure when based only on the geometry of the bony cervical vertebrae. The thickness of the articular cartilage between the centra of adjacent vertebrae affects posture. It extends (raises) the neck by an amount roughly proportional to the thickness of the cartilage. It is possible to quantify the angle of extension at an intervertebral joint: it is roughly equal, in radians, to the cartilage thickness divided by the height of the zygapophyseal facets over the centre of rotation. Applying this formula to published measurements of well-known sauropod specimens suggests that if the thickness of cartilage were equal to 4.5%, 10% or 18% of centrum length, the neutral pose of the Apatosaurus louisae holotype CM 3018, would be extended by an average of 5.5, 11.8 or 21.2 degrees, respectively, at each intervertebral joint. For the Diplodocus carnegii holotype CM 84, the corresponding angles of additional extension are even greater: 8.4, 18.6 or 33.3 degrees. The neutral postures calculated for 10% cartilage \u2013 the most reasonable estimate \u2013 appear outlandish, but it must be remembered that these would not have been the habitual life postures, because animals habitually extend the base of their neck and flex the anterior part, yielding the distinctive S-curve most easily seen in birds.', u'Although head motion during scanning has been largely considered to reflect simply technical artifacts, there is growing evidence showing that the variable of head motion reflects valuable information regarding individual\u2019s psychological and/or clinical factors. Detailed studies would not only help to deal with the head motion biases, but they also help researchers in understanding the mental disorders. In this study, children with ADHD and demographically-matched typically developing control (TDC) participants underwent rs-fMRI examination without any specific task, and six mean single head motion parameters (three translational and three rotational) and a summary motion index for each participant were obtained. We found that patients with ADHD showed specific patterns of head motion during scanning: motion was significantly increased in the ADHD group, which was mainly contributed by the motion around and along the superior-to-inferior direction. Furthermore, the cross-validation classification analyses showed that the head motion could accurately distinguish children with ADHD from the healthy controls. These results suggest that head motion during scanning reflects useful information about the participants and accounting for head motion from MRI data may be helpful for ADHD diagnosing and treatment with neuroimaging.', u'We present a fast, validated, open-source toolkit for processing dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) data. We validate it against the Quantitative Imaging Biomarkers Alliance (QIBA) Standard and Extended Tofts-Kety phantoms and find near perfect recovery in the absence of noise, with an estimated 10-20x speedup in run time compared to existing tools. To explain the observed trends in the fitting errors, we present an argument about the conditioning of the Jacobian in the limit of small and large parameter values. We also demonstrate its use on an in vivo data set to measure performance on a realistic application. For a 192 x 192 breast image, we achieved run times of < 1 s. Finally, we analyze run times scaling with problem size and find that the run time per voxel scales as O(N1.9), where N is the number of time points in the tissue concentration curve. DCEMRI.jl was much faster than any other analysis package tested and produced comparable accuracy, even in the presence of noise.', u'Nephila clavata L. Koch, known as the Joro spider and native to East Asia (Japan, China, Korea, and Taiwan), is newly reported from North America. Specimens from several locations in northeast Georgia were collected from around residential properties in Barrow, Jackson, and Madison counties in late October and early November 2014. These are the first confirmed records of the species in the New World. Our collections, along with confirmed images provided by private citizens, suggest the Joro spider is established in northeast Georgia. Genomic sequence data for the COI gene obtained from two specimens conforms to published sequences for N. clavata, providing additional confirmation of species identity. Known collection records are listed and mapped using geocoding. Our observations are summarized along with published background information on biology in Asia and we hypothesize on the invasion history and mode of introduction into North America. Recognition features are given and photographic images of the male and female are provided to aid in their differentiation from the one native species of the genus (Nephila clavipes) in North America.', u'This study concerned with the optimization of fermentation parameters for the hyper production of mannanase from Fusarium oxysporum SS-25 employing two step statistical strategy and kinetic characterization of crude enzyme preparation. The Plackett-Burman design was first used to screen out the important factors in the culture medium which were found to be: 20% (w/w) wheat bran, 2% (w/w) each of potato peels, soybean meal, malt extract, 1% tryptone, 0.14% NH4SO4, 0.2% KH2PO4, 0.0002% ZnSO4, 0.0005% FeSO4, 0.01% MnSO4, 0.012% SDS, 0.03% NH4Cl, 0.1% NaNO3 in brewer\u2019s spent grain based medium with 50% moisture content, inoculated with 2.8\xd7107 spores and incubated at 30oC for 6 days. Out of twenty seven factors, four variables including soybean meal, FeSO4, MnSO4 and NaNO3 were selected to study the interactive effects and optimum level of these variables in central composite design of response surface methodology. The final mannanase yield was 193 IU/g which was active at broader temperature and pH range and could result in 26.6% reduction in kappa number with 4.93% higher tear index and 1% increase in brightness when used to treat the wheat straw based kraft pulp. The hydrolytic potential of enzyme was demonstrated on both locust bean gum and guar gum.', u'During the past years pharmacophore modeling has become one of the key components in computer-aided drug design and generally in modern drug discovery. DrugOn is a fully interactive pipeline designed to exploit the advantages of modern programming and overcome the command line barrier with two friendly environments for the user (either novice or experienced in the field of Computer Aided Drug Design) to perform pharmacophore modeling through an efficient combination of the PharmACOphore, Gromacs, Ligbuilder and PDB2PQR suites. Our platform features a novel workflow that guides the user through each logical step of the iterative 3D structural optimization setup and drug design process. For the pharmacophore modeling we are focusing on either the characteristics of the receptor or the full molecular system, including a set of selected ligands. DrugOn can be freely downloaded from our dedicated server system at www.bioacademy.gr/bioinformatics/drugon/', u'Wildlife reintroductions and translocations are statistically unlikely to succeed. Nevertheless, they remain a critical part of conservation because they are the only way to actively restore a species into a habitat from which it has been extirpated. Past efforts to improve these practices have attributed the low success rate to failures in the biological knowledge (e.g. ignorance of social behavior, poor release site selection), or to the inherent challenges of reinstating a species into an area where threats have already driven it to local extinction. Such research presumes that the only way to improve reintroduction outcomes is through improved biological knowledge. This emphasis on biological solutions may have caused researchers to overlook the potential influence of other factors on reintroduction outcomes. I employed a grounded theory approach to study the leadership and management of a successful reintroduction program (the Sea Eagle Recovery Project in Scotland, UK) and identify four critical managerial elements that I theorize may have contributed to the successful outcome of this 50-year reintroduction. These elements are: 1. Leadership & Management: Small, dedicated team of accessible experts who provide strong political and scientific advocacy ("champions") for the project. 2. Hierarchy & Autonomy: Hierarchical management structure that nevertheless permits high individual autonomy. 3. Goals & Evaluation: Formalized goal-setting and regular, critical evaluation of the project\u2019s progress toward those goals. 4. Adaptive Public Relations: Adaptive outreach campaigns that are open, transparent, inclusive (esp. linguistically), and culturally relevant', u'Endodontically treated teeth with excessive loss of tooth structure would require to be restored with post and core to enhance the strength and durability of the tooth and to achieve retention for the restoration. The non-metallic posts have of a superior esthetic quality. Various core materials can be used to build-up cores on the posts placed in endodontically treated teeth. The core materials would show variation in their bonding with the non-metallic posts and the remaining tooth structure. They will also have an effect on the strength and resistance to fracture of the remaining tooth structure. Aims: The aim of the study was to assess the fracture resistance of three composite resin core build-up materials on three prefabricated non-metallic posts, cemented in extracted endodontically treated teeth. Material and methods: Forty five freshly extracted maxillary central incisors of approximately of the same size and shape were selected for the study. Student\u2019s unpaired \u2018t\u2019 test was also used to analyse and compare each group with the other groups individually, and decide whether their comparisons were statistically significant. Results: Luxacore showed the highest fracture resistance among the three core build-up materials with all the three posts systems. Ti-core had intermediate values of fracture resistance and Lumiglass had least values of fracture resistance.', u'Stress can precipitate the onset of mood and anxiety disorders. This may occur, at least in part, via a modulatory effect of stress on decision-making. Some individuals are, however, more resilient to the effects of stress than others. The mechanisms underlying such vulnerability differences are nevertheless unknown. In this study we attempted to begin quantifying individual differences in vulnerability by exploring the effect of experimentally induced stress on decision-making. Threat of unpredictable shock was used to induce stress in healthy volunteers (N=47) using a within-subjects, within-session design, and its impact on a financial decision-making task (the Iowa Gambling Task) was assessed alongside anxious and depressive symptomatology. As expected, participants learned to select advantageous decks and avoid disadvantageous decks. Importantly, we found that stress provoked a pattern of harm-avoidant behaviour (decreased selection of disadvantageous decks) in individuals with low levels of trait anxiety. By contrast, individuals with high trait anxiety demonstrated the opposite pattern: stress-induced risk-seeking (increased selection of disadvantageous decks). These contrasting influences of stress depending on mood and anxiety symptoms might provide insight into vulnerability to common mental illness. In particular, we speculate that those who adopt a more harm-avoidant strategy may be better able to regulate their exposure to further environmental stress, reducing their susceptibility to mood and anxiety disorders. The threat of shock paradigm we employed might therefore hold promise as a \u2018stress-test\u2019 for determining individual vulnerability to mood and anxiety disorders.', u'It is known that statistically significant (positive) results are more likely to be published than non-significant (negative) results. However, it has been unclear whether any increasing prevalence of positive results is stronger in the \u201csofter\u201d disciplines (social sciences) than in the \u201charder\u201d disciplines (physical sciences), and whether the prevalence of negative results is decreasing over time. Using Scopus, we searched the abstracts of papers published between 1990 and 2013, and measured longitudinal trends of multiple expressions of positive versus negative results, including p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 versus p-values between 0.051 and 0.059, textual reporting of \u201csignificant difference\u201d versus \u201cno significant difference\u201d, and the reporting of p < 0.05 versus p > 0.05. We found no support for a \u201chierarchy of sciences\u201d with physical sciences at the top and social sciences at the bottom. However, we found large differences in reporting practices between disciplines, with p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 over 1990\u20132013 being 65.7 times more prevalent in the biological sciences than in the physical sciences. p-values near the significance threshold of 0.05 on either side have both increased but with those p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 having increased to a greater extent (2013-to-1990 ratio of the percentage of papers = 10.3) than those between 0.051 and 0.059 (ratio = 3.6). Contradictorily, p < 0.05 has increased more slowly than p > 0.05 (ratios = 1.4 and 4.8, respectively), while the use of \u201csignificant difference\u201d has shown only a modest increase compared to \u201cno significant difference\u201d (ratios = 1.5 and 1.1, respectively). We also compared reporting of significance in the United States, Asia, and Europe and found that the results are too inconsistent to draw conclusions on cross-cultural differences in significance reporting. We argue that the observed longitudinal trends are caused by negative factors, such as an increase of questionable research practices, but also by positive factors, such as an increase of quantitative research and structured reporting.', u'Meta analysis refers to secondary data analysis where information from individual research articles are synthesised to arrive at a summary estimate. Meta analysis thus refers to several related steps of framing a question or a problem, formulating search strategies, collection of journal articles or primary studies, abstraction of data from the studies, critical appraisal of studies, judging homogeneity of studies, and synthesis of information from them. In this paper, we describe the key processes of how to conduct each of these steps to conduct a meta analysis.', u'Amplifications or deletions of genome segments, known as copy number variants (CNVs), have been associated with many diseases. Read depth analysis of next-generation sequencing (NGS) is an essential method of detecting CNVs. However, genome read coverage is frequently distorted by various biases of NGS platforms, which reduce predictive capabilities of existing approaches. Additionally, the use of read depth tools has been somewhat hindered by imprecise breakpoint identification. We developed GROM-RD, an algorithm that analyzes multiple biases in read coverage to detect CNVs in NGS data. We found non-uniform variance across distinct GC regions after using existing GC bias correction methods and developed a novel approach to normalize such variance. Although complex and repetitive genome segments complicate CNV detection, GROM-RD adjusts for repeat bias and uses a two-pipeline masking approach to detect CNVs in complex and repetitive segments while improving sensitivity in less complicated regions. To overcome a typical weakness of RD methods, GROM-RD employs a CNV search using size-varying overlapping windows to improve breakpoint resolution. We compared our method to two widely used programs based on read depth methods, CNVnator and RDXplorer, and observed improved CNV detection and breakpoint accuracy for GROM-RD. GROM-RD is available at http://grigoriev.rutgers.edu/software/', u'Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) is a powerful technique for measuring and evaluating gene expressions during different biological processes. To facilitate gene expression studies, normalization with respect to stable housekeeping genes (HKGs) is mandatory. The western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae), the main vector of Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), is a very destructive invasive species. In this study, expression profiles of 11 candidate HKGs, including \u03b2-actin  (Actin), \u03b1-tubulin (Tubulin), elongation factor 1 \u03b1 (EF1A), vacuolar-typeH+-ATPase (ATPase), NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (NADH), heat shock protein 60  (HSP60), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), ribosomal protein l32  (RPL32), 28S ribosomal RNA (28S), and 18S ribosomal RNA (18S), from no nviruliferous and viruliferous F. occidentalis were investigated. Four distinct algorithms, geNorm, Normfinder, BestKeeper, and the \u0394Ct method, were employed to determine the performance of these genes as endogenous controls under the virus condition. Based on RefFinder, which integrates all four analytical algorithms to compare and rank the candidates, HSP70 , HSP60, EF1A, and RPL32 were the most stable housekeeping genes. This work is the initial first step to establish a standardized qRT-PCR analysis in F. occidentalis. Additionally, this study lays a foundation for the research in the interactions between TSWV and F. occidentalis.', u'Coastal aggregations of whale sharks Rhincodon typus around the world are generally seasonal and driven by prey availability. At a major aggregation site in southern Mozambique, whale sharks are, somewhat unusually, present and seen feeding throughout the year. We investigated potential oceanographic mechanisms that may regulate prey availability on the narrow regional shelf and hence account for this year-round whale shark hotspot. We used regional aerial surveys to show that the highest density of whale sharks (29 sharks 100 km-1) was near Praia do Tofo (23.85\u02daS, 35.55\u02daE). To investigate how the regional oceanography influences the enrichment of shelf waters, we used 5- and 9-year time series of hourly underwater temperature, and 10-year time series of remotely-sensed sea surface temperature, chlorophyll-a concentration and sea surface height anomaly data. We found that upwelling of cool, nutrient-rich water was common in the region throughout the year and describe three mechanisms, all of which are likely to stimulate productivity: (1) Shelf-edge upwelling and subsequent elevated plankton biomass in coastal waters north of Praia do Tofo, driven by the interaction of southward-propagating mesoscale eddies with the narrow shelf. In situ temperature data show that this interaction frequently leads to intense upwelling, up to 7.5\u02daC daily amplitude, throughout the year, but is most pronounced in spring/summer. (2) Divergent upwelling south of Praia do Tofo driven by the current flow along the shelf edge as it diverges from the coastline. This upwelling can occur throughout the year and is similar in intensity, but less frequent, than the shelf-edge upwelling. (3) Vortex-driven upwelling by the Delagoa Bight lee-eddy, which may increase phytoplankton biomass in the Bight and also force a northward coastal current that transports recently-upwelled water towards Praia do Tofo. We hypothesise that whale sharks aggregate in coastal waters around Praia do Tofo throughout the year because these upwelling mechanisms contribute to year-round productivity in the region.', u'Research into the ecology of intertidal fishes of the U.K. appears to be lacking, reportedly due to the mobility and cryptic nature of the more common species. However, some intertidal fishes contribute to the diets of commercially important species such as cod (Gadus morhua), haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus) and near-threatened European otter (Lutra lutra). The current study contains the first comprehensive research into the ecology of intertidal fishes from the English, Yorkshire coast and Welsh, Anglesey coast, identifying and addressing the mechanisms which allow for their coexistence. Seven mechanisms were identified which promote interspecific fish coexistence. It was found that coexistence can occur when: (I) fish diversity on a shore is low, thus minimising high degrees of co-occurrence within pools, (II) co-occurrence on shores (at tidal height level) is minimal and when fishes do co-occur, they are of similar sizes thus reducing size-dominated hierarchies, (III) the significant variables which predict fish presences differ, (IV) there is an abundance of shelter/protection readily available, which reduces the competition to access such features, (V) morphology is such, that for the majority of the year, it is more profitable for the piscivorous fishes to predate on food items other than fish, (VI) competition for prey items is reduced, when variability of resources is high, and (VII) there is a difference in the most targeted prey items between fish species, despite some overlap in targeted prey items.', u'Objectives. With 43% of Australians experiencing occupational burnout therapies for burnout reduction are paramount to organisational efficiency. Exercise has potential to provide a multilevel and cost effective burnout intervention. The current study aims to extend the literature by comparing cardiovascular with resistance exercise to assess their relative effectiveness against well-being, perceived stress, and burnout. Design. Participants were 49 (36 females and 13 males) previously inactive volunteers ranging in age from 19 to 68 that completed a four week exercise program of either cardiovascular, resistance, or no exercise (control). Method. Participants were measured against the Subjective Exercise Experience Scale, the Perceived Stress Scale, and the Maslach Burnout Inventory. Results. After four weeks of exercise participants had greater positive well-being and personal accomplishment, and concomitantly less psychological distress, perceived stress, and emotional exhaustion. Cardiovascular exercise was found to increase well-being and decrease psychological distress, perceived stress, and emotional exhaustion. Resistance training was noticeably effective in increasing well-being and personal accomplishment and to reduce perceived stress. Our preliminary findings revealed large effect sizes suggesting that exercise may be an effective treatment for burnout. However, given a small sample size further research needs to be conducted. Conclusion. Different types of exercise may thus help protect against burnout as exercise seems to increase well-being and personal accomplishment while decreasing psychological distress, perceived stress, and emotional exhaustion. Organisations that want to address burnout can assist by improving their employees\u2019 access to regular exercise programs.', u'Emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) are exclusively terrestrial, bipedal and cursorial ratites with some similar biomechanical characteristics to humans. Their growth rates are impressive as their body mass increases eighty-fold from hatching to adulthood whilst maintaining the same mode of locomotion throughout life. These ontogenetic characteristics stimulate biomechanical questions about the strategies that allow emus to cope with their rapid growth and locomotion, which can be partly addressed via scaling (allometric) analysis of morphology. In this study we have collected pelvic limb anatomical data (muscle architecture, tendon length, tendon mass and bone lengths) and calculated muscle physiological cross sectional area (PCSA) and average tendon cross sectional area from emus across three ontogenetic stages (n=17, body masses from 3.6 to 42 kg). The data were analysed by reduced major axis regression to determine how these biomechanically relevant aspects of morphology scaled with body mass. Muscle mass and PCSA showed a marked trend towards positive allometry (26 and 27 out of 34 muscles respectively) and fascicle length showed a more mixed scaling pattern. The long tendons of the main digital flexors scaled with positive allometry for all characteristics whilst other tendons demonstrated a less clear scaling pattern. Finally, the two longer bones of the limb (tibiotarsus and tarsometatarsus) also exhibited positive allometry for length and the two others (femur and first phalanx of digit III) had trends towards isometry. These results indicate that emus experience a relative increase in their muscle force-generating capacities, as well as potentially increasing the force-sustaining capacities of their tendons, as they grow. Furthermore, we have clarified anatomical descriptions and provided illustrations of the pelvic limb muscle-tendon units in emus.', u'Anthropogenic disturbance regimes in areas that were once large continuous habitats have been major drivers of habitat fragmentation and loss which in turn form the largest worldwide threat to avian biodiversity. Studies suggest that functional trait based approaches provide better understanding of fragmentation effects on ecological processes in human-modified landscapes. However, research on these thematic areas is limited in many tropical regions, such as Ethiopia. In this study, we evaluated sensitivity of bird communities and functional groups to fragmentation processes in Ethiopia. Standard point counts were used to survey birds in 16 remnant forest patches of variable sizes and degrees of isolation. The information theoretic model selection approach was used for precise understanding of avian functional group responses to habitat loss and fragmentation. Results showed strong impacts of forest loss and fragmentation on forest specialists, insectivores, frugivores, open nesters, understorey nesters and resident birds. Protection and restoration of the remnant forest patches may help mitigate the negative effects of fragmentation on such specialist bird functional groups.', u'The mammalian order Lagomorpha has been the subject of many morphometric studies aimed at understanding the relationship between form and function as it relates to locomotion, primarily in postcranial morphology. The leporid cranial skeleton, however, may also reveal information about their ecology, particularly locomotion and vision. Here we investigate the relationship between cranial shape and the degree of facial tilt with locomotion (cursoriality, saltation, and burrowing) within crown leporids. Our results suggest that facial tilt is more pronounced in cursors and saltators compared to generalists. However cranial shape does not differ significantly among these locomotor groups, nor does it differ significantly between species that burrow and those that do not.', u'This preprint is the outcome of the \u201cTraining Workshop Interdisciplinary Life Sciences\u201d, held in October 2013 in the Lorentz Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. The motivation to organize this event stems from the following considerations: The enormous progress in laboratory techniques and facilities leads to the availability of huge amounts of data at all levels of complexity (molecules, cells, tissues, organs, organisms, populations, ecosystems). Especially data at the cellular level reveal details of life processes we were unconscious of until recently. However, it becomes clear that huge amounts of data alone do not automatically lead to understanding. The data explosion in Life Sciences teaches one lesson: life processes are of a highly intricate and integrative nature. To really understand the dynamic processes in living organisms one must integrate experimental data sets in quantitative and predictive models. Only then one may hope to grasp the functioning of these complex systems and be able to convert information in understanding. In the field of physics, for instance, this strong interaction between experiment and theory is already common practice since centuries, culminating in the 20th century being called the \u2019Century of Physics\u2019. In contrast to physics, the complex nature of the Life Sciences forces us to work in an interdisciplinary fashion. The necessary expertise is available, but scattered over many scientific disciplines. Only the combined efforts of biologists, chemists, mathematicians, physicists, engineers, and informaticians will lead to progress in tackling the huge challenge of understanding the complexity of life. Researchers in the Life Sciences often focus their research on a rather narrow research field. However, the majority of the upcoming generation of researchers in the Life Sciences should be trained to expand their skills, becoming able to tackle complex, multi-dimensional systems. The knowledge they have to incorporate in their research will stem from a diverse range of disciplines, So, they should be trained to integrate a broad range of modelling approaches in order to deduce quantitative, predictive and often multi-scale models from highly diverse data sets. Present curricula in the Life Sciences hardly offer this kind of training yet. This workshop intends to start filling this gap.\nThree teams worked on the following open problems: 1) Modeling the influence of temperature on the Regulation of flowering time in Arabidopsis thaliana; 2) Validation of computational models of angiogenesis to experimental data; 3) Reconstructing the gene network that regulates branching in Tomato. This preprint bundles the reports of the three teams.', u'The Mass, Metabolism and Length Explanation (MMLE) was advanced in 1984 to explain the relationship between metabolic rate and body mass for birds and mammals. This paper reports on a modernized version of MMLE. MMLE deterministically predicts the absolute value of Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) and body mass for individual animals. MMLE is thus distinct from other examinations of these topics that use species-averaged data to estimate the parameters in a statistically best fit power law relationship such as BMR = a(body mass)b. Beginning with the proposition that BMR is proportional to the number of mitochondria in an animal, two primary equations are derived that predict BMR and body mass as functions of an individual animal\u2019s characteristic length and sturdiness factor. The characteristic length is a measurable skeletal length associated with an animal\u2019s means of propulsion. The sturdiness factor expresses how sturdy or gracile an animal is. Eight other parameters occur in the equations that vary little among animals in the same phylogenetic group. The present paper modernizes MMLE by explicitly treating Froude and Strouhal dynamic similarity of mammals\u2019 skeletal musculature, revising the treatment of BMR and using new data to estimate numerical values for the parameters that occur in the equations. A mass and length data set with 575 entries from the orders Rodentia, Chiroptera, Artiodactyla, Carnivora, Perissodactyla and Proboscidae is used. A BMR and mass data set with 436 entries from the orders Rodentia, Chiroptera, Artiodactyla and Carnivora is also used. With the estimated parameter values MMLE can exactly predict every BMR and mass datum from the BMR and mass data set with no error and thus no unexplained variance. Furthermore MMLE can exactly predict every body mass and length datum from the mass and length data set with no error and thus no unexplained variance. Whether or not MMLE can simultaneously exactly predict an individual animal\u2019s BMR and body mass given its characteristic length awaits analysis of a data set that simultaneously reports all three of these items for individual animals. However for many of the addressed phylogenetic homogeneous groups, MMLE can predict the exponent obtained by regression analysis of the BMR and mass data using the exponent obtained by regression analysis of the mass and length data. This argues that MMLE may be able to accurately simultaneously predict BMR and mass for an individual animal.', u'The ability of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) to cause severe illness in humans is determined by multiple host factors and bacterial characteristics, including Shiga toxin (Stx) subtype. Given the link between Stx2a subtype and disease severity, we sought to identify the stx subtypes present in whole genome sequences (WGS) of 444 isolates of STEC O157. Difficulties in assembling the stx genes in some strains, were overcome by using two complementary bioinformatics methods; mapping and de novo assembly. We compared the WGS analysis with the results obtained using a PCR approach and investigated the diversity within and between the subtypes. All strains of STEC O157 in this study had stx1a, stx2a or stx2c or a combination of these three genes. There was over 99% (442/444) concordance between PCR and WGS. When common source strains were excluded, 236/349 strains of STEC O157 had multiple copies of different Stx subtypes and 54 had multiple copies of the same Stx subtype. Of those strains harbouring multiple copies of the same Stx subtype, 33 had variants between the alleles while 21 had identical copies. Strains harbouring Stx2a only were most commonly found to have multiple alleles of the same subtype (42%). Both the PCR and WGS approach to stx subtyping provided a good level of sensitivity and specificity. In addition, the WGS data also showed there were a significant proportion of strains harbouring multiple alleles of the same Stx subtype associated with clinical disease in England.', u'Producing two or more types of seeds by a single plant is known as seed heteromorphism. Comparison of seed traits or growth between plants grown from heteromorphic seeds has received considerable attention. However, information is scarce regarding the comparison of mineral content of adult plants from heteromorphic seeds. Here we present biomass and mineral profiles (Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium, Sodium and Chloride) of adult plants grown from dimorphic seeds (non-dormant brown seeds and black seeds with non-deep physiological dormancy) of annual desert halophyte Suaeda aralocaspica at different levels of nutrient and salinity. The results showed that, although nutrient and salinity could affect dry weigh and mineral content, seed-dimorphic plants of S. aralocaspica did not show significant difference under the same experimental conditions. This study is one of the few to compare the physiological responses between seed-heteromorphic plants and suggests that mineral status is exactly consistent with growth performance for these plants.', u'Background. Freshwater mussels of superfamily Unionoidea are a diverse group with an evolutionary history of at least 360 million years. Many fossil and modern species exhibit a generally unsculptured, roughly elliptical shell outline. Such morphology results in difficulties when attempting to identify or classify fossil material, as only hard parts are preserved. Several latest-Cretaceous fossil localities over a small geographic area in southwestern North Dakota contain poorly preserved edentulous freshwater mussels that effectively lack all but shell outlines. This paper discusses methods that were used to attempt to determine how many fossil taxa were present in one of these assemblages. Methods. Elliptical Fourier Analysis was performed on two-dimensional shell outlines of both edentulous fossils and modern taxa to create Fourier scores representing outline shape. Morphospace occupation, or the amount of variation within a sample of shell outlines, was calculated using two methods: within-group dispersion and sum of variance. Morphospace occupation was compared among each of the modern taxa (at both generic and specific levels) and fossil assemblage using confidence intervals, ANOVA, and Tukey\u2019s HSD tests. Results. The amount of outline variation within the fossil assemblage tested is more than some modern genera and species and less than others. Morphospace occupation and confidence intervals are defined for the modern taxa (nine genera and 24 species) that were examined. Discussion. Although results were inconclusive, discussion points are presented to drive future research. Methodological improvements are suggested including choice of extant (comparative) genera, ontogeny and size, morphological plasticity, phenotypic convergence, taphonomic deformation, and general geometric morphometrics.', u'A major challenge in ecology is understanding what enables certain species to persist, while others decline, in response to environmental change. Trait-based comparative analyses are useful in this regard as they can help identify the key drivers of decline, and highlight traits that promote resistance to change. Despite their popularity trait-based comparative analyses tend to focus on explaining variation in range shift and extinction risk, seldom being applied to actual measures of species decline. Furthermore they have tended to be taxonomically restricted to birds, mammals, plants and butterflies. Here we utilise a novel approach to estimate trends for the Odonata in Britain and Ireland, and examine trait correlates of these trends using a recently available trait dataset. We found the dragonfly fauna in Britain and Ireland has undergone considerable change between 1980 and 2012, with 33 and 39% of species showing significant declines and increases respectively. Distribution type was the key trait associated with these trends, where southern species showed significantly higher trends than widespread and northern species. We believe this reflects the impact of climate change as the increased ambient temperature in Britain and Ireland better suits species that are adapted to warmer conditions. We conclude that northern species are particularly vulnerable to climate change due to the combined pressures of a decline in climate suitability, and competition from species that were previously limited by lower thermal tolerance.', u"Paternity uncertainty seems to have shaped humans' differential investment in kin. I examined sex differences in communication among nuclear kin to expand inquiry on this matter and address some methodological limitations in prior work. I analyzed data from national surveys in the USA and Spain and a study of mobile phone communication in the immediate aftermath of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. Respondents communicated mildly to moderately more with mother than father and more with sister than brother. The differences in communication with mother and father appeared in both subjective survey data and objective mobile telephone records. Across communication modes and studies, women and men did not differ consistently in overall frequency of communication. Matricentric and sororicentric tendencies were larger for the modes likely to involve dyadic communication (such as telelphone calling and texting) than modes which often involve communication in group settings (face-to-face). The tendency to communicate more with female than male kin also appeared to be stronger in women respondents than in men. These results are consistent with paternity uncertainty as an ultimate evolutionary cause of differential investment in kin.", u'Noroviruses are positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses. They encode an NS6 protease that cleaves a viral polyprotein at specific sites to produce mature viral proteins. In an earlier study we obtained crystals of murine norovirus (MNV) NS6 protease in which crystal contacts were mediated by specific insertion of the C-terminus of one protein (which contains residues P5-P1 of the NS6-7 cleavage junction) into the peptide binding site of an adjacent molecule, forming an adventitious protease-product complex. We sought to reproduce this crystal form to investigate protease-substrate complexes by extending the C-terminus of NS6 construct to include residues on the C-terminal (P\xb4) side of the cleavage junction. We report the crystallization and crystal structure determination of inactive mutants of murine norovirus NS6 protease with C-terminal extensions of one, two and four residues from the N-terminus of the adjacent NS7 protein (NS6 1\xb4, NS6 2\xb4, NS6 4\xb4). We also determined the structure of a chimeric extended NS6 protease in which the P4 P4\u2032 sequence of the NS6-7 cleavage site was replaced with the corresponding sequence from the NS2-3 cleavage junction (NS6 4\xb4 2|3).\nThe constructs NS6 1\u2032 and NS6 2\u2032 yielded crystals that diffracted anisotropically. We found that, although the uncorrected data could be phased by molecular replacement, refinement of the structures stalled unless the data were ellipsoidally truncated and corrected with anisotropic B-factors. These corrections significantly improved phasing by molecular replacement and subsequent refinement.\nThe refined structures of all four extended NS6 proteases are very similar in structure to the mature MNV NS6 \u2014 and in one case reveal additional details of a surface loop. Although the packing arrangement observed showed some similarities to those observed in the adventitious protease-product crystals reported previously, in no case were specific protease-substrate interactions observed.', u'Knowledge about the timing and synchrony of coral spawning has important implications for both the ecology and management of coral reef ecosystems, however,data on spawning timing and extent of synchrony are still lacking for many coral reefs, particularly from equatorial regions and from locations within the coral triangle. Here we present the first documentation of a multi-species coral spawning event from reefs around Pulau Tioman, Peninsular Malaysia, a popular diving and tourist destination located on the edge of the coral triangle. At least 8 coral species from 3 genera and 2 families participated in multi-species spawning over five nights in April 2014, between two nights before and two nights after the full moon. Two Acropora species (A. digitifera and A. tenuis) also spawned one night prior to the full moon in October 2014. While two species of Acropora (A. millepora and A. nasuta) exhibited highly synchronous spawning in April (100% of sampled colonies), two other common species (A. hyacinthus and A. digitifera) did not contain visible eggs in the majority of colonies sampled (i.e., <15% of colonies) in either April or October, suggesting that these species spawn at other times of the year. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first detailed documented observation of multi-species coral spawning from reefs in Malaysia and these data support the contention that this phenomenon is a feature of all speciose coral assemblages. More research is needed, however, to determine the seasonal cycles and extent of spawning synchrony on these reefs and elsewhere in Malaysia.', u'The paleontological site \u201cPicos II\u201d, located at Picos farm, municipality of Piranhas, is a fossiliferous deposit with lagoon geomorphological features. The material found was in excellent condition, two Pleistocene mammalian taxa were identified: Eremotherium laurillardi and Notiomastodon platensis. The taphonomic analysis indicates that the deposited material suffered short transportation, in high-energy environment, taking form as a single depositional event covering the crystalline basement level, with disarticulation in situ, which explains the high degree of conservation of the material. The sedimentological analysis corroborates the information obtained in taphonomic analysis. The well preserved material found in SP Picos II demonstrates the great potencial of the lagoon type deposits, with less steep lateral than tanks, and promotes a smoother transport and accommodation of skeletal elements.', u'It is unclear whether the adipokine chemerin has pro- or anti-inflammatory properties, plays any role in the aetiology of obesity or type 2 diabetes, or whether agonists or antagonists of the chemerin receptor CMKLR1 have potential in the treatment of these diseases. To address these questions, we investigatedthe metabolic phenotypes of both male and female, CMKLR1 knockout and heterozygote mice; the effects of murine chemerin and some C-terminal peptides on glucose uptake in wild-type and CMKLR1 knockout adipocytes; and plasma chemerin levels and chemerin gene mRNA content in adipose tissue in models ofobesity and diabetes, and in response to fasting or administration of the insulin sensitizing drug rosiglitazone, which also has anti-inflammatory properties. Both male and female, CMKLR1 knockout and heterozygote mice displayed a mild tendency to obesity and impaired glucose homeostasis, but only when they were fed on a high fat, rather than a standard low fat diet. Obesity and impaired glucose homeostasis did not occur concurrently, suggesting that obesity was not the sole cause of impaired glucose homeostasis. Picomolar concentrations of chemerin and its C15- and C19-terminal peptides stimulatedglucose uptake in the presence of insulin by rat and mouse wild-type epididymal adipocytes, but not by murine CMKLR1 knockout adipocytes. The insulin concentration-response curve was shifted to the left in the presence of 40 pM chemerin or its C-15 terminal peptide. The plasma chemerin level was raised in diet-induced obesity and  ob/ob  but not  db/db  mice, and reduced by fasting and, in  ob/ob  mice, by treatment with rosiglitazone. These findings suggest that an agonist of CMKLR1 is more likely than an antagonist to be of value in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and have associated anti-obesity andanti-inflammatory activities. One mechanism by which an agonist of CMKLR1 might improve glucose homeostasis is by increasing insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by adipocytes.', u'The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii R\xfcppell 1852 (Teleostei, Cichlidae) displays remarkable acclimation capacities. When exposed to drastic changes of salinity, which can be the case in its natural habitat, it develops quick physiological responses and keeps reproducing. The present study focused on the physiological impact of salinity on male reproductive capacities, using gene expression as a proxy of acclimation process. Two series of experimental fish were investigated: the first one was composed of fish maintained in freshwater for several generations and newly acclimated to salinities of 35 and 70, whereas the second one consisted of the descendants of the latter born and raised under their native salinity. Expression patterns of 43 candidate genes previously identified from the testes of wild males was investigated in the three salinities and two generations. Twenty of them showed significant expression differences between salinities, and their predicted function revealed that most of them are involved in the osmotic tolerance of sperm cells and/or in the maintenance of sperm motility. A high level of expression variation was evidenced, especially for fish maintained in freshwater. In spite of this, gene expression patterns allowed the differentiation between fish raised in freshwater and those maintained in hypersaline water, in both generations. Altogether, the results presented here suggest that this high variability of expression is likely to ensure the reproductive success of this species under varying salinities.', u'Purpose: Effect of patient centered medical home (PCMH) curriculum interventions on residents\u2019 self-reported and demonstrated knowledge, skills and attitudes (KSA) in PCMH competency arenas is lacking in the literature. This study aimed to assess impact of PCMH curricular innovations on Internal Medicine residents\u2019 self-reported KSA. Method: Twenty four (24) Internal Medicine residents - 12 Traditional (TR) track and 12 Teaching Health Center (THC) track - began training in academic year (AY) 2011 at the Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education (WCGME). They were followed through AY2013 covering three years of training. PCMH curricular innovations were applied beginning July 2011 until May 2012 focally to THC residents. These curricular innovations were spread program wide in May 2012. Semi-annual validated PCMH Clinician Assessments assessing PCMH competencies based on self-reported KSA were started in AY2011 and completed by all residents. Results: Mean self-reported KSA scores of TR residents were similar to THC residents at baseline for all PCMH competencies. In May 2012, mean scores of THC residents were significantly higher than 2011 and graduating 2009 TR residents for most PCMH competencies. After program wide implementation of PCMH innovations, mean scores of 2011 and 2010 TR residents for all PCMH competencies improved and most equalized to those of 2011 THC residents. Globally improved PCMH competency scores of 2011 THC and TR residents were maintained through May 2014, with majority of improvements above baseline reaching statistical significance. Conclusions: PCMH curricular innovations inspired by HRSA\u2019s Teaching Health Center funded residency program expansion quickly and consistently improved Internal Medicine residents\u2019 self-reported KSA of PCMH competencies and improvements were sustained.', u'Repositories, such as the BioModels Database and the Physiome Model Repository support the reuse of models and ensure transparency about results in publications linked to those models. With thousands of models available, a framework to track the differences between models and their versions is essential to compare and combine models. Difference detection allows users to study the history of models but also helps in the detection of errors and inconsistencies. However, current repositories lack suitable methods to track a model\u2019s development over time. Consequently, researchers have problems to grasp the differences between models and their versions.\nFocusing on SBML and CellML, we developed an algorithm to accurately detect and describe differences between versions of a model with respect to (i) the models\u2019 encoding, (ii) the structure of biological networks, and (iii) mathematical expressions. Our method is implemented in a comprehensive and open library called BiVeS. Our work facilitates the reuse and extension of existing models. It also supports collaborative modelling. Finally, it contributes to better reproducibility of modelling results and to the challenge of model provenance.\nOur algorithm is the first tailor-made detector of differences between versions of computational models in standard formats.', u'Sharing in silico experiments is essential for the advance of research in computational biology. Consequently, the COMBINE archive was designed as a digital container format. It eases the management of files related to a modelling result, fosters collaboration, and ultimately enables the exchange of reproducible simulation studies. However, manual handling of COMBINE archives is tedious and error prone. We therefore developed the CombineArchiveWeb application to support scientists in promoting and publishing their research by means of creating, exploring, modifying, and sharing archives. All files are equipped with meta data and can be distributed over the Web through shareable workspaces.', u'Several nutrient-signaling pathways that extend life span have been described in model organisms. Thus, parallel and redundant signaling pathways that are similar across species might be subject to experimental manipulation. Here, we develop a PCR-based technique for testing the hypothesis that mitotic accumulation of extra-chromosomal ribosomal DNA circles might also determine life span in human cells. Using resveratrol, a phytochemical that counters age-related signs, we find treatment-dependent subcellular accumulations of extra-chromosomal 5S ribosomal DNA in human cell lines. These data suggest an association between DNA circles and intrinsic aging and demonstrate the utility of a PCR-based technique for studying the accumulation of dysfunctional molecules that promote senescence.', u'Aims: The purpose of this study was to analyse the bacterial and fungal turnover in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients who were \u0394F508 homo- and hetero-zygotes. Further to this we wanted to identify the effects that Intravenous (IV) antibiotic perturbations had on the community and most importantly, whether exacerbations in these patients could be attributed to microbial species or communities. Methods:  A total of 149 samples were collected from 18 adult CF patients attending a clinic at the RVI hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne. The samples were subject to DNA extraction followed by bacterial and fungal community DGGE analysis as well as qPCR analysis of the bacterial load. Results:  We have found that bacterial and fungal communities present in the CF lung are not different when patients are suffering an exacerbation. Further to this, we have found that bacterial communities in the CF lung are disturbed by IV antibiotic administration and cause increased species turnover. We have shown that fungal taxa are capable of chronically colonising the CF lung. Conclusions:  Our study adds further evidence to the assertion that changes in bacterial communities are not the cause of CF exacerbations. However, we were able to demonstrate that acquisition of new bacterial taxa was strongly associated with exacerbations in one patient. This study is the first to illustrate that fungi can persist in the CF lung but are not associated with clinical status.', u'Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the causative agent of gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted infection (STI) of major importance. As a result of antibiotic resistance, there are now limited options for treating patients. We collected whole genome sequences and associated metadata data on 76 N. gonorrhoeae strains from around the globe and searched for known determinants of antibiotics resistance within the strains. The population structure and evolutionary forces within the pathogen population were analyzed. Our results indicated a cosmopolitan gonoccocal population mainly made up of five subgroups. The estimated ratio of recombination to mutation (r/m=2.2) from our data set indicates an appreciable level of recombination occurring in the population. Strains with resistance phenotypes to more recent antibiotics (azithromycin and cefixime) were mostly found in two of the five population subgroups.', u'Aim: Empirical studies in medicine \u2013 and most other fields of study - yield results that are uncertain to a certain degree. Medical research on interventions has made tremendous leaps forward by quantifying and reporting this uncertainty using p-values and confidence intervals. In contrast to this, most diagnostic studies that determine optimal cutpoints or reference values for diagnostic measures ignore that their outcomes, i.e. the specific cutpoints or normal ranges they recommend, are subject to chance variability. Methods: In this paper we use a simple simulation approach to quantify the variability of optimal cutpoints for two published studies. The first determined an optimal cutpoint for Becks Depression Inventory (BDI) in adults. The second determined reference values for Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) in children. Results: We find that frequently employed cutpoints to interpret BDI scores and QST results are highly variable. For the BDI we find that replication of this study may identify values between 14 and 21 as optimal cutpoints. The lower cutpoint results in a misclassification of 15% of the healthy adults as depressed, the upper cutpoint results in a misclassification rate of 2%. For the QST we find that the upper end of the normal range HPT varies between 46.9 and 50.2 degrees Celsius. Conclusions: Based on our results we argue that researchers should be required to estimate and report the variability of reference values and optimal cutpoints for diagnostic tools. This may improve the harmonization of findings across studies and provides a rationale for planning future studies.', u'Background: The HITECH Act signed into law in 2009 requires hospitals to provide patients with electronic access to their health information through an electronic personal health record (ePHR) in order to receive Medicare/Medicaid incentive payments. Little is known about who uses these systems or the impact these systems will have on patient outcomes in HIV care. The health care empowerment model provides rationale for the hypothesis that knowledge from an electronic personal health record can lead to greater patient empowerment resulting in improved outcomes. Objective: To determine the patient characteristics and patient activation, empowerment, satisfaction, knowledge of their CD4, Viral Loads, and antiretroviral medication, and medication adherence outcomes associated with electronic personal health record use in Veterans living with HIV at the San Francisco VA Medical Center. Participants: HIV-Infected Veterans receiving care in a low volume HIV-clinic at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, divided into two groups of users and non-users of electronic personal health records. Methods: In-person surveys were completed either online or on paper and data abstraction was completed from medical records for current anti-retroviral therapy (ART), CD4 count, and plasma HIV-1 viral load. Measures: The measures included the Patient Activation Measure, Health Care Empowerment Inventory, ART adherence, provider satisfaction, current CD4 count, current plasma viral load, knowledge of current ART, knowledge of CD4 counts, and knowledge of viral load. Results: In all, 40 participants were recruited. The use of electronic personal health records was associated with significantly higher levels of patient activation and levels of patient satisfaction for getting timely appointments, care, and information. ePHR was also associated with greater proportions of undetectable plasma HIV-1 viral loads, of knowledge of current CD4 count, and of knowledge of current viral load. The two groups differed by race and computer access. There was no difference in the current CD4, provider satisfaction, Health Care Empowerment Inventory score, satisfaction with provider-patient communication, satisfaction with courteous and helpful staff, knowledge of ART, or ART adherence. Conclusions: The use of electronic personal health records is associated with positive clinical and behavioral characteristics. The use of these systems may play a role in improving the health of people with HIV. Larger studies are needed to further evaluate these associations.', u'Planktonic cultures of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium responsible for the lung disease tuberculosis (TB), are highly susceptible to killing by ascorbic acid (vitamin C). As planktonically grown M. tuberculosis are unlikely to be representative of the bacterium during infection, we set out to determine if ascorbic acid was also antibacterial against M. tuberculosis growing as a biofilm. We use biofilm growth as a model for the multiple phenotypic states M. tuberculosis can exist in during an infection. In our experiments we employed bioluminescent M. tuberculosis H37Rv (BSGTB1) in which light production is a non-destructive surrogate measure of bacterial viability. Light levels were monitored before and after treatment with 1mM to 256mM ascorbic acid. After 3 weeks of treatment, biofilms were disrupted, washed and inoculated into fresh media to look for sterilisation. Our findings show that ascorbic acid concentrations of 32mM or greater reduced bioluminescence produced by M. tuberculosis BSGTB1 growing in biofilms to background levels and resulted in the death of all cells within the biofilm. This indicates that M. tuberculosis biofilms are susceptible to inhibition and killing by ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and suggests that novel antibiotics with a mode of action similar to ascorbic acid could represent a useful avenue of investigation for TB treatment.', u"Here I evaluate the population genetic structure of the barnacle Jehlius cirratus across a broad portion of its geographic distribution using data from the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene region. Despite sampling diversity from close to 3000km of the linear range of this barnacle, there is little evidence for population structure. Hudson's Snn value across all sites is not significantly different from null expectation, and no other phylogeographic structure is evident. Unbalanced sample sizes and their effect on such population genetic and phylogeographic analyses are discussed, but the general conclusion of this study is that J. cirratus can be considered panmictic along the Chilean coast.", u'Caves in Mizoram, Northeast India are potential hotspot diversity regions due to the historical significance of the formation of Indo-Burman plateau and also because of their unexplored and unknown diversity. High throughput paired end illumina sequencing of V4 region of 16S rRNA was performed to systematically evaluate the bacterial community of three caves situated in Champhai district of Mizoram, Northeast India. A total of 10,643 operational taxonomic units (based on 97% cutoff) comprising 21 bacterial phyla and 21 candidate phyla with a sequencing depth of 11, 40013 were found in this study. The overall taxonomic profile obtained by BLAST against RDP classifier and Greengene OTU database revealed high diversity within the bacterial communities, dominated by Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes, while members of archea were less diverse and mainly comprising of eukaryoarchea. Analysis revealed that Farpuk (CFP) cave has low diversity and is mainly dominated by actinobacteria (80% reads), whereas diverse communities were found in the caves of Murapuk (CMP) and Lamsialpuk (CLP). Analysis of rare and abundant species also revealed that a major portion of the identified OTUs were falling under rare biosphere. Significantly, all these caves recorded a high number of unclassified OUTs which might represent novel species. Further, analysis with whole genome sequencing is needed to validate the novel species as well as to determine their functional significance.', u'If malaria can be eliminated from anywhere it is from isolated areas such as the 2x7 km peninsula of Linga Linga in southern Mozambique. Currently available control strategies include bed nets impregnated with pyrethroid insecticides (long-lasting insecticidal bed nets; LLINs), artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) for treatment and rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) for diagnosis. When these became available, they were applied and their effects on malaria prevalence measured over the years 2007 \u2013 2011. Following a census of the population and mapping of 500 households, five annual all age prevalence surveys were conducted over the years 2007 \u2013 2011. Information on LLIN use, house construction, and animal ownership was obtained. Mean prevalence varied from 16% (in 2007) to 65% (in 2009) according to the season in which the surveys were performed. The 5 \u2013 9 year old age group had the highest prevalence rate in the first three surveys (2007 \u2013 2009). A spatially structured generalised additive model indicated that malaria risk was greatest towards the northern end of the peninsula. The effect on the incidence of malaria of a clinic providing RDT\u2019s for diagnosis and ACT\u2019s for treatment was also monitored from March 2009 to May 2011. Malaria was diagnosed in 31% of the 4321 visits from residents attending the clinic and 72% of those tested were positive. People with confirmed malaria were younger than the median age of people attending the clinic. People with a fever were more likely to have malaria than people without a fever but bednet use did not affect the likelihood of having malaria. People living further away from the health post were less likely to attend. The number of attendees diagnosed with malaria decreased significantly from 35% (399 of 1144 attendees) in 2009 to 24% (271 of 1150 attendees) in 2011 (Chi sq = 19.1, p> 0.0001). In order to reduce malaria prevalence in an area such as Linga Linga further measures of vector control need to be considered if reductions in malaria prevalence are to be achieved.', u'Dixson et al. (2014) report that coral larvae navigate towards chemical cues associated with healthy reefs and avoid cues from degraded reefs. However, the swimming capabilities of coral larvae and well-established patterns of recruitment and reef hydrodynamics indicate that coral larvae will not be able to use these cues to recruit to healthy reefs. Perfuming degraded reefs, as suggested by Dixson et al (2014), will not enhance recovery rather it will distract from the difficult task of reducing fishing effort and improving water quality.', u'Unworn teeth of herbivorous mammals are not immediately functional. They have to get in wear to expose enamel ridges which can then act as shear-cutting blades to disintegrate the food. We use the Plains Zebra (Equus quagga) as a hypsodont, herbivorous model organism to investigate how initial wear of the tooth crown is controlled by underlying structures. We find that the enamel proportion is smaller at the apical part of the tooth crown in all upper tooth positions. Measurements of enamel thickness on the first molar show that the outer enamel band is widest in the lower half of the tooth crown, where enamel content is also highest. We therefore find evidence that the distribution of enamel within the tooth crown is uneven and lower enamel content at the apex promotes early wear. This gradient in enamel distribution is less pronounced in the last molar (txM3), which has also a higher overall enamel content. The M3 is thus hypothesised to have a slightly different functional trait in mastication, resisting highest bite forces along the tooth row and maintaining functionality while anterior teeth are already worn down.', u'One approach in forest restoration is to plant trees that will establish an initial canopy to promote forest recovery through natural recruitment of other species. Here we evaluate the patterns of either phylogenetic overdispersion or phylogenetic clustering on community assembly beneath seven different single-species tree plantations. We expected the presence of negative biotic interactions between closely related overstory and recruiting tree species, as well as among related recruiting species, to lead to phylogenetic overdispersion. We found no evidence for inhibition of close relatives of the overstory tree species. However, we found more understory species than expected that were very distantly related to the overstory tree when the canopy was comprised of Fabaceae species, which lead to the presence of similar species in the understory of legume species. We found weak phylogenetic patterns among species in the understory community that suggest the presence of random processes of community assembly, maybe due to the young age of the understory communities studied.', u'Background: Recurrent pain is a common experience in childhood, but only few children with recurrent pain attend a physician. Previous small-scale studies yielded conflicting findings with regard to predictors of health care utilization in children with recurrent pain. Methods: The present study analyzes a subset of the data from the German Health Interview and Examination Survey for Children and Adolescents (KiGGS) study. Specifically, our sample comprised n= 2,149 young children (3-10 years old) with recurrent pain to find robust predictors. We used multiple logistic regressions to investigate age, gender, SES, migration background, pain intensity, pain frequency, pain-related disability, somatic symptoms, HRQL, as predictors for visiting a doctor due to pain. Additionally we investigated the variability of the predictors to assess the sample size needed to make reliable claims about predictors of health-care utilization. Results: Overall, 1144 (53%) children consulted a physician due to recurrent pain. Young girls with high pain-related disability, -intensity, \u2013frequency, and migration background were more likely to attend a physician. Pain-related disability had the largest impact. Socioeconomic status, health-related quality of life and somatic symptoms were not systematically related to health care utilization. An analysis of the variability of these results indicated that several hundred participants are needed until the results stabilize. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of pain-related disability and frequency in assessing the severity of recurrent pain. Generic predictors and demographic variables are of lesser relevance to children with recurrent pain. On a methodological level our results show that large-scale population-based studies are need to reliably identify predictors of health care utilization.', u'Proven examples of self-envenomation by venomous snakes, and especially instances of death as a result of these events, are extremely rare, if not non-existent. Here we use Region of Interest X-ray microtomography to investigate a putative case of fatal in-ovo self-envenomation in the Egyptian saw-scaled viper, Echis pyramidum. Our analyses have provided unprecedented insight into the skeletal anatomy of a late-stage embryonic snake and the disposition of the fangs without disrupting or destroying a unique biological specimen.', u'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that remains a major challenge to public health in endemic countries. Increasing evidence has highlighted the importance of microbiota for human general health and, as such, the study of skin microbiota is of interest. But while studies are continuously revealing the complexity of human skin microbiota, the microbiota of leprous cutaneous lesions has not yet been characterized. Here we used Sanger and massively parallel SSU rRNA gene sequencing to characterize the microbiota of leprous lesions, and studied how it differs from the bacterial skin composition of healthy individuals previously described in the literature. Taxonomic analysis of leprous lesions revealed main four phyla: Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria, with Proteobacteria presenting the highest diversity. There were considerable differences in the distribution of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Actinobacteria, with the first two phyla enriched and the other markedly diminished in the leprous lesions, when compared with healthy skin. Propionibacterium, Corynebacterium and Staphylococcus, resident and abundant in healthy skin, were underrepresented in skin from leprous lesions. Most of the taxa found in skin from leprous lesions are not typical of human skin and potentially pathogenic, with the Bulkorderia, Pseudomonas and Bacillus genera being overrepresented. Our data suggest significant shifts of the microbiota with emergence and competitive advantage of potentially pathogenic bacteria over skin resident taxa.', u'Facial expressions are an important source of information in social interactions, as they effectively communicate someone\u2019s emotional state. Not surprisingly, the human visual system is highly specialized in processing facial expressions. Interestingly, processing of facial expressions is influenced by the emotional state of the observer: in a negative mood, observers are more sensitive to negative emotional expression than when they are in a positive mood, and vice versa. Here, we investigated the effects of chronic negative mood on perception of facial expressions by means of an online reverse correlation paradigm. We administered a depression questionnaire assessing chronic negative mood over the last two weeks. We constructed a classification image for negative emotion for each participant by means of an online reverse correlation task, which were rated for intensity of expression by an independent group of observers. Here we found a strong correlation between chronic mood and intensity of expression of the internal representation: the more negative chronic mood, the less intense the negative expression of the internal representation. This experiment corroborates earlier findings that the perception of facial expression is affected by an observer\u2019s mood, and that this effect may be the result of altered top-down internal representations of facial expression. Equally importantly, though, our results demonstrate the feasibility of applying a reverse correlation paradigm via the Internet, opening up the possibility for large-sample studies using this technique.', u'This is a proof of concept paper based on chronological samples of growing feathers from geese thought to be molt-migrants. When molt-migrant birds initiate molt shortly after migrating to a new isoscape, isotope values measured along the length of their feathers should change continuously. To assess long-term changes and daily cycling in \u03b415N and \u03b413C values, we serially sampled growing primaries of three presumed molt-migrant geese. Two showed changing \u03b415N signatures along the length of their growing primaries, indicating they were molt-migrants, while the third, presumably a resident, showed no change. We then resampled these feathers at closer intervals for evidence of the predicted diel cycle in the use of exogenous and endogenous protein for feather growth, generated by the diel feeding cycle of these geese. As predicted, the two geese that were equilibrating to a new isoscape showed oscillations of approximately 24-hour periodicity in \u03b415N values, measured along the length of their primaries. In contrast, the goose that was not equilibrating to a new isoscape showed no 24-hour periodicity in its \u03b415N values. Our results demonstrate that chronological sampling along the length of individual primaries holds great potential for identifying individuals that are molt-migrants.', u'The present study validates use of a dumbbell to simulate the air pistol in female Olympic shooting, examining, at the same time, the relation between body sway and performance. The study\u2019s participants were 23 senior female Olympic pistol shooters who competed at a Spanish air pistol championship. The participants\u2019 performance was measured at competition while their COP movements were recorded during two static bipodal balance tests which were performed the day previous to the competition, during the official training time and at the training stands. During one of the tests a 1.5 kg dumbbell was used to simulate the pistol. The calculated Pearson product moment correlations for all variables that refer to the movement of the COP revealed statistically significant correlations between the two tests. Statistically significant inverse linear correlations were also found between performance and COP movements regarding both tests: strong correlations regarding COP movement amplitudes and moderate correlations regarding COP velocities. The study concludes that a) a dumbbell can be validly used to simulate the pistol in female Olympic air pistol shooting, and b) specific balance training programs should be taken into account in order to improve performance in female air pistol shooting.', u'The branch autonomy principle, which states that the growth of individual branches can be predicted from their morphology and position in the forest canopy irrespective of the characteristics of the tree, has been used to simplify models of branch growth in trees. However, observed changes in allocation priority within trees towards branches growing in light-favoured conditions, referred to as \u2018Milton\u2019s Law of resource availability and allocation\u2019, have raised questions about the applicability of the branch autonomy principle. We present models linking knot ontogeny to the secondary growth of the main stem in black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P.), which were used to assess the patterns of assimilate allocation over time, both within and between trees. Data describing the annual radial growth of 445 stem rings and the three-dimensional shape of 5377 knots were extracted from optical scans and X-ray computed tomography images taken along the stems of 10 trees. Total knot to stem area increment ratios (KSR) were calculated for each year of growth, and statistical models were developed to describe the annual development of knot diameter and curvature as a function of stem radial increment, total tree height, stem diameter, and the position of knots along an annual growth unit. KSR varied as a function of tree age and of the height to diameter ratio of the stem, a variable indicative of the competitive status of the tree. Simulations of the development of an individual knot showed that an increase in the stem radial growth rate was associated with an increase in the initial growth of the knot, but also with a shorter lifespan. Our results provide support for \u2018Milton\u2019s Law\u2019, since they indicate that allocation priority is given to locations where the potential return is the highest. The developed models provided realistic simulations of knot morphology within trees, which could be integrated into a functional-structural model of tree growth and above-ground resource partitioning.', u'Background: Some individuals with visible differences have been found to experience psychosocial adjustment problems that can lead to social anxiety and isolation. Various models of psychosocial intervention have been used to reduce social anxiety and appearance related distress in this population. The objective of this review was to update a previous systematic review assessing the efficacy of psychosocial intervention programs for adults with visible differences. The original review (Bessell & Moss, 2007) identified 12 papers for inclusion. Methods: A search protocol identified studies from 13 electronic journal databases. Methods: Studies were selected in accordance with pre-set inclusion criteria and relevant data were extracted. Results: This update identified an additional four papers that met the inclusion criteria. Two papers provided very limited evidence for the efficacy of a combined cognitive-behavioural and social skills training approach. None of the papers provided sufficient evidence for the optimal duration, intensity or setting of psychosocial interventions for this population. Discussion: The review concluded that a greater number of Randomised Controlled Trials and experimental studies were required to increase the methodological validity of intervention studies.', u'Rubella is a vaccine-preventable, mild rash-inducing viral disease with complications that include a spectrum of birth defects in the developing foetus, especially if the infection is acquired in the early months of pregnancy. Consequently, the primary objective of global rubella control programmes is prevention of congenital rubella infection and associated birth defects often collectively referred to as CRS. Despite the availability of safe and effective vaccines, and elimination of rubella virus in many developed countries, substantial commitment to rubella control has not been demonstrated in the developing countries. This study appraises immunity to rubella, and consequently makes appropriate recommendations aimed at facilitating effective control. A cross-sectional sero-surveillance study was carried out among 272 consenting ante-natal clinic attendees in southwestern, Nigeria. Prevalence rates of 91.54% and 1.84% were recorded for anti-rubella virus (anti-RV) IgG and IgM respectively. Also, 90.7% and 92.3% of the women aged \u2264 30 years and \u02c3 30 years respectively had detectable anti-RV IgG. No significant association (p=0.94) was recorded between anti-RV IgG detection and age of the women. Previous exposure and susceptibility of significant fraction of the population to rubella infection were confirmed. Considerable political commitment and promotion of free rubella immunization specifically for women of childbearing potential were recommended.', u'The study of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) in living organisms has produced contradictory results over the past few decades. Though the protocol for measuring FA is firmly established, the sources of FA remain unclear in many cases. Our goal is to study the relationship between FA and both the concentration of biomarkers of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the body condition in a medium-sized mammal, the European wild boar (Sus scrofa). Using a Partial Least Squares regression (PLSr) we found a positive significant relationship between oxidative stress and FA but a negative relationship between oxidative stress and body condition of boar. Our results may suggest that FA can be used to assess the physiological cost associated with oxidative stress in mammals.', u'Aim Pain associated poor sleep quality has been reported among opioid dependent patients on methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) but objective pain data are lacking. This study aimed to investigate the rate of objective pain sensitivity and the relationship between pain sensitivity and sleep quality in this susceptible male population. Methods A total of 168 male patients from MMT clinic in Kelantan, Malaysia were included into the study. Objective pain tolerance to cold pressor test (CPT) was evaluated at 0 hour and at 24 hours after the first CPT. Malay version of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index \u2013 PSQI and the subjective opiate withdrawal scale (SOWS) questionnaires were administered to evaluate the quality of sleep and withdrawal symptoms, respectively. Results The mean age of the study participants was 37.22 (SD 6.20) years old. The mean daily methadone dose was 76.64 (SD 37.63) mg/day. The mean averaged SOWS score was 5.43 (SD 6.91). The averaged pain tolerance time ranged from 7 to 300 s with a mean time of 32.16 (SE 2.72) s, slightly below the cut-off score of 37.53 s. More specifically, 78.6% (n = 132) of patients were identified as \u2018pain-sensitive\u2019 (averaged pain tolerance time \u2264 37.53 s), and 36 (21.4%) were \u2018pain-tolerant\u2019 patients (averaged pain tolerance time > 37.53 s). The mean global PSQI score was 5.47 (SD 2.74). The pain-sensitive patients reported poorer sleep quality with mean (SD) of 5.78 (2.80) compared with pain-tolerant patients with mean (SD) of 4.31 (2.18) (p = 0.005). With analysis of covariance, pain-sensitive patients were found to have higher global PSQI scores (adjusted mean 5.76, 95% CI 5.29; 6.22) than pain-tolerant patients (adjusted mean 4.42, 95% CI 3.52; 5.32) (p = 0.010). Conclusions Many opioid dependent male patients on MMT are pain-sensitive. A poorer sleep quality is associated with objective pain sensitivity. Pain and sleep complaints in this susceptible population should not be overlooked.', u'GAF domains are a large family of regulatory domains, and a subset are found associated with enzymes involved in cyclic nucleotide (cNMP) metabolism such as adenylyl cyclases and phosphodiesterases. CyaB2, an adenylyl cyclase from Anabaena, contains two GAF domains in tandem at the N-terminus and an adenylyl cyclase domain at the C-terminus. Cyclic AMP, but not cGMP, binding to the GAF domains of CyaB2 increases the activity of the cyclase domain leading to enhanced synthesis of cAMP. Here we show that the isolated GAFb domain of CyaB2 can bind both cAMP and cGMP, and enhanced specificity for cAMP is observed only when both the GAFa and the GAFb domains are present in tandem (GAFab domain). In silico docking and mutational analysis indicated distinct modes of binding of cAMP and cGMP to the GAFb domain. Structural changes associated with ligand binding to the GAF domains could not be detected by the highly sensitive Bioluminescence Resonance Energy Transfer (BRET) experiments. Amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDXMS) experiments, however, revealed the structural basis for cAMP-induced allosteric regulation of the GAF domains, and differences in the structural changes induced by cAMP and cGMP binding to the GAF domain. Thus, our results provide an insight into structural mechanisms of ligand binding to GAF domains in general, which can be utilized in developing molecules that modulate the allosteric regulation by GAF domains in pharmacologically relevant proteins.', u'The myocardium of molluscs exhibits profound anoxia tolerance, however the cellular mechanisms underlying heart performance during normoxia and anoxia are not well understood. In the present study we investigated the role of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) during normoxia and chemical anoxia (2 mM sodium cyanide) in electrically paced ventricle preparations from the common cockle (Cerastoderma edule) at ~19\xb0C. Acute anoxia caused a substantial increase in resting tension but did not significantly affect the force of contraction, rate of contraction or rate of relaxation in myocardial preparations. SR inhibition (ryanodine, 10 \xb5M; thapsigargin, 2 \xb5M) attenuated the increase in resting tension, and also caused a significant decrease in the force of contraction during anoxia. During normoxia, SR inhibition reduced the force and rate of contraction by 20-30 % at contraction frequencies of 0.2 Hz and 0.5 Hz. SR inhibition also elicited an increase in resting tension at 0.5 Hz. Our results suggest that the SR plays a role in maintaining cardiac performance during anoxia in cockle myocardium. Furthermore, the SR is operative during normoxia and is relatively more important in the cockle heart than in many ectothermic vertebrates. As efforts to understand the evolution of the SR are advanced, anoxia tolerant invertebrates may serve as valuable model organisms.', u'Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 1 is one of the leading causes of invasive pneumococcal disease. However this invasive serotype is hardly found in nasopharyngeal asymptomatic carriage and therefore large epidemiological studies are needed to assess the dynamics of serotype 1 infection. Within the context of a large cluster randomized trial conducted in rural Gambia to assess the impact of PCV-7 vaccination on nasopharyngeal carriage, we present an ancillary study describing the prevalence of nasopharyngeal carriage of pneumococcal serotype 1 and temporal changes of its more frequent genotypes. Nasopharyngeal swabs (NPS) were collected before PCV-7 vaccination (December 2003-May 2004) and up to 30 months after PCV-7 vaccination (post-vaccination periods 1 to 3: July 2006 \u2013 March 2007; April 2007 \u2013 March 2008 and April 2008 \u2013 Feb 2009). S. pneumoniae serotype 1 were genotyped by MLST. Serotype 1 was recovered from 87 (0.71%) of 12,319 NPS samples collected. In the pre-vaccination period, prevalence of serotype 1 was 0.47% in both study arms. In the post-vaccination periods, prevalence in the fully vaccinated villages ranged between 0.08% in period 1 and 0.165% in period 2; while prevalence in partly vaccinated villages was between 0.17% in period 3 and 1.34% in period 2. Overall four different genotypes were obtained with ST3081 the most prevalent (60.71%) followed by ST618 929.76%). ST3081 was found only in post-vaccination period 2 and 3 while ST618 had disappeared in post-vaccination period 3. Distribution of these major genotypes was similar in both study arms.Emergence of ST3081 and concomitant disappearance of ST618 may suggest a change in the molecular epidemiology of pneumococcal serotype 1 in this region. This change is not likely to be associated with the introduction of PCV-7 which lacks serotype 1 as it was observed simultaneously in both study arms. Future population-based epidemiological studies will provide further evidence of substantive changes in the pneumococcal serotype 1 epidemiology and the likely mechanisms.', u'Decomposing litter in forest ecosystems supplies nutrients to plants, carbon to heterotrophic soil microorganisms and is a large source of CO2 to the atmosphere. Despite its essential role in carbon and nutrient cycling, the temperature sensitivity of leaf litter decay in tropical forest ecosystems remains poorly resolved, especially in tropical montane wet forests where the warming trend may be amplified compared to tropical wet forests at lower elevations. We quantified leaf litter decomposition rates along a highly constrained 5.2 \xb0C mean annual temperature (MAT) gradient in tropical montane wet forests on the Island of Hawaii. Dominant vegetation, substrate type and age, soil moisture, and disturbance history are all nearly constant across this gradient, allowing us to isolate the effect of rising MAT on leaf litter decomposition and nutrient release. Leaf litter decomposition rates were a positive linear function of MAT, causing the residence time of leaf litter on the forest floor to decline by ~31 days for each 1 \xb0C increase in MAT. Our estimate of the Q10 temperature coefficient for leaf litter decomposition was 2.17, within the commonly reported range for heterotrophic organic matter decomposition (1.5 \u2013 2.5) across a broad range of ecosystems. The percentage of leaf litter nitrogen (N) remaining after six months declined linearly with increasing MAT from ~ 88% of initial N at the coolest site to ~74% at the warmest site. The lack of net N immobilization during all three litter collection periods at all MAT plots indicates that N was not limiting to leaf litter decomposition, regardless of temperature. These results suggest that leaf litter decay in tropical montane wet forests may be more sensitive to rising MAT than in tropical lowland wet forests, and that increased rates of N release from decomposing litter could delay or prevent progressive N limitation to net primary productivity with climate warming.', u'The arguments between Weight-Length Relationship (WLR) and Condition Factor (K) have been lasted since the day they occurred. This paper described WLRs and Ks of Skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) samples in Purse Seine fisheries from three cruises (August-September cruise (A-S) in 2009, November-December cruise (N-D) in 2012, and June-July cruise (J-J) in 2013) in the Central and Western Pacific Ocean (CWPO). The results showed that fork length of more than 70% of specimen was below 60 cm (76% in A-S, 87% in N-D, and 73% in J-J). b values of WLRs in class of fork length > 60cm were below 3 significantly (P = 0.062), while b values when fork length < 60 cm were > 3 significantly (P = 0.028). Moreover, K values in different fork length classes for each cruises had one turning point: 60-65cm for J-J, 60-65cm for N-D, and 55-60cm for A-S, and K values were still significantly larger than those of fork length < 40cm (P = 0.06). However, b values at larger fishes were significantly smaller than those of fork length <40cm. We suggest to combine WLRs and K values at different growth phases for evaluating population structure for skipjack tuna.', u'Cryopreservation is beset with the challenge of protocol alignment across a wide range of cell types and process variables. By taking a cross-sectional assessment of previously published cryopreservation data (sample means and standard errors) as preliminary meta-data, a decision tree learning analysis (DTLA) was performed to develop an understanding of target survival based on different approaches. Briefly, using a DTLA approach, a clear direction on the decision process for selection of methods was developed with key choices being the cooling rate, plunge temperature on the one hand and biomaterial choice, use of composites (sugars and proteins), loading procedure and cell location in 3D scaffold. Since machine learning and generalized approaches were employed, these metadata could be used to develop posterior probabilities via Na\xefve Bayes Classification (NBC) for combinatorial approaches that were not initially captured in the metadata. These results showed that newer protocol choices could lead to improved cell survival consistent with physical reports. In conclusion, this article proposes the use of DTLA models and NBC for the improvement of modern cryopreservation techniques through an integrative approach.Keywords: 3D cryopreservation, decision-tree learning (DTL), sugars, mouse embryonic stem cells, meta-data, Na\xefve Bayes Classifier (NBC)', u'Azorella compacta (llareta; Apiaceae), a large woody cushion plant, is a remarkable species forming dense cushions and characterizing the high elevation rocky slopes of the central Andean Altiplano. Field studies of an elevational gradient of A. compacta within Lauca National Park in northern Chile found a reverse J-shape distribution of size classes of individuals with abundant small plants at all elevations. A new elevational limit for A. compacta was found at 5250 m. A series of cushions marked 14 years earlier showed either slight shrinkage or small degrees of growth up to 2.2 cm yr-1. Despite their irregularity in growth, cushions of A. compacta show a strong orientation, centered on a north-facing aspect and angle of about 20o from horizontal. This exposure to maximize solar irradiance closely matches previous observations of a population favoring north-facing slopes at a similar angle. Populations of A. compacta appear to be stable, or even expanding, with young plants abundant and recolonization of disturbed habitats.', u'The atmospheric concentration of oxygen, a driver of free radical damage and tumorigenesis, decreases sharply with rising elevation. To understand whether ambient oxygen concentrations play a role in human carcinogenesis, we characterized age-adjusted cancer incidence (compiled by the National Cancer Institute from 2005\u20132009) across counties of the elevation-varying Western United States and compared trends displayed by respiratory cancer (lung) and non-respiratory cancers (breast, colorectal, and prostate). To adjust for important demographic and cancer-risk factors, 8\u201312 covariates were considered for each cancer. We produced sensible regression models that captured known risks. Models demonstrated that elevation strongly, negatively associates with lung cancer incidence (p < 10\u221216), but not with incidence of non-respiratory cancers. For every 1000 meter rise in elevation, lung cancer incidence decreased by 7.23 [99% CI: 5.18\u20139.29] cases per 100,000 individuals, equivalent to 12.7% of the mean incidence, 56.8. As a predictor of lung cancer incidence, elevation was second only to smoking prevalence in terms of significance and effect size. Furthermore, no evidence of uncontrolled confounding or ecological fallacy was detected: the lung cancer association was robust to varying regression models, county stratification, and population subgrouping; additionally seven environmental correlates of elevation, such as exposure to sunlight and fine particulate matter, could not capture the association. Overall, our findings suggest the presence of an inhaled carcinogen inherently and inversely tied to elevation, offering epidemiological support for oxygen-driven tumorigenesis. Finally, highlighting the need to consider elevation in studies of lung cancer, we demonstrated that previously reported inverse lung cancer associations with radon and UVB became insignificant after accounting for elevation.', u'Background. We initiated this study with the aim to assess the leaning of medical students towards either a doctor-centered or a patient-centered care and explore the effects of personal attributes on it like gender, academic year etc. of the students.\nMethods. A cross-sectional study was conducted between July-Sep 2013. The study population consisted of 1274 medical students in years 1-5 from two medical colleges. English version of PPOS was used to assess attitudes of medical students towards doctor-patient relationship. The relationship between PPOS scores and individual characteristics like gender, academic year etc. were examined by using Independent t-test and one way ANOVA.\nResults. A total of 792 students formed the final sample. Characteristics associated with most patient-centered attitudes were being in 4th academic year, married, being a foreigner and belonging to a Private college (p<0.05). Characteristics associated with most doctor-centered attitudes were being in 2nd academic year, divorced, having a local origin and belonging to a Govt. college (p<0.05). Gender and having doctor parents had no bearing, statistically, on the attitudes.\nConclusion. Despite ongoing debate and emphasis on a patient-centered curriculum, our study suggests that current curriculum and its teachings are not producing the results they are designed to achieve. Students should be adequately exposed to the patients from the beginning of their medical education in clinical settings which are more sympathetic to a patient-centered care.', u'Background. The Derriford Appearance Scale24 (DAS24) is a widely used measure of distress and dysfunction in relation to self-consciousness of appearance. It has been used in clinical and research settings, and translated into numerous European and Asian languages. Hitherto, no study has conducted an analysis to determine the underlying factor structure of the scale. Methods. A large (n=1265) sample of community and hospital patients with a visible difference were recruited face to face or by post, and completed the DAS24. Results. A two factor solution was found to be the best fit to the data. A main factor, general self consciousness (GSC), was represented by 18 items. Six items comprised a second factor, sexual and body self-consciousness (SBSC). The SBSC scale demonstrated greater sensitivity and specificity in identifying distress for sexually significant areas of the body. Discussion. The factor structure of the DAS24 facilitates a more nuanced interpretation of scores using this scale. Two conceptually and statistically coherent sub-scales were identified. The SBSC subscale offers a means of identifying distress and dysfunction around sexually significant areas of the body not previously possible with this scale.', u'Objective: To compare the precision of a search strategy designed specifically to retrieve randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews of RCTs with search strategies designed for broader purposes. Methods: We designed an experimental search strategy that automatically revised searches up to five times by using increasingly restrictive queries as long at least 50 citations were retrieved. We compared the ability of the experimental and alternative strategies to retrieve studies relevant to 312 test questions. The primary outcome, search precision, was defined for each strategy as the proportion of relevant, high quality citations among the first 50 citations retrieved. Results: The experimental strategy had the highest median precision (5.5%; interquartile range [IQR]: 0% - 12%) followed by the narrow strategy of the PubMed Clinical Queries (4.0%; IQR: 0% - 10%). The experimental strategy found the most high quality citations (median 2; IQR: 0 - 6) and was the strategy most likely to find at least one high quality citation (73% of searches; 95% confidence interval 68% - 78%). All comparisons were statistically significant. Conclusions: The experimental strategy performed the best in all outcomes although all strategies had low precision.', u'Most of our knowledge on plastic ingestion by zooplankton comes from experiments exposing invertebrates to plastic particles smaller than their feeding apparatus. By examining millimetre-sized marine plastics using a scanning electron microscope, we putatively identified some surface textures as feeding marks produced by invertebrates grazing upon the plastic biofilm. We observed sub-parallel linear scrapes with 5-14 \u03bcm spacing, which is similar to typical distances between teeth of the mandibular gnathobases of copepods. We also observed peculiar rounded marks close to an unidentified marine worm. Small portions of the plastic particles were apparently removed, and perhaps ingested, during these putative grazing activities. Thus, we suggest that (1) plastic biofouling induces plastic ingestion, and (2) plastic pieces must not necessarily be smaller than the organism for a feeding interaction to occur. Experiments exposing invertebrates to millimeter-sized plastics may support these suggestions.', u'Simultaneous measurements of changes in phytoplankton biomass and the metal and phosphorus (P) content of cells have been captured to attest metal to P stoichiometries for freshwater phytoplankton. Three remote Scottish lakes that have received high, medium or low metal contamination from the atmosphere were selected for study. Phytoplankton cells were collected, their biomass determined microscopically, and Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry was used to measure their lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), nickel (Ni), chromium (Cr), manganese (Mn), cobalt (Co) and P content. A greater phytoplankton biomass in the lakes resulted in significant algae growth dilution of the mass-specific Pb, Cd, Hg, Cu, Ni and Cr in the phytoplankton. Changes in the phytoplankton cell count and their Hg, Pb, Cd, Cu, Mn, Co, Ni and Cr concentrations showed the process of algae bloom dilution to be subject to exponential decay, which accelerated in the order of Mn < Cu < Ni < Pb and Cd < Cr and Hg < Co. This indicated a metabolic and detoxification mechanism was involved in the active selection of metals. For the first time simultaneous measurements of metals and P stoichiometry in freshwater phytoplankton are reported. The mean metal to P stoichiometry generated was (C106P1N16)1000Pb0.019Hg0.00004Cu0.013Cd0.005Cr0.2Co0.0008 Mn0.2Ni0.012 based on the field measurements and the Redfield average C, N and P stoichiometry of (CH2O)106(NH3)16H3PO4.', u'Conversion of landscapes for human uses is widely associated with loss of biodiversity. Here we focus on limits to distribution defined by intensity of landscape development. Using a translocation experiment, we ask does degradation of wetland habitat contribute to species loss? Wood frog larvae (Rana sylvatica = Lithobates sylvaticus), were reared within enclosures in 7 ponds harboring populations of wood frogs and in 5 ponds where they are absent. Survival, growth rate, and development rate were equivalent between \u2018present\u2019 and \u2018absent\u2019 ponds. While it is clear that landscapes surrounding \u2018absent\u2019 ponds had been heavily influenced by human use, we find no evidence that such wetlands provide inferior habitat for wood frog recruitment. Their absence in human altered landscapes may stem from influences outside of pond basins. The results provide a caution to the typically unexamined presumption that relictual habitats in developed landscapes are degraded in their utility for wildlife.', u'The study aims to examine what socio-economic, health and psychological problems of older Bangladeshi (55 years and older) experience in later life and what members of the Bangladeshi community perceive to be the reasons for these difficulties. It also aims at finding out the extent to which gerontological theories, that highlight the problems associated with later life, reflect the experiences of older people across ethnic and cultural differences in the United Kingdom. The research has been carried out in the London Borough of Croydon where a small number of\nBangladeshi communities live. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with older people from the mixer of men and women so as to answer the above research question i.e. the problems and the effects of ageing process far from home where they made their later life abode. In a qualitative semi - structured interview study in the London Borough of Croydon, 17 older persons from the Bangladeshi communities were asked about their problems of ageing and how they feel about living and growing old in a western country.', u'Background. Continued Dispensing (CD) is a new medication supply method for certain medications in Australia. It aims to prevent treatment interruption as a result of patients\u2019 inability to obtain a new valid prescription. The only currently eligible patients for this service are statin and oral contraceptive users who are: using these medications for 6 months or more, did not utilise the CD method during the last 12 months, and cannot obtain an immediate appointment with the prescriber in order to get a new prescription. This study aimed to investigate patients\u2019 attitudes towards potential extension and expansion of this medication supply method. Methods. A randomly selected 301 users of these medications from all Australian States were recruited using Computer Assisted Telephone Interview (CATI). Result. The majority of the participants (73.3%) did not agree with current restriction on CD utilisation frequency. They also supported, to varying degrees, inclusion of all the proposed medications (support ranged from 44.2 - 78.4%). Participants who suffered from a specific disease did not differ significantly from those without the disease except in case of patients with depression (p= 0.001 ). Conclusions. Participants of this study strongly supported both CD extension and expansion. A critical review of the current version of CD is highly recommended in order to enhance CD capability to achieve its goals.', u'Elucidating the genomic diversity of CD209 gene promoter polymorphisms could assist in clarifying disease pathophysiology as well as contribution to co-morbidities. CD209 gene promoter polymorphisms have been shown to be associated with susceptibility to infection. We hypothesize that CD209 mutant variants occur at a higher frequency among Africans and in sickle cell disease. We analyzed the frequency of the CD209 gene (rs4804803) in healthy control and sickle cell disease (SCD) populations and determined association with disease. We obtained genomic DNA from 145 SCD and 244 control Africans (from Mali), 331 SCD and 379 control African Americans and 159 Caucasians. Comparative analysis among and between groups was carried out by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Per ethnic diversification, we found significant disparity in genotypic (23.4% versus 16.9% versus 3.2%) and allelic frequencies (36.1% versus 25.1% versus 11.6%) of the mutant variant of the CD209 (snp 309A/G) gene promoter between Africans, African Americans and Caucasians respectively. Surprisingly, there was a wide disparity in the genotypic and allelic frequencies among African SCD versus healthy controls (10.4% versus 23.4% (genotypes) and 25.2% versus 36.1% (alleles), which is completely absent among African Americans. Comparing SCD groups, there was no difference between Africans and Americans, implying a lack of association between CD209 polymorphisms and sickle cell disease in either population. The higher frequency of CD209 mutant variants in the non-SCD group reveals an impaired capacity to mount an immune response to infectious diseases. We conclude that CD209 polymorphism play a major role in susceptibility to infectious pathogens and could potentially delineate susceptibility to and severity of co-morbidities.', u'Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of telenutrition versus traditional nutritional consultation for obese patients. Methods: A comparative clinical study was conducted among 233 (including 20 dropouts and 60 failures) obese or overweight women who consulted a nutrition clinic in Barranquilla (Colombia) for nutritional assessment by telenutrition or traditional attention that includes a weekly follow-up consultation over 16 weeks, food consumption patterns, Body Mass Index (BMI, kg/m2) register, waist and hip circumference register. Treatment response and difference between telenutrition and traditional consultation were made according to BMI, waist, hip and initial-waist/height ratio. Data\xb4s nonparametric statistical comparison was made. Results: In 68 (29.2%) women who chose traditional attention, 9 (37.5%) dropped out, 24 (40%) failed and 35 (23.5%) were successful, showing 1.4%(1.0 SD) BMI loss, 5.8% (3.4 SD) in waist circumference, 4.5% (2.8 SD) in hip circumference and 0.04% (0.02 SD) in iwaist/height ratio. In 165 (70.8%) women who chose telenutrition, 15 (62.5%) dropped out, 36 (60%) failed and 114 (76.5%) were successful, showing 1.1% (1.0 SD) BMI loss, 5.0% (3.2 SD) in waist circumference, 3.5% (3.1 SD) in hip circumference and 0.03% (0.02 SD) in iwaist/height ratio. A significance level of p<0.05 is considered. Conclusion: Telenutrition has a failure or dropout risk factor about half values of traditional consultation with slightly statistically significant differences. This study concludes that telenutrition can support or sometimes replace the traditional consultation when developing weight loss programs in obese women.', u'Background. Previous work has demonstrated that a commercial gaming electroencephalography (EEG) system, Emotiv EPOC, can be adjusted to provide valid auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) in adults that are comparable to ERPs recorded by a research-grade EEG system, Neuroscan. The aim of the current study was to determine if the same was true for children. Method. An adapted Emotive EPOC system and Neuroscan system were used to make simultaneous EEG recordings in nineteen 6- to 12-year-old children under \u201cpassive\u201d and \u201cactive\u201d listening conditions. In the passive condition, children were instructed to watch a silent DVD and ignore 566 standard (1000 Hz) and 100 deviant (1200 Hz) tones. In the active condition, they listened to the same stimuli, and were asked to count the number of \u2018high\u2019 (i.e. deviant) tones. Results. Intraclass correlations (ICCs) indicated that the ERP morphology recorded with the two systems was very similar for the P1, N1, P2, P2, and P3 ERP peaks (r = .78 to .95) in both passive and active conditions, but was poor for the mismatch negativity ERP component (MMN; r < .30). There were few differences between peak amplitude and latency estimates for the two systems. Conclusions. An adapted EPOC EEG system can be used to index children\u2019s late auditory ERP peaks (i.e. P1, N1, P2, N2, P3) but not their MMN ERP component. Subjects: Psychiatry and Psychology Keywords: EEG, ERP, Emotiv EPOC, Validation, Mismatchnegativity, MMN, Intraclass correlation, Methods, Signal processing, Auditory odd-ball, Children', u'Each year, over 45 countries export 30 million fish from coral reefs as part of the global marine ornamental aquarium trade. This catch volume is affected by collection methods that cause mortality. Barotrauma caused by forced ascent of collected fish from depth has been determined to be a cause of post-collection mortality. The detrimental effects of barotrauma can be prevented by decompression, or mitigated with venting (puncturing the swim bladder to release expanded internal gas). To further evaluate the effects of collection methods on fish stress and mortality, we conducted the first comprehensive study on the effects of barotrauma prevention and mitigation practices on marine ornamental fish. We examined the effects of three ascent treatments, each with decompression stops of different frequency and duration coupled with or without venting, on sublethal effects and mortality in yellow tang (Zebrasoma flavescens), using histology and serum cortisol measurements. In Z. flavescens subjected to ascent without decompression stops or venting, a mean post-collection mortality of 6.2% occurred within 24h of capture. Common collection methods in the fishery, ascent without or with one decompression stop followed by venting, resulted in no mortality. Histopathologic examination of heart, liver, head kidney, and swim bladder tissues in fish 0d and 21d post-collection revealed no significant lesions in any treatment group. Ascent without decompression stops resulted in significantly higher serum cortisol than ascent with many decompression stops, and venting alone did not affect cortisol. Future work should examine links in the supply chain following collection to determine if further handling and transport stressors affect survivorship and sublethal effects.', u'The neuroanatomy of hadrosaurid dinosaurs is well known from North America and Asia. In Europe only a few cranial remains have been recovered with the braincase. Arenysaurus is the first European endocast for which the paleoneuroanatomy has been studied. The resulting data have enabled us to draw ontogenetic, phylogenetic and functional inferences. Arenysaurus preserves the endocast and the inner ear. This cranial material was CT-scanned, and a 3D-model was generated. The endocast morphology supports a general pattern for hadrosaurids with some characters that distinguish to a subfamily level, such as a brain cavity anteroposteriorly shorter or the angle of the major axis of the cerebral hemisphere to the horizontal in lambeosaurines. Both characters are present in the endocast of Arenysaurus. Moreover, osteological features indicate an adult ontogenetic stage while some paleoneuroanatomical features are indicative of a subadult ontogenetic stage and even a juvenile ontogenetic stage. Finally, a comparison with other hadrosaurids reveals that the low values for the angle of the dural peak may be an autapomorphy exclusive to the Parasaurolophus genus. It is hypothesized that the presence of puzzling characters that suggest different ontogenetic stages for this specimen, may reflect some degree of dwarfism in Arenysaurus. Regarding the inner ear, its structure shows differences from the ornithopod clade with respect to the height of the semicircular canals. These differences could lead to a decrease in the compensatory movements of eyes and head, with important implications for the paleobiology and behavior of hadrosaurid taxa such as Edmontosaurus, Parasaurolophus and Arenysaurus. These differences in the vestibular system could be used as a phylogenetical signal. The endocranial morphology of European hadrosaurids sheds new light on the evolution of this group and may reflect the conditions in the archipelago where these animals lived during the Late Cretaceous.', u'Anguillicola crassus is a swim bladder nematode of eels. The parasite is native to the Asian eel Anguilla japonica, but was introduced to Europe and the European eel Anguilla anguilla in the early 1980s. A Taiwanese source has been proposed for this introduction. In the new host in the recipient area, the parasite appears to be more pathogenic. As a reason for these differences, genetically fixed differences in infectivity and development between Taiwanese and European A.crassus have been described and disentangled from plasticity induced by different host environments.To explore whether transcriptional regulation is involved in these lifecycle differences, we have analysed a \u201ccommon garden\u201d, cross infection experiment, using deep-sequencing transcriptomics. Surprisingly, in the face of clear phenotypic differences in life history traits, we identified no significant differences in gene expression between parasite populations or between experimental host species. From 120,000 SNPs identified in the transcriptome data we found that European A. crassus were not a genetic subset of the Taiwanese nematodes sampled. The loci that have the major contribution to the European-Taiwanese population differentiation show an enrichment of synonymous and non-coding polymorphism. This argues against positive selection in population differentiation. However, genes involved in protein processing in the endoplasmatic reticulum membrane and genes bearing secretion signal sequences were enriched in the set of genes most differentiated between European and Taiwanese A. crassus. These genes could be a source for the phenotypically visible genetically fixed differences between European and Taiwanese A. crassus.', u'The phytohormone auxin is one of the most important signaling molecule that undergo accumulation or depletion in temporal or spatial manner due to wide arrays of changes in developmental or stress programme. Proper distribution, maintenance and homeostasis of auxin molecules across the plant system is one of the most important phenomena. The distribution and homeostasis of auxin is maintained by auxin transport system across the plant. Auxin transportation is carried out by auxin transporter family proteins, popularly known as auxin efflux carriers (PINs). Besides, auxin efflux carrier family proteins, a sub-family of auxin efflux carriers (OsPILS) being identified from Oryza sativa and reported here. Oryza sativa encodes for seven putative sub-cellularly localized transmembrane PILS proteins. Differential expression of OsPILS genes are found to be regulated by auxin and cytokinin dependent manner. In auxin treated plants, all OsPILS genes are up-regulated in leaf tissues and down regulated in root tissues during third week time point. In cytokinin treated plants, maximum of OsPILS genes were up-regulated both in leafs and roots tissues during third week time period. Regulation of gene expression of OsPILS genes by auxin and cytokinin during third week time period reflects its important roles during plant growth and development.', u'Eye-tracking technology is becoming increasingly cheaper, both on the hardware and on the software front. Currently, the EyeTribe tracker is the most inexpensive commercial eye tracker in the world, at a price of $99. The low costs make it a potentially interesting resource for research, but no objective testing of its quality has been performed yet. Here the EyeTribe tracker is compared with an EyeLink 1000, a high-quality video eye tracker. Results indicate that the spatial precision and accuracy are good enough for fixation checking, point-of-regard analyses, and pupilometry. However, the low sampling rate renders the device unsuitable for testing high-accuracy saccade metrics. Additionally, open-source toolboxes for Matlab and Python, and a plug-in for OpenSesame are presented, which can be used to interface with the EyeTribe tracker.', u'Substantial health disparities exist between African Americans and Caucasians in the United States. Copy number variations (CNVs) are one form of human genetic variations that have been linked with complex diseases and often occur at different frequencies among African Americans and Caucasian populations. Here, we aimed to investigate whether CNVs with differential frequencies can contribute to health disparities from the perspective of gene networks. We inferred network clusters from human gene/protein networks based on two different data sources. We then evaluated each network cluster for the occurrences of known pathogenic genes and genes located in CNVs with different population frequencies, and used false discovery rates to rank network clusters. This approach let us identify five clusters enriched with known pathogenic genes and with genes located in CNVs with different frequencies between African Americans and Caucasians. These clustering patterns predict two candidate causal genes located in four population-specific CNVs that play potential roles in health disparities', u'Mosquito survival and oviposition interval are important disease vector\u2019s determinants that may vary within species depending on the environment. The length of the oviposition interval may be estimated by the proportion of mosquito ovaries with sacs. Fourteen species of Anopheles were collected from four locations in Cambodia and 1965 specimens were dissected. Both the number and predominant species collected varied according to location and trapping method. Five species were collected in sufficient numbers to allow comparisons between locations Sac rates differed between species but not within species between locations. Anopheles minimus had a higher sac rate in weeks leading up to a full moon. The more preserved environments supported more diverse anopheline fauna than the degraded environments. Despite the fact that many of the species occurred at very low densities there was no evidence of gonotrophic dissociation in any of the species. The principal malaria vector, An. dirus, was only common in one location where it was collected in miniature light-traps. It is suggested that a nationwide survey using such traps may help in determining patterns of malaria transmission in Cambodia.', u'In August 2013, we observed a high incidence (44%) of synchronous fault bars across the rectrices of juvenile Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodrammus savannarum) captured near El Reno, Oklahoma. Earlier that year, on May 31, the site was struck by a severe storm which rained hailstones exceeding 5.5 cm diameter and spawned an historic 4.2 km-wide tornado <8 km to the south of the site. An assessment of Grasshopper Sparrow nesting phenology indicated that a large number of nestlings were likely growing tail feathers when the storm hit. To assess the nature of the fault bars, we measured \u03b415N and \u03b413C stable isotope ratios within four 0.25-0.40 mg feather sections taken from the distal end of a tail feather from 18 juveniles captured at the site in August. The fault bar, if present, was contained within only one section. Fault bars were located at various positions on the distal half of feathers, and fault bar width significantly increased as a function of distance from the tip (i.e., age at formation). After correcting for consistent, natural \u03b415N variation across sections, we found that feather sections containing or located immediately proximal to fault bars showed significantly higher \u03b415N than sections from the same feathers located distal to or further from the fault bar region. We also observed significantly higher \u03b413C but lower \u03b415N in the feathers of juveniles with fault bars compared to normal appearing juveniles. Our findings support the hypothesis that an abrupt environmental stressor affected Grasshopper Sparrow chicks of various ages, and caused short term catabolism of muscle tissue that resulted in a spike in \u03b415N deposited into growing feathers. Furthermore, higher \u03b415N and lower \u03b413C among juveniles lacking fault bars suggested a seasonal change in diet consistent with these individuals hatching after the May 31 storm. Severe weather events may represent major stressors to ground-nesting birds, and we recommend exploiting opportunities to study the effects of severe weather as part of ongoing research efforts.', u'South Asian population suffer a particularly wide range of infectious diseases among which TB and HIV appear to produce most profound influence across various dimensions of social life, healthcare and the economy. Although the countries in this region have a relatively lower prevalence of HIV/AIDS compared to other developing regions until now, the future looks rather bleak in terms of preparedness for emerging healthcare realities. Tuberculosis on the other hand, has always been a major public health problem plaguing the healthcare system and the economy for decades. Moreover, the emergence of the drug resistant (MDR-TB & XDR-TB) strains are making the existing intervention and prevention strategies less effective and posing ever-growing threats to the underdeveloped healthcare infrastructure. Understanding the underlying social-determinants of these diseases can prove crucial to design more comprehensive intervention approaches. This article aims to clarify why the healthcare system in South Asia needs to adopt a social-determinants-of-health (SDOH) approach as a long-term strategy for more efficient prevention and control of TB and HIV infection.', u'The aim of this research brief is to describe a study that examined the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their biological HIV-positive and negative children before, during, and after the HIV disclosure process in Kenya. This is the first study from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that provides perspectives on HIV disclosure of a parent\u2019s and a child\u2019s illness from the viewpoints of HIV-positive parents, HIV-positive children, and HIV-negative children. Prior studies in SSA have mostly centered on disclosure to HIV-positive children (of their own illnesses) and others have reported on parents disclosing their illnesses to their children. Key Aspects of HIV Disclosure to Children: 1. Disclosure should be performed as a process. 2. It is a parent\u2019s decision on when to disclose but also a child\u2019s right to be told about his/her own, a parent\u2019s, and other family member\u2019s illnesses and deaths. 3. Healthcare professionals should help parents prepare for and disclose family member\u2019s illnesses and prior deaths to their children. 4. Disclosure should preferably be performed when both the parent and child are in good health. 5. Disclosure should be performed when a child shows understanding of the illness and/or maturity. 6. Disclosure planning should include a determination of who is the most suitable person to disclose to a child. 7. Disclosure should be postponed until animportant life event (e.g., taking a national school examination) has occurred. The original research article is located at: https://peerj.com/articles/486.pdf', u'The aim of this research brief is to describe a study that examined how HIV-positive parents prepared themselves and their children for HIV disclosure in Kenya. This is the first study from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that provides comprehensive data on how HIV-positive parents prepare themselves and their HIV-positive and negative children for disclosure of a parent\u2019s and/or a child\u2019s illness. Prior studies in SSA have provided limited details about the activities performed by parents to prepare for disclosure of a parent\u2019s or a child\u2019s illness. Key aspects of preparing for disclosure to children: 1. Most parents take years to prepare for disclosure, proceeding when they judge themselves ready to impart the news and their children receptive to receive the news. 2. Parents\u2019 preparation activities for disclosure proceed through four major phases which include secrecy, exploration, readiness, and finally full disclosure of illness. 3. In the secrecy phase parents do not disclose; in the exploration phase they plan how they will disclose; in the readiness phase they seek activities that will help them to fully disclose; finally when ready they fully disclose to their children based on birth order. 4. Parents who have many children remain simultaneously within the different preparation phases as they move their children from a state where none are disclosed to, to a state when all of them have been fully disclosed to. The original research article is located at: http://scholarworks.waldenu.edu/jsbhs/vol8/iss1/1/', u'Measures of adolescent appearance distress have focused on weight and body shape, excluding other aspects of appearance. The absence of a psychometrically sound, general measure of appearance distress has limited evaluation of interventions and curtailed investigation of psychological processes in adolescent appearance adjustment. This paper describes the development of scales assessing adolescent appearance distress to address this dearth of appropriate measures, validated through cross-sectional design involving 617 adolescents. Two scales were developed, comprising 13 items for younger adolescents and 17 items for older adolescents. Two similar factors were generated for each scale, \u201cfear of negative appearance evaluation\u201d and \u201csalience and investment in appearance.\u201d A third factor was identified for older adolescents, \u201csocial appearance comparison.\u201d Sound psychometric properties were demonstrated.', u'Background and objectives: Numerous experimental studies have linked cigarette smoking to lung injury. However, it is still debated on whether cigarette smoking is a risk factor for the development of acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS). The study aimed to solve the controversy by performing systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: Electronic databases including Pubmed, Google scholar, Embase and Scopus were searched from inception to April 2014. Studies investigated the association of cigarette smoking and ALI/ARDS were included. Non-randomized studies were assessment for their methodological quality by using Newcastle-Ottawa scale. Meta-analysis was performed by using random effects model and subgroup analyses were performed to address the clinical heterogeneity. Publication bias was assessed by using Egger\u2019s test. Main result: Of the 17 studies included in our analysis, 15 provided data on effect size and were meta-analyzable. Component studies involved heterogeneous populations including major surgery, trauma, septic shock, general population, influenza A infection and transfusion. The combined results showed that cigarette smoking was not a risk factor for the development of ALI/ARDS (OR: 1.00, 95% CI: 0.99-1.01). In subgroup analysis, the same result was obtained in general population (OR: 2.03, 95% CI: 0.06-4.01), patients with major surgery or trauma (OR: 1.20, 95% CI: 0.48-1.93) and patients with other risks of ALI/ARDS (OR: 1.00, 95% CI: 0.99-1.01). Conclusion: Our study demonstrates that cigarette smoking is not associated with increased risk of ALI/ARDS in critically ill patients. However, the relationship in general population is still controversial and requires further confirmation.', u'Inertial properties of body segments, such as mass, centre of mass or moments of inertia, are important parameters when studying movements of the human body. These quantities are, however, not directly measurable. Current approaches include using regression models which have limited accuracy; geometric models with lengthy measuring procedures; or acquiring and post-processing MRI scans of participants. We propose a geometric methodology based on 3D photogrammetry using multiple cameras to provide subject-specific body segment parameters while minimizing the interaction time with the participants. A low-cost body scanner was built using multiple cameras and 3D point cloud data generated using structure from motion photogrammetric reconstruction algorithms. The point cloud was manually separated into body segments and convex hulling applied to each segment to produce the required geometric outlines. The accuracy of the method can be adjusted by choosing the number of subdivisions of the body segments. The body segment parameters of six participants (four male and two female) are presented using the proposed method. The multi-camera photogrammetric approach is expected to be particularly suited for studies including populations for which regression models are not available in literature and where other geometric techniques or MRI scanning are not applicable due to time or ethical constraints.', u'We present the first photographic evidence of the presence of the giant manta ray Manta birostris in east Australian waters. Two individuals were photographed off Montague Island in New South Wales and off the north east coast of Tasmania, during summer 2012 and 2014, respectively. These sightings confirm previous unverified reports on the species occurrence and extending the range of M. birostris to 40\xbaS. We discuss these findings in the context of the species\u2019 migratory ecology, the regional oceanography along the south eastern Australian coastline and local productivity events.', u'Biogenic amine receptors play critical roles in regulating behavior and physiology, particularly within the central nervous system, in both vertebrates and invertebrates. These receptors belong to the G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) family and interact with endogenous bioamine ligands, such as dopamine, serotonin, and epinephrine, and they are targeted by a wide array of pharmaceuticals. Despite these receptors\u2019 clear clinical and biological importance, their evolutionary history remains poorly characterized. In particular, the relationships among biogenic amine receptors and any specific evolutionary constraints acting within distinct receptor subtypes are largely unknown. To advance and facilitate studies in this receptor family, we have constructed a comprehensive, high-quality, structurally-curated sequence alignment of vertebrate biogenic amine receptors. We demonstrate that aligning GPCR sequences without considering structure produces an alignment with substantial error, whereas a structurally-aware approach greatly improves alignment accuracy. Moreover, we show that phylogenetic inference with our structurally-curated alignment offers dramatic improvements over a structurally-naive alignment. Using the structural alignment and its corresponding phylogeny, we deduce novel biogenic amine receptor relationships and uncover previously unrecognized lineage-specific receptor clades. Moreover, we find that roughly 1% of the 3039 sequences in our final alignment are either misannotated or unclassified, and we propose updated classifications for these receptors. We release our comprehensive alignment and its corresponding phylogeny as a resource for future research into the evolution and diversification of biogenic amine receptors.', u'Suburban neighborhoods are rapidly spreading globally. As such, there is an increasing need to study the environmental and ecological effects of suburbanization. At large spatial extents, from county-level to global, remote sensing-derived land cover data, such as the National Land Cover Dataset (NLCD), have yielded insight into patterns of urbanization and concomitant large-scale ecological patterns in response. However, the components of suburban land cover (houses, yards, etc.) are dispersed throughout the landscape at a finer scale than the relatively coarse grain size (30m pixels) of NLCD may be able to detect. Our understanding of ecological processes in heterogeneous landscapes is reliant upon the accuracy and resolution of our measurements as well as the scale at which we measure the landscape. Analyses of ecological processes along suburban gradients are restricted by the currently available data. As ecologists are becoming increasingly interested in describing phenomena at spatial extents as small as individual households, we need higher-resolution landscape measurements. Here, I describe a simple method of translating the components of suburban landscapes into finer-grain, local land cover (LLC) data in GIS. Using both LLC and NLCD, I compare the suburban matrix surrounding ponds occupied by two different frog species. I illustrate large discrepancies in Forest, Yard, and Developed land cover estimates between LLC and NLCD, leading to markedly different interpretations of suburban landscape composition. NLCD, relative to LLC, estimates lower proportions of forest cover and higher proportions of anthropogenic land covers in general. These two land cover datasets provide surprisingly different descriptions of the suburban landscapes, potentially affecting our understanding of how organisms respond to an increasingly suburban world. LLC provides a free and detailed fine-grain depiction of the components of suburban neighborhoods and will allow ecologists to better explore heterogeneous suburban landscapes at multiple spatial scales.', u'However despotic a social group may be, managing conflicts of interest is crucial to preserve group living benefits, mainly based on cooperation. In fact, in despotic groups post-conflict management via reconciliation (the first post-conflict reunion between former opponents) can occur, even if at variable levels. In the despotic Lemur catta reconciliation was reported in one out of four captive groups. We used this species as a model to understand what variables influence the occurrence of the reconciliation in despotic groups. We analyzed 2339 PC-MC collected on eight groups (five in the Berenty forest, Madagascar; three hosted at the Pistoia Zoo, Italy). Since Lemur catta is characterized by rigid female dominance but show female-female coalitionary support, we expected to find reconciliation in the wild, other than in captivity. Consistently, we found the phenomenon to be present in one captive group and two wild groups, thus providing the first evidence of the presence of reconciliation in wild Lemur catta. Being this species a seasonal breeder (with mating occurring once a year), we expected that the season more than other variables (wild/captivity setting, rank, or individual features) would influence reconciliation levels. Via GLMM we found that the season was indeed the only variable significantly explaining reconciliation rates, lowest during mating and highest during the pregnancy period. We posit that reconciliation can be present in despotic species but not when the advantages of intra-group cooperation are annihilated by competition, as it occurs in seasonal breeders when reproduction is at stake. By comparing our results with literature, we conclude that in despotic social groups in which coalitions are observed, the right question is not if but when reconciliation can be present.', u'Loss of species richness in aquatic ecosystems is occurring rapidly and many factors, including habitat heterogeneity, have been suggested to affect the diversity of aquatic communities. We used fish community data (> 200 species) from extensive surveys conducted in two biogeographic provinces (extent > 1000 km) in North America to test the hypothesis that fish species richness is greater in more heterogeneous habitats (grain < 10 km2). Our tests are based on samples collected at nearly 800 stations over a period of five years. Using a set of environmental variables routinely measured by monitoring programs and a random placement model of community assembly, we demonstrate that fish species richness in coastal ecosystems is associated locally with the spatial heterogeneity of environmental variables but not with their magnitude. The observed effect of heterogeneity on species richness was substantially greater than that generated by simulations. Our modeling framework opens avenues for targeted conservation of habitat heterogeneity at broader temporal and spatial scales.', u'Urine accumulates traces of changes that occur in the body and can potentially serve as a better biomarker source. Urinary nucleic acids are a promising class of non-invasive disease biomarkers. However, long-term frozen human urine samples are not a good source for the extraction of nucleic acids. In this paper, we demonstrate that urinary nucleic acids can be concentrated, dried on membranes and stored in vacuum bags at room temperature for several months. The amount of total RNA on the membranes after storage at room temperature for three months was unchanged. The levels of miR-16 and miR-21 exhibited no significant differences (P = 0.564, 0.386). This simple and economical method makes the large-scale storage of clinical samples of urinary nucleic acids possible.', u'Calorie restriction (CR) is known to extend lifespan among organisms with the putative mechanism underlying nitric oxide (NO)-enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis. However, whether NO maintains telomere intact that is implicated in life expectancy remains unknown. We report here the artemisinin derivative artesunate in a low concentration up-regulates mitochondrial SIRT3-SOD2 expression among global activation of antioxidative networks via the NO signaling cascade AMPK\u2192Akt\u2192eNOS\u2192SIRT1\u2192PGC-1\u03b1. While the NO donor sodium nitroprusside and the NO precursor L-arginine replicate the antioxidative responses, exogenous low-dose hydrogen peroxide also leads to attenuated oxidative stress. The tumor suppressor BRCA1 and other DNA repair partners are down-regulated after scavenging of reactive oxygen species. Upon treatment, telomere shortening is damped without telomerase up-regulation, highlighting telomere maintenance rather than telomere elongation. In conclusion, artesunate can mimic CR to activate antioxidative responses and alleviate telomere attrition via NO signaling, thereby maintaining the stability and integrity of chromosomes, which are the hallmarks of longevity.', u'Serine/threonine phosphorylation is an important mechanism to regulate protein function. In eukaryotes phosphorylation occurs predominantly in intrinsically disordered regions of proteins. While serine/threonine phosphorylation and protein disorder are much less prevalent in prokaryotes, M. tuberculosis has both high serine/threonine phosphorylation and disorder. Here I show that, similar to eukaryotes, serine/threonine phosphorylation sites in M. tuberculosis are highly enriched in intrinsically disordered regions, indicating similarity in substrate recognition mechanism of eukaryotic and M. tuberculosis kinases. Serine/threonine phosphorylation has been linked to the pathogenicity and survival of M. tuberculosis, thus better understanding of how its kinases recognize their substrates could have important implications in understanding and controlling the biology of this deadly pathogen.', u'In ecology, expert knowledge on habitat characteristics is often used to define sampling units such as study sites. Ecologists are especially prone to such approaches when prior sampling frames are not accessible. Here we ask to what extent can different approaches to the definition of sampling units influence the conclusions that are drawn from an ecological study? We do this by comparing a formal versus a subjective definition of sampling units within a study design which is based on well-articulated objectives and proper methodology. Both approaches are applied to tundra plant communities in mesic and snowbed habitats. For the formal approach, sampling units were first defined for each habitat in concave terrain of suitable slope using GIS. In the field, these units were only accepted as the targeted habitats if additional criteria for vegetation cover were fulfilled. For the subjective approach, sampling units were defined visually in the field, based on typical plant communities of mesic and snowbed habitats. For each approach, we collected information about plant community characteristics within a total of 11 mesic and seven snowbed units distributed between two herding districts of contrasting reindeer density. Results from the two approaches differed significantly in several plant community characteristics in both mesic and snowbed habitats. Furthermore, differences between the two approaches were not consistent because their magnitude and direction differed both between the two habitats and the two reindeer herding districts. Consequently, we could draw different conclusions on how plant diversity and relative abundance of functional groups are differentiated between the two habitats depending on the approach used. We therefore challenge ecologists to formalize the expert knowledge applied to define sampling units through a set of well-articulated rules, rather than applying it subjectively. We see this as instrumental for progress in ecology as only rules based on expert knowledge are transparent and lead to results reproducible by other ecologists.', u'Molecular layer heterotopia of the cerebellar vermis are a characteristic feature of C57BL/6 mice. Heterotopia consist of neurons and glia in the molecular layers between folia VIII and IX in regions lacking pia. Previously, we described the cellular composition of heterotopia which includes granule cells, Purkinje cells, Golgi cells, etc. However, the axonal constituents and afferent connections of these malformations remain poorly understood. In the present report axonal projections to heterotopia are documented from diverse brainstem nuclei such as the spinal vestibular nucleus, dorsal cochlear nucleus, and nucleus prepositus. These findings are relevant toward understanding the mechanisms of normal and abnormal cerebellar development and the establishment of cerebellar circuits.', u'The Portable Document Format (PDF) allows for embedding three-dimensional (3D) models and is therefore particularly suitable to exchange and present respective data, especially as regards scholarly articles. The generation of the necessary model data, however, is still challenging, especially for inexperienced users. This prevents an unrestrained proliferation of 3D PDF usage in scientific communication. This article introduces a new module for the biomedical image processing framework MeVisLab. It enables even novice users to generate the model data files without requiring programming skills and without the need for an intensive training by simply using it as a conversion tool. Advanced users can benefit from the full capability of MeVisLab to generate and export the model data as part of an overall processing chain. Although MeVisLab is primarily designed for handling biomedical image data, the new module is not restricted to this domain. It can be used for all scientific disciplines.', u'This study is aimed at characterizing soft tissue slices using a vibratome. In particular, the effect of two sectioning parameters (i.e. step size and sectioning speed) on resultant slice thickness was investigated for fresh porcine liver as well as for paraformaldehyde-fixed (PFA-fixed) and fresh murine brain. A simple framework for embedding, sectioning and imaging the slices was established to derive their thickness, which was evaluated through a purposely developed graphical user interface. Sectioning speed and step size had little effect on the thickness of fresh liver slices. Conversely, the thickness of PFA-fixed murine brain slices was found to be dependent on the step size, but not on the sectioning speed. In view of these results, fresh brain tissue was sliced varying the step size only, which was found to have a significant effect on resultant slice thickness. Although precision-cut slices (i.e. with regular thickness) were obtained for all the tissues, slice accuracy (defined as the match between the nominal step size chosen and the actual slice thickness obtained) was found to increase with tissue stiffness from fresh liver to PFA-fixed brain. This quantitative investigation can be very helpful for establishing the most suitable slicing setup for a given tissue.', u"Auscultation is used to evaluate heart health and can indicate when it's needed to refer a patient to a cardiologist. Advanced PCG signal processing algorithms are developed to assist the physician in the initial diagnosis but they are primarily designed and demonstrated with research quality equipment. Therefore there is a need to demonstrate the applicability of those techniques with consumer grade instrument. Furthermore, routine monitoring would benefit from a wireless PCG sensor that allows continuous monitoring of cardiac signals of patients in physical activity, e.g., treadmill or weight exercise. In this work, a low-cost portable and wireless healthcare monitoring system based on phonocardiograph signal is implemented to validate and evaluate the most advanced algorithms. Off-the-shelf electronics and a notebook PC are used with MATLAB codes to record and analyze PCG signals which are collected with a notebook computer in tethered and wireless mode. High valued diagnostics based on the S1 and S2 signals and MATLAB codes are demonstrated. While the prototype is based on MATLAB, the later is not an absolute requirement.", u'Skeletal muscle reaction to exercise is an essential are of research due to its ongoing prevalence in disease research and general health. It is well documented that under exercise conditions, biogenesis and autophagy increase. One main component of this pathway are lysosomes, the essential cellular clearance machine. Statistical analyses used to analyze these data have been sustained over the years. The objective of this systematic review is to compare and contrast the different methods used for analyzing data in molecular exercise physiology. Upon investigating the research papers the majority of the papers used either a t-test or an ANOVA as their primary statistical analyses, used 41% and 64% of the time, respectively. All other statistical tests were used a maximum of 9% of the time. Another trend that was evident was the increased utilization of post hoc tests in the more recent papers compared to earlier papers. This could provide interesting evidence into the credibility of the results reported and provide more insight into the research in molecular exercise physiology.', u'Restoration ecology is a rapidly growing field of research. The statistical analyses and experimental designs used in this field have likely also expanded. In this review, the statistical scope of the restoration ecology of invaded grasslands will be investigated. A systematic review was conducted on 103 articles to examine the types of statistical tests used and how they changed over time, if assumptions are tested, and how the number of statistical tests and the experimental design influence both the citation rate of articles and the impact factor of journals where these articles are published. ANOVAs have consistently been the dominant test. Statistical test diversity has increased since the year 2000. Most articles did test the assumptions of statistical analyses. The number of tests, and sample size of experiments are both positively correlated with the average citation rate of articles and the impact factor of the journal while the number of factors was negatively correlated. GLMs are recommended as a statistical test to be used more frequently in the future over ANOVAs. There is room for improvement in terms of reporting statistics accurately, including testing assumptions. When possible, sample sizes should be increased to both increase the quality of data, and the citation rate and the journal impact where articles are published. When possible and appropriate, sample sizes and the number of statistical tests should be increased. Adding factors in experimental designs should only be done so without compromising sample size as it has been shown to hinder the citation rate and journal impact.', u'Seabirds have been identified and used as indicators of ecosystem processes such as climate change, and anthropogenic activity in nearshore ecosystems around the globe. Temporal and spatial trends have been documented at large spatial scales, but few studies have examined fine scale spatial patterns, by species or functional group, because . In this paper, we apply spatial occupancy models to assess the spatial patchiness and interannual trends of 18 seabird species in the Puget Sound region (Washington state, USA). Our dataset, the Puget Sound Seabird Survey, is unique in that represents a seven year study, collected in winter months (October \u2013 April), and is collected at an extremely fine spatial scale (62 sites in the current analysis). Despite historic declines of seabirds in the region over the last 50 years, results from our study are optimistic, suggesting increases in probabilities of occurrence for 14 of the 18 species included. We found support for declines in occurrence for white-winged scoters, brants, and 2 species of grebes. The declines of Western grebes in particular are troubling, but in agreement with other recent studies that have shown support for a range shift south in recent years, to the California Current.', u'Establishing base-line knowledge of native snails in an area and their relative abundance is important in understanding the role of snails in their environment and the possible use of snails as a bioindicator. This information can also be used to determine how an invasive species is affecting the native populations over time. Six genera of gastropods were found in the wetland ponds of Turnbull National Wildlife Refuge (TNWR) from April to June 2012, including the invasive European ear snail (Radix auricularia) which was found in four lakes it was not previously known to inhabit. A dominant snail genus was found for each lake, with Middle Pines Lake being dominated by Radix auricularia. Conductivity was the only abiotic factor studied that positively correlated with genera richness (p = 0.035).', u'Restoration ecology is the study of restoration or restoration practices in degraded areas. It is of particular importance in arid environments due to the heavy impact humans have had in these areas. Some studies of restoration may require different statistics due to the unique challenges faced when examining degraded areas. A systematic review was conducted to assess the use of statistics in the field. It was determined that the field and influence of restoration ecology had increased dramatically since its development. Statistics are widely used in the study of restoration of arid areas. Major tests are similar to those found in other ecological studies such as ANOVAs and linear regressions. There were a few less common tests used in some of the studies. These include tests such as the Mantel test which may be useful to restoration ecology and should be explored further. Finally it was determined that the description of how statistics were used in the study was particularly important. The description should be detailed to help other researchers understand the findings of the paper. This will help to advance the field and the restoration of arid environments.', u'The Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus (De Haan), has recently invaded the Atlantic coast of the United States. Its large populations and continued fecundity are indicative of its successful establishment. Competitive interaction with other coastal crab species has been a subject of many studies. For example, in ex situ experiments, H. sanguineus has been shown to be superior to a long-established invader: the green crab, Carcinus maenas. Because H. sanguineus has been found in such great density on some shorelines, it has been postulated that it poses an ecological threat due to its potential to disrupt native and established species. However, many investigators have noted the invasive crab\u2019s limiting habitat requirement for complex, rocky shorelines. After observation of Point Judith Pond, RI, we assessed whether there were enough rocky areas to support significant populations of H. sanguineus that might be disruptive to C. maenas. Using a photo-quadrat system alongside software analysis, transects were laid across areas of interest. H. sanguineus were collected and counted in each quadrat, allowing habitat metrics obtained from the photographs, such as rock size and cover, to be correlated with the density of crabs, their size, and sex. These data, paired with the observation that Point Judith Pond has ample habitat for C. maenas to be displaced to, led us to conclude that the H. sanguineus population in Point Judith Pond, RI, is likely not capable of causing severe disruption of the native C. maenas population as it currently stands, and that this trend may extend to other estuarine systems.', u'Epidemiological networks are commonly used to explore dynamics of parasite transmission among individuals in a population of a given host species. However, many parasites infect multiple host species, and thus multi-host networks may offer a better framework for investigating parasite dynamics. We investigated the factors that influence parasite sharing \u2013 and thus potential transmission pathways \u2013 among rodent hosts in Southeast Asia. We focused on differences between networks of a single host species and networks that involve multiple host species. In host-parasite networks, modularity (the extent to which the network is divided to subgroups composed of individuals that interact more among themselves than with individuals outside the subgroup) was higher in the multi-species than in the single-species networks. This suggests that phylogeny affects patterns of parasite sharing, which was confirmed in analyses showing that it predicted affiliation of individuals to modules. We then constructed \u201cpotential transmission networks\u201d based on the host-parasite networks, in which edges depict the number of parasites shared between a pair of individuals. The centrality of individuals in these networks differed between multi- and single-species networks, with species identity and individual characteristics influencing their position in the networks. Simulations further revealed that parasite dynamics differed between multi- and single-species networks. We conclude that multi-host networks based on parasite sharing can provide new insights into the potential for transmission among hosts in an ecological community. In addition, the factors that determine the nature of parasite sharing (i.e. structure of the host-parasite network) may impact transmission patterns.', u'Several types of cancer are characterized by global hypomethylation accompanied by regional hypermethylation and overexpression of DNA methyltransferase (cytosine-5) 1 (Dnmt1). In addition to the established role of Dnmt1 as maintenance methyltransferase, it has been suggested that Dnmt1 might also methylate certain target sites de novo. We created a transgenic mouse model to investigate whether the overexpression of the somatic form of Dnmt1, Dnmt1s, is sufficient to cause erroneous methylation and disease. Because ubiquitous Dnmt1 overexpression has been reported to be embryonic lethal, we designed a CAG promoter-driven Cre-loxP conditional transgene containing a floxed EGFP sequence followed by the Dnmt1s coding sequence. The EGFP sequence is excised and transgenic Dnmt1s expression is activated at specific time points or in specific tissues depending on the Cre deleter strain used for cross-ins. Pronucleus injections with the Dnmt1s transgene construct resulted in six founder lines as verified by PCR, Southern blot and EGFP fluorescence. We performed cross-ins with a CMV-Cre deleter strain to clarify if ubiquitous overexpression of Dnmt1s alone causes the previously observed embryonic lethality. Unexpectedly, these cross-ins yielded viable recombined offspring that ubiquitously overexpressed Dnmt1 mRNA at tissue-dependent levels of up to 229-fold. However, the recombined offspring did not significantly overexpress Dnmt1 protein and showed no apparent signs of disease or pathological phenotype. Here, we describe the establishment of our Dnmt1s-transgenic mouse model and propose possibilities for the absence of transgenic protein.', u'The field of ecology is poised to take advantage of emerging technologies that facilitate the gathering, analyzing, and sharing of data, methods, and results. The concept of transparency at all stages of the research process, coupled with free and open access to data, code, and papers, constitutes "open science." Despite the many benefits of an open approach to science, a number of barriers to entry exist that may prevent researchers from embracing openness in their own work. Here we describe several key shifts in mindset that underpin the transition to more open science. These shifts in mindset include thinking about data stewardship rather than data ownership, embracing transparency throughout the data life-cycle and project duration, and accepting critique in public. Though foreign and perhaps frightening at first, these changes in thinking stand to benefit the field of ecology by fostering collegiality and broadening access to data and findings. We present an overview of tools and best practices that can enable these shifts in mindset at each stage of the research process, including tools to support data management planning and reproducible analyses, strategies for soliciting constructive feedback throughout the research process, and methods of broadening access to final research products.', u'Background: Mexico is the fourth richest country in amphibians and the second country with the highest quantity of threatened amphibian species, and this number could be higher as many species are too poorly known to be accurately assigned to a risk category. The absence of a risk status or an unknown population trend can slow or halt conservation action, so it is vital to develop tools that in the absence of specific demographic data can assess a species\u2019 risk of extinction, population trend, and to better understand which variables increase their vulnerability. Recent studies have demonstrated that the risk of species decline depends on extrinsic and intrinsic trait, thus including both of them for assessing extinction might render more accurate assessment of threat. Methods: In this study harvested data from the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) and the published literature for Mexican amphibians and used these data to assess the population trend of some of the Mexican species that have been assigned to the Data Deficient category of the IUCN using Random Forests, a Machine Learning method that gives a prediction of complex processes and identifies the most important variables that account for the predictions. Results: Our results show that most data deficient Mexican amphibians have decreasing population trends. We found that Random Forests is a solid and accurate way to identify species with decreasing population trends when no demographic data is available. Moreover, we point the most important variables that make species more vulnerable for extinction. This exercise is a very valuable first step in assigning conservation priorities for poorly known species.', u'Plant roots are known to harbor large and diverse communities of bacteria. It has been suggested that plant identity can structure these root-associated communities, but few studies have specifically assessed how the composition of root microbiota varies within and between plant species growing under natural conditions. We sampled endophytic and epiphytic bacteria in root tissues from a population of a wild, clonal plant (Orange hawkweed \u2013 Pilosella aurantiaca) as well as two neighboring plant species (Oxeye daisy \u2013 Leucanthemum vulgare and Alsike clover \u2013 Trifolium hybridum) to determine if plant species hosted unique root microbiota. Our results show that plants of different species host distinct bacterial communities in their roots. In terms of community composition, Betaproteobacteria (especially the family Oxalobacteraceae) were found to dominate in the root microbiota of L. vulgare and T. hybridum samples, whereas the root microbiota of P. aurantiaca had a more heterogeneous distribution of bacterial abundances where gamma Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria occupied a larger portion of the community. Whether all plant species host their own distinct root microbiota and plants more closely related to each other share more similar bacterial communities still remains to be explored.', u'The three-dimensional anatomy of the ostrich (Struthio camelus) knee (femorotibial, femorofibular, and femoropatellar) joint has scarcely been studied, and could elucidate certain mechanobiological properties of sesamoid bones. The adult ostrich is unique in that it has double patellae, while another similar ratite bird, the emu, has none. Understanding why these patellae form and what purpose they may serve is dually important for future studies on ratites as well as understanding mechanobiological characteristics of sesamoid bone development. For this purpose, we present a three-dimensional anatomical study of the ostrich knee joint, detailing osteology, ligaments and menisci, and myology. We have identified seven muscles which connect to the two patellae and compare our findings to past descriptions. These descriptions can be used to further study the biomechanical loading and implications of the double patella in the ostrich.', u'One of the great mysteries of the brain, which has puzzled all-time students of brain form and function is the contralateral organization of the forebrain, and the crossings of its major afferent and efferent connections. As a novel explanation, two recent studies have proposed that the rostral part of the head, including the forebrain, is rotated by 180 degrees with respect to the rest of the body (de Lussanet and Osse, 2012, Animal Biology 62, 193\u2013216; Kinsbourne, 2013, Neuropsychology 27, 511\u2013515). Kinsbourne proposes one 180-degree turn while we consider the 180 degrees being the result of two 90-degree turns in opposite directions. We discuss the similarities and differences between the two hypotheses.', u'Genetic admixture has been utilized as a tool for identifying loci associated with complex traits and diseases in recently admixed populations such as African Americans. In particular, admixture mapping is an efficient approach to identifying genetic basis for those complex diseases with substantial racial or ethnic disparities. Though current advances in admixture mapping algorithms may utilize the entire panel of SNPs, providing ancestry-informative markers (AIMs) that can differentiate parental populations and estimate ancestry proportions in an admixed population may particularly benefit admixture mapping in studies of limited samples, help identify unsuitable individuals (e.g., through genotyping the most informative ancestry markers) before starting large genome-wide association studies (GWAS), or guide larger scale targeted deep re-sequencing for determining specific disease-causing variants. Defining panels of AIMs based on commercial, high-throughput genotyping platforms will facilitate the utilization of these platforms for simultaneous admixture mapping of complex traits and diseases, in addition to conventional GWAS. Here, we describe AIMs detected based on the Shannon Information Content (SIC) or Fst for African Americans with genome-wide coverage that were selected from ~2.3 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) covered by the Affymetrix Axiom Pan-African array, a newly developed genotyping platform optimized for individuals of African ancestry.', u'In aquatic systems, the ratio of predator mass to prey mass (PPMR) is an important constraint on food web structure, and has been correlated with environmental stability. One common approach of estimating PPMR uses nitrogen stable isotopes (\u03b415N) as an indicator of trophic position, under the assumption that the discrimination between diet and tissue is constant with increasing diet \u03b415N (an additive approach). However, recent studies have shown that this assumption may not be valid, and that there is a negative trend between the \u03b415N of the diet and the discrimination value (a scaled approach). We estimated PPMR for a simulated food web using the traditional additive approach and improved scaled approach, before testing our predictions with isotope samples from a North Sea food web. Our simulations show that the additive approach gives incorrect estimates of PPMR, and these biases are reflected in North Sea PPMR estimates. The extent of the bias is dependent on the baseline \u03b415N and trophic level sampled, with the greatest differences for samples with low baseline \u03b415N sampled at lower trophic levels. The scaled approach allows for the comparison of PPMR across varying \u03b415N baselines and trophic levels, and will refine estimates of PPMR.', u'The main scope of this project was to identify a novel induction method to improve the effectiveness of biological fertilizers for organic farmers. To eliminate additional variables the plants were not treated with chemical or biological pesticides. The biological fertilizer used in this study was induced with co-factors and ethylene under specific conditions. Ethylene induced the soil to release acetonitrile, a component of indole-3-acetonitrile a precursor to the plant hormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). It is known that plant growth promoting bacteria can produce IAA and directly/ indirectly modify plant development and growth.\nIn this preliminary study, the ethylene induced biological fertilizer (EIBF) improved germination rate, enhanced quality, reduced growth time, and improved crop yield of Pisum sativum L (green peas) with a single application. Many biological fertilizer require two to three applications a year to see improved growth.Green peas grown in ethylene induced soil improved pea quantity by 200% per plant compared to control samples. EIBF increased the crop yield by over 57%. The average biological fertilizer only improves crop by 20-30%. The peas harvested from the plants grown in EIBF were 4 times larger peas collected from plants grown in the control soil. The improvement and continued study of EBIF may have a global applications, impacting farming techniques in poor developing countries or organic farms.', u'3D printers that build objects using extruded thermoplastic are quickly becoming common place tools in laboratories. We demonstrate that with appropriate handling, these devices are capable of producing sterile components from a non-sterile feedstock of thermoplastic without any treatment after fabrication. The fabrication process itself results in sterilization of the material. The resulting 3D printed components are suitable for a wide variety of applications, including experiments with bacteria and cell culture.', u'We are presenting a rebuttal letter to the following article that appeared recently on PeerJ: Van Houtan KS, Smith CM, Dailer ML, and Kawachi M. 2014. Eutrophication and the dietary promotion of sea turtle tumors. PeerJ 2:e602. This article is available at the following URL: https://peerj.com/articles/602/. We argue that the article lacks an inferential framework to answer the complex question regarding the drivers of the turtle tumor disease fibropapillomatosis in Hawaii. The article also contains procedural flaws and does not provide any compelling evidence of a link between algae, arginine, and turtle tumors.', u'Objective. The objective of this study was to assess the prevalence of disordered eating and the dietary patterns of young adult female students. Method. 226 young female first and second year students were randomly recruited. The EAT-26 questionnaire was used to measure disordered eating, and the State Trait Anxiety Inventory tool (STAI) to assess anxiety levels. Results. The prevalence of disordered eating (DE group) was quite high and matched previous reported percentages for this age population (18%). DE students showed significantly lower energy intake compared to control group (CON) (1471 \xb1 357 vs. 1690 \xb1 563, kcals). Conclusion. Young adult female students show increased tendency towards disordered or restricted eating behaviours. Preventive intervention concerning the negative behaviours may be beneficial for all college students more so to those suffering from anxiety.', u'This study demonstrates the value of legacy literature and historic collections as a source of data on environmental history. Chenopodium vulvaria L. has declined in Northern Europe and is of conservation concern in several countries, whereas in other countries it has naturalised and is considered an alien weed. It is hypothesised that much of its former distribution was the result of repeated introductions from its native range in southern Europe and that its decline in northern Europe is the result of habitat change and a reduction in number of propagules imported to the north. An historical analysis of its ecology and distribution was conducted by mining legacy literature and historic botanical collections. Text analysis of habitat descriptions written on specimens and published in botanical literature covering a period of more than 200 years indicate that the habitat and introduction pathways of C. vulvaria have changed with time. Using the naturalised alien range in a climate niche model it is possible to project the range in Europe. By comparing this predicted model with a similar model created from all observations it is clear that there is a large discrepancy between the realised and predicted distributions. It is concluded that if C. vulvaria was native to northern Europe, then it was only ever a rare species, however it was more common in the 18th and 19th centuries due to a combination of repeated introductions and the creation of suitable habitats by people.', u'A previous study revealed loop formation of the colonoscope in the sigmoid colon in 79% of patients. Colonoscope looping in the sigmoid colon is considered to cause abdominal pain and intestinal perforation. We discovered a phenomenon whereby the rectosigmoid junction becomes linear when the patient is moved from a left lateral to left semiprone position and the colonoscope tip can be readily inserted into the sigmoid colon. Therefore, this phenomenon was applied to our conventional insertion method to determine whether the colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon can be reduced. Thus our new insertion method could reduce the colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon. Our new insertion method may allow safer colonoscope insertion than our conventional insertion method.', u'Consumer growth and reproductive capacity are direct functions of diet. Strongylocentrotid sea urchins, the dominant herbivores in California kelp forests, strongly prefer giant kelp (Macrocystis pyrifera), but are highly catholic in their ability to consume other species. The biomass of Macrocystis fluctuates greatly in space and time and the extent to which urchins can use alternate species of algae or a mixed diet of multiple algal species to maintain fitness when giant kelp is unavailable is unknown. We experimentally examined the effects of single and mixed species diets on consumption, growth and gonad weight in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus. Urchins were fed single species diets consisting of one of four common species of macroalgae (the kelps Macrocystis pyrifera and Pterygophora californica, and the red algae Chondracanthus corymbiferus and Rhodymenia californica (hereafter referred to by genus) or a mixed diet containing all four species ad libitum over a 13-week period in a controlled laboratory setting. Urchins fed Chondracanthus, Macrocystis and a mixed diet showed the highest growth (in terms of test diameter, wet weight and jaw length) and gonad weight while urchins fed Pterygophora and Rhodymenia showed the lowest. Urchins consumed their preferred food, Macrocystis at the highest rate when offered a mixture, but consumed Chondracanthus or Macrocystis at similar rates when the two algae were offered alone. The differences in urchin feeding behavior and growth observed between these diet types suggest the relative availability of the algae tested here could affect urchin populations and their interactions with the algal assemblage. The fact that the performance of urchins fed Chondracanthus was similar or higher than those fed the preferred Macrocystis suggests purple sea urchins could sustain growth and reproduction during times of low Macrocystis abundance as is common following large wave events.', u'We were interested in the question of whether it might be possible to use knowledge of cancer-related mutations in the cell lines of the NCI60 screening data set to identify small molecules that preferentially inhibit the growth of cell lines containing either BRAF or KRAS oncogene mutations. Our hypothesis was that this cell line mutation knowledge could help to identify small molecules that were more likely to preferentially inhibit growth of cell lines with a particular mutation. It seems that any such molecules might be further investigated to try to better understand the molecular mechanisms of growth inhibition.\nWe defined a quantity, \\(\\text{Diff}_{\\text{mut}}\\), that estimates how much more a given small molecule inhibits cell lines with a mutation of interest than cell lines without that mutation. We ranked the small molecules in descending order of \\(\\text{Diff}_{\\text{mut}}\\) and then tried to explain whether the ranking of the highest ranked molecules made sense in terms of independent facts about these molecules.\nThis method showed the BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib to be highly ranked in the BRAF ranking. The cytidine analog cytarabine was found to be highly ranked in the KRAS ranking. Other cytidine analogs were also found to be highly ranked with respect to KRAS.', u'A number of recent studies suggest that interspecific competition plays a key role in determining the structure of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungal communities. Despite this growing consensus, there has been limited study of ECM fungal community dynamics in abiotically stressful environments, which are often dominated by positive rather than antagonistic interactions. In this study, we examined the ECM fungal communities associated with the host genus Alnus, which live in soils high in both nitrate and acidity. The nature of ECM fungal species interactions (i.e. antagonistic, neutral, or positive) was assessed using taxon co-occurrence and sequence abundance correlational analyses. ECM fungal communities were sampled from root tips and mesh in-growth bags in three monodominant A. rubra plots and identified using Illumina-based amplification of the ITS1 gene region. We found a total of 183 ECM fungal taxa present across the plots; 16 of which were closely related to known Alnus-associated ECM fungi. Contrary to previous studies of ECM fungal communities, taxon co-occurrence analyses on both the total and Alnus-associated ECM datasets indicated that the ECM fungal communities in this system were not structured by interspecific competition. Instead the co-occurrence patterns were consistent with either random assembly or significant positive interactions. Pair-wise correlational analyses were also more consistent with neutral or positive interactions. Taken together, our results suggest that interspecific competition does not appear to determine the structure of all ECM fungal communities and that abiotic conditions may be important in determining the specific type of interaction occurring among ECM fungi.', u'BACKGROUND: Shame has been associated with a range of maladaptive behaviours, including substance abuse. Young people may be particularly vulnerable to heightened shame sensitivity, and substance abuse is a significant problem amongst UK adolescents. Although there appears to be a relationship between shame and substance abuse, the direction of the relationship remains unclear. AIM: We reviewed the literature relating to shame and substance abuse amongst young people. METHOD: Five electronic databases were searched for articles containing terms related to \u2018adolescence\u2019, \u2018shame\u2019 and \u2018substance abuse\u2019. Of the two hundred and twelve articles identified in the first sweep, six were included in the final analyses. RESULTS: Sexual abuse is indicated as a predictor of shame-proneness. Substance abuse may be a mechanism by which individuals cope with negative feelings. In general, there is a lack of literature investigating the shame-substance abuse relationship among adolescents. The available literature associates shame-proneness with poorer functioning and suggests that this may lead to psychopathology and early-onset substance misuse. Scant attention has been paid to the cognitive and emotional processes implicated. Further research is required to ascertain the strength of the shame-substance abuse relationship in young people and to develop appropriate interventions for this population.', u'Genetic association studies require a quantitative and reliable method for odor threshold assessment in order to examine the contribution of genetic variants to complex olfactory phenotypes. Our main goal was to assess the feasibility of a portable Scentroid air dilution olfactometer for use in such studies. Using the Scentroid SM110C and the SK5 n-butanol Sensitivity Kit (IDES Canada Inc.), n-butanol odor thresholds were determined for 182 individuals of diverse ancestry (mean age: 20.4 \xb1 2.5 years; n = 128 female; n = 54 male). Threshold scores from repeat participants were used to calculate a test-retest reliability coefficient, which was statistically significant (r = 0.754, p < 0.001, n = 29), indicating that the Scentroid provides reliable estimates of odor thresholds. In addition, we performed a preliminary genetic analysis evaluating the potential association of n-butanol odor thresholds to six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) putatively involved in general olfactory sensitivity (GOS). The results of multiple linear regression analysis revealed no significant association between the SNPs tested and threshold scores. However, our sample size was relatively small, and our study was only powered to identify genetic markers with strong effects on olfactory sensitivity. Overall, we find that the Scentroid provides reliable quantitative measures of odor detection threshold and is well suited for genetic studies of olfactory sensitivity.', u'A high-fecundity organisms, such as Atlantic cod, can withstand substantial natural selection and can at any time simultaneously replace alleles at a number of loci due to their excess reproductive capacity. High-fecundity organisms may reproduce by sweepstakes leading to highly skewed heavy-tailed offspring distribution. Under such reproduction the Kingman coalescent of binary mergers breaks down and models of multiple merger coalescent are more appropriate. Here we study nucleotide variation at the Ckma (Creatine Kinase Muscle type A) gene in Atlantic cod. The gene shows extreme differentiation between the North (Canada, Greenland, Iceland, Norway, Barents Sea) and the South (Faroe Islands, North-, Baltic-, Celtic-, and Irish Seas) with a between regions FST > 0.8 whereas neutral loci show no differentiation. This is evidence for natural selection. The protein sequence is conserved by purifying selection whereas silent and non-coding sites show extreme differentiation. Relative to outgroup the site-frequency spectrum has three modes, a mode at singleton sites and two high frequency modes at opposite frequencies representing divergent branches of the gene genealogy that is evidence for balancing selection. Analysis with multiple-merger coalescent models can account for the high frequency of singleton sites and indicate reproductive sweepstakes. Coalescent time scales with population size and with the inverse of variance in offspring number. Parameter estimates using multiple-merger coalescent models show fast time-scales. Time-scales of mitochondrial DNA are about square root of the effective population size and time-scales of nuclear genes are much faster.', u'CITED1 is a non-DNA binding transcriptional co-regulator whose expression can distinguish the \u2018proliferative\u2019 from \u2018invasive\u2019 signature in the phenotype-switching model of melanoma. We have found that CITED1 expression is repressed by TGF\u03b2 in addition to other \u2018proliferative\u2019 signature genes while the \u2018invasive\u2019 signature genes are upregulated. In agreement, CITED1 positively correlates with MITF expression and can discriminate the MITF-high/pigmentation tumor molecular subtype in a large cohort (120) of melanoma cell lines. Interestingly, CITED1 overexpression significantly suppressed MITF promoter activation, mRNA and protein expression levels while MITF was transiently upregulated following siRNA mediated CITED1 silencing. Conversely, MITF siRNA silencing resulted in CITED1 downregulation indicating a reciprocal relationship. Whole genome expression analysis identified a phenotype shift induced by CITED1 silencing and driven mainly by expression of MITF and a cohort of MITF target genes that were significantly altered. Concomitantly, we found changes in the cell-cycle profile that manifest as transient G1 accumulation, increased expression of CDKN1A and a reduction in cell viability. Additionally, we could predict survival outcome by classifying primary melanoma tumors using our in vitro derived \u2018CITED1-silenced\u2019 gene expression signature. We hypothesize that CITED1 acts a regulator of MITF, functioning to maintain MITF levels in a range compatible with tumourigenesis.', u"Background: Emergency department (ED) fever management algorithms require the clinician to categorize febrile children as \u2018ill\u2019 or \u2018not ill\u2019 appearing when determining the risk for serious bacterial illness (SBI). This study describes a natural experiment where an ED pediatric chart allowed clinicians a third option, \u2018unsure\u2019. Hypotheses: We hypothesized (1) that chart prompts would improve documentation of clinical appearance, and (2) that exam findings and prevalence of serious bacterial illness in infants categorized as \u2018unsure\u2019 would be intermediate between those who were ill and not ill appearing. Design: We conducted a retrospective study of 3005 ED patients aged 0-24 months who had microbiology testing for fever in the ED between 1/1/2006 and 11/30/2009. We modeled overall appearance as the dependent and individual physical findings as the independent variables with ordinal logistic regression to help establish the validity of clinical appearance as a concept. We then compared the prevalence of the components of SBI, bacterial meningitis, pneumonia, urinary tract infection (UTI) and positive blood cultures, between the categorizations, not ill appearing, unsure and ill appearing. Results: Clinical appearance was documented in 60/583 (10.3%) whose encounter was recorded on the template without prompts versus 2036/2420 (84%) with prompts (p<0.001). Age odds ratio (OR) 1.04 (95% CI 1.01, 1.07) weight (quintile) OR 0.81 (95% CI 0.70, 0.95), dehydration OR 9.68 (95% CI 7.17, 13.01), tachycardia OR 1.31 (95% CI 1.04, 1.68), tachypnea OR 2.44 (95% CI 1.61, 3.68), prior antipyretics OR 0.65 (95% CI 0.52, 0.83) and prior antibiotics OR 2.56 (95%CI 1.71, 3.82) were associated with appearance. There was an ordinal relationship between appearance and the prevalence of bacterial meningitis and pneumonia for the categories ill appearing, unsure, and not ill appearing. The prevalence of positive blood cultures among children categorized as \u2018not ill appearing' and 'unsure' was similar. Urinary tract infection (UTI) prevalence was similar regardless of appearance. Conclusion: Charting prompts increased documentation of clinical appearance. There was an ordinal relationship between the prevalence of meningitis, and pneumonia, across the categories 'ill appearing', 'unsure' and 'not ill appearing'. This was not the case for blood cultures or UTI.", u'The threshold of toxicological concern has been suggested as a decision rule on whether a mixture risk assessment is required. According to the recent opinion on mixture toxicity, published by the EU scientific committees, mixture effects are not to be expected, if the mixture components do not share the same mode or mechanism of action and are present at or below their individual TTCs. This, however, ignores the statistical error propagation that is encountered when handling multi-component chemical mixtures, which results in a huge probability that one or more mixture components are de facto more toxic than estimated by the corresponding TTC. It is hence argued that the TTC is a valuable tool to bridge data gaps in case experimental toxicity data are missing, but it is unsuited without further refinement as a decision criterion on whether a mixture assessment is needed in a given exposure scenario.', u'As more and more prokaryotic sequencing takes place, a method to quickly and accurately analyze this data is needed. Previous tools are mainly designed for metagenomic analysis and have limitations; such as long runtimes and significant false positive error rates. The online tool GenomePeek (edwards.sdsu.edu/GenomePeek) was developed to analyze both single genome and metagenome sequencing files, quickly and with low error rates. GenomePeek uses a sequence assembly approach; where reads to a set of conserved genes are extracted, assembled and then aligned against the highly specific reference database. GenomePeek was found to be faster than traditional approaches while still keeping error rates low, as well as offering unique data visualization options.', u"Model repositories such as the BioModels Database or the CellML Model Repository are frequently accessed to retrieve computational models describing biological systems. However, the current designs of these databases limit the types of supported queries, and many data in these repositories cannot easily be accessed. Computational methods for model retrieval cannot be applied. In this paper we present a storage concept that meets this challenge. It grounds on a graph database, reflects the models' structure, incorporates semantic annotations and experiment descriptions, and ultimately connects different types of model-related data.The connections between heterogeneous model-related data and bio-ontologies enable efficient search via biological facts and grant access to new model features such as network structure.The introduced concept notably improves the access of computational models and associated simulations in a model repository. This has positive effects on tasks such as model search, retrieval, ranking, matching, filtering etc.We exemplify how CellML- and SBML-encoded models can be maintained in one database, how these models can be linked via annotations, and queried.", u'Rocky shore microbial diversity presents an excellent system to test for microbial habitat specificity or generality, enabling us to decipher how common macrobiota shape microbial community structure. At two coastal locations in the northeast Pacific Ocean, we show that microbial composition was significantly different between inert surfaces, the biogenic surfaces that included rocky shore animals and an alga, and the water column plankton. While all sampled entities had a core of common OTUs, rare OTUs drove differences among biotic and abiotic substrates. For the mussel Mytilus californianus, the shell surface harbored greater alpha diversity compared to internal tissues of the gill and siphon. Strikingly, a 7-year experimental removal of this mussel from tidepools did not significantly alter the microbial community structure of microbes associated with inert surfaces when compared with unmanipulated tidepools. However, bacterial taxa associated with nitrate reduction had greater relative abundance with mussels present, suggesting an impact of increased animal-derived nitrogen on a subset of microbial metabolism. Because the presence of mussels did not affect the structure and diversity of the microbial community on adjacent inert substrates, microbes in this rocky shore environment may be predominantly affected through direct physical association with macrobiota.', u'Background:  The objectives of the study were to explore the knowledge and attitudes of Pakistani university students toward mental illnesses. People with mental illnesses are challenged not only by their symptoms but also by the prejudices associated with their illness. Acknowledging the stigma of mental illness should be the first essential step toward devising an appropriate treatment plan. Methods: A cross-sectional survey was conducted at the University of Punjab, Lahore, CMH Lahore Medical and Dental College, Lahore, and University of Sargodha, Sub-campus Lahore, from February to May, 2014. The self-administered questionnaire consisted of three sections: demographics, general knowledge of psychiatric illnesses, and Community Attitudes towards Mental Illnesses (CAMI) Scale. The questionnaire was distributed to 650 participants enrolled in different disciplines (Social Sciences, Medicine and Formal Sciences). Results: Response rate was 81% (527/650 respondents). Mean age was 20.98 years. Most of the students (331, 62.8%) had an urban background and studied Social Sciences (238, 45.2%). 418 (79.3%) considered religion very important and most respondents considered psychiatrists (334, 63.4%) and spiritual leaders (72, 13.7%) to be best able to treat mental illnesses. 169 (32.1%) considered black magic to be a cause of mental illness. Only 215 (41%) had ever read an article on mental illnesses. Multiple regression analysis revealed study discipline, exposure, perceived causes of mental illnesses and superstitions to be significantly associated with attitudes towards mental illnesses (p < .05). Conclusion: Although low awareness and exposure were found in this sample of Pakistani university students, their attitude towards mental illnesses was generally positive. Most respondents gave supernatural explanations for mental illnesses but only a few believed that spiritual leaders can play a role in treatment.', u'Genebanks increasingly use molecular markers for routine characterization of ex-situ collections and farmer managed diversity. The International Potato Center presently uses a SSR marker-kit to create molecular profiles for potato accessions. We identified a need for a compact graphical representation that allows comparative presentation of molecular diversity and accession characteristics - thereby permitting biologists and collection curators to have a simple means to interpret molecular data. Inspired by the ancient Andean qipus we devised a graph that standardizes representation while leaving room for updates of the marker kit and the collection of accessions. The molecular khipu permits combining and annotating a set of SSR loci with allele frequency and allele size distribution information. The design is flexible to incorporate updates on genetic diversity information. Graphical means facilitate reading of allele diversity information. As a compact graphical view it facilitates information storage and exchange. The SSR khipu will be useful to other genebanks and breeders. Software to create graphics in single or batch mode is available as R package \u2019khipu\u2019.', u'Reproducibility of biological data is a significant problem in research today. One potential contributor to this, which has received little attention, is the over complication of enzyme kinetic inhibition models. This over complication of inhibitory models stems from the common use of the inhibitory term (1+[I]/Ki), an equilibrium binding term that does not distinguish between inhibitor binding and inhibitory effect. Since its initial appearance in the literature, around a century ago, the perceived mechanistic methods used in its production have spurred countless inhibitory equations. These equations are overly complex and are seldom compared to each other, which has destroyed their usefulness resulting in the proliferation and regulatory acceptance of simpler models such as ic50s for drug characterization. However, empirical analysis of inhibitory data recognizing the clear distinctions between inhibitor binding and inhibitory effect can produce simple logical inhibition models. In contrast to the common divergent practice of generating new inhibitory models for every inhibitory situation that presents itself, the empirical approach to inhibition modeling presented here, is broadly applicable allowing easy comparison and rational analysis of drug interactions. To demonstrate this, a simple kinetic model of DAPT, a compound which both activates and inhibits \u03b3-secretase is examined using excel. The empirical kinetic method described here allows for a more in depth understanding of drug interactions and disease mechanism.', u'Objective : Although the Coping Instrument for Stressful Situations \u2013 21 item scale (CISS-21) offers excellent psychometric stability in samples from various countries, data about its validity and reliability among Indian samples is not easily accessible. The current study presents these data from a sample consisting of urban Indians working in the global service sector.\nMethod : Two hundred and seventy four professionals working in highly paying service sector jobs in India completed the CISS-21. The data was analyzed using principal factor analysis and reliability analysis.\nResults : Instead of the three-factor structure consisting of emotion-oriented, avoidance-oriented, and task-oriented coping strategies, a four-factor structure emerged. This resulting structure indicates that the current Indian sample perceived the task-oriented coping strategy as comprising of two distinct sub-factors: One involving cognitive-appraisal based mechanisms and another where a direct action-based approach is preferred.\nConclusion : among the Indian sample involved in the current study, CISS-21 appears to be a reliable and valid scale, albeit with a four instead of three factor structure. Na\xefve dialecticism and Biculturalism are presented and discussed as possible reasons for this unique factor structure.', u'The linear subspaces of a multiresolution analysis (MRA) and the linear subspaces of the wavelet analysis induced by the MRA, together with the set inclusion relation, form a very special lattice of subspaces which herein is called a "primorial lattice". This paper introduces an operator R that extracts a set of 2^{N-1} element Boolean lattices from a 2^N element Boolean lattice. Used recursively, a sequence of Boolean lattices with decreasing order is generated---a structure that is similar to an MRA. A second operator, which is a special case of a "difference operator", is introduced that operates on consecutive Boolean lattices L_2^n and L_2^{n-1} to produce a sequence of orthocomplemented lattices. These two sequences, together with the subset ordering relation, form a primorial lattice P. A logic or probability constructed on a Boolean lattice L_2^N likewise induces a primorial lattice P. Such a logic or probability can then be rendered at N different "resolutions" by selecting any one of the N Boolean lattices in P and at N different "frequencies" by selecting any of the N different orthocomplemented lattices in P. Furthermore, P can be used for symbolic sequence analysis by projecting sequences of symbols onto the sublattices in P using one of three lattice projectors introduced. P can be used for symbolic sequence processing by judicious rejection and selection of projected sequences. Examples of symbolic sequences include sequences of logic values, sequences of probabilistic events, and genomic sequences (as used in "genomic signal processing").', u'Consciousness is simple by definition, and complex by extension. For the first time we may have a look into some of the complexities of Human Consciousness, and how they may have accreted to core consciousness over millenia. From a Core Consciousness that can be traced to the Optical Tectum in early pre-amphibious ancestors, or even earlier in the evolutionary record, to an advanced model that includes at least 6 different sub-models, and grew from an early model of consciousness, we will see the accretion of layers of consciousness upon the basic core consciousness despite setbacks and variations in the evolution of the brain. Similar to some theories that make the mistake of Scala Naturae this theory shows a scale of elaboration that is not meant to reflect the pattern of evolution, merely a list of elaborations that has become standard within the human brain. It is not meant to be exhaustive, merely indicative of the complexity of consciousness as experienced by human beings. That the stages in development of the human brain make a track through time, is not meant to mean that in fact this track was as straight forward or simple as the model might suggest.', u'The Otodontidae include some of the largest sharks to ever live in the world\u2019s oceans (i.e. Carcharocles megalodon). Here we report on Paleocene and Eocene occurrences of Otodus obliquus and Carcharocles auriculatus from Alabama, USA. Teeth of Otodus are rarely encountered in the Gulf Coastal Plain and this report is one of the first records for Alabama. Carcharocles auriculatus is more common in the Eocene deposits of Alabama, but its occurrence has been largely overlooked in the literature. We also refute the occurrence of the Oligocene Carcharocles angustidens in the state. Raised awareness and increased collecting of under-sampled geologic formations in Alabama will likely increase sample sizes of O. obliquus and C. auriculatus and also might unearth other otodontids, such as C. megalodon and C. chubutensis.', u"Stimulation protocols for medical devices should be rationally designed. For episodic migraine with aura we outline model-based design strategies towards preventive and acute therapies using stereotactic neuromodulation. To this end, we regard a localized spreading depression (SD) wave segment as a central element in migraine pathophysiology. To describe nucleation and propagation features of the SD wave segment, we define the new concepts of cortical hot spots and labyrinths, respectively. In particular, we firstly focus exclusively on curvature-induced dynamical properties by studying a generic reaction-diffusion model of SD on the folded cortical surface. This surface is described with increasing level of details, including finally personalized simulations using patient's magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner readings. At this stage, the only relevant factor that can modulate nucleation and propagation paths is the Gaussian curvature, which has the advantage of being rather readily accessible by MRI. We conclude with discussing further anatomical factors, such as areal, laminar, and cellular heterogeneity, that in addition to and in relation to Gaussian curvature determine the generalized concept of cortical hot spots and labyrinths as target structures for neuromodulation.Our numerical simulations suggest that these target structures are like fingerprints, they are individual features of each migraine sufferer. The goal in the future will be to provide individualized neural tissue simulations. These simulations should predict the clinical data and therefore can also serve as a test bed for exploring stereotactic neuromodulation.", u'Sharing in silico experiments is essential for the advance of research in computational biology. Consequently, the COMBINE archive was designed as a digital container format. It eases the management of numerous files, fosters collaboration, and ultimately enables the exchange of reproducible research results. However, manual handling of COMBINE archives is tedious and error prone. We therefore developed the CombineArchive Toolkit. It supports scientists in promoting and publishing their work by means of creating, exploring, modifying, and sharing archives.', u'We developed a three-dimensional, biomechanical computer model of the 36 major pelvic limb muscle groups in an ostrich (Struthio camelus) to investigate muscle function in this, the largest of extant birds and model organism for many studies of locomotor mechanics, body size, anatomy and evolution. Combined with experimental data, we use this model to test two main hypotheses. We first query whether ostriches use limb orientations (joint angles) that optimize the moment-generating capacities of their muscles during walking or running. Next, we test whether ostriches use limb orientations at mid-stance that keep their extensor muscles near maximal, and flexor muscles near minimal, moment arms. Our two hypotheses relate to the control priorities that a large bipedal animal might evolve under biomechanical constraints to achieve more effective static weight support. We find that ostriches do not use limb orientations to optimize the moment-generating capacities or moment arms of their muscles. We infer that dynamic properties of muscles or tendons might be better candidates for locomotor optimization. Regardless, general principles explaining why species choose particular joint orientations during locomotion are lacking, raising the question of whether such general principles exist or if clades evolve different patterns (e.g. weighting of muscle force-length or force-velocity properties in selecting postures). This leaves theoretical studies of muscle moment arms estimated for extinct animals at an impasse until studies of extant taxa answer these questions. Finally, we compare our model\u2019s results against those of two prior studies of ostrich limb muscle moment arms, finding general agreement for many muscles. Some flexor and extensor muscles exhibit self-stabilization patterns (posture-dependent switches between flexor/extensor action) that ostriches may use to coordinate their locomotion. However, some conspicuous areas of disagreement in our results illustrate some cautionary principles. Importantly, tendon-travel empirical measurements of muscle moment arms must be carefully designed to preserve 3D muscle geometry lest their accuracy suffer relative to that of anatomically realistic models. The dearth of accurate experimental measurements of 3D moment arms of muscles in birds leaves uncertainty regarding the relative accuracy of different modelling or experimental datasets such as in ostriches. Our model, however, provides a comprehensive set of 3D estimates of muscle actions in ostriches for the first time, emphasizing that avian limb mechanics are highly three-dimensional and complex, and how no muscles act purely in the sagittal plane. A comparative synthesis of experiments and models such as ours could provide powerful synthesis into how anatomy, mechanics and control interact during locomotion and how these interactions evolve. Such a framework could remove obstacles impeding the analysis of muscle function in extinct taxa.', u"Despite knowledge that concerted evolution of high-copy loci is often imperfect, few studies investigate the extent of intragenomic polymorphisms and comparisons across a large number of species are rarely made. We present a bioinformatic pipeline for characterizing polymorphisms within an individual among copies of a high-copy locus. Results are presented for nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) across the milkweed genus, Asclepias. The 18S-26S portion of the nrDNA cistron of Asclepias syriaca served as a reference for assembly of the region from 124 samples representing 90 species of Asclepias. Reads were mapped back to each individual's consensus and at each position reads differing from the consensus were tallied using a custom perl script. Low frequency polymorphisms existed in all individuals (mean = 5.8%). Most nrDNA positions (91%) were polymorphic in at least one individual, with polymorphic sites being less frequent in subunit regions and loops. Highly polymorphic sites existed in each individual, with highest abundance in the \u201cnoncoding\u201d ITS regions. Phylogenetic signal was present in the distribution of intragenomic polymorphisms across the genus. Intragenomic polymorphisms in nrDNA are common in Asclepias, being found at higher frequency than any other study to date. The high and variable frequency of polymorphisms across species highlights concerns that phylogenetic applications of nrDNA may be error-prone. The new analytical approach provided here is applicable to other taxa and other high-copy regions characterized by low coverage genome sequencing (genome skimming).", u'Certain insects affect cultivations in a detrimental way. A notable case is the Olive fruit \ufb02y Bactrocera oleae (Diptera: Tephritidae) that in Europe alone causes billions of euros crop loss per year. Pests can be controlled with aerial and ground bait pesticide sprays, the efficiency of which depends on knowing the time and location of insect infestations as early as possible. The inspection of traps is currently carried out manually. Automatic monitoring traps can enhance efficient monitoring of flying pests by identifying and counting targeted pests as they enter the trap. This work deals with the hardware setup of an insect trap with an embedded opto-electronic sensor that automatically records insects as they fly in the trap. The sensors responsible for detecting the insect is an array of phototransistors receiving light from an infrared LED. The wing-beat recording is based on the interruption of the emitted light due to the partial occlusion from insect\u2019s wings. We show that the recording are of high quality paving the way for automatic recognition and transmission of insect detections from the field to a smartphone. This work emphasizes the hardware implementation of the core sensor giving all necessary implementation details needed to construct it.', u'Background: It is now apparent that the complex microbial communities found on and in the human body (the human microbiome) vary across individuals. What has largely been missing from previous studies is an understanding of how these communities vary over time within individuals. To the extent to which it has been considered, it is often assumed that temporal variability is negligible for healthy adults. Here we address this gap in understanding by profiling the forehead, gut (fecal), palm, and tongue microbial communities in 85 adults, weekly over three months.\nResults: We found that skin (forehead and palm) varied most in the number of taxa present, whereas gut and tongue communities varied more in the relative abundances of taxa. Within each body habitat, there was a wide range of temporal variability across the study population, with some individuals consistently harboring more variable communities than others. The best predictor of these differences in variability across individuals was microbial diversity; individuals with more diverse gut or tongue communities were less variable than individuals with less diverse communities.\nConclusions: This expanded sampling allowed us to observe consistently high levels of temporal variability in both diversity and community structure in all body habitats studied. These findings suggest that temporal dynamics may need to be considered when attempting to link changes in microbiome structure to changes in health status.Furthermore, our findings show that, not only is the composition of an individual\u2019s microbiome highly personalized, but their degree of temporal variability is also a personalized feature.', u'We present a method to assist in interpretation of the functional impact of intergenic disease-associated SNPs that is not limited to search strategies proximal to the SNP. The method builds on two sources of external knowledge: the growing understanding of three-dimensional spatial relationships in the genome, and the substantial repository of information about relationships among genetic variants, genes, and diseases captured in the published biomedical literature. We integrate chromatin conformation capture data (HiC) with literature support to rank putative target genes of intergenic disease-associated SNPs. We demonstrate that this hybrid method outperforms a genomic distance baseline on a small test set of expression quantitative trait loci, as well as either method individually. In addition, we show the potential for this method to uncover relationships between intergenic SNPs and target genes across chromosomes. With more extensive chromatin conformation capture data becoming readily available, this method provides a way forward towards functional interpretation of SNPs in the context of the three dimensional structure of the genome in the nucleus.', u'The consumer demand for fresh fruits and vegetables increases every year, and farmers need a low cost novel method to reduce post-harvest loss and preserve the quality of fresh fruits and vegetables. This study identifies a method to induce soil bacteria to biosynthesize a nitrile compound that potentially enters the plants tissue and negatively affects climacteric ripening and delays the ripening process at 20-30\u02daC. This study used soil rich with soil microbes, to delay the ripening of climacteric fruit. The soil was treated with nitrogen, a heavy metal, and ethylene gas.\nEthylene induced the soil to delay the ripening of organic bananas and peaches. A prototype transportation container maintained fruit fresh for up to 72 h at 20-30\u02daC. The fruit retained color, firmness, texture, no bruising and minimal spotting. The soil also prevented fungal infection in all samples. GC-MS analysis suggests ethylene induced the soil microbes to release an acetonitrile compound into the gaseous environment. The nitrile is released in low concentrations, but mature plants (fruits) contain very low levels of indole-3-acetonitrile (IAN) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA).\nThe nitrile may obstruct or modify the mature plants (fruit) late stages development process, thus delay the climacteric ripening process and retarding the physiological and phenotypic effects of fruit ripening. We believe this study may have strong applications for post-harvest biotechnology.', u'Background. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are pluripotent cells derived from the inner cell mass of in vitro fertilised blastocysts, which can either be maintained in an undifferentiated state or committed into lineages under determined culture conditions. These cells offer great potential for regenerative medicine, but at present, little is known about the mechanisms that regulate hESC stemness; in particular, the role of cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions remain relatively unexplored. Methods and results. In this study we have performed an in silico analysis of cell-microenvironment interactions to identify novel proteins that may be responsible for the maintenance of hESC stemness. A hESC transcriptome of 8,934 mRNAs was assembled using a meta-analysis approach combining the analysis of microarrays and the use of databases for annotation. The STRING database was utilised to construct a protein-protein interaction network focused on extracellular and transcription factor components contained within the assembled transcriptome. This interactome was structurally studied and filtered to identify a short list of 92 candidate proteins, which may regulate hESC stemness. Conclusion. We hypothesise that this list of proteins, either connecting extracellular components with transcriptional networks, or with hub or bottleneck properties, may contain proteins likely to be involved in determining stemness.', u'De novo transcriptome sequencing and assembly for non-model organisms has become prevalent in the past decade. However, most assembly approaches are computationally expensive, and little in-depth evaluation has been done to compare de novo approaches. We sequenced several developmental stages of two free-spawning marine species\u2014Molgula occulta and Molgula oculata\u2014assembled their transcriptomes using four different combinations of preprocessing and assembly approaches, and evaluated the quality of the assembly. We present a straightforward and reproducible mRNAseq assembly protocol that combines quality filtering, digital normalization, and assembly, together with several metrics to evaluate our de novo assemblies. The use of digital normalization in the protocol reduces the time and memory needed to complete the assembly and makes this pipeline available to labs without large computing infrastructure. Despite varying widely in basic assembly statistics, all of the assembled transcriptomes evaluate well in metrics such as gene recovery and estimated completeness.', u"The principal data structure in Maple used to represent polynomials and general mathematical expressions involving functions like sqrt(x), sin x, exp(2x), y'(x) etc., is known to the Maple developers as the sum-of-products data structure. Gaston Gonnet, as the primary author of the Maple kernel, designed and implemented this data structure in the early 80s. As part of the process of simplifying a mathematical formula, he represented every Maple object and every sub-object uniquely in memory. This makes testing for equality, which is used in many operations, very fast. In this article, on occasion of Gaston's retirement, we present details of his design, its pros and cons, and changes we have made to it over the years. One of the cons is the sum-of-products data structure is not nearly as efficient for multiplying multivariate polynomials as other special purpose computer algebra systems. We describe the new data structure called POLY which we added to Maple 17 (released 2013) to improve performance for polynomials in Maple, and recent work done for Maple 18 (released 2014).", u'There are exciting biological questions which require programming and large online data resources to address, yet many traditionally-trained biologists lack the informatics skills needed for successful analysis. In the last decade, new aggregated, open data resources have become available, but these are not often being leveraged effectively for big data research. Using a new hackathon-inspired format, the EOL-BHL-NESCent Research Sprint facilitated scientific discovery by supporting teams to use online data resources such as the Encyclopedia of Life and Biodiversity Heritage Library to answer their biological questions. We describe the methods of the research sprint and present results indicating its success in producing publications, in introducing scientists to large-scale informatics resources and approaches, and in encouraging new collaborations.', u'We demonstrated that the 3-substituted benzothiophene-1,1-dioxide class of compounds are effective inhibitors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis growth under aerobic conditions. We examined substitution at the C-3 position of the benzothiophene-1,1-dioxide series systematically to delineate structure-activity relationships influencing potency and cytotoxicity. Compounds were tested for inhibitory activity against virulent M. tuberculosis and eukaryotic cells. The tetrazole substituent was most potent, with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 2.6 \xb5M. However, cytotoxicity was noted with even more potency (Vero cell TC50 = 0.1 \xb5M). Oxadiazoles had good anti-tubercular activity (MICs of 3\u20138 \xb5M), but imidazoles, thiadiazoles and thiazoles had little activity. Cytotoxicity did not track with anti-tubercular activity, suggesting different targets or mode of action between bacterial and eukaryotic cells. However, we were unable to derive analogs without cytotoxicity; all compounds synthesized were cytotoxic (TC50 of 0.1\u20135 \xb5M). We conclude that cytotoxicity is a liability in this series precluding it from further development. However, the series has potent anti-tubercular activity and future efforts towards identifying the mode of action could result in the identification of novel drug targets.', u'Rapidly growing biological data volumes \u2013 including molecular sequences, species traits, geographic occurrences, specimen collections, and fossil records \u2013 hold an unprecedented, yet largely unexplored potential to reveal how ecological and evolutionary processes generate and maintain biodiversity. Most biodiversity studies integrating ecological data and evolutionary history use an idiosyncratic step-by-step approach for the reconstruction of time-calibrated phylogenies in light of ecological and evolutionary scenarios. Here we introduce a conceptual framework, termed SUPERSMART (Self-Updating Platform for Estimating Rates of Speciation and Migration, Ages, and Relationships of Taxa), and provide a proof of concept for dealing with the moving targets of biodiversity research. This framework reconstructs dated phylogenies based on the assembly of molecular datasets and collects pertinent data on ecology, distribution, and fossils of the focal clade. The data handled for each step are continuously updated as databases accumulate new records. We exemplify the practice of our method by presenting comprehensive phylogenetic and dating analyses for the orders Primates and the Gentianales. We believe that this emerging framework will provide an invaluable tool for a wide range of hypothesis-driven research questions in ecology and evolution.', u'Global change will causes species range shifts, affecting species interactions. The conservation implications of species range shifts are widely unknown. Through forming an ecology-bioinformatics partnership at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center-Encyclopedia of Life-Biodiversity Heritage Library Research Sprint, we developed an analytical pipeline to test whether global trends are forcing shifts of mutually dependent species in different spatial directions. We calculated potential overlap between dependent species across climate scenarios within protected areas. We selected the Great Green Macaw (Ara ambiguus) and its nesting host tree the Giant Almendro (Dipteryx panamensis) as a proof-of-concept species pair that will be affected by range shifts. We demonstrate with modeling that the Great Green Macaw will lose approximately 64.0% of suitable habitat in future scenarios, while the Giant Almendro will lose 59.7% of suitable habitat. Species habitat overlaps across 85.3 % of its currently predicted distribution and 69.07% of the remaining habitat predicted in future scenarios. After accounting for spatially explicit protected areas networks, only 20.3% and 40.2 % of remaining habitat persists within protected areas across climate scenarios for the Almendro and Macaw, respectively, and 19.9 % of that habitat overlaps between the species. Currently, we are conducting a literature review to select and expand our list of species for use in the pipeline to detect trends for climate readiness planning in protected areas networks. The analytical pipeline will produce habitat suitability maps for multiple climate scenarios based on current distributions, and these maps will potentially be embedded into the Encyclopedia of Life as free, downloadable files. This is just one of several broader impact products from the research. This work demonstrates that modeling the future distribution of species is limited by biotic interactions and conservation planning should account for climate change scenarios.', u'The extravasation of cancer cells, a key step for distant metastasis, is thought to be initiated by disruption of the endothelial barrier by malignant cancer cells. An endothelial covering-type extravasation of cancer cells in addition to conventional cancer cell invasion-type extravasation was dynamically visualized in a zebrafish hematogenous metastasis model. The inhibition of VEGF-signaling impaired the invasion-type extravasation via inhibition of cancer cell polarization and motility regulated by an intracellular signaling. Paradoxically, the inhibition of VEGF-signaling showed the promotion, rather than the inhibition, of the endothelial covering-type extravasation of cancer cells, with structural changes in the endothelial walls. These findings may be a clue to the full understanding of the metastatic process as well as the metastatic acceleration by antiangiogenic reagents observed in preclinical studies.', u'A complete phylogenetic analysis of all of the H9N2 hemagglutinin sequences that were collected between 1966 and 2012 was carried out in order to build a picture of the geographical and host specific evolution of the hemagglutinin protein. To improve the quality and applicability of the output data the sequences were divided into subsets based upon location and host species.\nThe phylogenetic analysis of hemagglutinin reveals that the protein has distinct lineages between China and the Middle East, and that wild birds in both regions retain a distinct form of the H9 molecule, from the same lineage as the ancestral hemagglutinin. The results add further evidence to the hypothesis that the current predominant H9N2 hemagglutinin lineage might have originated in Southern China. The study also shows that there are sampling problems that affect the reliability of this and any similar analysis. This raises questions about the surveillance of H9N2 and the need for wider sampling of the virus in the environment.\nThe results of this analysis are also consistent with a model where hemagglutinin has predominantly evolved by neutral drift punctuated by occasional selection events. These selective events have produced the current pattern of distinct lineages in the Middle East, Korea and China. This interpretation is in agreement with existing studies that have shown that there is widespread intra-country sequence evolution.', u'Kv1 channels are shaker-related potassium channels that influence insulin sensitivity. Kv1.3 -/- mice are protected from diet-induced insulin resistance and some studies suggest that Kv1.3 inhibitors provide similar protection. However, it is unclear whether blockade of Kv1.3 in adipocytes or skeletal muscle increases glucose uptake. There is no evidence that the related channel Kv1.5 has any influence on insulin sensitivity and its expression in adipose tissue has not been reported. PAP-1 is a selective inhibitor of Kv1.3, with 23-fold, 32-fold and 125-fold lower potencies as an inhibitor of Kv1.5, Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 respectively. Soleus muscles from wild-type and genetically obese ob/ob mice were incubated with 2-deoxy[1-14C]-glucose for 45 min and formation of 2-deoxy[1-14C]-glucose-6-phosphate was measured. White adipocytes were incubated with D-[U-14C]-glucose for 1h. TNFalpha and Il-6 secretion from white adipose tissue pieces were measured by enzyme-linked-immunoassay. In the absence of insulin, a high concentration (3 \u03bcM) of PAP-1 stimulated 2-deoxy[1-14C]-glucose uptake in soleus muscle of wild-type and obese mice by 30% and 40% respectively, and in adipocytes by 20% and 50% respectively. PAP-1 also stimulated glucose uptake by adipocytes at the lower concentration of 1 \u03bcM, but at 300 nM, which is still 150-fold higher than its EC50 value for inhibition of the Kv1.3 channel, it had no effect. In the presence of insulin, PAP-1 (3 \u03bcM) had a significant effect only in adipocytes from obese mice. PAP-1 (3 \u03bcM) reduced the secretion of TNFalpha by adipose tissue but had no effect on the secretion of IL-6. Expression of Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.3 and Kv1.5 was determined by RT-PCR. Kv1.3 and Kv1.5 mRNA were detected in liver, gastrocnemius muscle, soleus muscle and white adipose tissue from wild-type and ob/ob mice, except that Kv1.3 could not be detected in gastrocnemius muscle, nor Kv1.5 in liver, of wild-type mice. Expression of both genes was generally higher in liver and muscle of ob/ob mice compared to wild-type mice. Kv1.5 appeared to be expressed more highly than Kv1.3 in soleus muscle, adipose tissue and adipocytes of wild-type mice. Expression of Kv1.2 appeared to be similar to that of Kv1.3 in soleus muscle and adipose tissue, but Kv1.2 was undetectable in adipocytes. Kv1.1 could not be detected in soleus muscle, adipose tissue or adipocytes. We conclude that inhibition of Kv1 channels by PAP-1 stimulates glucose uptake by adipocytes and soleus muscle of wild-type and ob/ob mice, and reduces the secretion of TNFalpha by adipose tissue. However, these effects are more likely due to inhibition of Kv1.5 than to inhibition of Kv1.3 channels.', u'To determine how different methods of normalizing for global cerebral blood flow (gCBF) affect image quality and sensitivity to cortical activation, pulsed arterial spin labeling (pASL) scans obtained during a visual task were normalized by either additive or multiplicative normalization of modal gCBF. Normalization by either method increased the statistical significance of cortical activation by a visual stimulus. However, image quality was superior with additive normalization, whether judged by intensity histograms or by reduced variability within gray and white matter.', u'In the last years the number of long distance runners who wear minimal footwear or run completely barefoot increased considerably. There is an ongoing debate about the benefits and risks of running in minimal footwear/barefoot instead of running in conventional running shoes. The objectives were to investigate the effect of different types of shoes as well as of different running techniques on acceleration of centre of gravity and to explore a potential link to injuries (subjects are described in table 1). We assessed data with a mobile accelerometry device (actibelt \xae, http://www.actibelt.com) during competition. Three runners were additionally investigated during a treadmill test using a high speed camera system simultaneously coupled to a wireless stream of acceleration data. Acceleration raw data was analysed with standardized algorithm packages using R software environment.', u'The measurement of running style must be ecologically valid. The individual running style has an impact on the running performance as well as the running injury risk. In order to increase the performance and lower the injury risk, runners should be educated towards a healthy running style. But before advice can be made it is crucial to distinguish running styles from each other. Thus, it is interesting to detect and optimize the running style of individuals. The goal is to evaluate the possibility for a running style app using accelerometry data, which is able to track and display the user\u2019s current running style by using accelerometry data, based on which advice can be given for a healthy and efficient running style with the help of gaming tools (meta product). To validate the approach, a gold standard with outdoor running acceleration data has to be created.', u'Common barefoot running shoes or minimal footwear have one or several of the following properties/deficiencies, depending on the type and brand and personal taste: - Coverage of a considerable fraction of the foot\u2019s surface with textile/plastic leading to sub-optimal foot climate - Considerable weight for a true \u201cbarefoot shoe\u201d - Toe pockets that do not fit with non-standard feet - Considerable size and thickness, in particular in the heel section of the protective sole for a true \u201cbarefoot shoe\u201d - Positive drop and therefore a change in the biomechanics compared to barefoot running. We wanted to design a new type of shoe that would be as close as possible to \u201creal\u201d barefoot running\u201d and thereby overcome one or several of these perceived deficiencies. Whether this would lead to a reduction or increase in running related injuries and how to best train with the new shoes is not within the scope of this article.', u'The applicability, transfer, and scalability of visible/near-infrared (VNIR)-derived soil models are still poorly understood. The objectives of this study in Florida, U.S. were to: (i) compare three methods to predict soil total carbon (TC) using five fields (local scale) and a pooled (regional scale) VNIR spectral dataset, (ii) assess the model\u2019s transferability among fields, and (iii) evaluate the up- and down-scaling behavior of TC prediction models. A total of 560 TC-spectral sets were modeled by Partial Least Square Regression (PLSR), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Random Forest. The transferability and up- and down-scaling of models were limited by the following factors: (i) the spectral data domain, (ii) soil attribute domain, (iii) methods that describe the internal model structure of VNIR-TC relationships, and (iv) environmental domain space of attributes that control soil carbon dynamics. All soil logTC models showed excellent performance based on all three methods with R2 > 0.86, bias < 0.01%, root mean square prediction error (RMSE) = 0.09%, residual predication deviation (RPD) > 2.70% , and ratio of prediction error to inter-quartile range (RPIQ) > 4.54. PLSR performed substantially better than SVM to scale and transfer models. Upscaled soil TC models performed somewhat better in terms of model fit (R2), RPD, and RPIQ, whereas downscaled models showed less bias and smaller RMSE based on PLSR. Given the many factors that can impinge on empirically derived soil spectral prediction models, as demonstrated by this study, more focus on the applicability and scaling of them is needed.', u'A carefully controlled study allowed us to compare the sensitivity of ASL (arterial spin labeling) and BOLD (blood oxygen level dependent) fMRI for detecting the effects of the adenosine A2a antagonist tozadenant in Parkinson disease . Only ASL detected the direct effect of tozadenant. BOLD was more sensitive to a cognitive task, which (unlike most drugs) allows on-off comparisons over short periods of time. Neither ASL nor BOLD could detect a cognitive-pharmacological interaction. These results are consistent with the known relative advantages of each fMRI method, and suggest that for drug development, directly imaging pharmacodynamic effects with ASL may have advantages over cognitive-pharmacological interaction BOLD, which has hitherto been the more common approach to pharmacological fMRI.', u'Certain biological traits seem to predispose some species to greater extinction risk than others and, when vulnerability information is limited, could be used as proxies to identify understudied species likely in need of protection. In the past, identifying broadly applicable traits associated with extinction risk has been hampered by the difficulty of collecting information for a broad range of species (both geographically and taxonomically), with most comparative analyses focusing on regional and/or taxon specific patterns. However, efforts to collect and compile existing trait information from regional and taxon specific datasets into a single repository are making it possible to analyze patterns between traits and vulnerability on ever broader scales. We compared trait information from one such repository, the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) TraitBank, to information on threat status from the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List to determine whether such consolidated data can help either clarify previously identified associations or identify new associations between plant traits and threat risk. Using generalized linear mixed effects models (GLMM\u2019s) we found five plant traits that could be used to predict whether a species is threatened or not: \u2018plant growth form\u2019, \u2018life cycle habit\u2019, \u2018low temperature tolerance\u2019, \u2018soil depth\u2019 and \u2018foliage porosity in winter\u2019. Threatened plant species tend to be trees rather than shrubs or grasses, live for more than one season (i.e. perennials), be less tolerant of cold temperatures, require deep soil for good growth, and have less dense foliage in the winter. Both \u2018plant growth form\u2019 and \u2018life cycle habit\u2019 have been identified as correlates of vulnerability in past studies and both are relatively easy to use as diagnostic characters, which is ideal for identifying understudied species of potential conservation concern. However, how these two traits relate to vulnerability seems context dependent, with opposite relationships in past regional or taxon specific studies. Unfortunately we could not identify further traits that could add explanatory power to those relationships with the existing data on EOL\u2019s TraitBank but the repository is still growing and the inclusion of additional traits and/or species from other datasets could clarify these relationships further.', u'Triclosan (TCS) is a widely used antibacterial agent that has become a ubiquitous contaminant in freshwater, estuary and marine environments. Concerns for potential adverse effects of TCS have been described in several recent risk assessments. Effects on freshwater microbial communities have been quite well studied but studies addressing effects on marine microbial communities are scarce. Here we describe short- and long-term effects of TCS on marine periphyton (microbial biofilm) communities. Short-term effects on photosynthesis were estimated after 60 \u2013 210 minutes exposure. Long-term effects on photosynthesis, chlorophyll fluorescence, pigment content, community tolerance and bacterial carbon utilization were studied after exposing periphyton for 17 days in flow-through microcosms to 0.316 - 10 000 nM TCS. Results from the short-term studies show that TCS is toxic to periphyton photosynthesis. EC50 values of 1080 and 3000 nM were estimated using 14CO2-incorporation and Pulse Amplitude Modulation (PAM), respectively. After long-term TCS exposure in flow-through microcosms photosynthesis estimated using PAM was, however, not inhibited by TCS concentrations up to 1000 nM, but instead increased with increasing TCS concentration. Similarly, the amount of photosynthetic pigments increased after an exposure of 31.6 nM TCS and higher; at 316 nM TCS the pigment amounts reached between 140 and 190% of the control level. Pollution-Induced Community Tolerance (PICT) was observed for algae and cyanobacteria at 100 nM TCS and higher. In spite of the widespread use of TCS as an antibacterial agent, the compound did not have any effects on bacterial carbon utilization after long-term exposure.', u'Local adaptation is an important process shaping within species diversity. In recent years, population genetic analyses, which complement organismal approaches in advancing our understanding of local adaptation have become widespread. Here we focus on using population genetics to address some key questions in local adaptation: What traits are involved? What environmental variables are most important? Does local adaptation target the same genes in related species? Do loci responsible for local adaptation exhibit tradeoffs across environments? After discussing these questions we highlight important limitations to population genetic analyses including challenges with obtaining high quality data, deciding which loci are targets of selection, and limits to identifying the genetic basis of local adaptation.', u'Obstetrical complications including preeclampsia, fetal growth restriction, preterm labor, preterm prelabor rupture of membranes and fetal demise are all the clinical endpoint of several underlying mechanisms (i.e. infection inflammation, thrombosis, endocrine disorder, immunologic rejection, genetic, and environmental), therefore, they may be regarded as syndromes. Placental vascular pathology and increased thrombin generation were reported in all of these obstetrical syndromes. Moreover, elevated concentrations of thrombin-anti-thrombin III complexes and changes in the coagulation as well as anticoagulation factors can be detected in the maternal circulation prior to the clinical development of the disease in some of these syndromes. In this review, we will assess the changes in the hemostatic system during normal and complicated pregnancy in maternal blood, maternal-fetal interface and amniotic fluid, and describe the contribution of thrombosis and vascular pathology to the development of the great obstetrical syndromes.', u'Implantation, trophoblast development and placentation are crucial processes in the establishment and development of normal pregnancy. Abnormalities of these processes can lead to pregnancy complications named the great obstetrical syndromes (preeclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction, fetal demise, premature prelabor rupture or membranes, preterm labor, and recurrent pregnancy loss). There is mounting evidence regarding the physiological and therapeutic role of heparins in the establishment of normal gestation and as a modality for treatment and prevention of pregnancy complications. In this review we will summarize the properties and the physiological contribute of heparins to the success of implantation and placentation and normal pregnancy.', u'Objectives: To investigate to what degree radiofrequency electromagnetic radiation, induced by a mobile phone placed on the chest, impacts cardiac rhythm. Design: n=1, single blinded pilot study Setting: Academic hospital, Maastricht, the Netherlands Participants: One healthy female 24 years old participant. Interventions: The participant underwent four experimental sessions, spread over four days. A session consisted of four consecutive 15 minute conditions, three with a sham phone and one with a dialling mobile phone. The participant was blind for the condition. During each condition, per-millisecond electrocardiac activity (lead V4) and radiofrequency radiation was recorded jointly. Primary outcome measure: Heart rate. The association with radiation was analysed at two levels, (i) at macrolevel, based on averaged condition effects, and (ii) at microlevel, focusing on radiation peak-related effects within the exposure condition. Results: The macrolevel analysis clearly indicated that heart rate was lowered during the radiation exposure condition. The heart rate during the preceding and subsequent sham phone condition was respectively 1.014 beats/minute (p < 0.001) and 1.009 beats/minute (p < 0.001) higher compared to the radiation exposure condition. In order to conduct radiation-detector controlled microlevel analyses, 142 critical segments were identified, in which a radiation-free period was followed by a radiation peak. The heart rate during the radiation-free period showed a mean increase, whereas the radiation peak period was associated with a mean decrease in heart rate (time*period interaction: p=0.001). Thus, the macrolevel finding was confirmed at microlevel. Conclusions: Mobile phone radiation may impact heart rate, suggesting urgent further study to assess physiological safety parameters.', u"Adaptation of the Arrhenius relation to cognitive process explains how an order of magnitude difference in the rate of metabolic free energy metabolism for neural tissues translates into many orders of magnitude increase in the rate of assembling sets of cognitive submodules into the temporary, tunable, 'global workspace' coalitions of consciousness, much faster than such closely analogous processes as wound healing, immune response, and gene expression. The model strongly contradicts Tononi's 'panpsychic' integrated information treatment of consciousness.", u'The present study has been carried out with a view of evaluating a green alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa as a potential candidate for the production of reducing sugars using an enzyme cocktail of multiple carbohydrates produced on site for the fermentation into bioethanol.   The ability of  C. pyrenoidosa  to grow similarly fast on different carbon sources and light has been studied in Fog\u2019s medium in heterotrophic and mixotrophic cultures. The high cells densities of mixotrophic cultures demonstrated that the growth-stimulating effects of light and carbon utilization were better as compared to the effects of glucose in heterotrophic condition. Maximum biomass yield of 1.2 g/l was achieved with 1% Glucose and 0.2% KNO3 after 7 days of incubation at 28oC. The algal biomass was steam pretreated and hydrolyzed by a cocktail of multiple carbohydrases produced by solid state culture of a laboratory isolate belonging to Aspergillus sp. on wheat bran exhibiting the yields of 86, 35, 74, 1947, 61, 17000 and 1388 IU/g dry wheat bran for CMCase, FPase, \u03b2-glucosidase, xylanase, mannanase, \u03b1-amylase and glucoamylase respectively. The enzyme cocktail worked well in the hydrolysis of algal biomass at 50oC and produced total reducing sugars amounting to 429 mg/g of dried biomass revealing carbohydrate conversion efficiency of 96% after 48 h of hydrolysis. The released sugars may be fermented using suitable yeast strains for the production of third generation bioethanol.', u'Background: Self-regulation is the procedure implemented by an individual striving to reach a goal and consists of two inter-related strategies: assessment and locomotion. Moreover, both subjective and psychological well-being along exercise behavior might also play a role on adolescents academic achievement.\nMethod: Participants were 160 Swedish high school pupils (111 boys and 49 girls) with an age mean of 17.74 (sd = 1.29). We used the Assessment and Locomotion Scales to measure self-regulation; Ryff\u2019s Psychological Well-Being Scales short version, the Temporal Satisfaction with Life Scale, and the Positive Affect and Negative Affect Schedule to measure well-being and the Archer Ratio to measure exercise behavior. Academic achievement was operationalized through pupils\u2019 the mean value of final grades in Swedish, Mathematics, English, and Physical Education.\nResults: Academic achievement was positively associated to assessment, subjective well-being, and frequent/intensive exercise behaviour. Assessment was, however, negatively related to subjective well-being. Locomotion on the other hand was positively associated to subjective and psychological well-being and also to exercise behaviour.\nConclusions: Here we propose a dual (in)direct approach to increase pupils\u2019 academic achievement and well-being\u2014locomotion being related to frequently exercising and well-being, in turn, increasing academic achievement; while assessment being directly related to higher academic achievement.', u'Ecological variables such as species richness (S) and total abundance (N) can strongly influence ecological patterns. For example, the general form of the species abundance distribution (SAD) can often be explained by the majority of possible forms having the same N and S, i.e. the SAD feasible set. The feasible set reveals how variables determine observable variation, whether empirical patterns are exceptional to the majority of possible forms, and provides a constraint-based explanation for the ubiquity of hollow-curve SADs in nature. However, use of the feasible set has been limited to inefficient sampling algorithms that prevent large ecological communities and ecologically realistic combinations of N and S from being examined. This is the primary hindrance to using this otherwise novel perspective and theoretical framework. We developed efficient computational algorithms to generate random samples of the feasible set for the SAD and similar discrete distributions of abundance, including those that allow for zero-values, e.g., absences. We provide Python and R based implementations of our algorithms and tools for testing and using them. Our algorithms are often several orders of magnitude faster than a long-standing and recently used approach. This greatly increases the size and diversity of communities that can be examined with the feasible set approach and thus advances progress using constraint-based approaches to decipher ecological patterns.', u'Tuberculosis remains a major global health problem. Laboratory diagnostic methods that allow effective, early detection of cases are central to management of tuberculosis in the individual patient and in the community. Since the 1880s, laboratory diagnosis of tuberculosis has relied primarily on microscopy and culture. However, microscopy fails to provide species- or lineage-level identification and culture-based workflows for diagnosis of tuberculosis remain complex, expensive, slow, technically demanding and poorly able to handle mixed infections. We therefore explored the potential of shotgun metagenomics, sequencing of DNA from samples without culture or target-specific amplification or capture, to detect and characterise strains from the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex in smear-positive sputum samples obtained from The Gambia in West Africa. Eight smear- and culture-positive sputum samples were investigated using a differential-lysis protocol followed by a kit-based DNA extraction method, with sequencing performed on a benchtop sequencing instrument, the Illumina MiSeq. The number of sequence reads in each sputum-derived metagenome ranged from 989,442 to 2,818,238. The proportion of reads in each metagenome mapping against the human genome ranged from 20% to 99%. We were able to detect sequences from the M. tuberculosis complex in all eight samples, with coverage of the H37Rv reference genome ranging from 0.002X to 0.7X. By analysing the distribution of large sequence polymorphisms (deletions and the locations of the insertion element IS6110) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), we were able to assign seven of eight metagenome-derived genomes to a species and lineage within the M. tuberculosis complex. Two metagenome-derived mycobacterial genomes were assigned to M. africanum, a species largely confined to West Africa; the others that could be assigned belonged to lineages T, H or LAM within the clade of \u201cmodern\u201d M. tuberculosis strains. We have provided proof of principle that shotgun metagenomics can be used to detect and characterise M. tuberculosis sequences from sputum samples without culture or target-specific amplification or capture, using an accessible benchtop-sequencing platform, the Illumina MiSeq, and relatively simple DNA extraction, sequencing and bioinformatics protocols. In our hands, sputum metagenomics does not yet deliver sufficient depth of coverage to allow sequence-based sensitivity testing; it remains to be determined whether improvements in DNA extraction protocols alone can deliver this or whether culture, capture or amplification steps will be required. Nonetheless, we can foresee a tipping point when a unified automated metagenomics-based workflow might start to compete with the plethora of methods currently in use in the diagnostic microbiology laboratory.', u'Fitness is often correlated with the expression level of a sexually selected trait. However, sexually selected traits are costly to express such that investment in their expression should be optimised to maximize their overall fitness gains. Social interactions, in the form of successful and unsuccessful matings, may offer males one type of feedback allowing them to gauge how to allocate their resources towards sexual signalling. Here we tested whether adult male black field crickets (Teleogryllus commodus) modify the extent of their calling effort (the sexually selected trait) in response to successful and unsuccessful matings with females. To examine the effect that mating interactions with females have on investment into sexual signalling, we monitored male calling effort after maturation and then provided males with a female at two points within their life, manipulating whether or not males were able to successfully mate each time. Our results demonstrate that males alter their investment towards sexual signalling in response to successful matings, but only if the experience occurs early their life. Males that mated early in their life decreased their calling effort sooner than males that were denied a mating. Our results demonstrate that social feedback in the form of successful and unsuccessful matings has the potential to alter the effort a male places in sexual signalling.', u'Introduction:  Pregnancy is generally viewed as a time of fulfillment and joy; however, for many women it can be a stressful event. In South Asia it is associated with cultural stigmas revolving around gender discrimination, abnormal births and genetic abnormalities. It is also associated with several psychiatric problems in women, most notably depression and anxiety.\nMethodology:  This cross-sectional study was done at four teaching hospitals in Lahore from February, 2014 to June, 2014. A total of 500 pregnant women seen at hospital obstetrics and gynecology departments were interviewed with a questionnaire consisting of three sections: demographics, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Social Provisions Scale (SPS). All data were analyzed with SPSS v. 20. Descriptive statistics were analyzed for demographic variables. Pearson\u2019s chi-squared test, bivariate correlations and multiple linear regression were used to analyze associations between the independent variables and scores on the HADS and SPS.\nResults:  Mean age among the 500 respondents was 27.41 years (5.65). Anxiety levels in participants were categorized as normal (145 women, 29%), borderline (110, 22%) or anxious (245, 49%). Depression levels were categorized as normal (218 women, 43.6%), borderline (123, 24.6%) or depressed (159, 31.8%). Inferential analysis revealed that higher HADS scores were significantly associated with lower scores on the SPS, rural background, history of harassment, abortion, cesarean delivery and unplanned pregnancies (P < .05). Social support (SPS score) mediated the relationship between the total number of children, gender of previous children and HADS score. Women with more daughters were significantly more likely to score higher on the HADS and lower on the SPS, whereas higher numbers of sons were associated with the opposite trends in the scores (P < .05)\nConclusion:  Because of the predominantly patriarchal sociocultural context in Pakistan, the predictors of antenatal anxiety and depression may differ from those in developed countries. Rural women and working women had higher levels of antenatal anxiety and depression, which contradicts earlier findings in western countries. Our study found that higher numbers of daughters were associated with higher levels of depression and anxiety, whereas sons had a protective influence. We therefore suggest that interventions designed and implemented to reduce antenatal anxiety and depression should take into account these unique factors operating in developing countries and patriarchal societies.', u'In this report, we used biotinylated dextran amine to anterogradely label individual axons projecting from primary somatosensory cortex (S1) to four cortical areas in rats, namely the secondary somatosensory (S2), the parietal ventral (PV), the perirhinal (PR), and the contralateral S1 (S1c). A major goal was to determine whether axon terminals could be classified on the basis of morphological criteria, such as the shape and density of boutons, and the shape and size of individual terminal arbors. Evidence from reconstruction of isolated axon terminal fragments (n=111) supported a degree of morphological heterogeneity. In particular, morphological parameters associated with the complexity of terminal arbors and the proportion of beaded, en passant boutons (Bp) vs. stalked boutons terminaux (Bt) were found to differ significantly. Two broad groups could be established following a discriminant function analysis across axon fragments. Both groups occurred in all four target areas, possibly consistent with a commonality of presynaptic processing of tactile information in these areas. However, more work is needed to investigate synaptic function at the single bouton level and see how this might be associated with emerging properties in the postsynaptic targets.', u'The Iberian Peninsula is the only region in the world where the two existing subspecies of the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) naturally occur and hybridize. In this study we explore the relative roles of historical and contemporary processes in shaping the spatial genetic structure of the rabbit across its native distribution range, and how they differently affect each subspecies and the hybrid zone. For that purpose multilocus genotypes and mitochondrial DNA data were obtained for 771 rabbits across most of the species\u2019 distribution range in Spain. Nuclear markers defined a hierarchical genetic structure firstly comprised by two genetic groups, largely congruent with the mitochondrial lineages and subspecies distributions (O. c. algirus and O. c. cuniculus), which were subsequently subdivided into seven genetic groups probably shaped by environmental or ecological factors. Geographic distance alone emerged as an important factor explaining genetic differentiation across the whole range, without the need to invoke for the effect for geographical barriers. Thus, when considering the overall genetic structure, differences at a local level seem to be of greater importance. The significantly positive spatial correlation up to a distance of only 100 km supported this hypothesis. However, northern populations of O. c. cuniculus showed more spatial genetic structure and differentiation than O. c. algirus, which could be due to local geographic barriers, limited resources, soil type and/or social behaviours limiting dispersal. The hybrid zone showed similar genetic structure to the southern populations but a larger introgression from the northern lineage genome. These differences have been attributed to selection against the hybrids rather than to behavioural differences between subspecies. Ultimately, the genetic structure of the rabbit in its native distribution range is the result of an ensemble of factors, from geographical and ecological, to behavioural and molecular, that hierarchically interact in time and space.', u'Corallivorous snail feeding is a common source of tissue loss for the threatened coral Acropora palmata, accounting for roughly one-quarter of tissue loss in monitored study plots over seven years. However, corallivory by Coralliophila abbreviata is one of the few major sources of partial mortality (contrasting with threats such as bleaching, disease, or storm disturbances) that may be locally managed. We conducted a field experiment to explore the effectiveness and feasibility of snail removal. Long-term monitoring plots on six reefs in the upper Florida Keys were assigned to one of three removal treatments: 1) removal from A. palmata only, 2) removal from all host coral species, or 3) no-removal controls. During the initial removal in June 2011, 639 snails were removed from twelve 150 m2 plots. Snails were removed two additional times during a seven month \u201cremoval phase\u201d, then counted at five surveys over the next 19 months to track recolonization. At the conclusion, snails were collected, measured, and sexed. Before-After-Control-Impact analysis revealed that both snail abundance and feeding scar prevalence were reduced in removal treatments compared to the control, but there was no difference between removal treatments. Recolonization by snails to baseline abundance is estimated to be 4.3 years and did not differ between removal treatments. Recolonization rate was significantly correlated with baseline snail abundance. Maximum snail size decreased from 47.0 mm to 34.6 mm in the removal treatments. The effort required to remove snails from A. palmata was 30 diver minutes per 150 m2 plot, compared with 51 minutes to remove snails from all host corals. Since there was no additional benefit observed with removing snails from all host species, removals can be more efficiently focused on only A. palmata colonies, and in areas where C. abbreviata abundance is high, to effectively conserve A. palmata in targeted areas.', u'Personal impact factors (e.g., the h-index) are becoming more and more important in evaluations of faculty with respect to job hiring, promotion, and tenure, but they are largely poorly understood by the community at large. The purpose of this study is to educate biologist and other scientists about some of the wide literature about impact factors, including highlighting their strengths and weaknesses. This includes a thorough exploration of dozens of such indices by comparing how they perform through repeated calculation of data representing 15 years of scientific output of a single individual from beginning through mid-career. Indices are examined with respect to factors such as interpretability, consistency, and stability.', u'Background: Socioeconomic factors and insurance status have not been correlated with differential use of healthcare services in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Aim: To describe IBD-related expenditures based on insurance and household income with the use of inpatient, outpatient, emergency, and office-based services, and prescribed medications in the United States (US). Methods: We evaluated the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey from 1996 to 2011 of individuals with Crohn\u2019s disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). Nationally weighted means, proportions, and multivariate regression models examined the relationships between income and insurance status with expenditures. Results: Annual per capita mean expenditures for CD, UC, and all IBD were $10,364 (N=238), $7,827 (N=95), and $9,528, respectively, significantly higher than non-IBD ($4,314, N=276,372, p<0.05). Publicly insured patients incurred the highest costs ($18,067), over privately insured ($8,014, p<0.05) or uninsured patients ($5,129, p<0.05). Among all IBD patients, inpatient care composed the highest proportion of costs ($3,392, p<0.05). Inpatient costs were disproportionately higher for publicly insured patients. Public insurance had higher odds of total costs than private (OR 2.13, CI 1.08-4.19) or no insurance (OR 4.94, CI 1.26-19.47), with increased odds for inpatient and emergency care. Private insurance had higher costs associated with outpatient care, office-based care, and prescribed medicines. Low-income patients had lower costs associated with outpatient (OR 0.38, CI 0.15-0.95) and office-based care (OR 0.21, CI 0.07-0.62). Conclusions: In the US, high inpatient utilization among publicly insured patients is a previously unrecognized driver of high IBD costs. Bridging this health services gap between SES strata for acute care services may curtail direct IBD-related costs.', u'Meniscal tears are a common cause of stifle lameness in dogs. Use of autologous synoviocytes from the affected stifle is an attractive cell source for tissue engineering replacement fibrocartilage. However, the diseased state of these cells may impede in vitro fibrocartilage formation. Synoviocytes from 12 osteoarthritic (\u201coaTSB\u201d) and 6 normal joints (\u201cnTSB\u201d) were cultured as tensioned bioscaffolds and compared for their ability to synthesize fibrocartilage sheets. Gene expression of collagens type I and II were higher and expression of interleukin-6 was lower in oaTSB versus nTSB. Compared with nTSB, oaTSB had more glycosaminoglycan and alpha smooth muscle staining and less collagen I and II staining on histologic analysis, whereas collagen and glycosaminoglycan quantities were similar. In conclusion, osteoarthritic joint-origin synoviocytes can produce extracellular matrix components of meniscal fibrocartilage at similar levels to normal joint-origin synoviocytes, which makes them a potential cell source for canine meniscal tissue engineering.', u'The coffin fly, Megaselia scalaris, is a species of medical and forensic importance and is increasingly being used for the study of genetics. Postmortem interval can be estimated based on the life stage of M. scalaris recovered from corpses, therefore many studies have addressed the duration of each life stage. These studies demonstrate that embryogenesis completes significantly faster in M. scalaris than in the congener Megaselia abdita and faster even than the 24 hours needed for Drosophila melanogaster embryogenesis. However, until now it has been unclear if this increased speed is achieved by reducing developmental time across all embryonic stages or by the acceleration of individual stages and processes. Here I use time-lapse imaging to create a staging scheme for M. scalaris embryogenesis. Comparison of stages between D. melanogaster and both Megaselia species reveals that heterochronic shifts, simultaneous morphogenetic movements and compression of individual stages all contribute to the rapid development of M. scalaris.', u'The measurement of species diversity has been a central task of community ecology from the mid 20th century onward. The conventional method of designing a diversity index is to combine values for species richness and assemblage evenness into a single composite score. The literature abounds with such indices. Each index weights richness and evenness in a different fashion. The conventional approach has repeatedly been criticized since there is an infinite number of potential indices which have a minimum value when S (species richness) = 1 and a maximum value when S = N (number of individuals). We argue that partial order theory is a sound mathematical fundament and demonstrate that it is an attractive alternative for comparing and ranking biological diversity without the necessity of combining values for species richness and evenness into an ambiguous diversity index. The general principle of partial ordering is simple: one particular assemblage is regarded as more diverse than another when both its species richness and its evenness are higher. Assemblages are not comparable with each other when one has a higher value for species richness and a lower value for evenness. Hasse diagrams can graphically represent partially ordered communities. Linear extensions and rank-frequency distributions reveal the potential of partial order theory as a means to support decisions when assemblage ranking is desired.', u'Virtual worlds supporting massively multiplayer games have become so complex that they exhibit temporal and spatial dynamics mostly driven by interactions between players. In this respect, virtual worlds resemble closely natural ecosystems. Studying the ecology of virtual worlds is an outstanding opportunity for ecologists as well as the game industry to collaborate in order to test several aspects of ecological theory difficult to study in nature, and build manageable, resilient virtual worlds.', u'Throughout the animal kingdom, internal fertilization - the merging of sperm and egg inside the female body - nearly invariably relies on the use of a copulatory organ. In contrast, males of advanced salamanders (Salamandroidea) attain internal fertilization by depositing a spermatophore on the substrate in the environment, which females subsequently take up with their cloaca. The aquatically reproducing modern Eurasian newts (Salamandridae) have taken this to extremes, since the majority does not display physical contact between the sexes and largely rely on females following the male track at spermatophore deposition. Although the use of pheromones has been widely assumed during their courtship, molecules able to induce the female following behaviour that culminates in insemination have not been identified. Here we show that uncleaved glycosylated SPF protein pheromones, secreted during courtship, are sufficient to elicit such behaviour in palmate newts (Lissotriton h. helveticus), indicating that these molecules obviate the need for copulation in these salamanders. Surprisingly, our finding of side-by-side secretion of Late Palaeozoic diverged proteins in a single species suggests that these molecules already had a courtship function in stem salamanders about 300 million years ago, rendering them one of the oldest vertebrate pheromone systems.', u'A number of algorithms exist for analysing RNA-sequencing data to infer profiles of differential gene expression. Problems inherent in building algorithms around statistical models of over dispersed count data are formidable and frequently lead to non-uniform p-value distributions for null-hypothesis data and to inaccurate estimates of false discovery rates (FDRs). This can lead to an inaccurate measure of significance and loss of power to detect differential expression.\nWe use synthetic and real biological data to assess the ability of several available R packages to accurately estimate FDRs. The packages surveyed are based on statistical models of overdispersed Poisson data and include edgeR, DESeq, DESeq2, PoissonSeq and QuasiSeq. Also tested is an add-on package to edgeR and DESeq which we introduce called Polyfit. Polyfit aims to address the problem of a non-uniform null p-value distribution for two-class datasets by adapting the Storey-Tibshirani procedure.\nWe find the best performing package in the sense that it achieves a low FDR which is accurately estimated over the full range of p-values, albeit with a very slow run time, is the QLSpline implementation of QuasiSeq. This finding holds provided the number of biological replicates in each condition is at least 4. The next best performing packages are edgeR and DESeq2. When the number of biological replicates is sufficiently high, and within a range accessible to multiplexed experimental designs, the Polyfit extension improves the performance DESeq (for approximately 6 or more replicates per condition), making its performance comparable with that of edgeR and DESeq2 in our tests with synthetic data.', u'An NMR-based metabolomic approach in aquatic ecosystems is valuable for studying the environmental effects of pharmaceuticals and other chemicals on fish. This technique has also contributed to new information in numerous research areas, such as basic physiology and development, disease, and water pollution. We evaluated the microbial diversity in various fish species collected from Japan\u2019s coastal waters using next-generation sequencing, followed by evaluation of the effects of feed type on co-metabolic modulations in fish-microbial symbiotic ecosystems in laboratory-scale experiments. Intestinal bacteria of fish in their natural environment were characterized (using 16S rRNA genes) for trophic level using pyrosequencing and noninvasive sampling procedures developed to study the metabolism of intestinal symbiotic ecosystems in fish reared in their environment. Metabolites in feces were compared, and intestinal contents and feed were annotated based on HSQC and TOCSY using SpinAssign and network analysis. Feces were characterized by species and varied greatly depending on the feeding types. In addition, feces samples demonstrated a response to changes in the time series of feeding. The potential of this approach as a non-invasive inspection technique in aquaculture is suggested.', u'Backgroud: CCR6+ CD4+ regulatory T cells (CCR6+Tregs), a distinct Tregs subset, played an important role in various immune diseases. Recent evidence showed that microRNAs (miRNAs) are vital regulators in the function of immune cells. However, the potential role of miRNAs in the function of CCR6+Tregs remains largely unknown. In this study, we detected the expression profile of miRNAs in CCR6+ Tregs. Materials and Methods: The expression profile of miRNAs as well as genes in CCR6+Tregs or CCR6-Tregs from Balb/c mice were detected by microarray. The signaling pathways were analyzed using Keggs pathway library. Results: We found that there were 58 miRNAs significantly upregulated and 62 downregulated up to 2 fold in CCR6+Tregs compared with CCR6-Tregs. Moreover, 1391 genes were observed with 3 fold change and 20 signaling pathways were enriched using Keggs pathway library. Conclusion: The present data firstly showed CCR6+Tregs expressed specific miRNAs pattern, which provide an insight into the role of miRNAs in the biological function of distinct Tregs subsets.', u'Background: Researchers have emphasized a need to identify predictors that can explain the variability in weight management after bariatric surgery. Eating self-efficacy has demonstrated predictive impact on patients\u2019 adherence to recommended eating habits following multidisciplinary treatment programs, but has to a limited extent been subject for research after bariatric surgery. Recently an American short form version (WEL-SF) of the commonly used Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire (WEL) was available for research and clinical purposes.\nObjectives: We intended to translate and culturally adapt the WEL-SF to Norwegian conditions, and to evaluate the new versions\u2019 psychometrical properties in a Norwegian population of morbidly obese patients eligible for bariatric surgery.\nDesign: Cross-sectional\nMethods: A total of 225 outpatients selected for Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) were recruited; 114 non-operated and 111 operated patients, respectively. The questionnaire was translated through forward and backward procedures. Structural properties were assessed performing principal component analysis (PCA), correlation and regression analysis were conducted to evaluate convergent validity and sensitivity, respectively. Data was assessed by mean, median, item response, missing values, floor- and ceiling effect, Cronbach`s alpha and alpha if item deleted.\nResults: The PCA resulted in one factor with eigenvalue>1, explaining 63.0% of the variability. The WEL-SF sum scores were positively correlated with the Self-efficacy and quality of life instruments (p<0.001). The WEL-SF was associated with body mass index (BMI) (p<0.001) and changes in BMI (p=0.026). A very high item response was obtained with only one missing value (0.4%). The ceiling effect was in average 0.9 and 17.1% in the non-operated and operated sample, respectively. Strong internal consistency (r =0.92) was obtained, and Cronbach\u2019s alpha remained high (0.86-0.92) if single items were deleted.\nConclusion: The Norwegian version of WEL-SF appears to be a valid questionnaire on eating self-efficacy, with acceptable psychometrical properties in a population of morbidly obese patients', u'The current study explores the perceived quality of life of Syrian refugees who have entered the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Two hundred and seventy participants residing in refugee camps in the Erbil region in Kurdistan completed the WHOQOL-BREF, which measures quality of life (QoL) within four domains; physical, psychological, social relationships and environment. Syrian refugees in Kurdistan scored significantly lower for general population norms on physical health, psychological and environment QoL, and score significantly lower for physical health and psychological QOL for refugees in the Gaza strip. However, respondents in the current sample scored significantly higher on environment QoL to refugees in the Gaza strip, and significantly higher on all the QoL domains than those reported for refugees in West Africa. Finally, Syrian refugees in Kurdistan scored significantly higher than general population norms for environment-related QoL. The current findings provide the first report of QoL domain scores among Syrian refugees, and position the QoL scores among this sample, for the most part, within the range mean scores for QoL domains of other samples, and may, for environment-related QoL, be higher than for other refugee samples.', u'For the first time we show the effects of deuterium oxide on the cell growth and vesicle transport in rat basophilic leukemia (RBL-2H3) cells. RBL-2H3 cells cultured with 15 moles/L deuterium showed decreased cell growth which was attributed to cells not doubling their DNA content. Experimental observations also showed an increase in vesicle speed for cells cultured in deuterium oxide. This increase in vesicle speed was not observed in deuterium oxide cultures treated with a microtubule-destabilizing drug suggesting that deuterium oxide affects microtubule-dependent vesicle transport.', u'Determining whether a species is extinct or extant is notoriously difficult, but is fundamental to both our understanding of biodiversity loss, and our ability to implement effective conservation measures. Many methods have been proposed in an attempt to infer quantitatively whether a species has gone extinct, with many seeking to do so by using sets of historic sighting events. Until recently, however, no methods have been proposed that explicitly take into account search effort (the proportion of a habitat searched when looking for a species), a key determinant of if/when historic sighting events have occurred. Here we present the first test of a recently proposed Bayesian approach for inferring the extinction status of a species from a set of historic sighting events where the search effort that has produced the sightings can be explicitly included in the calculation. We utilize data from a highly tractable experimental system, as well as simulated data, to test whether the method is robust to changing search efforts, and different levels of detectability of a species. We find that, whilst in general the method performs well, it is susceptible to both changes in search effort through time, as well as how detectable a species is. In addition, we show that the value of the prior expectation that the species is extant has a large impact on the accuracy of the methods, and that selecting correct priors is critical for accurate inference of extinction status.', u'Background: While single-institution studies reported the indications and outcomes of tracheostomy in children with congenital heart disease (CHD), no national analyses have been performed. We sought to examine the indications, performance, outcomes, and resource utilization of tracheostomy in children with CHD using a nationally representative database.\nMethods: We identified all children undergoing tracheostomy in the Kids\u2019 Inpatient Database 1997 through 2009, and we compared children with CHD to children without CHD. Within the CHD group, we compared children whose tracheostomy occurred in the same hospital admissions as a cardiac operation to those whose tracheostomy occurred without a cardiac operation in the same admission.\nResults: Tracheostomy was performed in n=2,495 children with CHD, which represents 9.6% of all tracheostomies performed in children (n=25,928), and 3.5% of all admissions for children with CHD (n=355,460). Over the study period, there was an increasing trend in the proportion of all tracheostomies that were done in children with CHD (p<0.0001) and an increasing trend in the proportion of admissions for children with CHD that involved a tracheostomy (p<0.0001). The population of children with CHD undergoing tracheostomy differed markedly in baseline characteristics, outcomes, and resource utilization. Similarly, the subgroup of children whose tracheostomy was performed in the same admission as a cardiac operation differed significantly from those whose tracheostomy was not.\nConclusions: Tracheostomy is an increasingly common procedure in children with CHD despite being associated with significantly greater resource utilization and in-hospital mortality. The population of children with CHD who undergo tracheostomy differs markedly from that of children without CHD who undergo tracheostomy, and important differences are observed between children who undergo tracheostomy in the same admission as a cardiac surgical procedure and those who undergo tracheostomy in a nonsurgical admission, as well as between children with single-ventricle physiology and children with two-ventricle physiology.', u'Substantial amounts of dead wood in the intertidal zone of mature mangrove forests are tunnelled by teredinid bivalves. When the tunnels are exposed, animals are able to use tunnels as refuges. In this study, the effect of teredinid tunnelling upon mangrove forest faunal diversity was investigated. Mangrove wood not containing teredinid tunnels had very few species and abundance of animals. However, with a greater cross-sectional surface area of teredinid tunnels, the numbers of species and abundance of animals was significantly higher. Temperatures within teredinid-attacked wood were significantly cooler compared with air temperatures, and the animals in tunnels inside the wood may avoid desiccation by escaping the higher temperatures. Animals co-existing in teredinid tunnelled wood ranged from animals found in terrestrial ecosystems including centipedes, crickets and spiders, and animals found in subtidal marine ecosystems such as fish, octopods and polychaetes. There was also evidence of breeding within teredinid-attacked wood, as many juvenile individuals were found, and they may also benefit from the cooler wood temperatures. Teredinid tunnelled wood is a key low-tide refuge for cryptic animals, which would otherwise be exposed to piscivorous fishes and birds, and higher external temperatures. This study provides evidence that teredinids are ecosystem engineers and also provides an example of a mechanism whereby mangrove forests support intertidal biodiversity and nurseries through the wood-boring activity of teredinids.', u'The governing nonlinear equations for oxygen transport and ATP concentration in a microfluidic channel and tube are solved with the aid of Maple and COMSOL Multiphysics simulation software. Considering a cell-rich and cell free region with RBCs and blood plasma, we obtain results showing clearly that there is a significant decrease in oxygen tension in the vicinity of an oxygen permeable membrane placed midway on the upper channel/tube wall and to the right side of it in the downstream field. The purpose of the membrane is to cause a rapid change in oxygen saturation as RBC\u2019s flow through channel/tube. To the right of the membrane downstream the greatest amount of ATP is released. Finally the corresponding time-dependent oxygen transport problem for plug flow in a channel, which has not been simulated in previous models in the literature, is analyzed and different starting times are shown for ATP release at different points in the channel. The FE modelling is very accurate: The time evolution problem is modelled and solved in it`s entirety with exact parameters used in the literature for blood flow and oxygen transport in the microcirculation. A comparison is made between the steady state and time dependent solutions in order to validate the results. The implications of the time dependent model for biological systems such as the human microcirculation requires exact information on release of energy as ATP is released from blood cells and the present work is important in providing this information.', u'In the field of invasion ecology, the determination of a species environmental tolerance, is a key parameter in the prediction of its potential distribution, particularly in the context of global warming. In poikilothermic species such as insects, temperature is often considered the most important abiotic factor that affects numerous life-history and fitness traits through its effect on metabolic rate. Therefore the response of an insect to challenging temperatures may provide key information as to its climatic and therefore spatial distribution. Variation in the phosphoglucose-6-isomerase (PGI) metabolic enzyme-system has been proposed in some insects to underlie their relative fitness, and is recognised as a key enzyme in their thermal adaptation. However, in this context it has not been considered as a potential mechanism contributing to a species invasive cability. The present study aimed to compare the thermal tolerance of an invasive scarab, Costelytra zealandica (White) with that of the closely related, and in part sympatrically occurring, congeneric non-invasive species C. brunneum (Broun), and to consider whether any correlation with particular PGI phenotypes was apparent. Third instar larvae of each species were exposed to one of three different temperatures (10, 15 and 20\xb0C) over six weeks and their fitness (survival and growth rate) measured and PGI phenotyping performed via cellulose acetate electrophoresis. No relationship between PGI phenotypes and fitness was detected, suggesting that the PGI may not be contributing to the invasion success and pest status of C. zealandica.', u'Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are an innovation in higher education (Grajek, 2014). Faculty has challenges in designing MOOCs since most have mainly experience in developing campus-based courses. As MOOC platform are introduced in campus-based courses, it is important to investigate how this learning environment impacts on the design of MOOCs in relation to online environments. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the influence of variations in the learning environment on the design of MOOCs.\nA comparative case study approach was chosen to investigate two types of learning environments. The focus was on the similarities, differences and trends. The data collection was performed using semi-structured interviews. The answers were analyzed using a qualitative content analysis.\nThe pedagogical approach and learning content were the components that were mostly influenced. The targeted learners and the assessment of the learning activities were partly influenced. The learning environment didn\u2019t impact on the course description, intended learning outcomes and aimed competencies.\nThe study contributed to knowledge on the influence of the learning environment on the design of MOOCs. Increasing understanding of the learning environment among faculty will contribute to a better design, implementation and evaluation of MOOCs and ultimately for the students\u2019 benefit.', u'Background: Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are an emerging method of online teaching. However in the field of healthcare education their technology is not adopted yet. Reaching beyond the xMOOC type of courses in order to foster interactivity in the healthcare education requires domain specific software. Virtual Patients (VPs) have been integrated in the past with Virtual Learning Environments (VLEs) but extending MOOCs with VPs has not yet been discussed. Objective: To investigate the technical possibilities of integrating VPs with MOOCs for the purpose of discovering a pragmatic basis were the potential pedagogical benefits can be later studied. Methods: We selected OpenEdx and Open Labyrinth as examples of a MOOC platform and of a VP system. We conducted a literature review to identify technical requirements and e-learning standards apt for the integration. One fundamental requirement was prototyped and verified by use cases. Results: A Single\u2013Sign on mechanism connecting Open Labyrinth with OpenEdx, employing the IMS LTI standard, has been successfully implemented and verified. Conclusion: We investigated the technical perspective of integrating VPs in MOOCs, aiming to set a base for future investigation on the topic. The results point out new opportunities arising from the infrastructure of MOOCs for integrating specialized software aiming to support the healthcare education.', u'Big data in undergraduate medical education that consist the medical curriculum are beyond human abilities to be perceived and analyzed. The medical curriculum is the main tool used by teachers and directors to plan, design and deliver teaching activities, assessment methods and student evaluation in medical education in a continuous effort to improve it. It remains unexploited mainly for medical education improvement purposes. The emerging research field of Visual Analytics has the advantage to combine data analysis and manipulation techniques, information and knowledge representation, and human cognitive strength to perceive and recognize visual patterns. Nevertheless, there is lack of findings reporting use and benefits of Visual Analytics in medical education.\nWe analyzed data from the medical curriculum of an undergraduate medical program concerning teaching activities, assessment methods and results and learning outcomes in order to explore Visual Analytics as a tool for finding ways of representing big data from undergraduate medical education for improvement purposes. We used Cytoscape to build networks of the identified aspects and visualize them.\nThe analysis and visualization of the identified aspects resulted in building an abstract model of the examined data from the curriculum presented in three different variants; (i) learning outcomes and teaching methods, (ii) examination and learning outcomes and (iii) teaching methods, learning outcomes, examination results and gap analysis\nThis study identified aspects of medical curriculum. The implementation of VA revealed three novel ways of representing big data from undergraduate medical education. It seems to be a useful tool to explore such data and may have future implications on healthcare education. It also opens a new direction in medical informatics research.', u'Introduction: Antimicrobial resistance is a global health issue. Studies have shown that improved antibiotic prescription education among healthcare professionals reduces mistakes during the antibiotic prescription process. The aim of this study was to investigate novel educational approaches that through the use of Augmented Reality technology could make use of the real physical context and thereby enrich the educational process of antibiotics prescription. The objective is to investigate which type of information related to antibiotics could be used in an augmented reality application for antibiotics education. Methods: This study followed the Design Based Research Methodology composed of the following main steps: problem analysis, investigation of information that should be visualized for the training session and finally the involvement of the end users the development and evaluation processes of the prototype. Results: Two of the most important aspects in antibiotics\u2019 prescription processes, to represent in an augmented reality application, are the antibiotic guidelines and the side effects. Moreover, this study showed how this information could be visualized from a mobile device using an Augmented Reality scanner and antibiotic drug boxes as markers. Discussion: In this study we investigated the usage of objects from a real physical context such as drug boxes and how they could be used as educational resources. The logical next steps are to examine how this approach of combining physical and virtual contexts through Augmented Reality applications could contribute to the improvement of competencies among healthcare professionals and its impact on the decrease of antibiotics resistance.', u'Background:  The objectives of the study were to explore the knowledge and attitudes of Pakistani university students toward mental illnesses. People with mental illnesses are challenged not only by their symptoms but also by the prejudices associated with their illness. Acknowledging the stigma of mental illness should be the first essential step toward devising an appropriate treatment plan.\nMethods: A cross-sectional survey was conducted at the University of Punjab, Lahore, CMH Lahore Medical and Dental College, Lahore, and University of Sargodha, Sub-campus Lahore, from February to May, 2014. The self-administered questionnaire consisted of three sections: demographics, general knowledge of psychiatric illnesses, and a modified form of the Community Attitudes towards Mental Illnesses (CAMI) Scale. The questionnaire was distributed to 650 participants enrolled in different disciplines (Social Sciences, Medicine and Formal Sciences).\nResults: Response rate was 81% (527/650 respondents). Mean age was 20.98 years. Most of the students (331, 62.8%) had an urban background and studied Social Sciences (238, 45.2%). 418 (79.3%) considered religion very important and most respondents considered psychiatrists (334, 63.4%) and spiritual leaders (72, 13.7%) to be best able to treat mental illnesses. 169 (32.1%) considered black magic to be a cause of mental illness. Only 215 (41%) had ever read an article on mental illnesses. Multiple regression analysis revealed study discipline, exposure, perceived causes of mental illnesses and superstitions to be significantly associated with attitudes towards mental illnesses (p < .05).\nConclusion: Although low awareness and exposure were found in this sample of Pakistani university students, their attitude towards mental illnesses was generally positive. Most respondents gave supernatural explanations for mental illnesses but only a few believed that spiritual leaders can play a role in treatment.', u'Bacteria from several taxa, including Kurthia zopfii, Myxococcus xanthus, and Bacillus mycoides, have been reported to align growth of their colonies to small features on the surface of solid media, including anisotropies created by compression. While the function of this phenomenon is unclear, it may help organisms navigate on solid phases, such as soil. The origin of this behavior is also unknown: it may be biological (that is, dependent on components that sense the environment and regulate growth accordingly) or merely physical. Here we show that B. subtilis, an organism which typically does not respond to media compression, can be induced to do so with two simple and synergistic perturbations: a mutation that maintains cells in the swarming (chained) state, and the addition of EDTA to the growth media, which further increases chain length. EDTA apparently increases cell length by inducing defects in cell separation, as the treatment has only marginal effects on the length of individual cells. These results lead us to three conclusions. First, the wealth of genetic tools available to B. subtilis will provide a genetically tractable chassis for engineering compression sensitive organisms in the future. Second, the sensitivity of colony morphology to media compression in Bacillus is a physical rather than biological phenomenon dependent on a simple physical property of rod-shaped cells. And third, colony morphology under compression holds promise as a rapid, simple, and low-cost way to screen for changes in the length of rod-shaped cells or chains thereof.', u'Adsorption technique is widely used for removal of toxic organic contaminants from aqueous streams. Owing to the hazardous or otherwise undesirable characteristics of phenolic compounds in particular, their presence in wastewater from municipal and industrial discharge is one of the most important environmental issue. The discharge of poor quality effluents by the chemical-based laboratories and refineries in India is posing a serious threat to water sources and wastewater treatment installations alike. Our study was set up in the Indo - French Unit for Water & Wastewater Technologies (IFUWWT), IIT Delhi. The main objective of this study was to assess the efficiency of a laboratory-scale activated sludge treatment process in producing a final effluent conforming to regulatory standards of Central Pollution Control Board, India (CPCB norms) with regards to COD and metal ion loads. The study was conducted in three principal stages: characterization of wastewater containing nanoparticles; treatability studies of laboratory generated discards and investigations of heavy metal ions before and after treatment. The various raw effluent parameters analyzed were COD, BOD, F/M ratio, Sludge Value Index, Total Solids and concentrations of Cu, Ag and Zn. Studies were conducted using two aerobic sequencing batch reactors (SBR). MLSS of the aeration basin was calculated to be 7180\xb1261.3 mg/L while the F/M ratio was kept down to 0.1560\xb1.0149; besides, an SVI of 107.24 mL/g complied with the state of bioreactor\u2019s sludge. These set of values suggested to set an extended aeration processes for the reactors. Accordingly, the detention time in aeration basin was 24 hours. The results showed over 98% influent COD reduction and nearly 100% removal of metal ions. The sample used was operated on sludge collected from Vasant Kunj Wastewater Treatment plant. Based on the results from waste characterization and treatability studies, it was decided that the mixed liquor discharged in the activation tank should have glucose solution and laboratory discarded sample in 1:1 ratio. The reactor was operated on a glucose fed batch basis for 30 days. For the sake of metal analysis, the digested water samples were analyzed for the presence of copper, silver and zinc using the ElementAS AAS4141 Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer (by Electronics Corporation of India Ltd). The biosorption capacities were found to be over 95% in all the cases with the minimum correlation coefficient for calibration curve being 0.9811. Such a high sludge yield is suggestive of the fact that heavy metals are in very low concentrations in the considered carboy sample. Because of these insignificant values, the amount of metal ions introduced to the system gets adsorbed almost completely, hence leaving behind no metal ion within the supernatant. Well-treated wastewater has enormous potential as a source of water for crops, households and industry.', u'Despite women earning similar numbers of graduate degrees as men in STEM disciplines, they are underrepresented in upper level positions in both academia and industry. Editorial board memberships are an important example of such positions; membership is both a professional honor in recognition of achievement and an opportunity for professional advancement. We surveyed 10 highly regarded journals in environmental biology, natural resource management, and plant sciences to quantify the number of women on their editorial boards and in positions of editorial leadership (i.e., Associate Editors and Editors-in-Chief) from 1985-2013. We found that during this time period only 16% of editorial board members were women, with more pronounced disparities in positions of editorial leadership. Although the trend was towards improvement over time, there was surprising variation between journals, including those with similar disciplinary foci. While demographic changes in academia may reduce these disparities over time, we argue journals should proactively strive for gender parity on their editorial boards. This will both increase the number of women afforded the opportunities and benefits that accompany board membership and increase the number of role models and potential mentors for early-career scientists and students.', u'A suffrutescent individual, belonging to the genus Helianthus, and bearing resemblance to H. annuus, has been observed in Los Angeles County, California. This individual was observed to woody proximally; not a character of the herbaceous annual sunflower, H. annuus. Photographs of this woody individual and a general herbaceous representative H. annuus are presented in this article. Dr. David J. Keil, an Asteraceae (sunflower family) taxonomist, suggests that a new shrubby species of Helianthus may be present in California, and thus, this suffrutescent individual may be a representative of that woody species. It may also be a woody variety of H. annuus.', u'The addition of two electrons and two protons to the C17=C18 bond in protochlorophyllide is catalyzed by a light-dependent enzyme relying on NADPH as electron donor, and by a light-independent enzyme bearing a (Cys)3Asp-ligated [4Fe-4S] cluster which is reduced by cytoplasmic electron donors in an ATP-dependent manner and then functions as electron donor to protochlorophyllide. The precise sequence of events occurring at the C17=C18 bond has not, however, been determined experimentally in the dark-operating enzyme. In this paper, we present the computational investigation of the reaction mechanism of this enzyme at the B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p)// B3LYP/6-31G(d) level of theory. The reaction mechanism begins with single-electron reduction of the substrate by the (Cys)3Asp-ligated [4Fe-4S], yielding a negatively-charged intermediate. Depending on the rate of Fe-S cluster re-reduction, the reaction either proceeds through double protonation of the single-electron-reduced substrate, or by alternating proton/electron transfer. The computed reaction barriers suggest that Fe-S cluster re-reduction should be the rate-limiting stage of the process. Poisson-Boltzmann computations on the full enzyme-substrate complex, followed by Monte Carlo simulations of redox and protonation titrations revealed a hitherto unsuspected pH-dependence of the reaction potential of the Fe-S cluster. Furthermore, the computed distributions of protonation states of the His, Asp and Glu residues were used in conjunction with single-point ONIOM computations to obtain, for the first time, the influence of all protonation states of an enzyme on the reaction it catalyzes. Despite exaggerating the ease of reduction of the substrate, these computations confirmed the broad features of the reaction mechanism obtained with the medium-sized models, and afforded valuable insights on the influence of the titratable amino acids on each reaction step. Additional comparisons of the energetic features of the reaction intermediates with those of common biochemical redox intermediates suggest a surprisingly simple explanation for the mechanistic differences between the dark-catalyzed and light-dependent enzyme reaction mechanisms.', u'Honey bees and, more recently, bumblebees have been domesticated and are now managed commercially primarily for crop pollination, mixing with wild pollinators during foraging on shared flower resources. There is mounting evidence that managed honey bees or commercially produced bumblebees may affect the health of wild pollinators such as bumblebees by increasing competition for resources and the prevalence of parasites in wild bees. Here we screened 764 bumblebees from around five greenhouses that either used commercially produced bumblebees or did not, as well as bumblebees from 10 colonies placed at two sites either close to or far from a honey bee apiary, for the parasites  Apicystis bombi,  Crithidia bombi,  Nosema bombi,  N. ceranae, N. apis  and deformed wing virus. We found that  A. bombi  and  C. bombi  were more prevalent around greenhouses using commercially produced bumblebees, while  C. bombi  was 18% more prevalent in bumblebees at the site near to the honey bee apiary than those at the site far from the apiary. Whilst these results are from only a limited number of sites, they support previous reports of parasite spillover from commercially produced bumblebees to wild bumblebees, and suggest that the impact of stress from competing with managed bees or the vectoring of parasites by them on parasite prevalence in wild bees needs further investigation. It appears increasingly likely that the use of managed bees comes at a cost of increased parasites in wild bumblebees, which is not only a concern for bumblebee conservation, but which may impact other pollinators as well.', u'The promise of genetic reprogramming has prompted initiatives to develop banks of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from diverse sources. Sentinel assays for pluripotency could maximize available resources for generating iPSCs. Neural rosettes represent a primitive neural tissue that is unique to differentiating PSCs and commonly used to identify derivative neural/stem progenitors. Here, neural rosettes were used as a sentinel assay for pluripotency in selection of candidates to advance to validation assays. Candidate iPSCs were generated from independent populations of amniotic cells with episomal vectors. Phase imaging of living back up cultures showed neural rosettes in 2 of the 5 candidate populations. Rosettes were immunopositive for the Sox1, Sox2, Pax6 and Pax7 transcription factors that govern neural development in the earliest stage of development and for the Isl1/2 and Otx2 transcription factors that are expressed in the dorsal and ventral domains, respectively, of the neural tube in vivo. Dissociation of rosettes produced cultures of differentiation competent neural/stem progenitors that generated immature neurons that were immunopositive for Beta III-tubulin and glia that were immunopositive for GFAP. Subsequent validation assays of selected candidates showed induced expression of endogenous pluripotency genes, epigenetic modification of chromatin and formation of teratomas in immunodeficient mice that contained derivatives of the 3 embryonic germ layers. Validated lines were vector-free and maintained a normal karyotype for more than 60 passages. The credibility of rosette assembly as a sentinel assay for PSCs is supported by coordinate loss of nuclear-localized pluripotency factors Oct4 and Nanog in neural rosettes that emerge spontaneously in cultures of self-renewing validated lines. Taken together, these findings demonstrate value in neural rosettes as sentinels for pluripotency and selection of promising candidates for advance to validation assays.', u'Afforestation programs such as the one promoted by the EU Common Agricultural Policy have spread tree plantations on former cropland. These afforestations attract generalist forest and ubiquitous species but may cause severe damage to open habitat species, especially birds of high conservation value. We investigated the effects of young (< 20 yr) tree plantations dominated by pine P. halepensis on bird communities inhabiting the adjacent open farmland habitat in central Spain. We hypothesize that pine plantations with larger surface, and areas at shorter distances from plantations, would result in lower bird species richness and conservation value of open farmland birds. Regression models controlling for the influence of land use types around plantations revealed significant positive effects of distance to pine plantation edge on community species richness in winter, and negative effects on an index of conservation concern (SPEC) during the breeding season. However, plantation area did not have any effect on species richness or community conservation value. Our results indicate that pine afforestation of Mediterranean cropland in heterogeneous agricultural landscapes has an overall low detrimental effect on bird species that are characteristic of open farmland habitat.', u'As a research tool, virtual environments hold immense promise for brain scientists. Yet to fully realize this potential in non-human systems, theoretical and conceptual perspectives must be developed. When selectively coupled to nervous systems, virtual environments can help us better understand the functional architecture of animals\u2019 brains during naturalistic behaviors. While this will no doubt allow us to further our understanding of the neural basis of behavior, there is also an opportunity to uncover the diversity inherent in brain activity and behavior. This is due to two properties of virtual environments: the ability to create sensory illusions, and the ability to dilate space and/or time. These and other potential manipulations will be characterized as the effects of virtuality. In addition, the systems-level outcomes of virtual environment-enhanced perception will be discussed in the context of the uncanny valley and other expected relationships between emotional valence, cognition, and training. These effects and their usefulness for brain science will be understood in the context of three types of neurobehavioral phenomena: sensorimotor integration, spatial navigation, and interactivity. For each of these behaviors, a combination of illusory and space/time dilation examples will be reviewed. Once these examples are presented, the implications for improving upon virtual models for more directly inducing the mental phenomena of illusion and space/time dilation will be considered. To conclude, future directions for integrating this research area into a strategy of broader biological inquiry will be presented.', u'We present a performance-optimized algorithm, subsampled open-reference OTU picking, for assigning marker gene (e.g., 16S rRNA) sequences generated on next-generation sequencing platforms to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) for microbial community analysis. This algorithm provides benefits over de novo OTU picking (clustering can be performed largely in parallel, reducing runtime) and closed-reference OTU picking (all reads are clustered, not only those that match a reference database sequence with high similarity). Because more of our algorithm can be run in parallel relative to \u201cclassic\u201d open-reference OTU picking, it makes open-reference OTU picking tractable on massive amplicon sequence data sets (though on smaller data sets, \u201cclassic\u201d open-reference OTU clustering is often faster). We illustrate that here by applying it to the first 15,000 samples sequenced for the Earth Microbiome Project (1.3 billion V4 16S rRNA amplicons). To the best of our knowledge, this is the largest OTU picking run ever performed, and we estimate that our new algorithm runs in less than 1/5 the time than would be required of \u201cclassic\u201d open reference OTU picking. We show that subsampled open-reference OTU picking yields results that are highly correlated with those generated by \u201cclassic\u201d open-reference OTU picking through comparisons on three well-studied datasets. An implementation of this algorithm is provided in the popular QIIME software package, which uses uclust for read clustering. All analyses were performed using QIIME\u2019s uclust wrappers, though we provide details (aided by the open-source code in our GitHub repository) that will allow implementation of subsampled open-reference OTU picking independently of QIIME (e.g., in a compiled programming language, where runtimes should be further reduced). Our analyses should generalize to other implementations of these OTU picking algorithms. Finally, we present a comparison of parameter settings in QIIME\u2019s OTU picking workflows and make recommendations on settings for these free parameters to optimize runtime without reducing the quality of the results. These optimized parameters can vastly decrease the runtime of uclust-based OTU picking in QIIME.', u'Quantitative analysis of stable isotopes (SI) and, more recently, fatty acid profiles (FAP) are useful and complementary tools for estimating the relative contribution of different prey items in the diet of a predator. The combination of these two approaches, however, has thus far been limited and qualitative. We propose a mixing model for FAP that follows the Bayesian machinery employed in state-of-the-art mixing models for SI. This framework provides both point estimates and probability distributions for individual and population level diet proportions. Where fat content and conversion coefficients are available, they can be used to improve diet estimates. This model can be explicitly integrated with analogous models for SI to increase resolution and clarify predator-prey relationships. We apply our model to simulated data and an experimental dataset that allows us to illustrate modeling strategies and demonstrate model performance. Our methods are provided as an open source software package for the statistical computing environment R.', u"Probability (\\(P\\)) of binomial event is a commonly estimated quantity in ecology. Recently, interest has moved to estimation and communication of the associated uncertainty about the estimates of \\(P\\). Here I use the principle of maximum entropy to introduce truncated exponential probability density function \\(f(P)\\) on a closed interval [0,1] that gives expectation of the uncertainty, given that the only information we have is a single-number estimate \\(P_{single}\\), which I assume to represent mean \\(\\mu\\) of an unknown probability density distribution of \\(P\\). This expectation puts an upper bound on the maximum uncertainty about \\(P\\). I also present the associated cumulative distribution function, quantile function, and random number generator. I demonstrate the MaxEnt \\(f(P)\\) on a species distribution model predicting probability of a species' occurrence on a geographic map. The MaxEnt \\(f(P)\\) presented here can be used to make conservative probabilistic statements about probability statements, and it can be used as an alternative to beta distribution, and as the least informative prior distribution of \\(P\\) in Bayesian modelling.", u'Transient Receptor Potential subfamily Melastatin member 8 (TRPM8) is involved in detection of cold temperature and different noxious compounds, execute thermo- as well as chemo-sensitive responses at cellular levels. Here we explored the molecular evolution of TRPM8 by analyzing sequences from different species. We elucidate that different regions of TRPM8 had different levels of selection pressure and the 4-5th transmembrane regions remain highly conserved. Synteny analysis suggests that since vertebrate origin, TRPM8 gene is linked with SPP2, a bone morphogen. We found 16656 TRPM8 variants in 1092 human genomes with top variations are SNPs, insertions and deletions. 692 missense mutations are also mapped to human TRPM8 protein. TRPM8 expresses endogenously in sperm cells of different vertebrates ranging from fish to human. We conclude that TRPM8 has emerged during vertebrate evolution (ca 450 MYA) and sperm-specific expression has guided its molecular evolution. These understandings may have medical importance as well.', u'Journal title abbreviations in articles\u2019 lists of citations are troublesome for authors, editors, librarians, and researchers. While the origin of these abbreviations in the mid-17th century, and their propagation to modern times was likely the result of a desire to save space in articles, or as shorthand, we argue that in the digital age, such practices should be changed. We show that a journal\u2019s choice to abbreviate journal titles in its literature cited section is purely arbitrary, and that the costs of abbreviating outweigh the benefits. Scientific journals in particular are prone to abbreviate journal titles, and this could hamper interdisciplinary research by creating an \u201cin-group\u201d mentality, however small.', u'Quantitative analysis of organismal form is an important component for almost every branch of biology. Although generally considered an easily-measurable structure, the quantification of gastropod shell form is still a challenge because shells lack homologous structures and have a spiral form that is difficult to capture with linear measurements. In view of this, we adopt the idea of theoretical modelling of shell form, in which the shell form is the product of aperture ontogeny profiles in terms of aperture growth trajectory that is quantified as curvature and torsion, and of aperture form that is represented by size and shape. We develop a workflow for the analysis of shell forms based on the aperture ontogeny profile, starting from the procedure of data preparation (retopologising the shell model), via data acquisition (calculation of aperture growth trajectory, aperture form and ontogeny axis), and data presentation (qualitative comparison between shell forms) and ending with data analysis (quantitative comparison between shell forms). We evaluate our methods on representative shells of the genus Opisthostoma, which exhibit great variability in shell form. The outcome suggests that our method is a robust, reproducible, and versatile approach for the analysis of shell form. Finally, we propose several potential applications of our methods in functional morphology, theoretical modelling, taxonomy, and evolutionary biology.', u"Objectives To measure inter-rater agreement of overall clinical appearance of febrile children aged less than 24 months and to compare methods for doing so.\nStudy Design and setting We performed an observational study of inter-rater reliability of the assessment of febrile children in a county hospital emergency department serving a mixed urban and rural population. Two emergency medicine healthcare providers independently evaluated the overall clinical appearance of children less than 24 months of age who had presented for fever. They recorded the initial \u2018gestalt\u2019 assessment of whether or not the child was ill appearing or if they were unsure. They then repeated this assessment after examining the child. Each rater was blinded to the other\u2019s assessment. Our primary analysis was graphical. We also calculated Cohen\u2019s \u03ba, Gwet\u2019s agreement coefficient and other measures of agreement and weighted variants of these. We examined the effect of time between exams and patient and provider characteristics on inter-rater agreement.\nResults We analyzed 159 of the 173 patients enrolled. Median age was 9.5 months (lower and upper quartiles 4.9-14.6), 99/159 (62%) were boys and 22/159 (14%) were admitted. Overall 118/159 (74%) and 119/159 (75%) were classified as well appearing on initial \u2018gestalt\u2019 impression by both examiners. Summary statistics varied from 0.223 for weighted \u03ba to 0.635 for Gwet\u2019s AC2. Inter rater agreement was affected by the time interval between the evaluations and the age of the child but not by the experience levels of the rater pairs. Classifications of \u2018not ill appearing\u2019 were more reliable than others.\nConclusion The inter-rater reliability of emergency providers' assessment of overall clinical appearance was adequate when described graphically and by Gwet\u2019s AC. Different summary statistics yield different results for the same dataset.", u'Many processes have been put forward to explain the latitudinal gradient in species richness. Here, we use a simulation model to examine four of the most common hypotheses and identify patterns that might be diagnostic of those four hypotheses. The hypotheses examined include (1) tropical niche conservatism, or the idea that the tropics are more diverse because a tropical clade origin has allowed more time for diversification in the tropics and has resulted in few species adapted to extra-tropical climates. (2) The productivity, or energetic constraints, hypothesis suggests that species richness is limited by the amount of biologically available energy in a region. (3) The tropical stability hypothesis argues that major climatic fluctuations and glacial cycles in extratropical regions have led to greater extinction rates and less opportunity for specialization relative to the tropics. (4) Finally, the speciation rates hypothesis suggests that the latitudinal richness gradient arises from a parallel gradient in rates of speciation. We found that tropical niche conservatism can be distinguished from the other three scenarios by phylogenies which are more balanced than expected, no relationship between mean root distance and richness across regions, and a homogeneous rate of speciation across clades and through time. The energy gradient, speciation gradient, and disturbance gradient scenarios all exhibited phylogenies which were more imbalanced than expected, showed a negative relationship between mean root distance and richness, and diversity-dependence of speciation rate estimates through time. Using Bayesian Analysis of Macroevolutionary Mixtures on the simulated phylogenies, we found that the relationship between speciation rates and latitude could distinguish among these three scenarios. We emphasize the importance of considering multiple hypotheses and focusing on diagnostic predictions instead of predictions that are consistent with more than one hypothesis.', u'The impetus for this work was the need to analyse nucleotide diversity in a viral mix taken from honeybees; the methods are illustrated using honeybee viral samples. The paper has two findings. First, a method for correction of next generation sequencing error in the distribution of nucleotides at a site is developed. Second, a package of methods for assessment of nucleotide diversity is assembled. A statistically based error correction method is presented, which works at the level of the nucleotide distribution rather than the level of individual nucleotides. The method relies on an error model and a sample of known viral genotypes that is used for model calibration. A compendium of existing and new diversity analysis tools is also presented, allowing hypotheses about diversity and mean diversity to be tested and associated confidence intervals to be calculated. Software in both Excel and Matlab and a guide are available at http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/systemsbiology/research/software/, the Warwick University Systems Biology Centre software download site.', u'There is a need for a genomic theoretical framework which would explain the increasingly vast and discreet genomic data in the context of phenomena observed in cell. The search for a genomic explanation to functional networks of cancer metasignature genes lead to the concept of the genomic script which extends its influence over the workings of genome in general. This framework explains multiple phenomenon like the development of an embryo, differentiation of cells, and genomic workings of cancer. It also shines light on the evolution of unicellular and multicellular organisms. Yet it remains a simple construct; a perennial loop with its adaptor loops constituting the genomic script.', u'Background: Routine use of alcohol screening questionnaires is recommended in primary care, but patient beliefs and attitudes towards the acceptability of receiving alcohol enquiry from general practitioners (GPs) are unclear.\nMethods: We searched medical databases to identify published empirical research on patient beliefs, attitudes and experiences towards receiving alcohol discussions from GPs. Coherent themes were synthesised from the results of the included studies using a realist perspective. Seventeen studies were included in the review \u2013 the majority were quantitative surveys from the UK, Nordic countries, North America and Australia.\nResults and Discussion: GPs are seen to be legitimate providers of lifestyle advice, but patients may not find alcohol enquiry acceptable in a specific consultation. Alcohol discussions are less acceptable than those on other health promotion topics. The context of the consultation, such as the reason for presenting and the patient-doctor relationship, has an important influence on the situational acceptability of alcohol enquiry. \nConclusion: Although GP involvement in health promotion is perceived as legitimate, alcohol enquiry in consultations can be fraught and unwelcome. Contextual factors pertaining to the consultation appear to be important but these have not been well explored in the literature. Conclusions from this review should be restricted to societies with \u201cTemperance\u201d drinking cultures.', u'Analytical monitoring surveys routinely confirm that organisms in the environment are exposed to complex multi-component pharmaceutical mixtures. We are hence tasked with the challenge to take this into consideration when investigating the ecotoxicology of pharmaceuticals. This review first provides a brief overview of the fundamental approaches for mixture toxicity assessment, which is then followed by a critical review on the empirical evidence that is currently at hand on the ecotoxicology of pharmaceutical mixtures. It is concluded that, while the classical concepts of Concentration Addition and Independent Action (Response Addition) provide a robust scientific footing, several knowledge gaps remain. This includes in particular the need for more and better empirical data on the effects of pharmaceutical mixtures on soil organisms as well as marine flora and fauna, and exploring the quantitative consequences of toxicokinetic, toxicodynamic and ecological interactions. Increased focus should be put on investigating the ecotoxicology of pharmaceutical mixtures in environmentally realistic settings.', u'Genomics and metagenomics have revolutionized our understanding of marine microbial ecology and the importance of microbes in global geochemical cycles. However, the process of DNA sequencing has always been an abstract extension of the research expedition, completed once the samples were returned to the laboratory. During the 2013 Southern Line Islands Research Expedition, we started the first effort to bring next generation sequencing to some of the most remote locations on our planet. We successfully sequenced twenty six marine microbial genomes, and two marine microbial metagenomes using the Ion Torrent PGM platform on the Merchant Yacht Hanse Explorer. Onboard sequence assembly, annotation, and analysis enabled us to investigate the role of the microbes in the coral reef ecology of these islands and atolls. This analysis identified phospohonate as an important phosphorous source for microbes growing in the Line Islands and reinforced the importance of L-serine in marine microbial ecosystems. Sequencing in the field allowed us to propose hypotheses and conduct experiments and further sampling based on the sequences generated. By eliminating the delay between sampling and sequencing, we enhanced the productivity of the research expedition. By overcoming the hurdles associated with sequencing on a boat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean we proved the flexibility of the sequencing, annotation, and analysis pipelines.', u'Accurate diagnosis of the components of our food and a standard lexicon for clear communication is essential for regulating global food trade and identifying food frauds. Reliable identification of wild collected foods can be particularly difficult, especially when they originate in under-documented regions or belong to poorly known groups such as Fungi. Porcini, one of the most widely traded wild edible mushrooms in the world, are large and conspicuous and they are used as a food both on their own and in processed food products. China is a major exporter of porcini, most of it ending up in Europe. We used DNA-sequencing to identify three species of mushroom contained within a commercial packet of dried Chinese porcini purchased in London. Surprisingly, all three have never been formally described by science and required new scientific names. This demonstrates the ubiquity of unknown fungal diversity even in widely traded commercial food products from one of the most charismatic and least overlooked groups of mushrooms. Our rapid analysis and description makes it possible to reliably identify these species, allowing their harvest to be monitored and their presence tracked in the food chain.', u"Acinetobacter baumannii is a nosocomial species frequently isolated from the traumatic wounds of injured military personnel and increasingly detected in civilian healthcare facilities. Many clinical isolates of A. baumannii are drug resistant, so new treatments are needed for infections. Recently, the ability of strains of conspecific bacteria to inhibit the growth of other strains has been observed in increasing numbers of species. We previously reported on intraspecific semisolid-phase growth inhibition (antagonism) among 94 clinical isolates of A. baumannii. These antagonistic interactions may be the result of genetically-encoded molecules, so more closely related isolates would be expected to produce similar patterns of interactions caused by identically active gene products. However, the phylogeny of clinical A. baumannii below the species level has not been established for this set of isolates.In this study, we used Phylomark to identify three genetic loci that recapitulated a whole-genome phylogeny of published A. baumannii genomes and we created a parsimony-based phylogeny from the 1.2 kilobase concatenated sequences. One clade appeared to exhibit the highest incidence of antagonistic interactions against all other isolates screened, except for itself and one relatively distant clade. This clade's nearest neighbor was susceptible to the most consistent antagonistic activity by the first clade; both of these clades appear to belong to MLST ST1 with reference strain AYE. Other isolates with high rates of antagonistic activity fall outside of ST1. Future studies aim to elucidate the genetic basis of the antagonism phenotype in clinical Acinetobacter, particularly in the most antagonistic isolates. The next step will be to mine these interactions to identify expressed antimicrobial molecules with potential for drug therapy.", u'There are well-known difficulties in using the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) mitochondrial gene region for population genetics and DNA barcoding in corals. A recent study of species divergence in the endemic Caribbean genus Agaricia reinforced such knowledge. However, the growing availability of whole mitochondrial genomes may help indicate more promising gene regions for species delineation. I assembled the whole mitochondrial genome for Agaricia fragilis from Illumina single-end 250bp reads and compared this sequence to that of the congener A. humilis. Although these data suggest that the cytochrome b (CYB) gene region is more promising, comparison of all available Scleractinian CYB sequence data indicates that multilocus approaches are still probably necessary for phylogenetic and population genetic analysis of recently-diverged coral taxa.', u'The capacity for aerial maneuvering was likely a major influence on the evolution of flying animals. Here we evaluate consequences of paravian morphology for aerial performance by quantifying static stability and control effectiveness of physical models for numerous taxa sampled from within the lineage leading to birds (Paraves). Results of aerodynamic testing are mapped phylogenetically to examine how maneuvering characteristics correlate with tail shortening, fore- and hind-wing elaboration, and other morphological features. In the evolution of Paraves we observe shifts from static stability to inherently unstable aerial platforms; control effectiveness also migrated from tails to the forewings. These shifts suggest that some degree of aerodynamic control and and capacity for maneuvering preceded the evolution of strong power stroke. The timing of shifts also suggests features normally considered in light of development of a power stroke may play important roles in control.', u'Dinosaur diversity is analyzed in terms of the number of valid genera within each major clade, Mesozoic age, place of discovery and year of description. Aves (Archaeopteryx + Neornithes) is excluded. Nomina nuda and nomina dubia are not counted. The results show 451 valid dinosaurian genera at the end of 2001, of which 282 are saurischian (112 sauropodomorphs and 170 theropods, including 93 coelurosaurs) and 169 ornithischian, including 11 pachycephalosaurs, 26 ceratopsians, 60 ornithopods, 12 stegosaurs, and 38 ankylosaurs. Thirty-eight genera arose in the Triassic, 124 in the Jurassic, and 289 in the Cretaceous, of which a disproportionately high number \u2014 85 and 47 \u2014 are from the Campanian and Maastrichtian. The Kimmeridgian was the most productive age, with an average of 11.18 new genera per million years. The Kimmeridgian saw an unparalleled boom in sauropod diversity, with 20 new sauropod genera arising in its 3.4 million years, an average of one new sauropod every 170,000 years. Asia was the most productive continent with 149 genera, followed by North America (135), Europe (66), South America (52), Africa (39), Australasia (9), and finally Antarctica (1). Just three countries account for more than half of all dinosaur diversity, with 231 genera between them: the U.S.A (105), China (73), and Mongolia (53). The top six countries also include Argentina (44), England (30), and Canada (30), and together provide 335 dinosaur genera, nearly three quarters of the total. The rate of naming new dinosaurs has increased hugely in recent years, with more genera named in the last 19 years than in all the preceding 159 years. The results of these analyses must be interpreted with care, as diversity in ancient ecosystems is perceived through a series of preservational and human filters yielding observed diversity patterns that may be very different from the actual diversity.', u'Mutualisms play a central role in the origin and maintenance of biodiversity. Because many mutualisms have strong demographic effects, interspecific variation in partner quality could have important consequences for population dynamics. Nevertheless, few studies have quantified how a mutualist partner influences population growth rates, and still fewer have compared the demographic impacts of multiple partner species. We used integral projection models parameterized with three years of census data to compare the demographic effects of two ant species \u2013 Crematogaster laevis and Pheidole minutula \u2013 on populations of the Amazonian ant-plant Maieta guianensis. Estimated population growth rates were positive (i.e., \u03bb>1) for all ant-plant combinations. However, populations with only Pheidole minutula had the highest asymptotic growth rate (\u03bb=1.23), followed by those colonized by Crematogaster laevis (\u03bb=1.16), and in which the partner ant alternated between C. laevis and P. minutula at least once during our study (\u03bb=1.15). Our results indicate that the short-term superiority of a mutualist partner \u2013 in this system P. minutula is a better defender of plants against herbivores than C. laevis \u2013 can have long-term demographic consequences. Furthermore, the demographic effects of switching among alternative partners appear to be context-dependent, with no benefits to plants hosting C. laevis but a major cost of switching to plants hosting P. minutula. Our results underscore the importance of expanding the study of mutualisms beyond the study of pair-wise interactions to consider the demographic costs and benefits of interacting with different, and multiple, potential partners.', u'As people age, there is a high chance their cognitive abilities will decline. The Baby Boomer population will soon reach an age where this is a major problem. As cognitive ability declines, so does quality of life. Everyday, 10,000 baby boomers turn 65 and this trend will continue for the next 15 years. With potential millions in need of a solution, cost is a major issue as well. Different forms of stimulation, like music and puzzles, have been shown to improve cognitive ability. Improvisational theatre is a form of stimulation that has not been thoroughly researched in older adults. This is a randomized control pilot study for utility and preliminary efficacy of improvisational theatre on cognitive ability and mood in older adults with age-related memory complaints. 11 elderly participants with age-related memory complaints from an assisted living center were randomized into an improv class (n=5) or a television watching control group (n=6). The improv group participated in an improv class once a week, for 8 weeks, lasting one hour per session. The passive stimulation group watched television or a movie for one hour a week at the same time as the improv class, for 8 weeks. The participants were given the following surveys one week prior to the start of the study and again the day of the last session: Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Verbal Fluency Test, Letter-Number Sequencing Test, Geriatric Depression Scale, Memory Functioning Questionnaire and the Functional Activities Questionnaire. The improv group demonstrated an average improvement in executive function, memory self-appraisal, phonemic cognition, and a decrease in mild cognitive impairment. The verbal fluency test, which measures phonemic cognition showed significant improvement with a p-value of 0.037. In the television watching group, there was an average improvement in executive function, phonemic cognition and some aspects of memory self-appraisal. None of which were significant. No adverse events occurred during the study. This study shows that improv has the potential to improve phonemic cognition because there was a significant increase in the study. Though the other areas that were tested (depression, executive function, working memory, memory self-appraisal or mild cognitive impairment) did not improve significantly, all either improved more than the control group or regressed less than the control group. Since this was the first study of its kind, more researchers should explore the effects of improv on cognition in elderly persons. Subjectively, the improv participants improved greatly in their ability to follow and remain active during the various games.', u'Aims: Adeno-associated virus type 2 (AAV2) is a naturally defective human parvovirus that is being developed as a gene therapy vector. In dividing cells, AAV2 DNA persists by integration into the host chromosomes. AAV2 is unique among mammalian viruses in its ability to integrate preferentially into a particular locus within human chromosome 19, designated AAVS1(also known as Mbs 85). The AAV2 Rep68 and Rep78 proteins mediate this integration. Recent data suggest that Rep68 and Rep78 can mediate integration of non-AAV2 DNA with free ends. To test this hypothesis, we targeted insertion of different lentiviral vectors to AAVS1. Methods: Cells were co-infected with wild-type AAV2, and integrase-proficient or integrase-deficient lentivirus vectors. A highly specific PCR-based assay was used to detect lentivirus integration at AAVS1. Similar experiments were performed using lentiviral vectors containing the AAV2 rep gene. Results: All lentiviral vectors tested integrated at AAVS1, if the rep gene was present either within the lentiviral vector or supplied in trans. All that was required for integration at AAVS1 was the amino acid sequence shared between Rep68 and Rep78. The results were similar with integrase-proficient or integrase-deficient lentiviral vectors. Conclusions: The inclusion of the rep gene with lentiviral vectors may produce more predictable integration patterns.', u'Comparative study of plant extracts crude and aqueous, methanolic and ethanolic with antibiotics, provide evidence that calotropis procera extracts has the similar antibacterial activity as these antibiotics against test pathogens i.e. Salmonella typhi and E.coli. The analysis of antimicrobial activity of aqueous, methanolic and ethanolic extract of leaves and flower of Calotropis procera was carried out in disc method and also determined MIC value at 600nm through optical density using spectrophotometer. The zone of inhibition produced by extracts was examined and compares it with zone produced by antibiotics. The effect exhibited by ethanolic extract of leaves and flower was significantly greater than the aqueous and methanolic extract of leaves and flower. Crude extracts i.e. latex, leaves, fruit and flower crude extracts. Among them, flower crude extracts shows similar zone of inhibition to test anitibiotics.while in MIC value, we made different concentration of extracts and antibiotics.i.e for crude we made 25%, 50%.75% and 100% concentration of crude juice and for the aqueous, methanolic and ethanolic we made 0.5mg/mL,1mg/mL,2mg/mL,3mg/mL,4mg/mL, 5mg/mL and 6mg/mL in Dimethyl salfoxide, and same antibiotics concentration. Aqueous leaves extracts show MIC at 0.5mg/ml against E.coli while against Salmonella it shows MIC at 1mg/ml... We also determine phytochemical analysis for presences of different compounds in crude extracts. The obtained results provide a support for the use of Calotropis procera, in traditional medicine and suggest its further advance investigation.', u'The wing base of basal hymenopterans (Insecta) have never been properly described perhaps due to the difficulties of its visualization and understanding the 3D relationships between wing base components. Novel 3D visualization techniques such as microCT and Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy (CLSM) allow us to provide easily digestible morphological data. The wing base of four basal Hymenoptera and 10 apocritan species have been imaged with CLSM and dissected under a stereomicroscope. The second axillary is composed of two sclerites (on on the dorsal wing membrane and one on the ventral in Macroxyela, Xyela and Athalia whereas it is represented by a single sclerite traversing the wing in other Hymenoptera. Consequences related to this observation as well are drawn and future directions in Hymenoptera wing base studies are provided.', u'Today computational molecular evolution and bioinformatics are vibrant research areas that flourish on large amounts of complex datasets generated by new generation technologies \u2013 from full genomes and proteomes to microbiomes, metabolomes and epigenomes. Yet the foundations for successful mining and the analyses of such data were established long before the structure of the DNA was discovered. Darwin\u2019s theory of evolution by means of natural selection not only remains relevant today, but also provides solid ground for computational research with a variety of applications. The data size and its complexity require empirical scientists to work in close collaboration with experts in computational science, modeling and statistics, as Sir R. Fisher has beautifully demonstrated in early 20th century. Particularly, modern computational methods for evaluating selection in molecular sequences are very useful for generating biological hypotheses and candidate gene sets for follow-up experiments. Evolutionary analyses of selective pressures in genomic data have high potential for applications, since natural selection is a leading force in function conservation, in adaptation to emerging pathogens, new environments, and plays key role in immune and resistance systems. At this stage, pharma and biotech industries can successfully use this potential, taking the initiative to enhance their research and development with the state-of the art bioinformatics approaches. This mini-review provides a quick \u201cwhy-and-how\u201d guide to the current approaches that apply the evolutionary principles of natural selection to real life problems \u2013 from drug target validation, vaccine design and protein engineering to applications in agriculture, ecology and conservation.', u'It is an immense pleasure to present this Festschrift on the occasion of Professor Gaston H. Gonnet\u2019s retirement. This volume accompanies the associated symposium Gonnet is Not Only about Molecular Evolution (GNOME) on the 4th of July 2014 at ETH Zurich. Born in Uruguay, Gaston completed his undergraduate studies in Montevideo before going to Waterloo, Canada, where he completed his Master\u2019s and, just less than two years later, his PhD degree under the supervision of J. Alan George.', u'Growth of ice on surfaces poses a challenge for both organisms and for devices that come into contact with liquids below the freezing point. Resistance of some organisms to ice formation and growth, either in subtidal environments (e.g. Antarctic anchor ice), or in environments with moisture and cold air (e.g. plants, intertidal) begs examination of how this is accomplished. Several factors may be important in promoting or mitigating ice formation. As a start, here we examine the effect of surface texture alone. We tested four candidate surfaces, inspired by hard-shelled marine invertebrates and constructed using a three-dimensional printing process. We screened biological and artificial samples for ice formation and accretion in submerged conditions using previous methods, and developed a new test to examine ice formation from surface droplets as might be encountered in environments with moist, cold air. It appears surface texture plays only a small role in delaying the onset of ice formation: a stripe feature (corresponding to patterning found on valves of blue mussels, Mytilus edulis, or on the spines of the Antarctic sea urchin Sterechinus neumayeri) slowed ice formation an average of 25% compared to a grid feature (corresponding to patterning found on sub-polar butterclams, Saxidomas nuttali). The geometric dimensions of the features have only a small (~6%) effect on ice formation. Surface texture affects ice formation, but does not explain by itself the large variation in ice formation and species-specific ice resistance observed in other work. This suggests future examination of other factors, such as material elastic properties and surface coatings, and their interaction with surface pattern.', u'A quarter century after the Benner and Gonnet groups began their collaboration in evolutionary bioinformatics, evolution-based functional genomics is a field with considerable scope. Even with the remarkable advances in computing power over this period, the explosion of data derived from genomic and protein sources have required more and more sophisticated approaches be developed and utilized. We describe here new software combined with data organization techniques and illustrate how we are harnessing these to place physiological function of protein sequence data using natural history.', u"Here we show that the pupillary light response reflects exogenous (involuntary) shifts of attention and inhibition of return. Participants fixated in the center of a display that was divided into a bright and a dark half. An exogenous cue attracted attention to the bright or dark side of the display. Initially, the pupil constricted when the bright, as compared to the dark side of the display was cued, reflecting a shift of attention towards the exogenous cue. Crucially, this pattern reversed about one second after cue presentation. This later-occurring, relative dilation (when the bright side was cued) reflected disengagement from the previously attended location, analogous to the behavioral phenomenon of inhibition of return. Indeed, we observed a strong correlation between 'pupillary inhibition' and behavioral inhibition of return. We conclude that the pupillary light response is a complex eye movement that reflects how we selectively parse and interpret visual input.", u'Identification of possible cases suffering post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is important, especially in developing countries where traumatic events are typically prevalent. The Children\u2019s Revised Impact of Events Scale is a reliable and valid measure that has two brief versions (13 items and 8 items) to assess reactions to traumatic events among young people. The current study evaluated the psychometric properties of both versions of the CRIES in a sample of 1342 children and adolescents aged 9-17 years (M=12.3 years, SD=2.12) recruited from six districts of Bangladesh. A sub-group of 120 children from four schools was re-tested on the measures within 3.5 weeks. Confirmatory factor analysis supported factor structures similar to those found in other studies for both versions of the CRIES. Multiple group confirmatory factor analysis showed gender and age-group differences within the sample, supporting established age and gender differences in prevalence of PTSD symptoms. Analyses also indicated moderate to excellent internal consistency and test-retest reliability and clear discriminant and convergent validity. These data support use of both the CRIES-13 and CRIES-8 to provide quick and psychometrically sound assessment of symptoms of PTSD among children and adolescents from Bangla-speaking communities.', u'Orthology inference and other sequence analyses across multiple genomes typically start by performing exhaustive pairwise sequence comparisons, a process referred to as \u201call-against-all\u201d. As this process scales quadratically in terms of the number of sequences analysed, this step can become a bottleneck, thus limiting the number of genomes that can be simultaneously analysed. Here, we explored ways of speeding-up the all-against-all step while maintaining its sensitivity. By exploiting the transitivity of homology and, crucially, ensuring that homology is defined in terms of consistent protein subsequences, our proof-of-concept decreased the time complexity by ~75% while recovering >99.6% of all homologs identified by the full all-against-all procedure on empirical sequences from bacteria and fungi. In comparison, state-of-the-art k-mer approaches are orders of magnitude faster but only recover 3-14% of all homologous pairs. We also outline ideas to further improve the speed and recall of the new approach. An open source implementation is provided as part of the OMA standalone software at http://omabrowser.org/standalone .', u'The rampant convergent and parallel evolution in shell form in the Gastropoda is well known. Many studies focus on the functional drivers which have been regarded as a major force in shell evolution. There is, however, a scarcity in studies that aim at understanding shell form evolution with respect to their ontogeny. Hence, we investigated the evolution of shell form in the micro-landsnail genus Plectostoma (Diplommatinidae) from the viewpoint of shell ontogeny. We examined the aperture ontogeny profiles that describe how aperture form and growth trajectory change along the shell ontogeny, and how the aperture ontogeny profiles relate to the observed shell forms. We also estimated the phylogeny of Plectostoma species, and examined patterns of character evolution for shell form. Our study revealed a general issue in the characterisation of shell shape and demonstrated how shell shape differences can be expressed as differences in the ontogeny of morphospace. It is clear that in Plectostoma the phylogenetic history does not prevent the course of shell ontogeny, and the resultant form. Finally, each species has a unique aperture ontogeny profile that determines its shell shape while retaining a conserved developmental program that maintains shell size.', u"Background. HIV disclosure from parent to child is a complex and challenging issue that needs to be approached carefully. Little is known about how parents prepare for and perform disclosure to children in resource-poor nations and what resources are needed. This study was conducted to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya.\nMethods. This qualitative phenomenological study's data was collected using in-depth semi-structured interviews with 34 participants consisting of HIV-positive parents, HIV-positive and negative children, and healthcare professionals. The Van Kaam method was used to analyze the data.\nResults. Parents take years to prepare for disclosure, proceeding when they perceive themselves capable and ready; and their children are receptive to the news. Preparation activities include thinking about and making disclosure plans, reading information, teaching children about the disease without disclosure while improving the parent-child relationship, praying regularly and attending religious activities, seeking counseling, and attending support group meetings.\nConclusion. Parents perform a number of activities to get themselves and their children ready for disclosure. These activities are crucial in the timely delivery of disclosure. Understanding the importance of these activities helps healthcare professionals assist parents to deliver disclosure faster after diagnosis of illness.", u"Background. HIV disclosure is a challenging process for parents and healthcare professionals. The majority of HIV-infected persons live in Sub-Saharan Africa where HIV disclosure guidelines for a parent's and a child's illness are nonexistent. While there are two theoretical models of HIV disclosure, their utility in explaining disclosure in African cultures is largely unknown.\nMethods. This qualitative phenomenological study was conducted in Kenya to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process. Thirty four participants consisting of 16 HIV-positive parents, 7 HIV-positive children, 5 HIV-negative children, and 6 healthcare professionals were engaged in in-depth, semistructured interviews. Interview data were analyzed using the modified Van Kaam method.\nResults. HIV disclosure is a complex process involving factors such as a parent's and child's state of health, ART consumption, stigma/discrimination, and sexuality concerns. Parents take years to prepare for and perform disclosure of theirs and/or their children's illnesses to their infected and noninfected children. They perform disclosure when they feel ready in stages, based on the birth order of their children, the perception of \u201cthe right time,\u201d the child's understanding and maturity level, and whose illness(es) they intend to disclose at the time of disclosure.\nConclusion. HIV disclosure is challenging and each disclosure session performed is planned and geared to the particular child receiving disclosure. Parents and healthcare professionals are challenged by disclosure and can benefit from creation of HIV disclosure guidelines accompanied by culturally sensitive manuals and training programs aimed at parents and healthcare professionals to ease the process of disclosure.", u'HIV-positive parents are challenged with disclosure to their children. Limited published data exists on how HIV-positive parents perform disclosure to all their children in the household. To start addressing this gap, data is presented on a couple\u2019s HIV disclosure experiences to all their children. The couple participated in a larger study conducted to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. Each underwent an individualized in-depth semi-structured interview. Their interviews were transcribed and transferred into NVivo 8 for analysis using the Van Kaam method. Three themes emerged including HIV testing, full disclosure delivery accompanied by marital disharmony, and post-disclosure psychological effects on the family. The couple\u2019s narration of their diagnoses, and disclosure experiences to their children differed significantly. Ongoing poor paternal health caused persistent inquisitive questions from children. A poor paternal-children relationship, accompanied with his avoidance and non-involvement in disclosure matters caused the mother to fully disclose both parents\u2019 illnesses to the four oldest children. These children were affected by disclosure and held animosity towards their father. One had an emotional outburst directed at the father, while another still displayed anger and withdrawal years later. Therefore, the couple was hesitant to fully disclose their illnesses to their youngest son and differed in how they wanted to disclose to him. HIV-positive parents with poor relationships among family members before HIV testing and/or disclosure should be provided with intense counseling aimed at increasing family cohesion. Extra support before, during, and after disclosure may be required for these families to increase positive outcomes.', u'Childhood psychosocial adversity is associated with accelerated onset of reproductive effort in women. Adaptive explanations for this phenomenon are built on the assumption that greater childhood psychosocial adversity is statistically associated with having a shorter period of healthy adult life during which reproduction will be possible. However, this critical assumption is never actually tested using individual-level longitudinal data. In this study, I revisit a large, longitudinally-studied cohort of British women. In an earlier paper, we showed that a simple index of psychosocial adversity in the first seven years of life predicted age at first pregnancy in a dose-dependent manner. Here, I show that the same index of adversity also predicts accelerated deterioration of health across the potentially reproductive period, and increased levels of the inflammatory biomarker c-reactive protein at age 44-46. These associations are robust to controlling for adult socioeconomic position, and do not appear to be solely a consequence of accelerated reproductive schedule. I argue that childhood psychosocial adversity may cause latent somatic damage that will, in adulthood, accelerate age-related physical decline. This provides a compelling adaptive rationale for the accelerated reproductive schedules observed in women who experience childhood psychosocial adversity.', u"Background: Unlike full reading, 'skim-reading' involves the process of looking quickly over information in an attempt to cover more material whilst still being able to retain a superficial view of the underlying content. Within this work, we specifically emulate this natural human activity by providing a dynamic graph-based view of entities automatically extracted from text. For the extraction, we use shallow parsing, co-occurrence analysis and semantic similarity computation techniques. Our main motivation is to assist biomedical researchers and clinicians in coping with increasingly large amounts of potentially relevant articles that are being published ongoingly in life sciences. Methods: To construct the high-level network overview of articles, we extract weighted binary statements from the text. We consider two types of these statements, co-occurrence and similarity, both organised in the same distributional representation (i.e., in a vector-space model). For the co-occurrence weights, we use point-wise mutual information that indicates the degree of non-random association between two co-occurring entities. For computing the similarity statement weights, we use cosine distance based on the relevant co-occurrence vectors. These statements are used to build fuzzy indices of terms, statements and provenance article identifiers, which support fuzzy querying and subsequent result ranking. These indexing and querying processes are then used to construct a graph-based interface for searching and browsing entity networks extracted from articles, as well as articles relevant to the networks being browsed. Last but not least, we describe a methodology for automated experimental evaluation of the presented approach. The method uses formal comparison of the graphs generated by our tool to relevant gold standards based on manually curated PubMed, TREC challenge and MeSH data. Results: We provide a web-based prototype (called `SKIMMR') that generates a network of inter-related entities from a set of documents which a user may explore through our interface. When a particular area of the entity network looks interesting to a user, the tool displays the documents that are the most relevant to those entities of interest currently shown in the network. We present this as a methodology for browsing a collection of research articles. To illustrate the practical applicability of SKIMMR, we present examples of its use in the domains of Spinal Muscular Atrophy and Parkinson's Disease. Finally, we report on the results of experimental evaluation using the two domains and one additional dataset based on the TREC challenge. The results show that the presented method for machine-aided skim reading outperforms tools like PubMed regarding focused browsing and informativeness of the browsing context.", u'Lung cancer results when normal check and balance system of cell division is disrupted and ultimately the cells divide and proliferate in an uncontrollable manner forming a mass of cells in our body, known as tumor. Frequent mutations in Protein Kinase Domain alter the process of phosphorylation which results in abnormality in regulations of cell apoptosis and differentiation. Tyrosine Protein kinases and Serine/Threonine Protein Kinases are the two broad classes of protein kinases in accordance to their substrate specificity. The study of Tyrosine protein kinase and serine Kinase coding regions have the importance of sequence and structure determinants of cancer-causing mutations from mutation-dependent activation process. In the present study, we analyzed huge amounts of data extracted from various biological databases and NCBI. Out of the 534 proteins that may play a role in lung cancer, 71 proteins were selected that are likely to be actively involved in lung cancer. These proteins were evaluated by employing Multiple Sequence Alignment and a Phylogenetic tree was constructed using Neighbor-Joining Algorithm. From the constructed phylogenetic tree, protein kinase domain and motif study was performed. The results of this study revealed that the presence of Protein Kinase Domain and Tyrosine or Serine/Threonine Kinase signatures in some of the proteins are mutated, which play a dominant role in the pathogenesis of Lung Cancer and these may be addressed with the help of inhibitors to develop an efficient anticancer drugs. Furthermore, the present study contributes to the possibility that genetic components are more important in Lung Cancer as compared to environmental and smoking(carcinogens) factors.', u'Information derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during wakeful rest has been introduced as a candidate diagnostic biomarker in unipolar major depressive disorder (MDD). Multiple reports of resting state fMRI in MDD describe group effects. Such prior knowledge can be adopted to pre-select potentially discriminating features, for example for diagnostic classification models with the aim to improve diagnostic accuracy. Purpose of this analysis was to consolidate spatial information about alterations of spontaneous brain activity in MDD to serve such feature selection and as a secondary aim to improve understanding of disease mechanisms. 32 studies were included in final analyses. Coordinates extracted from the original reports were assigned to two categories based on directionality of findings. Meta-analyses were calculated using the non-additive activation likelihood estimation approach with coordinates organized by subject group to account for non-independent samples. Results were compared with established resting state networks (RSNs) and spatial representations of recently introduced temporally independent functional modes (TFMs) of spontaneous brain activity. Converging evidence revealed a distributed pattern of brain regions with increased or decreased spontaneous activity in MDD. The most distinct finding was hyperactivity/ hyperconnectivity presumably reflecting the interaction of cortical midline structures (posterior default mode network components associated with self-referential processing and the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex) with lateral frontal areas related to externally-directed cognition. One particular TFM seems to better comprehend the findings than classical RSNs. Alterations that can be captured by resting state fMRI show considerable overlap with those identifiable with other neuroimaging modalities though differing in some aspects.', u'The Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) is commonly used for variant calling of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and small insertions and deletions (indels) from short-read sequencing data aligned against a reference genome. There have been a number of variant calling comparisons against GATK, but an equally comprehensive comparison for VarScan not yet been performed. More specifically, we compared four lists of variants called by GATK (using the UnifiedGenotyper and the HaplotypeCaller algorithms, with and without filtering low quality variants) and three lists of variants called using VarScan (with varying sets of parameters). Variant calling was performed on three datasets (1 targeted exon dataset and 2 exome datasets), each with approximately a dozen subjects. We found that running VarScan with a conservative set of parameters (referred to as \u201cVarScan-Cons\u201d) resulted in a high quality gene list, with high concordance (>97%) when compared to high quality variants called by the GATK UnifiedGenotyper and HaplotypeCaller. These conservative parameters result in decreased sensitivity, but the VarScan-Cons variant list could still recover 84-88% of the high-quality GATK SNPs in the exome datasets. We also assessed the impact of pre-processing (e.g., indel realignment and quality score base recalibration using GATK). In most cases, these pre-processing steps had only a modest impact on the variant calls, but the importance of the pre-processing steps varied between datasets and variant callers. More broadly, we believe the metrics used for comparison in this study can be useful in assessing the quality of variant calls in the context of a specific experimental design. As an example, a limited number of variant calling comparisons are also performed on two additional variant callers.', u'Metabolic dysfunction in skeletal muscle is a major contributor to the development of type 2 diabetes. Endurance exercise training has long been established as an effective means to directly restore skeletal muscle glucose and lipid uptake and metabolism. However, in addition to the direct effects of skeletal muscle on glucose and lipids, there is renewed interest in the ability of skeletal muscle to coordinate metabolic activity of other tissues, such as adipose tissue and liver. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of endurance exercise on the expression level of two novel muscle-derived secreted factors, or myokines, Myonectin and Fibronectin type III domain containing 5 (Fndc5), the precursor for Irisin. Methods: We used the diaphragm muscle from both the obese Zucker rat (OZR) and lean Zucker Rat (LZR) with 9 weeks of aerobic training on a motorized treadmill. We examined the gene expression of 12 commonly used reference genes and performed quantitative real-time PCR analysis on the gene expression of Myonectin and Fndc5. Results: Of the 12 commonly used PCR reference genes tested we were able to establish that Hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1 (HPRT1) and lactate dehydrogenase A (Ldha) remained stable in the diaphragm muscle regardless of obesity or exercise training. Interestingly, we also concluded that the commonly used reference genes: beta-Actin, beta-2-microglobulin, Non-POU domain containing, octamer-binding, Peptidylprolyl isomerase H, 18S ribosomal rna, TATA box binding protein and Transferrin receptor were all found to be altered by the combination of exercise and obesity. Our study showed that the diaphragm muscle of the OZR had significantly higher expression levels of both myonectin and Fndc5. Exercise training had no effect on the expression level of Fndc5, but significantly lowered the gene expression of myonectin in both the LZR and OZR groups. Conclusion: Contrary to prior findings regarding the regulation of Fndc5 and myonectin we show that myonectin and Fndc5 expression are both increased in the OZR model of obesity. Further, long-term exercise training decreases myonectin levels, which is opposite, the effect reported with short-term exercise. However, this report confirms earlier work showing that Fndc5 gene expression is not altered by chronic exercise.', u'Metagenomic binning methods that leverage differential population abundances in microbial communities (differential coverage) are emerging as a complementary approach to conventional composition-based binning. Here we introduce GroopM, an automated binning tool that primarily uses differential coverage to obtain high fidelity population genomes from related metagenomes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of GroopM using synthetic and real-world metagenomes, and show that GroopM produces results comparable with more time consuming, labor-intensive methods.', u'Risk is a subjective notion, but the limits between our role as risk practitioners and decision makers can become blurred. A belief that the public misunderstands risk and the need to control the process are two barriers to effective engagement. We believe that a lack of engagement and the ability to enable citizens to decide their own future can contribute to the controversy we see on important public debates. In our study, using an existing risk assessment and decision, we survey four stakeholder groups in New Zealand in order to determine how they rate the costs and benefits. Our survey methodology incorporates a continuous scale along three axes that represent the biophysical outcomes of economic, environmental and human health. This design enables costs and benefits to be traded-off between individuals, giving them a representative voice. We use these results to investigate whether or not it would be feasible to use such an approach in order to make decisions, and what this may mean. Our results indicate that public decision making is possible, and in this case broadly the public view broadly agrees with the official decision. Such an approach holds promise for expanding the role in the risk assessment process.', u'Birds that reside in urban settings face numerous human-related threats to survival, including mortality from bird-window collisions (BWCs). Our current understanding of this issue has largely been driven by data collected during spring and fall migration, and patterns of collision mortality during the summer breeding season remain relatively unexplored. We assessed BWCs during four breeding seasons (2009- 2012) at a site in northwestern Illinois, USA, by comparing the abundance, richness, migratory class, and age of the species living around buildings to species mortally wounded by window collisions. We also systematically assessed the daily timing of BWCs throughout the breeding season. We documented BWCs in 4 of 25 (16%) species and 7 of 21 (33%) species in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The relationship between BWCs and abundance depended on age. For adults, BWCs were highest in the least abundant species, e.g., Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), and lowest in species with high abundance values, e.g., House Sparrow (Passer domesticus). For juveniles, mortality was greatest for the most abundant species, and the American Robin (Turdus migratorius) accounted for 62% of all juvenile carcasses. Early in the breeding season, collision mortality was restricted to adults of Long- distance Migrants, whereas juveniles of all three migratory guilds (Long-distance and Short-distance Migrants and Permanent Residents) died at windows from late June through early August. Daily mortality for all species was highest between sunrise - 1600 h and lowest from 1600 h - sunrise the next day. Generally, the species observed as carcasses matched birds considered a \u2018high risk\u2019 for BWCs, e.g., Ruby-throated Hummingbird (Archilochus colubris), and those considered \u2018low risk\u2019 were not observed as carcasses, e.g., Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea). Our results suggest that the number of BWCs during the breeding season does not necessarily increase with abundance, but rather appears related to variation among species and age classes, which may have important implications on the population health of affected species. The mechanisms driving these differences are unknown, but may be related reproductive behavior, flight speed, distance movements, and dispersal patterns.', u'Prior evidence from the public health literature suggests that both control beliefs and perceived threats to life are important for health behaviour. Our previously presented theoretical model generated the more specific hypothesis that uncontrollable, but not controllable, personal mortality risk should alter the payoff from investment in health protection behaviours. We carried out three experiments to test whether altering the perceived controllability of mortality risk would affect a health-related decision. Experiment 1 demonstrated that a mortality prime could be used to alter a health-related decision: the choice between a healthier food reward (fruit) and an unhealthy alternative (chocolate). Experiment 2 demonstrated that it is the controllability of the mortality risk being primed that generates the effect, rather than mortality risk per se. Experiment 3 showed that the effect could be seen in a surreptitious experiment that was not explicitly health related. Our results suggest that perceptions about the controllability of mortality risk may be an important factor in people\u2019s health-related decisions. Thus, techniques for adjusting perceptions about mortality risk could be important tools for use in health interventions. More importantly, tackling those sources of mortality that people perceive to be uncontrollable could have a dual purpose: Making neighbourhoods and workplaces safer would have the primary benefit of reducing uncontrollable mortality risk, which could lead to a secondary benefit from improved health behaviours.', u'Collisions with building windows are thought to be a significant source of mortality for urban birds. Past studies on bird-window collisions have used a variety of survey methods to estimate the magnitude of mortality, and few have constructed methods in light of the biases related to scavengers and worker abilities that lead to imperfect detection of carcasses. Adoption of a systematic carcass survey protocol in future studies would reduce site-specific biases and among-site survey variability, which in turn would improve the accuracy of mortality estimates at all scales. We present here a standardized carcass survey protocol that serves two basic functions: (a) it is simple and inexpensive to implement, and (b) it accounts for the removal of carcasses by scavengers and detection of carcasses by field workers. Consistent with these goals, we added a variety of approaches with particular aspects of the protocol for researchers to chooose from depending on the goals of their study. The following topics are addressed in the protocol: 1. Preparing for surveys, 2. Supplies, 3. Frequency of surveys throughout the study, 4. When during the day to complete surveys, 5. Field worker behavior during surveys, 6. The pre-survey carcass \u2018clean-up\u2019, 7. How to conduct carcass surveys, 8. Carcass collection and containment, 9. Identifying species of bird carcasses, 10. Data collection and management, and 11. Duration of carcass surveys.', u'Prior studies investigating cortical processing in Deaf signers suggest that life-long experience with sign language and/or auditory deprivation may alter the brain\u2019s anatomical structure and the function of brain regions typically recruited for auditory processing (Emmorey et al., 2010; P\xe9nicaud, et al., 2012 inter alia). We report the first investigation of the task-negative network in Deaf signers and its functional connectivity \u2013 the temporal correlations among spatially remote neurophysiological events. We show that Deaf signers manifest increased functional connectivity between posterior cingulate/precuneus and left medial temporal gyrus (MTG), but also inferior parietal lobe and medial temporal gyrus in the right hemisphere- areas that have been found to show functional recruitment specifically during sign language processing. These findings suggest that the organization of the brain at the level of inter-network connectivity is likely affected by experience with processing visual language, although sensory deprivation could be another source of the difference. We hypothesize that connectivity alterations in the task negative network reflect predictive/automatized processing of the visual signal.', u'The patella (kneecap) exhibits multiple evolutionary origins in birds, mammals, and lizards, and is thought to increase the mechanical advantage of the knee extensor muscles. Despite appreciable interest in the specialized anatomy and locomotion of palaeognathous birds (ratites and relatives), the structure, ontogeny and evolution of the patella in these species remains poorly characterized. Within Palaeognathae, the patella has been reported to be either present, absent, or fused with other bones, but it is unclear how much of this variation is real, erroneous or ontogenetic. Clarification of the patella\u2019s form in palaeognaths would provide insight into the early evolution of the patella in birds, in addition to the specialized locomotion of these species. Findings would also provide new character data of use in resolving the controversial evolutionary relationships of palaeognaths. In this study, we examined the gross and histological anatomy of the emu patellar tendon across several age groups from five weeks to 18 months. We combined these results with our observations and those of others regarding the patella in palaeognaths and their outgroups (both extant and extinct), to reconstruct the evolution of the patella in birds. We found no evidence of an ossified patella in emus, but noted its tendon to have a highly unusual morphology comprising large volumes of adipose tissue contained within a collagenous meshwork. The emu patellar tendon also included increasing amounts of a cartilage-like tissue throughout ontogeny. We speculate that the unusual morphology of the patellar tendon in emus results from assimilation of a peri-articular fat pad, and metaplastic formation of cartilage, both potentially as adaptations to increasing tendon load. We corroborate previous observations of a \u2018double patella\u2019 in ostriches, but in contrast to some assertions, we find independent (i.e. unfused) ossified patellae in kiwis and tinamous. Our reconstructions suggest a single evolutionary origin of the patella in birds and that the ancestral patella is likely to have been a composite structure comprising a small ossified portion, lost by some species (e.g. emus, moa) but expanded in others (e.g. ostriches).', u'The 2014 World Cup Brazil will create excitement around the globe, but viewership in Africa should be especially high after South Africa 2010 and the growing popularity of football. The time difference and scheduling of matches, however, means that 86% of live matches will be shown during active Anopheles feeding times, increasing risk for malaria for millions of Africans. The aim of this commentary is to draw attention to this potential outbreak and to suggest efforts to mitigate outbreaks.', u'HIV disclosure from parent to child is complex and challenging to HIV-positive parents and healthcare professionals. The purpose of the study was to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. Sixteen HIV-positive parents, seven HIV-positive children, and five HIV-negative children completed semistructured, in-depth interviews. Data were analyzed using the Van Kaam method; NVivo 8 software was used to assist data analysis. We present data on the process of disclosure based on how participants recommended full disclosure be approached to HIV-positive and negative children. Participants recommended disclosure as a process starting at fiveyears with full disclosure delivered at 10 years when the child was capable of understanding the illness, or by 14 years when the child was mature enough to receive the news if full disclosure had not been conducted earlier. Important considerations at the time of full disclosure included the parent\u2019s and/or child\u2019s health statuses, number of infected family members\u2019 illnesses to be disclosed to the child, child\u2019s maturity and understanding level, and the person best suited to deliver full disclosure to the child. The results also revealed it was important to address important life events such as taking a national school examination during disclosure planning and delivery. Recommendations are made for inclusion into HIV disclosure guidelines, manuals, and programs in resource-poor nations with high HIV prevalence.', u'Advances in biotechnology have enabled researchers to study molecular biology from the point of view of systems, from focused efforts at functional annotation to the study of pathways, regulatory networks, protein-protein interaction networks, etc. However, direct observation of these systems has proved difficult, time-consuming, and often unreliable. Thus computational methods have been developed to infer such systems from high-throughput data, such as sequences, gene expression levels, ChIP-Seq signals, etc. For the most part, these methods have not yet proved accurate and reliable enough to be used in automated analysis pipelines. Most methods used to infer biological networks rely on data for a single organism; a few attempt to leverage existing knowledge about some related organisms. Today, however, we have data about a large variety of organisms as well as good consensus about the evolutionary relationships among these organisms, so that the latter can be used to integrate the former in a well founded manner, thereby gaining significant power in the analysis. We have coined the term Phylogenetic Transfer of Knowledge (PTK) for this approach to inference and analysis. A PTK analysis considers a family of organisms with known evolutionary relationships and "transfers" biological knowledge among the organisms in accordance with these relationships. The output of a PTK analysis thus includes both predicted (or refined) target data (such as networks) for the extant organisms and inferred details about their evolutionary history. While a few ad hoc inference methods used a PTK approach almost a dozen years ago, we first provided a global perspective on such methods just six years ago. The last few years have seen a significant increase in research in this area, as well as new applications. The time is thus right for a review of recent work that falls under this heading, a characterization of the solutions proposed, and a description of remaining challenges.', u'What is the microbe that we are dealing with? Whether it is cholera or anthrax, we want to know the disease-causing microorganism as quickly as possible since prompt identification of the causative organism would help control disease spread - and potentially save lives through provision of appropriate care and medication. But despite the advent of rapid microbial identification tools \u2013 particularly those based on mass spectrometry \u2013 most undergraduate curricula continue to focus on culture- and nucleic acid-based identification techniques since they are widely used for detecting and identifying microbes in clinical and environmental samples. Mass spectrometry-based methods, however, have increasingly complemented traditional approaches in clinical and research laboratories - but are rarely featured in undergraduate curricula. Motivated by the desire to address the curriculum gap, I developed an inquiry-based laboratory exercise for introducing students to the operating principles and methodology of mass spectrometry-based microbial identification. By requiring students to identify microbes in environmental water samples \u2013 a real-life problem with unknown answers \u2013 the exercise piqued the students\u2019 interest in learning, while helping to stir their curiosity through an interesting field activity where they put on a scientist\u2019s hat in solving a mystery. This synopsis article summarizes a piece of published educational research and expands on the discussion of concepts underlying matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS)-based microbial identification. For example, the article discusses the relative advantages and disadvantages of the pattern recognition and proteome database search approaches for analyzing mass spectra data. Additionally, the effect of general and tailored sample preparation protocols on identification accuracy is also elaborated. Finally, the pedagogical utility of field- and inquiry-based educational tools is also discussed in greater detail from a post-publication perspective.', u'Indo-Pacific lionfish have invaded large parts of the western Atlantic, Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico, and have already caused measurable declines in native Atlantic reef fauna. Culling efforts are occurring across the region, particularly on coral reefs, to reduce local lionfish abundances. Frequent culling has recently been shown to cause a shift towards more wary and reclusive behaviour by lionfish, which has prompted calls for halting culls. However, the effectiveness of culling per se is not in question. Culling successfully lowers lionfish numbers and has been shown to stabilise or even reverse declines in native prey fish. In fact, partial culling is often as effective as complete local eradication, yet requires significantly less time and effort. Abandoning culling altogether would therefore be seriously misguided and a hindrance to conservation. We offer suggestions for how to design removal programs that minimize behavioural changes and maximize culling success.', u'Published discussions on data stewardship often focus on standardized datasets whose reuse patterns are known. Improvements in stewardship of animal behavior data are virtually absent and lag behind other disciplines such as molecular biology and systematics. In this essay, we discuss best practices of three key aspects related to the collection and archival of behavioral data: data supporting published results; data collected from field observations; and the potential of museum specimens as source of data to animal behavior and ecology. To quantify how much data is shared in publications we reviewed selected journals in animal behavior and behavioral ecology. We found that only an extremely small proportion of the articles published in 2013 made even part of their data available. We discuss about the benefits of making data available, review resources available for data archiving and provide practical guidance for ethologists. We discuss and provide examples of the amount of ethological and ecological data that can be recorded during field observations. To investigate the potential of museum specimens as source of data, we surveyed researchers working in areas related to ecology, animal behavior, and systematics. Both ethologists and systematists agreed that natural history information stored in collections would be a valuable source of data. We make recommendations to enhance data collection and stewardship from the point of view of researchers in animal behavior sciences, considering the special characteristics of the discipline and the type of data that is often produced. We suggest that there is a large amount of crucial data about natural history, ecology and behavior that investigators could glean from collections. Although it is difficult to appreciate the relevance of data for future studies at the time of publication, such data may inspire fruitful opportunities that we cannot afford to lose.', u"When the eyes are exposed to an increased influx of light, the pupils constrict. The pupillary light response (PLR) is traditionally believed to be purely reflexive and not susceptible to cognitive influences. In contrast to this traditional view, we report here that preparation of a PLR occurs in parallel with preparation of a saccadic eye movement towards a bright (or dark) stimulus, even before the eyes set in motion. Participants fixated a central gray area and made a saccade towards a peripheral target. Using gaze-contingent display changes, we manipulated whether or not the brightness of the target background was the same during and after saccade preparation. More specifically, on some trials we changed the brightness of the target background as soon as the eyes set in motion, thus dissociating the preparatory PLR (i.e. to the brightness of the target background before the saccade) from the 'regular' PLR (i.e. to the brightness after the saccade). We show that a PLR to the brightness of the to-be-fixated target background is prepared before the eyes set in motion. This reduces the latency of the PLR by approximately 100 ms. We link our findings to the pre-saccadic shift of attention: The pupil prepares to adjusts its size to the brightness of a to-be-fixated stimulus as soon as attention covertly shifts towards that stimulus, about 100 ms before a saccade is executed. Our findings illustrate that the PLR is a dynamic movement that is tightly linked to visual attention and eye-movement preparation.", u'Aeolian sediment traps are widely used to estimate the total volume of wind-driven sediment transport, but also to study the vertical mass distribution of a saltating sand cloud. The reliability of sediment flux estimations from this data are dependent upon the specific configuration of the measurement compartments and the analysis approach used. In this study, we analyse the uncertainty of these measurements by investigating the vertical cumulative distribution and relative sediment flux derived from both wind tunnel and field studies. Vertical flux data was examined using existing data in combination with a newly acquired dataset; comprising meteorological data and sediment fluxes from six different events, using three customized catchers at Ameland beaches in northern Netherlands. Fast-temporal data collected in a wind tunnel shows that the median transport height has a scattered pattern between impact and fluid threshold, that increases linearly with shear velocities above the fluid threshold. For finer sediment, a larger proportion was transported closer to the surface compared to coarser sediment fractions. It was also shown that errors originating from the distribution of sampling compartments, specifically the location of the lowest sediment trap relative to the surface, can be identified using the relative sediment flux. In the field, surface conditions such as surface moisture, surface crusts or frozen surfaces have a more pronounced but localized effect than shear velocity. Uncertainty in aeolian mass flux estimates can be reduced by placing multiple compartments in closer proximity to the surface.', u'Importance sampling is widely used in coalescent theory to compute data likelihood. Efficient importance sampling requires a trial distribution close to the target distribution of the genealogies conditioned on the data. Moreover, an efficient proposal requires intuition about how the data influence the target distribution. Different proposals might work under similar conditions, and sometimes the corresponding concepts overlap extensively. Currently, there is no framework available for coalescent theory that evaluates proposals in an integrated manner. Typically, problems are not modeled, optimization is performed vigorously on limited datasets, user interaction requires thorough knowledge, and programs are not aligned with the current demands of open science. We have designed a general framework (http://coalescent.sourceforge.net) for importance sampling, to compute data likelihood under the infinite sites model of mutation. The framework models the necessary core concepts, comes integrated with several data sets of varying size, implements the standard competing proposals, and integrates tightly with our previous framework for calculating exact probabilities. The framework computes the data likelihood and provides maximum likelihood estimates of the mutation parameter. Well-known benchmarks in the coalescent literature validate the framework\u2019s accuracy. We evaluate several proposals in the coalescent literature, to discover that the order of efficiency among three standard proposals changes when running time is considered along with the effective sample size. The framework provides an intuitive user interface with minimal clutter. For speed, the framework switches automatically to modern multicore hardware, if available. It runs on three major platforms (Windows, Mac and Linux). Extensive tests and coverage make the framework accessible to a large community.', u'Early-growing season, long duration floods are harmful to the cultivation of maize, the source of 80% of the US bioethanol fuel. Due to the centrality of this industry to US government efforts to bolster domestic energy production, Midwest flooding has implications for US energy production. This paper uses spatial statistics to characterize the spatial distribution of ethanol plants relative to maize production in twelve Midwestern US states which account for approximately 90% of US corn production. County-based territories are delineated for each of the 176 plants in these states, and the total maize production and average annual production are summed for each plant. Multi-decadal flooding data from the Dartmouth Flood Observatory (1982-2007) are used in conjunction with data from the US Department of Agriculture National Agricultural Statistical Service to derive flood risk levels for each plant, and for total production capacity in the region.', u'Background. Developing healthcare competencies in students and professionals poses great educational challenges. A possible solution is to provide learning opportunities that utilize augmented reality (AR), where virtual learning experiences can be embedded within a real physical context. The aim of this study was to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of AR in terms of user acceptance, the AR applications currently developed and the effect of AR on the development of competencies in healthcare. Methods. We conducted an integrative review, which is the broadest type of research review method allowing for the inclusion of various research designs. This allows us to more fully understand a phenomenon of interest. Our review included multi-disciplinary research publications in English reported until 2012. Results. We found 2 529 research papers from ERIC, CINAHL, Medline, PubMed, Web of Science and Springer-link. Three qualitative, twenty quantitative and two mixed-method studies were included. Using thematic analysis, we have described characteristics for research, technology and education. This study showed that AR was applied across a wide range of topics in healthcare education. Furthermore, acceptance for AR as a learning technology was reported among the learners, as well as its potential for improving different types of competencies. Discussion. AR is still considered a novelty in the literature, with most of the studies reporting early prototypes. Additionally, the designed AR applications lacked an explicit pedagogical theoretical framework. Instead, the learning strategies adopted were of the traditional style \u2018see one, do one and teach one\u2019 and do not integrate clinical competencies to ensure patients\u2019 safety.', u'As rates of traditional sources of scientific funding decline, scientists have become increasingly interested in crowdfunding as a means of bringing in new money for research. In fields where crowdfunding has become a major venue for fundraising such as the arts and technology, building an audience for one\u2019s work is key for successful crowdfunding. For science, to what extent does audience building, via engagement and outreach, increase a scientist\u2019s abilities to bring in money via crowdfunding? Here we report on an analysis of the #SciFund Challenge, a crowdfunding experiment in which 159 scientists attempted to crowdfund their research. Using data gathered from a survey of participants, internet metrics, and logs of project donations, we find that public engagement is the key to crowdfunding success. Building an audience or \u201cfanbase\u201d and actively engaging with that audience as well as seeking to broaden the reach of one\u2019s audience indirectly increases levels of funding. Audience size and effort interact to bring in more people to view a scientist\u2019s project proposal, leading to funding. We discuss how projects capable of raising levels of funds commensurate with traditional funding agencies will need to incorporate direct involvement of the public with science. We suggest that if scientists and research institutions wish to tap this new source of funds, they will need to encourage and reward activities that allow scientists to engage with the public.', u'New results from control theory allow construction of necessary conditions statistical models of body mass regulation in the context of interaction with a complex dynamic environment. Focusing on the stress-related induction of central obesity via HPA axis regulation, we explore implications for strategies of prevention and treatment. It rapidly becomes evident that individual-oriented biomedical reductionism is an inadequate paradigm. Absent mitigation of HPA axis or related dysfunctions arising from social pathologies of power imbalance, economic insecurity, and so on, it is unlikely that permanent changes in visceral obesity can be maintained without constant therapeutic effort, an expensive -- and likely unsustainable -- public policy.', u'In this article we focus on the role of orexin A in the thermoregulatory functions and its link to food intake. This peptide is named orexin A to emphasize the increase in food intake due to this peptide. The influence of eating behavior could be only secondary to change in the thermoregulatory set-point to reach a determined core temperature. Our viewpoint is compared with vision of other authors, finding possible concordance and disagreement. Activity of the sympathetic nerves system, brown adipose tissue and central body temperatures, heart rate and food intake were monitored to measure the modifications induced by an intracerebroventricular injection of orexin A on the thermoregulation and eating behavior in various experimental conditions.', u'The wood frog, Rana sylvatica, survives whole-body freezing and thawing each winter. The extensive adaptations required at the biochemical level are facilitated by alterations to signaling pathways, including the insulin/Akt and AMPK pathways. Past studies investigating changing tissue-specific patterns of the second messenger IP3 in adapted frogs have suggested important roles for protein kinase C (PKC) in response to stress. In addition to their dependence on second messengers, phosphorylation of three PKC sites by upstream kinases (most notably PDK1) is needed for full PKC activation, according to current generally-accepted models. The present study uses phospho-specific immunoblotting to investigate phosphorylation states of PKC- as they relate to distinct tissues, PKC isozymes, and phosphorylation sites- in control and frozen frogs. In contrast to past studies where second messengers of PKC increased during the freezing process, phosphorylation of PKC tended to generally decline in most tissues of frozen frogs. All PKC isozymes and specific phosphorylation sites detected by immunoblotting decreased in phosphorylation levels in hind leg skeletal muscle and hearts of frozen frogs. Most PKC isozymes and specific phosphorylation sites detected in livers and kidneys also declined; the only exceptions were the levels of isozymes/phosphorylation sites detected by the phospho-PKC\u03b1/\u03b2II (Thr638/641) antibody, which remained unchanged from control to frozen frogs. Changes in brains of frozen frogs were unique; no decreases were observed in the phosphorylation levels of any of the PKC isozymes and/or specific phosphorylation sites detected by immunoblotting. Rather, increases were observed for the levels of isozymes/phosphorylation sites detected by the phospho-PKC\u03b1/\u03b2II (Thr638/641), phospho-PKC\u03b4 (Thr505), and phospho-PKC\u03b8 (Thr538) antibodies; all other isozymes/phosphorylation sites detected in brain remained unchanged from control to frozen frogs. The results of this study indicate a potential important role for PKC in cerebral protection during wood frog freezing. Our findings also call for a reassessment of the previously-inferred importance of PKC in other tissues, particularly in liver; a more thorough investigation is required to determine whether PKC activity in this physiological situation is indeed dependent on phosphorylation, or whether it deviates from the generally-accepted model and can be \u201coverridden\u201d by exceedingly high levels of second messengers, as has been demonstrated with certain PKC isozymes (e.g. PKC\u03b4).', u'This paper presents a novel assay that allows a quick and robust assessment of the effects of biocides on the initial settling and establishment of marine photoautotrophic biofilms. The assay integrates the response of the multitude of indigenous fouling organisms, which overcomes a major limitation of existing assays which are largely limited to testing only lab-cultivatable species. The assay was evaluated using eight antifouling biocides, for which full concentration-response curves are presented. The efficacy ranking, based on EC  98  values from most to least efficacious compound is: copper pyrithione >TPBP >DCOIT >tolylfluanid>zinc pyrithione >medetomidine >copper (Cu  2+  ), while the ecotoxicological ranking (based on E  C10  values) is irgarol, copper pyrithione >zinc pyrithione >TPBP >tolylfluanid >DCOIT >copper (Cu  2+  ) > medetomidine. The algaecide irgarol did not cause full inhibition. Instead the inhibition leveled out at 95% effect at 30 nmol l  -1  , a concentration that was clearly lower than for any other of the tested biocides.', u'Although many lineages of terrestrialized crustaceans have poor olfactory capabilities, crabs in the family Coenobitidae, including the terrestrial hermit crabs in the genus Coenobita, are able to locate food and water using olfactory antennae (antennules) to capture odors from the surrounding air. Terrestrial hermit crabs begin their lives as small marine larvae and must find a suitable place to undergo metamorphosis into a juvenile form, which initiates their transition to land. Juveniles increase in size by more than an order of magnitude to reach adult size. Since odor capture is a process heavily dependent on the size and speed of the antennules and physical properties of the fluid, both the transition from water to air and the large increase in size during ontogeny could impact odor capture. In this study, we examine two species of terrestrial hermit crabs, Coenobita perlatus H. Milne-Edwards and Coenobita rugosus H. Milne-Edwards, to determine how the antennule morphometrics and kinematics of flicking change in comparison to body size during ontogeny, and how this scaling relationship could impact odor capture by using a simple model of mass transport in flow. Many features of the antennules, including the chemosensory sensilla, scaled allometrically with carapace width and increased slower than expected by isometry, resulting in relatively larger antennules on juvenile animals. Flicking speed scaled as expected with isometry. Our mass-transport model showed that allometric scaling of antennule morphometrics and kinematics leads to thinner boundary layers of attached fluid around the antennule during flicking and higher odorant capture rates as compared to antennules which scaled isometrically. There were no significant differences in morphometric or kinematic measurements between the two species.', u'Stressors in everyday life can entail, along with emotional and behavioral reactions, a whole series of physiological reactions at different systematic levels (endocrinological, metabolic, immunological). This is also a cause for the development of stress-associated illnesses such as cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment, fatigue syndrome, delayed healing of injuries, and pain syndromes. Current research has focused increasing attention on pain syndromes due to the significant economic harm caused by chronic pain patients. Sports, and especially endurance sports, are well-suited for the psychophysiological reduction of stress. Extreme sports, however, can actually induce stress and result in symptoms related to being overstressed. A good balance between exertion and recovery is therefore very important for elite athletes. The presentation gives an overview about this different topics and measurement methods of stress.', u'The skull-bone quadrate in nonavian theropods is very diverse morphologically alongside the disparity of the group as a whole. However this disparity has been underestimated for taxonomic purposes. In order to evaluate the phylogenetic potential and investigate the evolutionary transformations of the quadrate, we conducted a Catalano-Goloboff phylogenetic morphometric analysis as well as a cladistic analysis using 98 discrete quadrate related characters. The cladistic analysis provides a fully resolved tree mirroring to some degree the classification of nonavian theropods. The quadrate morphology by its own provides a wealth of data with strong phylogenetic signal and allows inference of major trends in the evolution of this bone. Important synapomorphies include: for Abelisauroidea, a lateral ramus extending to the ectocondyle; for Tetanurae, the absence of the lateral process; for Spinosauridae, a medial curvature of the ventral part of the pterygoid ramus occurring just above the mandibular articulation; for Avetheropoda, an anterior margin of the pterygoid flange formed by a roughly parabolic margin; and for Tyrannosauroidea, a semi-oval pterygoid flange shape in medial view. The Catalano-Goloboff phylogenetic morphometric analysis reveals two main morphotypes of the mandibular articulation of the quadrate linked to function. The first morphotype, characterized by an anteroposteriorly broad mandibular articulation with two ovoid/subcircular condyles roughly subequal in size, is found in Ceratosauria, Tyrannosauroidea and Oviraptorosauria. This morphotype allows a very weak displacement of the mandible laterally. The second morphotype is characterized by an elongate and anteroposteriorly narrow mandibular articulation and a long and parabolic/sigmoid ectocondyle. Present in Megalosauroidea, Carcharodontosauridae and Dromaeosauridae, this morphotype permits the lower jaw rami to be displaced laterally when the mouth opened.', u'Pairwise evolutionary distances are a model-based summary statistic for a set of molecular sequences. They represent the leaf-to-leaf path lengths of the underlying phylogenetic tree. Estimates of pairwise distances with overlapping paths covary because of shared mutation events. It is desirable to take these covariance structure into account in any process that compares or combines distances to increase precision. In this paper, we present a fast estimator for the covariance of two pairwise maximum likelihood distances, estimated under general Markov models. The estimator is based on a conjecture (going back to Nei and Jin, 1989) which links the covariance to path lengths. We prove it here under a simple symmetric substitution model. In a simulation, we show that our estimator outperforms previously published ones in terms of the mean squared error.', u'Background. Ocean acidification as a result of increased anthropogenic CO2 emissions is occurring in marine and estuarine environments worldwide. The coastal ocean experiences additional daily and seasonal fluctuations in pH that can be lower than projected end of century open ocean pH reductions. Projected and current ocean acidification have wide-ranging effects on many aquatic organisms, however the exact mechanisms of the impacts of ocean acidification on many of these animals remains to be characterized.\nMethods. In order to assess the impact of ocean acidification on marine invertebrates, Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas) were exposed to one of four different pCO2 levels for four weeks: 400 \xb5atm (pH 8.0), 800 \xb5atm (pH 7.7), 1000 \xb5atm (pH 7.6), or 2800 \xb5atm (pH 7.3). At the end of 4 weeks a variety of physiological parameters were measured to assess the impacts of ocean acidification: tissue glycogen content and fatty acid profile, shell micromechanical properties, and response to acute heat shock. To determine the effects of ocean acidification on the underlying molecular physiology of oysters and their stress response, some of the oysters from 400 \xb5atm and 2800 \xb5atm were exposed to an additional mechanical stress and shotgun proteomics were done on oysters from high and low pCO2 and from with and without mechanical stress.\nResults. At the end of the four week exposure period, oysters in all four pCO2 environments deposited new shell, but growth rate was not different among the treatments. However, micromechanical properties of the new shell were compromised by elevated pCO2. Elevated pCO2 affected neither whole body fatty acid composition, nor glycogen content, nor mortality rate associated with acute heat shock. Shotgun proteomics revealed that several physiological pathways were significantly affected by ocean acidification, including antioxidant response, carbohydrate metabolism, and transcription and translation. Additionally, the proteomic response to a second stress differed with pCO2, with numerous processes significantly affected by mechanical stimulation at high versus low pCO2 (all proteomics data are available in the ProteomeXchange under the identifier PXD000835).\nDiscussion. Oyster physiology is significantly altered by exposure to elevated pCO2, indicating changes in energy resource use. This is especially apparent in the assessment of the effects of pCO2 on the proteomic response to a second stress. The altered stress response illustrates that ocean acidification may impact how oysters respond to other changes in their environment. These data contribute to an integrative view of the effects of ocean acidification on oysters as well as physiological trade-offs during environmental stress.', u"Popular de novo amplicon clustering methods suffer from two fundamental flaws: arbitrary global clustering thresholds, and input-order dependency induced by centroid selection. Swarm was developed to address these issues by first clustering nearly identical amplicons iteratively using a local threshold, and then by using clusters' internal structure and amplicon abundances to refine its results. This fast, scalable, and input-order independent approach reduces the influence of clustering parameters and produces robust operational taxonomic units, improving the amount of meaningful biological information that can be extracted from amplicon-based studies.", u'Emerging viral diseases, most of which are caused by the transmission of viruses from animals to humans, pose a threat to public health. Discovering pathogenic viruses through surveillance is the key to preparedness for this potential threat. Next generation sequencing (NGS) helps us to identify viruses without the design of a specific PCR primer. The major task in NGS data analysis is taxonomic identification for vast numbers of sequences. However, taxonomic identification via a BLAST search against all the known sequences is a computational bottleneck. Here we propose an enhanced lowest-common-ancestor based method (ELM) to effectively identify viruses from massive sequence data. To reduce the computational cost, ELM uses a customized database composed only of viral sequences for the BLAST search. At the same time, ELM adopts a novel criterion to suppress the rise in false positive assignments caused by the small database. As a result, identification by ELM is more than 1,000 times faster than the conventional methods without loss of accuracy. We anticipate that ELM will contribute to direct diagnosis of viral infections. The web server and the customized viral database are freely available at http://bioinformatics.czc.hokudai.ac.jp/ELM/.', u'Conspecific rape often increases male reproductive success. However, the haste and aggression of forced copulations suggests that males may sometimes rape heterospecific females, thus making rape a likely, but undocumented, source of hybrids between broadly sympatric species. We present evidence that heterospecific rape may be the source of hybrids between Black-footed and Laysan Albatrosses (Phoebastria nigripes, and P. immutabilis, respectively). Extensive field studies have shown that paired (but not unpaired) males of both of these albatross species use rape as a supplemental reproductive strategy. Between species differences in size, timing of laying, and aggressiveness suggest that Black-footed Albatrosses should be more successful than Laysan Albatrosses in heteropspecific rape attempts, and male Black-footed Albatrosses have been observed attempting to force copulations on female Laysan Albatrosses. Nuclear markers showed that the six hybrids we studied were F1s and mitochondrial markers showed that male Black-footed Albatrosses sired all six hybrids. The siring asymmetry found in our hybrids may have long persisted because an IM analysis suggests that long-term gene exchange between these species has been from Black-footed Albatrosses into Laysan Albatrosses. If hybrids are sired in heterospecific rapes, they presumably would be raised and sexually imprinted on Laysan Albatrosses, and two unmated hybrids in a previous study courted only Laysan Albatrosses.', u'Spiraldynamik \xae is an anatomically based movement and therapy concept. It was founded by the physiotherapist Yolanda Deswarte, and Dr. med. Christian Larsen. During the time that he was professionally active as a pediatrician, Christian Larsen repeatedly wondered: \u201cis the universal principle of organization, the spiral, also embodied in man?\u201d Observing the babies and toddlers that he worked with inspired him to research further into movement sequences. International interdisciplinary research communities in medicine, physiotherapy, pedagogy, yoga, fitness,sports and dance have been working together researching this question since 1981. Their main preoccupations have been the connections between anatomy, the three-dimensional system and the laws of nature (i.e. gravity), using the spiral as a basic building block. Spatially, the spiral structure dominates as a place saving and stable structure. The temporal dimension of motion is defined by wave movement and rhythm. Time and space are united in the spiral and in dynamism. Coordinated movements are three-dimensional, using the anatomically given corporal structures. Only the three-dimensional joining of the spiral structures throughout our body makes harmonious movement possible. The form of the body\u2019s joints and bones and the arrangement of the ligaments and muscles, indicate the body\u2019s preferred movement and rotation directions. Since a spiral has basically two directions of rotation, it is a matter of turning in the direction set forth by the given structure of the body. This anatomical understanding trains precise three-dimensional movement coordination and permits an unexpected variety of movement to emerge.', u'A variety of different fungicides is found simultaneously in surface waters, among which demethylase inhibitors (DMIs) are a major group. The joint toxicity of four DMIs from different chemical classes (Fenarimol, Prochloraz, Triadimefon and Pyrifenox) was investigated in the reproduction test with Daphnia magna, following an extended protocol according to ISO 10706. We assessed the toxicity of the DMI mixtures across different endpoints and effect levels and evaluated the predictability of their joint action using Concentration Addition (CA) and Independent Action (IA). The mixture reduced fecundity, delayed molting and caused characteristic malformations in offspring in a concentration-dependend manner which is possibly due to an anti-ecdysteroid action, as previously described for individual DMIs. However, also mixture-specific effects were observed: exposed daphnids reached sexual maturity already after the third juvenile molt, and thus significantly earlier than unexposed daphnids, which needed four juvenile molts to reach maturity. This effect is not caused by any of the DMIs alone. Additionally, the percentage of aborted broods was synergistically higher than expected by either CA or IA. IA underestimates the mixture toxicity for all parameters. The predictive quality of CA differed between life history responses, but was always within a factor of two to the observed toxicity. The parameter \u201cfecundity reduction, counting only normally developed offspring\u201d was the most sensitive endpoint, while the parameter \u201cfecundity reduction, counting all living offspring\u201d was slightly less sensitive. The mixture caused a 90% reduction in fecundity at individual concentrations that only provoke 7% effect or less, which calls for a mixture-specific toxicity assessment of DMI fungicides.', u"Using mitochondrial free energy delivery rate as a temperature analog, we examine the 'spontaneous symmetry breaking' of the group associated with the error minimization coding scheme related to protein folding, and characterize the phase transition that drives the collapse of normal folding to pathological amyloid production. Similarly, groupoids prove central to the study of analogous, often highly punctuated, 'ground state' failures in far more complex biological processes, adopting Maturana's perspective on the central role of cognition throughout the living state.", u'By allowing the articulation of the mandible with the cranium, the quadrate of diapsids and most other tetrapods plays an important role morphofunctionally. In Theropoda, its morphology is particularly complex and varies importantly among different clades of nonavian theropods so that the quadrate possesses a strong taxonomic potential. Inconsistencies in the notation and terminology used in discussions of the theropod quadrate anatomy have been noticed, a number of no less than height different terms being sometimes given to a same structure. A standardization list of terms and notation for each quadrate anatomical entity is here proposed, with the goal of facilitating future descriptions of this important cranial bone. An overview of the quadrate function, pneumaticity and ontogeny in nonavian theropods is also given. The quadrate of the large majority of nonavian theropod is akinetic and the diagonally oriented sulcus of the mandibular articulation allowed both rami of the mandible to move laterally when opening the mouth in many of them. Pneumaticity of the quadrate is also present in most of tetanuran clades and the pneumatic chamber, invaded by the quadrate diverticulum of the mandibular arch pneumatic system, was connected to one or several pneumatopores on the medial, lateral, posterior, anterior or ventral sides of the quadrate. Absence of a quadrate foramen in allosauroid embryos and a poor delimitation of mandibular condyles in both embryonic and juveniles tetanurans seems to be ontogenetic features of some theropods. Finally, the numerous morphological differences existing in the quadrates of the two specimens of Shuvuuia deserti, interpreted by some as juvenile and adult individuals, are considered as ontogenetic, taphonomic, and perhaps also taxonomic variations.', u'Hearing loss affects as much as 5% of the global human population and its negative consequences, often exacerbated by cultural bias or distributive injustice, include delayed cognitive and language development, learning deficits and poor academic performance, chronic unemployment and dependency, poverty, elevated risk of harm and poor health. This paper is based on a review of the academic literature as well as other credible published resources to identify the principal causes of hearing loss; its consequences for individuals, communities, and states; and potential interventions most appropriate for developing and low-resource countries where hearing loss is currently most prevalent and its burdens most egregious.', u'Background Studies of ancestry are difficult in tomato because it crosses with many wild relatives and species in the tomato clade have diverged very recently. As a result, the phylogeny in relation to its closest relatives remains uncertain. By using coding sequence from Solanum lycopericum, S. galapagense, S. pimpinellifolium, S. corneliomuelleri, and S. tuberosum and genomic sequence from two of cultivated tomato\u2019s closest relatives, S. galapagense and S. pimpinellifolium, as well as an heirloom line, S. lycopersicum \u2018Yellow Pear\u2019, we have aimed to resolve the phylogenies of these closely related species as well as identify phylogenetic discordance in the reference cultivated tomato. Results Divergence date estimates suggest divergence of S. lycopersicum, S. galapagense, and S. pimpinellifolium happened less than 0.5 MYA. Phylogenies based on 8,857 coding sequences support grouping of S. lycopersicum and S. galapagense, although two secondary trees are also highly represented. A total of 29 genes in our analysis showed evidence of selection along the S. lycopersicum lineage. Whole genome phylogenies showed that while incongruence is prevalent in genomic comparisons between these accessions, likely as a result of incomplete lineage sorting and introgression, a primary phylogenetic history was strongly supported. Conclusions Based on analysis of these accessions, S. galapagense appears to be closely related to S. lycopersicum, suggesting they had a common ancestor prior to the arrival of an S. galapagense ancestor to the Gal\xe1pagos Islands, but after divergence of the sequenced S. pimpinellifolium.  Genes showing selection along the S. lycopersicum lineage may be important in domestication. Further analysis of intraspecific data in these species will help to establish the evolutionary history of cultivated tomato. The use of an heirloom line is helpful in deducing true phylogenetic information of S. lycopersicum and identifying regions of introgression from wild species.', u'We quantify how an estuarine migratory bottleneck supports population- and species- level diversity of salmon. The estuary of the Skeena River is under pressure from industrial development, with two gas liquefaction terminals and a potash loading facility in various stages of environmental review processes at the same time as recent changes to Canadian environmental laws have reduced the timeframe for federal environmental assessments. We conducted a juvenile salmonid sampling program throughout the Skeena River estuary in 2007 and 2013. We captured all species of juvenile salmonids throughout the estuary in both years, and found that areas proposed for development support some of the highest abundances of some species of salmonids. Specifically, the highest abundances of sockeye (both years) Chinook in 2007, and coho salmon in 2013 were captured in areas proposed for development. For example, juvenile sockeye salmon were 2-8 times more abundant in the proposed development areas. Genetic stock assignment demonstrated that the Chinook salmon and most of the sockeye salmon that were captured originated from throughout the Skeena watershed, while some sockeye salmon came from the Nass, Stikine, Southeast Alaska, and coastal systems on the northern and central coasts of British Columbia. These fish support extensive commercial, recreational, and First Nations fisheries throughout the Skeena River and beyond. Our results demonstrate that estuary habitats integrate species and population diversity of salmon, and that proposed development in these areas will threaten the fisheries that depend on these fishes.', u'Knowledge of protein-protein interaction sites provides an important base for deciphering novel drug targets and applications of enzyme-based studies. But on account of biological complexity and transient forms, determination of these sites is a challenge in biology. Various computational approaches are being explored for relevant prediction based on available protein sequence-structure information. Here we propose a novel method SPRINGS (Sequence-based predictor of PRotein- protein interactING Sites) for identification of interaction sites based on sequences. It uses protein evolutionary information, averaged cumulative hydropathy and predicted relative solvent accessibility from amino acid chains in artificial neural network architecture with a promising performance for protein-protein interactions sites based research and applications.', u'In this thesis, a protein structure determination using chemical shifts is presented. The method is implemented in the open source PHAISTOS protein simulation framework. The method combines sampling from a generative model with a coarse-grained force field and an energy function that includes chemical shifts. The method is benchmarked on folding simulations of five small proteins. In four cases the resulting structures are in excellent agreement with experimental data, the fifth case fail likely due to inaccuracies in the energy function. For the Chymotrypsin Inhibitor protein, a structure is determined using only chemical shifts recorded and assigned through automated processes. The CA-RMSD to the experimental X-ray for this structure is 1.1 \xc5. Additionally, the method is combined with very sparse NOE-restraints and evolutionary distance restraints and tested on several protein structures >100 residues. For Rhodopsin (225 residues) a structure is found at 2.5 \xc5 CA-RMSD from the experimental X-ray structure, and a structure is determined for the Savinase protein (269 residues) with 2.9 \xc5 CA-RMSD from the experimental X-ray structure.', u'This paper reports an integrated solution, called BALSA, for the secondary analysis of next generation sequencing data; it exploits the computational power of GPU and an intricate memory management to give a fast and accurate analysis. From raw reads to variants (including SNPs and Indels), BALSA, using just a single computing node with a commodity GPU board, takes 5.5 hours to process 50-fold whole genome sequencing (~750 million 100bp paired-end reads), or just 25 minutes for 210-fold whole exome sequencing. BALSA\u2019s speed is rooted at its parallel algorithms to effectively exploit a GPU to speed up processes like alignment, realignment and statistical testing. BALSA incorporates a 16-genotype model to support the calling of SNPs and Indels and achieves competitive variant calling accuracy and sensitivity when compared to the ensemble of six popular variant callers. BALSA also supports efficient identification of somatic SNVs and CNVs; experiments showed that BALSA recovers all the previously validated somatic SNVs and CNVs, and it is more sensitive for somatic Indel detection. BALSA outputs variants in VCF format. A pileup-like SNAPSHOT format, while maintaining the same fidelity as BAM in variant calling, enables efficient storage and indexing, and facilitates the App development of downstream analyses.\nBALSA is available at: http://sourceforge.net/p/balsa', u'The neXtProt database is a comprehensive knowledge platform recently adopted by the Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project as the main reference database. The primary goal of the project is to identify and catalog every human protein encoded in the human genome. For such, computational approaches have an important role as data analysis and dedicated software are indispensable. Here we describe Bio::DB::NextProt, a Perl module that provides an object-oriented access to the neXtProt REST Web services, enabling the programatically retrieval of structured information. The Bio::DB::NextProt module presents a new way to interact and download information from the neXtProt database. Every parameter available through REST API is covered by the module allowing a fast, dynamic and ready-to-use alternative for those who need to access neXtProt data. Bio::DB::NextProt is an easy-to-use module that provides automatically retrieval of data, ready to be integrated into third-party software or to be used by other programmers on the fly. The module is freely available from from CPAN (metacpan.org/release/Bio-DB-NextProt) and GitHub (github.com/Leprevost/Bio-DB-NextProt) and is released under the perl\\_5 license.', u'Effects of the antimicrobial agent triclosan to natural periphyton communities (biofilms, comprising primarily microalgae and bacteria) were assessed in two independent experiments during spring and summer. For that purpose a semi-static test system was used in which periphyton was exposed to a concentration range of 5 \u2013 9 054 nmol/L triclosan. Effects on algae were analyzed as content and composition of photosynthetic pigments. The corresponding EC50 values were 39.25 and 302.45 nmol/L for the spring and summer experiment respectively. Effects on periphytic bacteria were assessed as effects on carbon utilization patterns, using Biolog Ecoplates. No inhibition of either total carbon utilization or functional diversity was observed, indicating a pronounced triclosan tolerance of the marine bacteria. In contrast, a small stimulation of the total carbon utilization was observed at triclosan concentrations exceeding 100 nmol/L.', u'Background: The individual running style has an impact on the running performance as well as the running injury risk. In order to increase the performance and lower the injury risk, runners should be educated towards a healthy running style. But before advices can be made it is crucial to distinguish running styles from each other.Aim: The stretch goal is to build a running style app, which is able to track and display the user\u2019s current running style by using accelerometry data, based on which advice can be given for a healthy and efficient running style with the help of gaming tools. To validate the approach, a gold standard with outdoor running acceleration data has to be created.Methods: The accelerometry data used by the smartphone app is gathered from the \u201cactibelt\u201d, an accelerometer included in a belt buckle. This sensor collects data close to the body COM in all three dimensions which is transferred to a smartphone via Bluetooth in real-time. The focus of this work is the validation of an acceleration based detection of different running styles, namely heel strikes, midfoot strikes and forefoot strikes. Features, which are able to clearly distinguish different running styles, have to be extracted out of the accelerometry data with machine learning techniques (SVM). Laboratory experiments have been conducted to analyze the actibelt data of three test persons performing heel, midfoot and forefoot strikes on a pressure sensitive treadmill with video control. As running apps are mainly used outdoors, the results had to be reproduced with outdoor running data. In an extreme ends approach four test persons with different running experience ranging from professional to occasional runners were asked to successively run on their heels, midfoot and forefoot, while accelerometry data was recorded and synchronized with mobile high speed video. The different running styles were performed on different substrates, with different shoes and speeds. Discussion/Conclusion: While significant differences in the accelerometry data of the running styles have been observed in the laboratory, those differences couldn\u2019t be reproduced in outdoor environments. Characteristic peak patterns (Lieberman, nature 463, 531-535) could be reproduced in the laboratory but disappeared in outdoor running. The most distorting aspects are the harder and less comfortable surface and an irregular speed compared to treadmill running. Hence, for a reliable detection of the running style, the actibelt data may be complemented by further sensors, e.g. placed in the socks. A promising idea is to influence the stride frequency of runners at given speeds to improve the individual running style.', u'Background: Illicit drug use influences people\u2019s lives and elicits unwanted here is an increase in young people\u2019s drug use in Sweden. This study aimed to investigate Swedish high-school pupils\u2019 attitudes, impulsiveness and gender differences linked to drug use. Also risk and protective factors relative to drug use were a focus of interest.\nMethod: High school pupils (n = 146) aged 17- 21 years, responded to the Adolescent Health and Development Inventory, Barratt Impulsiveness Scale and Knowledge, and the Attitudes and Beliefs. Direct logistic, multiple regression analyses, and Multivariate Analysis of Variance were used to analyse the data.\nResults: Positive Attitudes towards drugs was predicted by risk factors (odds ratio = 37.31) and gender (odds ratio = .32). Risk factors (odds ratio = 46.89), positive attitudes towards drugs (odds ratio = 4.63), and impulsiveness (odds ratio = 1.11) predicted drug usage. Risk factors dimensions Family, Friends and Individual Characteristic were positively related to impulsiveness among drug users. Moreover, although males reported using drugs to a greater extent, but female expressed more positive attitude towards drugs and even reported more impulsiveness than male students.\nConclusion: This study reinforces the idea that research must focus on gender differences relative to pro-drug attitudes along with testing for differences in the predictors of girls\u2019 and boys\u2019 delinquency and impulsiveness. Positive attitudes towards drugs among adolescents seem to be part of a vicious circle including risk factors, such as friendly drug environments (e.g., friends who use drugs) and unsupportive family environments, individual characteristics, and impulsiveness.', u'The role of soil organic carbon (SOC) in maintaining soil conditions and its resulting services is well established. Currently, over 1,000 articles per year are being published in peer-reviewed journals, and increasing at about 10% per year. It was not until the 1980s when the relation between soils and climate change was noted, and it was realized that soils play a key role as a sink and source of greenhouse gases (GHGs) ( Bouwman 1990, Scharpenseel, Ayoub and Schomaker 1990, Jenny 1980). A large number of research projects have been initiated globally in which soil C is a key component, and there have been some excellent reviews ( Lal 2004, Stockmann et al. 2013, Melillo et al. 2011). Yet, there is a lack of focus in soil C research in relation to current environmental challenges. Here we recommend research priorities to advance the knowledge base and use of soil C in relation to global human and environmental challenges: food and fiber production, water scarcity and purification, energy production, climate change, biodiversity, recycling waste, and environmental degradation. We have listed the priorities under three themes: (i) Soil C in space and time, (ii) Soil C properties and processes, and (ii) Soil C depletion and management.', u"Antifreeze proteins (AFP) in living organisms play a key role in their tolerance to extremely cold temperatures and have wide range of biotechnological applications. But on account of diversity, their identification has been challenging to biologists. Earlier work explored in this area did not cover introduction of sequence order information, known to represent important properties of various proteins and protein systems for prediction of their attributes. In this study, the effect of Chou's pseudo amino acid composition that presents sequence order of proteins was systematically explored using support vector machines for AFP prediction. Our findings suggest that introduction of sequence order information helps identify AFPs with an accuracy of 84.75% on independent test dataset, outperforming approaches such as AFP-Pred and iAFP. The relative performance calculated using Youden\u2019s Index (Sensitivity + Specificity -1) was found to be 0.71 for our predictor (AFP-PseAAC), 0.48 for AFP-Pred and 0.05 for iAFP. We hope this novel prediction approach will aid in AFP based research for biotechnological applications.", u'Background: Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of death in the western world. Regular physical activity is known to be highly beneficial for improving cardiovascular health status. Methods:The current abstract is based on the authors own data and a literature review. The authors own studies have all been accepted by the local ethics committee. In intervention studies the effect of physical training on cardiovascular risk parametres as well as on specific biochemical systems in the cardiovascular system have been studied. Changes in plasma myokine concentrations have been assessed in acute exercise and training interventions in different populations. Results: The conducted studies within the cardiovascular area clearly show that regular physical activity is highly beneficial for vascular function and for reducing blood pressure both in aged individuals and in individuals with life style related disease. An ongoing study at The University of Copenhagen conducted in collaboration with Martin Daumer will show to what extent estrogen loss in connection with menopause in women can be replaced by physical activity and thereby retard the progressive risk for cardiovascular disease commonly seen in women after menopause. Many studies have documented that myokines are elevated in response to exercise but more systematic investigations of how specific myokines are altered in response to various types of intensities and duration of exercise and in different subsets of the population is required to more solidly assess their usefulness as markers of physical health status. Discussion/conclusion: Based on data from our own studies and studies in the literature, physical activity should be recommended for prevention of cardiovascular disease and should be a primary recommendation in treatment of patients with cardiovascular disease to improve overall cardiovascular health. Use of myokines as markers of health status may be useful but selection of the best markers should await further evidence from systematic studies. <!--[endif]-->', u'The past influences the present and future; for example, in computational chemistry, simplifying assumptions and approximations critical to problem-solving in the pre-computing era remains relevant today in allowing simulation of larger systems with reasonable amount of computational time. By highlighting significant milestones in efforts - from both theoretical and simulation perspectives - aimed at understanding the nature of chemical bond formation, this abstract-only preprint describes a short essay that traces the development and evolution of electronic structure calculation methods over the years, as well as demystify many of the field\u2019s technical terms (jargons) and eponymous method names that has presented a significant entry barrier to newcomers. Schrodinger equation occupies central place in computational chemistry, where the focus was, and will continue to be, the development of methods for its solution. Placing the various methods along a time-line and observing the temporal relationships between them, reveals the clustering of methods into three distinct eras, each defined by their relative reliance on theory, approximations, experimental data and computational power for problem solution. Specifically, building of theoretical models for explaining spectroscopic emission spectra laid the initial foundation of the field when theory lagged behind experimental observations. Promulgation of the Schrodinger equation \u2013 which describes total system energy and properties via a quantum mechanical framework - shifted the research focus of the field towards its solution. Nevertheless, difficulty in solving the equation during the pre-computing era spawned an entire sub-field seeking to develop increasingly refined methods for obtaining approximate solutions. Specifically, semi-empirical methods rely on experimental data to supply parameter values inaccessible via direct calculations from first principles, while approximate methods use simplifications, for example, to obviate the need for calculating cross-interacting terms. Availability of large amount of inexpensive computational power in recent years, however, brought forth ab initio (first principles) simulation methods capable of calculating electronic structure properties of large systems (e.g., long chain biomolecules) with few or no simplifying assumptions. Finally, the chronological thread delineated also provides the backdrop for asking counterfactual (\u201cwhat if\u201d) questions examining, from a historical vantage point, the relative roles of computational power and theoretical intuition in the development of computational chemistry. Contrary to widespread notions that advances in computational chemistry are solely potentiated by increases in computing power, the article argues \u2013 via examples - that the relationship between theoretical imagination and computing power is more nuanced: specifically, the two alternately exert their influence at different junctures during the field\u2019s evolution.', u'Long-lived marine megavertebrates (e.g. sharks, turtles, mammals, and seabirds) are inherently vulnerable to anthropogenic mortality. Although some mathematical models have been applied successfully to manage these animals, more detailed treatments are often needed to assess potential drivers of population dynamics. In particular, factors such as age-structure, density-dependent feedbacks on reproduction, and demographic stochasticity are important for understanding population trends, but are often difficult to assess. Lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) have a pelagic adult phase that makes them logistically difficult to study. However, juveniles use coastal nursery areas where their densities can be high. Thus, we use a stage-structured, Markov-chain stochastic model to describe lemon shark population dynamics from a 17-year longitudinal dataset at a coastal nursery area at Bimini, Bahamas. We found that the interaction between delayed breeding and demographic stochasticity accounts for 33 to 49% of the variance. Demographic stochasticity contributed all random effects in this model, suggesting that the existence of unmodeled environmental factors may be driving the majority of interannual population fluctuations. In addition, we are able to use our model to estimate the natural mortality rate of older age classes of lemon sharks that are difficult to study. Further, we use our model to examine what effect the length of a time series plays on deciphering ecological patterns. We find that \u2014 even with a relatively long time series \u2014 our sampling still misses important rare events. Our approach can be used more broadly to infer population dynamics of other large vertebrates in which age structure and demographic stochasticity are important.', u'Background: Evidence denotes a direct association between parity and overnutrition in developing societies. This work aims to assess the relationship between them in Peruvian women, and to investigate whether this association varies by place of residence and socioeconomic status. Methods: We used secondary data from the National Health and Demographic Survey 2011 of Peru (ENDES 2011). Parity was the independent variable, defined as the number of children ever born to a woman. The outcome variable was the body mass index (BMI), with cut-off points of 25-30 kg/m2 and \u226530 kg/m2, for overweight and obesity; respectively. We included other variables due to their potential confounding or modification effect, such as: age, place of residence, wealth index, education, and frequency of watching television. We used a significance level of 5%. Results: We analyzed information of 18262 women. The mean BMI was 25.9 Kg/m2 (SD\xb14.6). The overall prevalence of obesity and overweight was of 17.2% and 35.0%, respectively. Rural and urban women reported having had 2.5 (95%CI: 2.4-2.6) and 1.5 (95%CI: 1.4-1.5) ever born children, respectively. We found a positive association between parity and overnutrition, and identified the effect modification of place of residence and wealth. The relationship between parity with overweight or obesity was stronger in urban than in rural areas. Women in the bottom and top groups of wealth index showed stronger associations than the other categories of socioeconomic status. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the more childbirths a woman has, the more likely she is of being overweight or obese. This relationship varies by socioeconomic status and area of residence. Identification of increased BMI in women, especially after the first childbirth, should be evaluated in primary care to establish adequate public health policies to tackle obesity in Peruvian women.', u'When net deforestation declines in the tropics, attention will be drawn to the composition and structure of the retained, restored, invaded, and created forests. At that point the seemingly inexorable trends towards increased intensities of exploitation and management will be recognized as having taken their tolls of biodiversity and other forest values. Celebrations when a country passes the \u201cforest transition\u201d (i.e., suffers no net deforestation) will then be tempered by realization that what has been accepted as \u201cforest\u201d spans the gamut from short-rotation mono-clonal stands of genetically engineered trees to fully protected old growth natural forest. With management intensification, climate change, species introductions, landscape fragmentation, fire, and shifts in economics and governance, forests will vary along gradients of biodiversity, novelty of composition, stature, permanence, and the relative roles of natural and anthropogenic forces. Management intensity will increase with the increased availability of financial capital associated with economic globalization, scarcity of wood and other forest products, demand for biofuels, improved governance (e.g., security of property rights), improved accessibility, and technological innovations that lead to new markets for forest products. In a few places the trend towards land-use intensification will be counterbalanced by recognition of the many benefits of natural and semi-natural forests, especially where forest-fate determiners are compensated for revenues foregone from not intensifying management. Land-use practices informed by research will help minimize the tradeoffs between the financial profits from forest management and the benefits of retention of biodiversity and the full range of environmental services.', u'Expression of phenotypic plasticity depends on reaction norms adapted to historic selective regimes; anthropogenic changes in these selection regimes necessitate contemporary evolution or extirpation. Adaptation of conditional strategies following a change in the selection regime requires evolution of either the environmentally influenced cue (e.g. growth rate) or the state (e.g. size threshold) at which an individual switches between conditional strategies. Using a population of steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) introduced above a barrier waterfall in 1910, we evaluate how the conditional strategy to migrate evolves in response to selection against migration. Common garden-raised offspring of parents from the above-barrier population were 11% smaller and 31% lighter than offspring of parents from the below-barrier source population. Using a novel analytical approach we estimate that the mean size at which above-barrier fish switch between the resident and migrant strategy is 43% larger than below-barrier fish. As a result, above-barrier fish were 30% less likely to express the migratory strategy. Our results demonstrate how rapid and opposing changes in growth rate and threshold size contribute to the contemporary evolution of a conditional strategy and indicate that migratory barriers may elicit rapid evolution towards the resident life-history on timescales relevant for conservation and management of conditionally migratory species.', u'We present the quantification and kinetic characterisation of the enzymes of the pentose phosphate pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The data are combined into a mathematical model that describes the dynamics of this system and allows us to predict changes in metabolite concentrations and fluxes in response to perturbations. We use the model to study the response of yeast to a glucose pulse. We then combine the model with an existing glycolysis model to study the effect of oxidative stress on carbohydrate metabolism. The combination of these two models was made possible by the standardised enzyme kinetic experiments carried out in both studies. This work demonstrates the feasibility of constructing larger network-scale models by merging smaller pathway-scale models.', u'In ChIP-Seq and DNase-Seq experiments the density of background reads can vary from sample to sample. Differences in background read densities between samples do not necessarily correspond to proportional changes of read densities in true ChIP-Seq peaks. Therefore, scaling by total library size as a means for normalizing called ChIP-Seq peaks across samples may be ineffective. We suggest a simple easily implemented alternative to scaling by total library size that scales only by the total number of reads mapped to called peaks. We then demonstrate the effectiveness of the modified scaling in K4me3 and K27ac ChIP-Seq data from the BrainSpan project as well as DNase-Seq data from the ENCODE project.', u'Whale sharks are a major attraction for tourist divers and snorkelers in South Ari Atoll, Maldives. Yet without information regarding the use and economic extent of the attraction, it is difficult to prioritize conservation or implement effective management plans. Using empirical recreational data and generalized mixed models, this study provides the first economic valuation\u2014via direct spend\u2014of whale shark tourism in Maldives. We estimate that direct expenditure on whale shark excursions in the South Ari Marine Protected Area for 2012\u20132013 at US$7.6 and $9.4 million, respectively. These expenditures are based on an estimate of 72 to 78 thousand tourists who are involved in whale shark excursions annually. This level of visitation and expenditure highlights the need to implement regulations and management which can safeguard the sustainability of the industry through ensuring guest satisfaction and whale shark conservation.', u'The links among scholarly citations creates a tremendous network that reveals patterns of influence and flows of ideas. The systematic evaluation of the networks can be used to create aggregate measures of journal influence. To understand the citation patterns and compare influence among ecology journals, I complied 11 popular metrics for 110 ecology journals: Journal Impact Factor (JIF), 5-year Journal Impact Factor (JIF), Eigenfactor, Article Influence (AI), Source-Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP), SCImago Journal Report (SJR), h-index, hc-index, e-index, g-index, and AR-index. All metrics were positively correlated among ecology journals; however, there was still considerable variation among metrics. Annual Review of Ecology Evolution, and Systematics, Trends in Ecology and Evolution, and Ecology Letters were the top three journals across metrics on a per article basis. Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Ecology, and Molecular Ecology had the greatest overall influence on science, as indicated by the Eigenfactor. There was much greater variability among the other metrics because they focus on the mostly highly cited papers from each journal. Each influence metric has its own strengths and weaknesses, and therefore its own uses. Researchers interested in average influence of articles in a journal would be best served by referring to the AI scores or possibly SJR values.', u'Diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI) has emerged as the most popular neuroimaging technique used to depict the biological microstructural properties of human brain white matter. However, like other MRI technique, traditional DW-MRI data remains subject to head motion artifacts during scanning. For example, previous studies have indicated that, with traditional DW-MRI data, head motion artifacts significantly affect the evaluation of diffusion metrics. Actually, DW-MRI data scanned with higher sampling rate are important for accurately evaluating diffusion metrics because it allows for full-brain coverage through the acquisition of multiple slices simultaneously and more gradient directions. Here, we employed a publicly available multiband DW-MRI dataset to investigate the association between motion and diffusion metrics with the standard pipeline, tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS). The diffusion metrics used in this study included not only the commonly used metrics (i.e., FA and MD) in DW-MRI studies, but also newly proposed inter-voxel metric, local diffusion homogeneity (LDH). We found that the motion effects in FA and MD seems to be mitigated to some extent, but the effect on MD still exists. Furthermore, the effect in LDH is much more pronounced. These results indicate that researchers shall be cautious when conducting data analysis and interpretation. Finally, the motion-diffusion association is discussed.', u'The final year research project, a standard feature of most four year undergraduate curricula, aims to expose undergraduates to research as well as encourage them to use multiple perspectives in thinking creatively and critically about problems. Nevertheless, as most courses in earlier parts of the curriculum focus on well-defined problems with clear answers, a dichotomy exists between the research project\u2019s desired educational outcomes and the undergraduates\u2019 educational preparation. This often manifests as students\u2019 inability at handling the ambiguities of research - which, in turn, leads to lack of motivation or trepidation at their projects. Such unintended negative educational outcomes are not necessarily due to students\u2019 lack of creativity \u2013 and may have more to do with the difficulty of sparking students\u2019 imagination with the paucity of pedagogical techniques available. From demonstrating experimental techniques to discussing new observations, postgraduates are the primary daily point-of-contact for undergraduates in the research lab. But how can postgraduates encourage undergraduates to think critically and creatively? One possibility lies in using common lab observations and experiences for unlocking students\u2019 creative potential. In this abstract-only preprint, I describe two simple pedagogical tools for helping initiate the creative and critical thinking process in students. Specifically, I observed that using the Socratic approach \u2013 that is, question-and-answer - for guiding students in answering their own questions rather than directly providing the answers to them helped ignite the deductive and inductive thinking processes critical to tackling any research problem, as well as improving the students\u2019 self-confidence in arriving at the answers. More important, the tentative steps taken in independent thinking also helped debunk their misconception that there exists a single correct answer for every question in research. Another pedagogical tool was the creative use of seemingly mundane electron and optical micrographs for constructing narratives unrelated to their subject matter. For example, an electron micrograph of a collection of particles poly-dispersed in size and shape was entitled, \u201cPebbles on the river bed,\u201d with a storyline describing children playing happily in a clear stream and, upon looking down, saw small gravel and pebbles on the stream bed. Besides bringing a light-hearted moment into serious research work, such stories also illustrated the utility of thinking about a problem from multiple perspectives; specifically, discovering new and creative interpretations of an image. Collectively, through simple pedagogical tools such as question-and-answer, and open-ended story-telling, postgraduates can guide undergraduate students in thinking critically and creatively via demonstrating the thinking process involved in exploring different perspectives during problem-solving.', u'Imagine a world where everything from products to people, spaces and services is connected and together operates as a living network. \u2018Meta Products\u2019 is the next generation of \u2019living\u2019 products, services and spaces referring to the potential of the Internet of Things to reach everywhere and to be embodied in everything. In the current transition period we are living in, we are building new aspirations that demand increasingly clever ways to use the potentially endless amounts of information we can track, sense, measure, share and produce via the constantly improving omnipresent technologies. So we are bringing information-fuelled products and services that will be around us as a network whenever we need them. The result of finding these increasingly clever ways to use information is what we call Meta-Products.', u'The vision of the Human Motion Project is to become a successful analogue of the Human Genome Project: improving human health by an open collaborative technology platform for the mobile medical monitoring of human motion. The basis is a growing \u201ccritical path toolbox\u201d and a biomedical data warehouse for collecting, archiving, analysing, and disseminating human motion data including a library of validated algorithms.\nThe "human accelerom", i.e. objective long term information about a person\'s physical activity, carries information about health status and disease risk. It can be used to define novel outcome measures for clinical trials. Physical inactivity should be understood as a modifiable risk factor.', u"The Data Rate Theorem that establishes a formal linkage between real-time linear control theory and information theory carries deep implications for the study of embodied cognition and its dysfunctions across human, machine, and composite man-machine cockpit entities. The stabilization of such cognition is a dynamic process deeply intertwined with it, constituting, in a sense, the riverbanks directing the flow of a stream of generalized consciousness. The fundamental role of culture in human life has long been understood. Here we argue that, not only is culture, in the words of the evolutionary anthropologist Robert Boyd, 'as much a part of human biology as the enamel on our teeth', but that it is an important part of the disorders of embodied cognition that different communities socially construct as mental illness. A shift in perspective on such illness is badly needed, from naive geneticism and a simplistic 'biomarker' focus to a broad cognitive theory that recognizes the central roles of culture, socioeconomic structure, their histories and their dynamics, in human development. Unfortunately, stabilizing analogs to cultural influence are unavailable to high-order real-time machine and cockpit systems that, increasingly, will be tasked with control of critical enterprises ranging from communication, power, and travel networks to nuclear and chemical reactors, organized deadly force, and so on.", u'Biodiversity hotspots have been used extensively in setting conservation priorities for reef ecosystems. A recent Nature publication claims to have uncovered new hotspots based on global comparisons of functional diversity. Simulation models show that the purported novel evenness pattern is a mathematical inevitability of differences in species richness, as well as an artefact of differences in detectability between vastly different marine ecosystems. Constraints on evenness, along with disparity among communities in possible functional traits, cast doubt on the utility of global functional diversity comparisons for management of marine systems.', u'Students embarking on a bioscience degree course, such as Animal Science, often do not have sufficient experience in mathematics. However, mathematics form an essential and integral part of any bioscience degree and are essential to enhance employability. This paper presents the findings of a project looking at the effect of mathematics tutorials on a cohort of first year animal science and management students. The results of a questionnaire, focus group discussions and academic performance analysis indicate that small group tutorials enhance students\u2019 confidence in maths and improve students\u2019 academic performance. Furthermore, student feedback on the tutorial programme provides a deeper insight into student experiences and the value students assign to the tutorials.', u'We present new dispersion and hydrogen bond corrections to the PM6 method, PM6-D3H+, and its implementation in the GAMESS program. The method combines the DFT-D3 dispersion correction by Grimme et al with a modified version of the H+ hydrogen bond correction by Korth. Overall, the interaction energy of PM6-D3H+ is very similar to PM6-DH2 and PM6-DH+, with RMSD and MAD values within 0.02 kcal/mol of one another. The main difference is that the geometry optimizations of 88 complexes result in 82, 6, 0, and 0 geometries with 0, 1, 2, and $\\ge$ 3 imaginary frequencies using PM6-D3H+ implemented in GAMESS, while the corresponding numbers for PM6-DH+ implemented in MOPAC are 54, 17, 15, and 2. The PM6-D3H+ method as implemented in GAMESS offers an attractive alternative to PM6-DH+ in MOPAC in cases where the LBFGS optimizer must be used and a vibrational analysis is needed, e.g. when computing vibrational free energies. While the GAMESS implementation is up to 10 times slower for geometry optimizations of proteins in bulk solvent, compared to MOPAC, it is sufficiently fast to make geometry optimizations of small proteins practically feasible.', u'Platelets expose phosphatidylserine (PS), a component of the prothrombinase complex, on the outer surface of the plasma membrane when activated. [ref 1] The prothrombinase complex catalyzes the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin, and it has been demonstrated that an increase in PS exposure is correlated with an increase in thrombin generation by platelets. [refs 2,3] Similarly, erythrocyte (RBC) activation, or eryptosis, is also characterized by PS exposure on the plasma membrane. [ref 4] Although PS exposure on RBCs is considered a signal for splenic macrophage destruction, eryptosis may allow RBCs to contribute to thrombosis.[ref 4] The aims of this study were to determine whether the addition of RBCs to platelets increased functional platelet aggregation and coagulation properties. A ratio of 4 RBCs to 1 platelet (4:1) was evaluated for aggregation and coagulation compared to platelet control. Platelet aggregation and coagulation properties were evaluated with impedance aggregometry and thromboelastography, respectively. The 4:1 experimental group had significant increases in aggregation and coagulation relative to the platelet control. These results indicate that RBCs increase platelet aggregation and coagulation properties. This suggests that RBCs play a role in diseases traditionally thought of as associated solely via dysregulated platelet activation.', u'scikit-image is an image processing library that implements algorithms and utilities for use in research, education and industry applications. It is released under the liberal "Modified BSD" open source license, provides a well-documented API in the Python programming language, and is developed by an active, international team of collaborators. In this paper we highlight the advantages of open source to achieve the goals of the scikit-image library, and we showcase several real-world image processing applications that use scikit-image.', u'This study aimed to determine the association of herbivore behavior with cues from producers. We used stream grazer Glossosoma larvae and determined their crawling direction in relation to the chemical and visual cues from microalgae. The experimental treatments included control (no cue), particulate (chemical and visual/tactile cues), and dissolved (chemical cue) cues from microalgae. The experimental water samples were randomly placed into either arms of a Y-shaped channel, and the crawling direction of the grazers was determined. Although the grazers crawled toward the arm containing either particulate or dissolved cues, they preferred the arm with particulate cues. This suggested that grazers responded well when both visual/tactile (i.e., drifting algal cells) and chemical cues (algal smell) were present, and that visual/tactile cues were more important for foraging. In natural habitats, grazers detect cues from both producers and predators and use them to maximize fitness by avoiding predation and obtaining food.', u'The binding of several rubromycin-based ligands to HIV1-reverse transcriptase was analyzed using molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations. MM-PBSA analysis and examination of the trajectories allowed the identification of several promising compounds with predicted high affinity towards reverse transcriptase mutants which have proven resistant to current drugs. Important insights on the complex interplay of factors determining the ability of ligands to selectively target each mutant have been obtained.', u'Mementos encapsulate memories and serve as triggers for their recollections. By using a purple pigment producing bacterium as \u201cink\u201d for writing on agar, a picture memento depicting the initials of students\u2019 names was created, to help them remember the strong friendships that they had fostered with their fellow course-mates during their final year research projects. Besides the fun activity of \u201cBacterial Calligraphy,\u201d the surface patterning technique can also serve as a simple and relatively low-cost tool for testing the feasibility of research ideas; for example, depositing cells in both straight and curvilinear lines on planar substrates for investigating possible interactions between different microbial species. A synopsis of the work and a structured abstract can be found in the accompanying PDF file, while the original article, \u201cBacterial Calligraphy: A Memento for Undergraduate Research Students,\u201d has been published in the Journal of Microbiology and Biology Education, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 172-174, and is available at http://jmbe.asm.org/index.php/jmbe/article/view/414 as an open-access article.', u'Many species employ conditional strategies for reproduction or survival. In other words, each individual \u201cchooses\u201d one of two or more possible phenotypes to maximize survival or reproductive advantage given specific ecological niche conditions (e.g., Moran, 1992). Humans seem to employ at least one conditional reproductive strategy, choosing between a more short-term or a more long-term mating strategy (Gangestad & Simpson, 2000), and as with non-human animals, their choices relate in part to an assessment of their own traits (Belsky, 1997; Schmitt, 2005). However, the selection pressures that individuals of a species can exert on each other are not restricted to mate selection; they can arise from many forms of social interaction (West-Eberhard, 1983; Wolf, Brodie, & Moore, 1999). Evidence suggests that individuals are sensitive to characteristics of the self, friend, and environmental conditions when choosing friends (Fehr, 1996; Rose, 1985; Verbrugge, 1977), and that a person\u2019s economic, social, and environmental circumstances influence how they form and organize their friendships (Adams & Allan, 1998; Feld & Carter, 1998). Thus, in this paper I hypothesize that humans have evolved a coherent range of conditional friendship strategies: that we vary predictably in terms of the friendships we form, based on an assessment of our own traits, others\u2019 traits, and our own current needs. I propose a continuum of individual differences in friendship strategy, anchored on one end by those who use friendships for exploration (e.g., skill-building and networking) and on the other end by those who use friendships for intimate exchange (e.g., emotional support and intimacy). I created a measure assessing this continuum, and found that men tended to report a stronger exploration strategy than women. I also found that people with a stronger exploration strategy also had a more short-term mating strategy and were more extroverted, and that people with a stronger intimate exchange strategy reported themselves to be more kind and generous; these results remained when controlling for gender. However, friendship strategy did not relate to socioeconomic status, age, attachment avoidance, relationship status, or presence of kin relationships. There was some evidence that friendship strategy was related to the number of friends an individual reported having and how close they felt to their friends.', u'It has been widely accepted that aphids and their primary endosymbiotic bacteria Buchnera have strictly parallel diversification relationship. As the first reported case of insect-bacteria cospeciation, this parallel diversification hypothesis has been prevalent, in spite of its basis of limited taxonomic sampling and recent doubts. Here we revisit the evolutionary relationships between aphids and Buchnera by using much more taxa and genomic data (16S rDNA, ATP synthase \u03b2-subunit gene, and gluconate-6-phosphate dehydrogenase gene) to reconstruct the Buchnera phylogeny and test its congruence with the host phylogeny. Comparisons of the Buchnera phylogeny with morphology- and molecular-based aphid phylogenies indicate phylogenetic incongruence between aphids and Buchnera at subfamily level. Current empirical and theoretical evidence indicate two potential mechanisms underlying this incongruence: one is variation in evolutionary rates of Buchnera genomes among different aphid lineages; the other is horizontal transmission of Buchnera during the radiation of extant aphid subfamilies and tribes from their common ancestor.', u'Background. Parental absences in childhood are often associated with accelerated reproductive maturity in humans. These results are counterintuitive for evolutionary social scientists because reductions in parental investment should be detrimental for offspring, but earlier reproduction is generally associated with higher fitness. In this paper we discuss a neglected hypothesis that early reproduction is often associated with parental absence because it decreases the average relatedness of a developing child to her future siblings. Method. We illustrate this \u201cintergenerational conflict hypothesis\u201dwith a formal game-theoretic model. Results. We show that parents will generally win reproductive conflicts with children when parents and children share limited household or kin resources, thus prioritizing their own reproduction and delaying offspring reproductive maturity. This is due to the asymmetric relatedness between grandparents and grandchildren (r=.25), compared to siblings (r=0.5) However, if a parent loses or replaces their partner, the conflict between the parent and offspring becomes symmetric since half siblings are as related to one another as grandparents are to grandchildren. This means that the offspring stand to gain more from earlier reproduction when their remaining parent would produce half, rather than full, siblings. We further show that if parents senesce in a way that decreases the quality of their infant relative to their offspring\u2019s infant, the intergenerational conflict can shift to favor the younger generation, suggesting that it is primarily younger parents who should delay their offspring\u2019s reproduction. Discuss. We use insights from this model to discuss the father absence literature and develop predictions about how the effects of parental absences should vary cross-culturally.', u'Camera traps are commonly used for mammal surveys and many recent studies have published variable trap success rates. All published reports have focused survey efforts in protected areas or large contiguous forests, but we used camera traps in a highly altered suburban landscape. We selected 22 camera trap sites in Warrensburg and Lee\u2019s Summit, Missouri and surveyed for a total of 308 trapnights (TN) of effort. Procyon lotor (raccoon) had the highest trap success (38.96/100 TN), followed by: Didelphis virginiana (Virginia opossum, 37.34/100 TN); Odocoileus virginianus (white tailed deer, 27.92/100 TN); Sciurus niger and S. carolinensis (fox and gray squirrel, 19.48/100 TN); Vulpes vulpes (red fox, 8.77/100 TN); Canis latrans (coyote, 7.79/100 TN); Sylvilagus floridanus (cottontail rabbit, 3.90/100 TN); Urocyon cinereoargenteus (gray fox, 2.92/100 TN); Lynx rufus (bobcat, 1.95/100 TN); and Mephitis mephitis (striped skunk, 1.62/100 TN). These results are higher than any other published findings. We used 1-3 kg of deer meat as bait at each camera station and we believe this increased our trap success of mesopredators (Cove et al., 2012) versus studies that used no bait. However, our trap success for deer, squirrels, and rabbits were also higher than those published and these species were not attracted to bait. We hypothesize that the increased trap success in our study reflects (1) a true state of increased mesopredator abundance due to increased human-derived resources in the suburbs, and (2) concentrated activity of mammals in small fragmented forest patches versus the expansive forest tracts in other studies.', u'In broiler chickens, genetic success for desired production traits is often shadowed by welfare concerns related to musculoskeletal health. Whilst these concerns are clear, a viable solution is still elusive. Part of the solution lies in knowing how anatomical changes in afflicted body systems that occur across ontogenyinfluence standing and moving. Here, to demonstrate these changes we quantify the segment inertial properties of the whole body, trunk (legs removed) and the right pelvic limb segments of five broilers at three different age groups across development. We also consider how muscle architecture (mass, fascicle length and other properties related to mechanics) changes for selected muscles of the pelvic limb. Wholelimb morphology is not uniform relative to body size, with broilers obtaining large thighs and feet between four and six weeks of age. This implies that the energetic cost of swinging the limbs is markedly increased across this growth period, perhaps contributing to reduced activity levels. Hindlimb bone length does not change during this period, which may be advantageous for increased stability despite the increased energetic costs. Increased pectoral muscle growth appears to move the centre of mass cranio-dorsally in the last two weeks of growth. This has direct consequences for ventilation (heavier sterna apparatus must be moved with each breath) and locomotion (potentially greater limb muscle stresses during standing andmoving). Our study is the first to measure these changes in the musculoskeletal system across growth in chickens, and reveals how artificially selected changes of the morphology of the pectoral apparatus may cause deficits in locomotion, as well as breathing.', u'Genetic selection for improved meat yields, digestive efficiency and growth rates have transformed the biology of broiler chickens. Modern birds undergo a 50-fold multiplication in body mass in just six weeks, from hatching to slaughter weight. However, this selection for rapid growth and improvements in broiler productivity is also widely thought to be associated with increased welfare problems as many birds suffer from leg, circulatory and respiratory diseases. To understand growth-related changes in musculoskeletal and organ morphology and respiratory skeletal development over the standard six-week rearing period, we present data from post-hatch cadaveric commercial broiler chickens aged 0, 2, 4 and 6 weeks. The heart, lungs and intestines decreased in size for hatch to slaughter weight when considered as a proportion of body mass. Proportional liver size increased in the two weeks after hatch but decreased between 2 and 6 weeks. Breast muscle mass on the other hand displayed strong positive allometry, increasing in mass faster than the increase in body mass. Contrastingly, less rapid isometric growth was found in the external oblique muscle, a major respiratory muscle that moves the sternum dorsally during expiration. Considered together with the relatively slow ossification of elements of the respiratory skeleton, it seems that rapid growth of the breast muscles might compromise the efficacy of the respiratory apparatus. Furthermore, the relative reduction in size of the major organs indicates that selective breeding in meat-producing birds has unintended consequences that may bias these birds toward compromised welfare and could limit further improvements in meat-production and feed efficiency.', u'Aetiologies of developmental dyslexia often assume a deficit in auditory processing may be causally entailed in the specific learning disorder. The purpose of this study is to compare a number of assumed auditory features that are supposed to evidence the account given by such aetiologies under conditions of strong inference. To do so, the relevant acoustic features were extracted from the same set of artificial speech stimuli that lie on a /bAk/-/dAk/ continuum. Features were tested on their ability to enable a simple classifier (Quadratic Discriminant Analysis) to reproduce the observed classification performance of average and dyslexic readers in a speech perception experiment. The \u2018classical\u2019 features examined were based on component process accounts of developmental dyslexia such as the supposed deficit in Envelope Rise Time detection and the deficit in the detection of rapid changes in the distribution of energy in the frequency spectrum (formant transitions). Studies examining these temporal processing deficit hypotheses remarkably do not employ measures that quantify the temporal dynamics of stimuli. It is shown that measures based on quantification of the dynamics of complex, interaction-dominant systems enable QDA to classify the stimuli almost identically as dyslexic and average reading participants. It seems unlikely that participants used any of the features that are traditionally associated with accounts of (impaired) speech perception that assume classifying speech stimuli amounts to a linear additive interaction of component processes that each parse the acoustic signal independent of one another.', u'Specialist herbivores are often thought to benefit the larger plant community, because they prevent their host species from becoming competitively dominant. In contrast, specialist enemies are not generally expected to have negative impacts on non-hosts. However, we describe a cascade of indirect interactions whereby a specialist sooty mold (Scorias spongiosa) colonizes the honeydew from a specialist beech aphid (Grylloprociphilus imbricator), ultimately decreasing the survival of seedlings beneath American beech trees (Fagus grandifolia). A common garden experiment indicated that this mortality resulted from moldy honeydew impairing leaf function rather than from chemical or microbial changes to the soil. In addition, aphids consistently colonized the same beech trees regardless of host density, suggesting that seedling-depauperate islands may form beneath these trees. Thus this highly specialized three-way beech-aphid-fungus interaction has the potential to impact local forest regeneration via a cascade of indirect effects.', u'Weevils are one of the largest groups of living organisms, with more than 60,000 species feeding mostly on plants. With only one exception, their described larvae are typical plant-feeders, with mouthparts adapted to chewing plant material. Here we describe the second case of a weevil with early-instar larvae adapted to killing conspecifics. We have studied the life history of Anchylorhynchus eriospathae G. G. Bondar, 1943, a species whose immatures feed internally on palm flowers and fruits. We provide detailed descriptions of all immature stages, including the extremely modified first-instar larva. Unlike other weevils and later instars, this stage exhibits a flat body with very long ventropedal lobe setae, a large and prognathous head with a gula, and falciform mandibles, each with a serrate retinaculum, that are used to fight with and eventually kill other first-instar larvae. We also provide biological notes on all stages and the results of behavioral tests that showed that larval aggression occurs only among early life stages. Finally we show that adult size is highly dependent on timing of oviposition. This specialized killer first instar probably evolved independently from the one other case known in weevils (in Revena rubiginosa). Interestingly, both lineages inhabit the same hosts, raising the possibility that both intra- and inter-specific competition shaped those phenotypes. Given the scarcity of knowledge on early larval stages of concealed insect herbivores, it is possible that our findings represent an instance of a much broader phenomenon. Our observations also allowed us to conclude that Anchylorhynchus eriospathae and A. hatschbachi G. G. Bondar, 1943 are actually the same species, which we synonymize here by considering the latter as a junior synonym (new synonymy).', u'Individuals with autism spectrum disorders are claimed to show a local cognitive bias, termed \u201cweak central coherence\u201d, which manifests in a reduced influence of contextual information on linguistic processing. Here, we investigated whether this bias might also be demonstrated by individuals who exhibit sub-clinical levels of autistic traits, as has been found for other aspects of autistic cognition. The eye-movements of 71 university students were monitored as they completed a reading comprehension task. Consistent with previous studies, participants made shorter fixations on words that were highly predicted on the basis of preceding sentence context. However, contrary to the weak central coherence account, this effect was not reduced amongst individuals with high levels of autistic traits, as measured by the Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ). Further exploratory analyses revealed that participants with high AQ scores fixated longer on words that resolved the meaning of an earlier homograph. However, this was only the case for sentences where the two potential meanings of the homograph result in different pronunciations. The results provide tentative evidence for differences in reading style that are associated with autistic traits, but fail to support the notion of weak central coherence extending into the non-autistic population.', u'Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) is a simple and effective medical treatment for sudden cardiac arrest patients. Because of those existing interferences in the experiments, most of the animal experiments and the CPRs in vivo studies get contradictory conclusions. In this report, according to the current theories of CPR, we got a CPR model; simulated various CPR technologies, and compared their hemodynamic variables. Compared the simulation results and animal experimental data, this report showed that when the External counterpulsation technique applied in CPR, the cardiac output, as well as the diastolic and the aortic pressure would be improved, which was consistent with the results of animal experiments.', u'Contagious parthenogenesis \u2013 a process involving rare functional males produced by a parthenogenetic lineage, which mate with coexisting sexual females resulting in fertile parthenogenetic offspring \u2013 is one of the most striking mechanisms responsible for the generation of new parthenogenetic lineages. Populations of the parthenogenetic diploid brine shrimp Artemia produce fully functional males in low proportions. The evolutionary role of these so-called Artemia rare males is, however, unknown. Here we investigate whether new parthenogenetic clones could be obtained in the laboratory through contagious origin. We assessed the survival and sex ratio of the hybrid ovoviviparous offspring from previous crosses between rare males and females from all Asiatic sexual species, carried out cross-mating experiments between F1 hybrid individuals to assess their fertility, and estimated the viability and the reproductive mode of the resulting F2 offspring. Molecular analysis confirmed the parentage of hybrid parthenogenetic F2. Our study documents the first synthesis of parthenogenetic lineages through contagious parthenogenesis in Artemia. We discuss the possible genetic mechanisms responsible for parthenogenesis and the likelihood of contagious parthenogenesis in natural environments.', u'Background: Longitudinal investigations into the origins of adult essential hypertension have found elevated blood pressure in children to accurately track into adulthood, however the direct causes of essential hypertension in adolescence and adulthood remains unclear.\nMethods: Cohort study, we revisited 152 Peruvian adolescents from a birth cohort evaluated with monthly anthropometric measurements between 1995 and 1998, and obtained anthropometric and blood pressure measurements 11 to 14 years later. We used multivariable regression models to study the effects of infantile and childhood growth trends on blood pressure and central obesity in early adolescence.\nResults: In regression models adjusted for childhood growth, each 0.1 SD increase in weight for length from 0 to 5 months of age, and 1 SD increase from 6 to 30 months of age, predicted decreased adolescent systolic blood pressure by 1.3 mm Hg (95% CI -2.4 to -0.1) and 2.5 mm Hg (95% CI -4.9 to 0.0), and decreased waist circumference by 0.6 (95% CI -1.1 to 0.0) and 1.2 cm (95% CI -2.3 to -0.1) respectively. Growth in infancy and early childhood was not a significant predictor of adolescent waist-to-hip ratio.\nConclusions: Rapid compensatory growth in early life has been posited to increase the risk of long-term cardiovascular morbidities such that nutritional interventions may do more harm than good. However, we found increased weight growth during infancy and early childhood to predict decreases in adolescent systolic blood pressure and central adiposity.', u'The neurodegenerative spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is caused by aggregation and misfolding of the ataxin-1 protein. While the pathology correlates with mutations that lead to expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the protein, other regions contribute to the aggregation process as also non-expanded ataxin-1 is intrinsically aggregation-prone and forms nuclear foci in cell. Here, we have used a combined approach based on FRET analysis, confocal microscopy and in vitro techniques to map aggregation-prone regions other than polyglutamine and to establish the importance of dimerization in self-association/foci formation. Identification of aggregation-prone regions other than polyglutamine could greatly help the development of SCA1 treatment more specific than that based on targeting the low complexity polyglutamine region.', u'The development of citizen science has brought together scientific expertise and volunteer involvement to answer both scientific and societal questions. In this study, a consortium of citizens, journalist, scientists and non governmental organisations reports the first measure of the market-wide rate of fish mislabelling in France.We collected in fishmonger shops, supermarkets and restaurants and sequenced 390 samples of fish either in fillets or prepared meals, which is the largest dataset assembled to date in an European country.The overall substitution rate is one of the lowest observed for comparable surveys with large sampling in Europe. Remarkably, we detected no case of species mislabelling among the frozen fillets or in industrially prepared meals. We also investigated most of the mislabelling cases detected directly from the sellers. A number of them admitted that the substitution took place at the end of the supply chain.The rate of mislabelling does not differ between species (3.7 %, ci 2.2-6.4%), except for bluefin tuna. Despite a very small sample size (n=6), this species stands in sharp contrast with the low substitution rate observed for the other species (rate between 36 and 99%). This study shows that even in countries where species substitution rate is low, citizen science can enhance the management of natural resources and provide important insights for regulation policies.', u'Why are the retinal color receptors cone-shaped? This is not a trivial question: the cone shape is evidently a universal feature of the color receptors while the achromatic rod receptors are always rod-shaped. What might be behind this dichotomy has not previously been explored in any meaningful way. We suggest here that the cone shape is not an incidental feature, but actually integral to cone function. We describe a waveguide mode cut-off effect that can physically separate light into its spectral colors along the length of a small, tapered waveguide, i.e., a cone. This effect converts the spectrum of incident light into position-dependent information along a tapered fiber; long-wavelength red light is excluded from the cone first, and the shortest-wavelength, blue light last. The retinal cone optical dimensions are apparently ideally tuned to exhibit this spectral dispersion. Converting this length-correlated information into a readable color code can be accomplished through translation into a time-correlated code through the microsaccadic movements of the eye to synchronize the time-delayed electrical signal generated by photoabsorption events from different positions along the receptor. Such a time code explains the existence of subjective color effects such as that induced by Benham\u2019s Top. Detecting color information through such a waveguide effect also explains the Stiles-Crawford Effect of the Second Kind (SC II) whereby the apparent color of monochromatic light depends on its angle of incidence at the retina. The long puzzling similarity of violet and purple is directly explained by excitation of second-order waveguide mode propagation for short-wavelength light in this model. This dynamic model of color vision also accounts for the breakdown of statically-established metameric color matches under dynamic presentation, a feature of color vision that contradicts the basic assumptions of the standard Young-Helmholtz trichromatic model. Further underscoring the utility of the our proposed model is that it explains the major features of common forms of color blindness as a consequence of \u201cmistuning\u201d of the cone parameters.', u'Ciprofloxacin and sulfamethoxazole are two antibiotics commonly detected in the aquatic environment, but information on their toxicity towards natural microbial communities is largely absent. In particular no data are available for marine microorganisms. Aim of the current study was therefore to evaluate the chronic toxicity of ciprofloxacin and sulfamethoxazole on natural marine biofilms (periphyton), a complex ecological community comprising a variety of bacterial and algal species. The biofilms were sampled along the Swedish west coast and subsequently exposed over 4 days in a semi-static system to a concentration series of each antibiotic. Effects on the bacterial part of the periphyton community were assessed using Biolog Ecoplates, reflecting total respiration and functional diversity of the bacterial community. Exposure to either antibiotic resulted in a clear concentration-response relationship with EC10 and EC50 values for the inhibition of total carbon source utilization of 46.1 nmol/L and 490.7 nmol/L for ciprofloxacin, respectively 56 and 1073 nmol/L for sulfamethoxazole. The NOEC for ciprofloxacin was 26 nmol/L, with a minimum significant difference of 19.24%, for sulfamethoxazole it was 140 nmol/L with a minimum significant difference of 14%. Multivariate data exploration of the whole carbon source utilization pattern confirmed these results. The data indicate that sulfamethoxazole leads to a general decrease in carbon source utilization, while ciprofloxacin exposure leads to a re-arrangement of the carbon-utilization pattern in the region of 20-50% effect. This corresponds with the higher specificity of ciprofloxacin for certain bacterial species. Effects on the algal part of the communities were evaluated by analyzing the amount and composition of photosynthetic pigments, and neither ciprofloxacin nor sulfamethoxazole caused any inhibitory effects up to the maximum tested concentration of 9 000 nmol/L. However, sulfamethoxazole exposure did lead to a significant stimulation (75% above control level) of the total pigment content of the biofilm already at the lowest tested concentration of 5 nmol/L. The stimulation then decreased with increasing concentrations to finally return to control level at 3 000 nmol/L. No shifts in the relative pigment composition were observed, indicating a generally increased algal biomass without major shifts in community composition.', u'The dinosaur Plateosaurus engelhardti is the most abundant dinosaur in the Late Triassic of Europe and the best known basal sauropodomorph. Plateosaurus engelhardti was one of the first sauropdomorph dinosaurs to display a large body size. Remains can be found in the Norian stage of the Late Triassic in over 40 localities in Central Europe (France, Germany, Greenland and Switzerland). Since the first discovery of P. engelhardti no juvenile specimens of this species had been found. Here we describe the first remains of juvenile individuals, isolated cervical and dorsal neural arches. These were separated postmortem from their respective centra because of unfused neurocentral sutures. However the specimens share the same neural arch morphology found in adults. Morphometric analysis suggests a body lengths of the juvenile indivduals that is greater than those of most adult specimens. This supports the hypothesis of developmental plasticity in Plateosaurus engelhardti that previously had been based on histological data only. Alternative hypotheses for explaining the poor correlation between ontogenetic stage and size in this taxon are multiple species or sexual morphs with little morphological variance or time-averaging of individuals from populations differing in body size.', u'Loss of large mammalian carnivores may allow smaller mesopredators to become abundant and threaten other community members. There is considerable debate about mesopredator release and the role that other potential factors such as landscape variables and human alterations to land cover lead to increased mesopredator abundance. We used camera traps to detect four mesopredators (tayra, Eira barbara; white-nosed coati, Nasua narica; northern raccoon, Procyon lotor; and common opossum, Didelphis opossum) in a biological corridor in Costa Rica to estimate habitat covariates that influenced the species\u2019 detection and occurrence. We selected these mesopredators because as semi-arboreal species they might be common nest predators, posing a serious threat to resident and migratory songbirds. Pineapple production had a pronounced positive effect on the detectability of tayras, while forest cover had a negative effect on the detection of coatis. This suggests that abundance might be elevated due to the availability of agricultural food resources and foraging activities are concentrated in forest fragments and pineapple edge habitats. Raccoon and opossum models exhibited little influence on detection from habitat covariates. Occurrence models did not suggest any significant factors influencing site use by nest predators, revealing that all four species are habitat generalists adapted to co- existing in human altered landscapes. Furthermore, fragmentation and land cover changes may predispose nesting birds, herpetofauna, and small mammals to heightened predation risk by mesopredators in the Neotropics.', u'The threatened status (both ecologically and legally) of Caribbean staghorn coral, Acropora cervicornis, has prompted rapidly expanding efforts in culture and restocking, although tissue loss diseases continue to affect populations. In this study, disease surveillance and histopathological characterization were used to compare disease dynamics and conditions in both restored and extant wild populations. Disease had devastating effects on both wild and restored populations, but dynamics were highly variable and appeared to be site-specific with no significant differences in disease prevalence between wild versus restored sites. Disease affected up to 80% of colonies at one site following a tropical storm. A subset of 20 haphazardly selected colonies at each site observed over a single field season revealed widely varying disease incidence, although not in a consistent way between restored and wild sites, and a case fatality rate of 8%. Lastly, two field mitigation techniques, (1) excision of apparently healthy branch tips from a diseased colony, and (2) placement of a band of epoxy fully enclosing the diseased margin, gave equivocal results with no significant benefit detected for either treatment compared to controls. Tissue condition of associated samples was fair to very poor; unsuccessful mitigation treatment samples had severe degeneration of mesenterial filament cnidoglandular bands. Polyp mucocytes in all samples were infected with suspect rickettsia-like organisms; no bacterial aggregates were found. Overall results do not support differing disease quality, quantity, dynamics, or health management strategies between restored and wild colonies of A. cervicornis in the Florida Keys.', u'Understanding female mate preference is important for determining the strength and the direction of sexual trait evolution. Male signalling intensity is often an important predictor of mating success because higher intensity (louder) signallers are detectable at greater distances. However, if females are simultaneously more attracted to higher signalling intensities, then the potential fitness impacts of higher intensity signalling should be elevated beyond what would be expected from detection distance alone. Here we manipulated the signal intensity of cricket mate attraction signals to determine how female phonotaxis was influenced. We examined female phonotaxis using two common methodologies: spherical treadmills and open arenas. Both methodologies showed similar results, with females exhibiting highest phonotaxis towards loud (X\u0305+1 SD = 69 dB) mate attraction signals but showing reduced phonotaxis towards the loudest (X\u0305+2 SD = 77 dB) signals. Reduced phonotaxis towards supernormal stimuli may occur for several reasons including elevating the females\u2019 perceived predation risk, invoking females\u2019 acoustic startle response, or exceeding females\u2019 perceptual limits.', u'Gereau et al. (2013) criticized our recent analysis on the phylogenetic patterns of extinction risk in the Eastern Arc biodiversity hotspot (Yessoufou et al. 2012). However, Gereau and colleagues based their critique on preconceptions and speculation rather than data. Here we identify several shortfalls in their lines of argument, and suggest that, given current rates of extinction, it is far more dangerous to wait for complete Red List assessments than to explore patterns of threat using available data. Nonetheless, we agree that all analyses should be based upon the best available data, and we encourage the rapid releases of new data on threat status for the flora of the Eastern Arc.', u"Background. Here we report on a meta-analysis of the attentional blink (AB) research focussed on specific reading impairment, commonly referred to as developmental dyslexia. The AB effect relates to a limitation in the allocation of attention over time and examined in a dual-target rapid serial visual presentation paradigm. When the second target appears in close temporal proximity to the first target, the second target is reported less accurately.\nMethod. A Web of Science search with terms 'dyslexia attentional blink' returned 13 AB experiments (11 papers) conducted with developmental dyslexia (9 were included in this meta-analysis). The main pattern of performance was lower overall accuracy in groups of individuals with dyslexia relative to typically reading peers. That is, a between-group main effect. This meta-analysis examined the size of the between-group effect in relation to physical presentation characteristics, which differed between and within experiments.\nResults. Four noteworthy variables were related to the between group effect-size; fixation duration (positive relationship, R2 = .89, p <.01, n = 6), maximum temporal position of T2 (negative relationship, R2 = .46, p <.05, n = 9), the difference between the minimum and maximum temporal position of T2 (negative relationship, R2 = .53, p <.05, n = 9), and the stimulus onset asynchrony (negative relationship, R2 = .46, p <.05, n = 9).\nDiscussion. These are discussed with respect to the preparation of task-set, temporal orienting, and speed of processing, recommending these as considerations for future research.", u'Passive acoustic monitoring is playing an increasing role in the detection of endangered North Atlantic right whales (NARW). Previous acoustic monitoring has relied on a single stereotyped vocalization, the upcall. Here the entire repertoire produced by NARW during the winter and early spring in Cape Cod Bay, Massachusetts is described. An objective sound classification scheme and automatic classification algorithm were developed. Nine days of acoustic recordings were used for the data analysis and a total of 9,611 right whale sounds were identified. The objective classification scheme of right whale sounds allowed for rapid identification of a diversity of right whale sounds. These sounds were assigned to 6 classes of narrowband upcalls, downsweep, complex and high frequency calls, wideband gunshot sounds and complex sounds. Results indicate that the prevalence of upcalls varied from 28% of detected calls in January to 80% in April. Other classes of signals were also well represented in the repertoire including the narrowband complex(10-36%) and high frequency calls (1-26%), wideband gunshot sounds (4-25%) and wideband complex sounds (0 \u2013 25%). The prevalence of non-upcall signals suggests that including more signals classes may improve rates of detection for right whales in the Cape Cod Bay habitat.', u'Large-scale human groups cannot rely on shared genetic interests or dyadic reciprocity to ensure social cohesion as genetic similarity is low and indirect reciprocity is rife; nevertheless, such societies continue to cohere, due to the evolution of novel regulatory mechanisms that inhibit defaulting on social obligations: moral sentiments and actions. The present paper argues that the extent of moral concern can be most usefully identified by defining the set of functions required to sustain a human \u2018superorganism\u2019. These functions are determined to be boundary, production, distribution, storage, control, structure, enforcement, signaling, memory, excretion, perception and reproductive functions. Moral obligations to act arise when individuals default on contributing to these functions. To test this approach, roughly 80,000 respondents from over 200 countries completed a web-based experiment hosted by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). This experiment elicited a suite of responses to a set of 33 short scenarios derived from the 13 domains of superorganism function. Results indicate that all functions are moralized, while violations falling outside this domain (social conventions and individual decisions) are not. People living in larger communities exhibited stronger moral sentiments and action propensities, consistent with the greater interdependence of living in groups with more social roles. Such people were also more likely to see the function of the justice system as supporting group-level protection rather than personal recrimination or restitution, were more willing to engage in punishment of those who failed to punish cheaters, and more offended by those who choose not to contribute to social welfare. These results support the contention of Human Superorganism Theory that large-scale human groups strongly rely on moral propensities to regulate those who fail to perform superorganismal functions. Given this supporting evidence, we believe this new approach to defining the moral domain has implications for fields ranging from psychology to legal theory.', u'Multiple cell types form specialized protein complexes, podosomes or invadopodia and collectively referred to as invadosomes, which are used by the cell to actively degrade the surrounding extracellular matrix. Due to their potential importance in both healthy physiology as well as in pathological conditions such as cancer, the characterization of these structures has been of increasing interest. Following early descriptions of invadopodia, assays were developed which labelled the matrix underneath metastatic cancer cells allowing for the assessment of invadopodia activity in motile cells. However, characterization of invadopodia using these methods has traditionally been done manually with time-consuming and potentially biased quantification methods, limiting the number of experiments and the quantity of data that can be analysed. We have developed a system to automate the segmentation, tracking and quantification of invadopodia in time-lapse fluorescence image sets at both the single invadopodia level and whole cell level. We rigorously tested the ability of the method to detect changes in invadopodia formation and dynamics through the use of well-characterized small molecule inhibitors, with known effects on invadopodia. Our results demonstrate the ability of this analysis method to quantify changes in invadopodia formation from live cell imaging data in a high throughput, automated manner.', u'The Eurasian or spotted nutcracker (Nucifraga caryocatactes) is a widespread resident corvid found throughout the Palearctic from Central Europe to Japan. Characterized by periodic bouts of irruptive dispersal in search of Pinus seed crops, this species has potential for high levels of gene flow across its range. Previous analysis of 11 individuals did not find significant range-wide population genetic structure. We investigated population structure using 924 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA control region sequence data from 62 individuals from 12 populations distributed throughout the nutcracker\u2019s range. We complemented this analysis by incorporating additional genetic data from previously published sequences. High levels of genetic diversity and limited population genetic structure were detected suggesting that potential barriers to dispersal do not restrict gene flow in nutcrackers.', u'A multitude of studies have looked at the in vivo and in vitro behavior of the lac repressor binding to DNA and effector molecules in order to study transcriptional repression, however these studies are not always reconcilable. Here we use in vitro transcription to directly mimic the in vivo system in order to build a self consistent set of experiments to directly compare in vivo and in vitro genetic repression. A thermodynamic model of the lac repressor binding to operator DNA and effector is used to link DNA occupancy to either normalized in vitro mRNA product or normalized in vivo fluorescence of a regulated gene, YFP. An accurate measurement of repressor, DNA and effector concentrations were made both in vivo and in vitro allowing for direct modeling of the entire thermodynamic equilibrium. In vivo repression profiles are accurately predicted from the given in vitro parameters when molecular crowding is considered. Interestingly, our measured repressor-operator DNA affinity differs significantly from previous in vitro measurements. The literature values are unable to replicate in vivo binding data. We therefore conclude that the repressor-DNA affinity is much weaker than previously thought. This finding would suggest that in vitro techniques that are specifically designed to mimic the in vivo process may be necessary to replicate the native system.', u'Wing pigmentation in Calopteryx damselflies, caused by the deposition of melanin, is energetically expensive to produce and enhances predation risk. However, patterns of melanisation are used in species identification, greater pigmentation is an accurate signal of male immune function in at least some species, and there may be a role for pigment in thermoregulation. This study tested two potential hypotheses to explain the presence of, and variation in, this pigmentation based on these three potential benefits using 907 male specimens of Calopteryx maculata collected from 49 sites (34 discrete populations) across the geographical range of the species in North America: (i) pigmentation varies with the presence of the closely related species, Calopteryx aequabilis, and (ii) pigment increases at higher latitudes as would be expected if it enhances thermoregulatory capacity. No gradual latitudinal pattern was observed, as might be expected if pigmentation was involved in thermoregulation. However, strong variation was observed between populations that were sympatric or allopatric with C. aequabilis. This variation was characterised by dark wings through allopatry in the south of the range and then a step change to much lighter wings at the southern border of sympatry. Pigmentation then increased further north into the sympatric zone, finally returning to allopatry levels at the northern range margin. These patterns are qualitatively similar to variation in pigmentation in C. aequabilis, meaning that the data are consistent with what would be expected from convergent character displacement. Overall, the results corroborate recent research that has suggested sexual selection as a primary driver behind the evolution of wing pigmentation in this group.', u'Vegetation trampling resulting from recreation can adversely impact natural habitats, leading to the loss of vegetation and the degradation of plant communities. A considerable primary literature exists on this topic, therefore it is important to assess whether this accumulated evidence can be used to reach general conclusions concerning vegetation vulnerability to inform conservation management decisions. Experimental trampling studies on a global scale were retrieved using a systematic review methodology and synthesised using random effects meta-analysis. The relationships between vegetation recovery and each of initial vegetation resistance, trampling intensity, time for recovery, Raunkiaer life-form (perennating bud position), and habitat were tested using random effects multiple meta-regressions and subgroup analyses. The systematic search yielded 304 studies; of these, nine reported relevant randomized controlled experiments, providing 188 vegetation recovery effect sizes for analysis. The synthesis indicated there was significant heterogeneity in the impact of trampling on vegetation recovery. This was related to resistance and recovery time, and the interactions of these variables with Raunkiaer life-form, but was not strongly dependent on the intensity of the trampling experienced. The available evidence suggests that vegetation dominated by hemicryptophytes and geophytes recovers from trampling to a greater extent than vegetation dominated by other life-forms. Variation in effect within the chamaephyte, hemicryptophyte and geophyte life-form sub-groups was also explained by the initial resistance of vegetation to trampling, but not by trampling intensity. Intrinsic properties of plant communities appear to be the most important factors determining the response of vegetation to trampling disturbance. Specifically, the dominant Raunkiaer life-form of a plant community accounts for more variation in the resilience of communities to trampling than the intensity of the trampling experienced, suggesting that simple assessments based on this trait could guide decisions concerning sustainable access to natural areas. Methodological and reporting limitations must be overcome before more disparate types of evidence can be synthesised; this would enable more reliable extrapolation to non-study situations, and a more comprehensive understanding of how assessments of intrinsic plant traits can be used to underpin conservation management decisions concerning access.', u'Restriction-site associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) has become a powerful and useful approach for population genomics. Currently, no software exists that utilizes both paired-end reads from RADseq data to efficiently produce population-informative variant calls, especially for organisms with large effective population sizes and high levels of genetic polymorphism but for which no genomic resources exist. dDocent is an analysis pipeline with a user-friendly, command-line interface designed to process individually barcoded RADseq data (with double cut sites) into informative SNPs/Indels for population-level analyses. The pipeline, written in BASH, uses data reduction techniques and other stand-alone software packages to perform quality trimming and adapter removal, de novo assembly of RAD loci, read mapping, SNP and Indel calling, and baseline data filtering. Double-digest RAD data from population pairings of three different marine fishes were used to compare dDocent with Stacks, the first generally available, widely used pipeline for analysis of RADseq data. dDocent consistently identified more SNPs shared across greater numbers of individuals and with higher levels of coverage. This is most likely due to the fact that dDocent quality trims instead of filtering and incorporates both forward and reverse reads in assembly, mapping, and SNP calling, thus enabling use of reads with Indel polymorphisms. The pipeline and a comprehensive user guide can be found at (http://dDocent.wordpress.com).', u'Caenorhabditis elegans is commonly used as an infection model for pathogenesis studies in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. While the standard virulence assays rely on the slow and fast killing or paralysis of nematodes, here we developed a behaviour assay to monitor the preferred bacterial food sources of C. elegans. The type III secretion system is a well-conserved virulence trait that is not required for slow or fast killing of C. elegans. However, \u0394exsE mutants that are competent for hypersecretion of ExoS, ExoT and ExoY effectors were avoided as food sources in binary assays. Conversely, mutants lacking the secretion machinery or type III effectors were preferred food sources for PAO1. In binary feeding assays, both food sources were ingested and observed in the gastrointestinal tract, but non-preferred food sources were ultimately avoided. Next we developed a high throughput feeding behaviour assay to test a library of 2370 transposon mutants in order to identify preferred food sources. After primary and secondary screens, 37 mutants were identified as preferred food sources, which included mutations in many known virulence genes and that showed reduced virulence in the slow killing assay. We propose that C. elegans feeding behaviour can be used as a sensitive indicator of virulence for bacterial strains that have moderate worm killing activity.', u'We determined the effect of butyrate and other short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) on rates of lipolysis in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Prolonged treatment with butyrate (5 mM) increased the rate of lipolysis approximately 2-3-fold. Aminobutyric acid and acetate had little or no effect on lipolysis, however propionate stimulated lipolysis, suggesting that butyrate and propionate act through their shared activity as histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors. Consistent with this, the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (1 \u03bcM) also stimulated lipolysis to a similar extent as did butyrate. Western blot data suggested that neither mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation nor perilipin down-regulation are necessary for SCFA-induced lipolysis. Stimulation of lipolysis with butyrate and trichostatin A was glucose-dependent. Changes in AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation mediated by glucose were independent of changes in rates of lipolysis. The glycolytic inhibitor iodoacetate prevented both butyrate- and Tumor necrosis factor-alpha-(TNF-\u03b1 ) mediated increases in rates of lipolysis indicating glucose metabolism is required. However, unlike TNF-\u03b1 - , butyrate-stimulated lipolysis was not associated with increased lactate release or inhibited by activation of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) with dichloroacetate. These data demonstrate an important relationship between lipolytic activity and reported HDAC inhibitory activity of butyrate, other short-chain fatty acids and trichostatin A. Given that HDAC inhibitors are presently being evaluated for the treatment of diabetes and other disorders, more work will be essential to determine if these effects on lipolysis are due to inhibition of HDAC.', u'Obesity in human populations, currently a serious health concern, is considered to be the consequence of an energy imbalance in which more energy in calories is consumed than is expended. We used interval mapping techniques to investigate the genetic basis of a number of energy balance traits in an F11 advanced intercross population of mice created from an original intercross of lines selected for increased and decreased heat loss. We uncovered a total of 137 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for these traits at 41 unique sites on 18 of the 20 chromosomes in the mouse genome, with X-linked QTLs being most prevalent. Two QTLs were found for the selection target of heat loss, one on distal chromosome 1 and another on proximal chromosome 2. The number of QTLs affecting the various traits generally was consistent with previous estimates of heritabilities in the same population, with the most found for two bone mineral traits and the least for feed intake and several body composition traits. QTLs were generally additive in their effects, and some, especially those affecting the body weight traits, were sex-specific. Pleiotropy was extensive within trait groups (body weights, adiposity and organ weight traits, bone traits) and especially between body composition traits adjusted and not adjusted for body weight at sacrifice. Nine QTLs were found for one or more of the adiposity traits, five of which appeared to be unique. The confidence intervals among all QTLs averaged 13.3 Mb, much smaller than usually observed in an F2 cross, and in some cases this allowed us to make reasonable inferences about candidate genes underlying these QTLs. This study combined QTL mapping with genetic parameter analysis in a large segregating population, and has advanced our understanding of the genetic architecture of complex traits related to obesity.', u"Tlusty's topological analysis of the genetic code suggests ecosystem changes in available metabolic free energy that predated the aerobic transition enabled a punctuated sequence of increasingly complex genetic codes and protein translators, protein folding codes, and monosaccharide cell-surface codes. These coevolved via various 'Cambrian explosions' until, very early on, the ancestors of the present narrow spectrum of such biological machineries outcompeted other codings and became evolutionarily locked in at surprisingly modest levels of fitness likely reflecting a modest embedding metabolic free energy ecology. Thus biochemical 'Cambrian singularities' must have occurred at different scales and levels of organization on Earth, with competition or chance-selected outcomes frozen at a far earlier period than the physical bauplan Cambrian explosion. Beyond codes, other examples might include explosive variations in mechanisms of photosynthesis, and the subsequent manifold oxygen metabolisms. Intermediate between Cambrian bauplan and genetic code, variants remain today, even after evolutionary pruning, often protected in specialized ecological niches. It is even possible to interpret the most basic biological 'coding' from this perspective, i.e., homochirality. This suggests that, under other astrobiological ecologies, different spectra of biochemical codes and other mechanisms may survive in appropriate niches.", u'Bacteria were long assumed to be monoploid, maintaining one copy of a circular chromosome. In recent years it became obvious that the majority of species in several phylogenetic groups of prokaryotes are oligoploid or polyploid, e.g. in halophilic and methanogenic archaea, proteobacteria, and cyanobacteria. The present study aimed at investigating the distribution of ploidy in an additional group of prokaryotes, i.e. in the gram-positive genus Bacillus. First, the numbers of origins and termini of the two laboratory strains Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus megaterium were quantified using an optimized real time PCR approach. B. subtilis was found to be mero-oligoploid in exponential phase with, on average, 5.9 origins and 1.2 termini. In stationary phase the average numbers of origins per cell was considerably smaller. B. megaterium was found to be polyploid in exponential phase with about 12 copies of the origin and terminus. Again, the ploidy level was down-regulated in stationary phase. To verify that oligo-/polyploidy is not confined to strains with a long history of growth in the laboratory, three strains were newly isolated from soil, which were found to belong to the genera of Bacillus and Paenibacillus. All three strains were found to be oligoploid with a growth-phase dependent down-regulation of the ploidy level in stationary phase. Taken together, these results indicate that oligo-/polyploidy might be more widespread in Bacillus and related genera than assumed until now and that monoploidy is not typical.', u'Predator-prey interactions have a major effect on species abundance and diversity and aggregation is a well-known anti-predator behavior. For immobile prey, the effectiveness of aggregation depends on two conditions: (a) the inability of the predator to consume all prey in a group and (b) detection of a single large group not being proportionally easier than that of several small groups. While the benefits of grouping to avoid visually hunting predators are well understood, the potential costs and benefits of aggregation when visual cues are not available are not well understood. We carried out foraging (predation) experiments using a fish predator and (dead) chironomid larvae as prey in both laboratory and field settings. In the laboratory, a reduction in visual cue availability (in turbid water) led to a delay in the location of aggregated prey compared to when visual cues were available, but aggregated prey suffered high mortality once discovered, leading to better survival of dispersed prey in the longer term (this was likely due to their inability to take evasive action and due to prey groups being small). In the field (where prey were placed in feeding stations that allowed transmission of olfactory but not visual cues), aggregated (large groups) and semi-dispersed prey survived for longer than dispersed prey \u2013 including long term survival. Together, our results indicate that like in systems where predators hunt using vision, aggregation is an effective anti-predator behavior for prey avoiding olfactory predators.', u'Background. An \u201cIn Silico 2D/3D Conformer Screening\u201d for structural similar antitumor substances to Curcumin was carried out and the novel antrachinone BTB14431 was found. Emodin, contained in several Chinese medical plants and BTB14431 are known to be potential inhibitors of the COP9-signalosome - stabilizing the tumor suppressor protein p53. The aim of this study was to analyze the suppressing effects on colorectal cancer in a standardized rat model (WAG/Rij).\nMethods. A suspension of CC531 colon cancer cells was applied to the cecum after laparotomy and, additionally, at the back of animals. Therapy was conducted twice daily for 7 days, with increasing doses of BTB14431, Emodin and with isotone sodium chloride solution (control) intravenously (iv) or intraperitoneally (ip). Therapy was initiated the day of tumor cell application. Peripheral blood samples were taken before surgery and on day 7. 21 days after the end of therapy, the animals were euthanized and tumor growth was evaluated.\nResults. Data showed a downward trend of the total tumor growth after iv and ip treatment with low doses of BTB14431 and Emodin. Differential blood analysis showed apoptosis, but no major changes in hemogram. Increasing doses of Emodin elevated total mortality rate exponentially.\nConclusions.Although apoptosis was verified, no significant tumor suppressing effects could be observed for iv and ip treatment of both agents in our model. This stays in contrast to former in vitro studies. Agents remain viable novel substances. They will be the subject of upcoming studies. Additional data is needed to evaluate the significance of the \u201cIn Silico Screening\u201d to identify potential in vivo anti-tumor drugs.', u'Emberizid sparrows (emberizidae) have played a prominent role in the study of avian vocal communication and social behavior. We present here brain transcriptomes for three emberizid model systems, song sparrow Melospiza melodia, white-throated sparrow Zonotrichia albicollis, and Gambel\u2019s white-crowned sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii. Each of the assemblies covered fully or in part, over 89% of the previously annotated protein coding genes in the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata, with 16,846, 15,805, and 16,646 unique BLAST hits in song, white-throated and white-crowned sparrows, respectively. As in previous studies, we find tissue of origin (auditory forebrain versus hypothalamus and whole brain) as a primary determinant of overall expression profile. We also demonstrate the successful isolation of RNA and RNA-sequencing from post-mortem samples from building strikes and suggest that such an approach could be useful when traditional sampling opportunities are limited. These transcriptomes will be an important resource for the study of social behavior in birds and for data driven annotation of forthcoming whole genome sequences for these and other bird species.', u'In Drosophila, iron is stored in the endomembrane system of cells inside a protein cavity formed by 24 ferritin subunits of two types (Fer1HCH and Fer2LCH) in a 1:1 stoichiometry. Ferritin accumulates in the midgut, nervous system, hemolymph and nephrocytes of Drosophila larvae. Here, we show that mutation of either ferritin gene product or deletion of both genes resulted in a similar set of phenotypes of embryonic lethality, ranging from non-deposition of cuticle to developmental defects associated with germ band retraction, dorsal closure and head involution. Maternal contribution of ferritin, which varied reflecting the mother\u2019s iron stores, is used in early development, but zygotic ferritin mutants died with ectopic apoptotic events and disrupted intestinal morphology. The embryonic nervous system of ferritin mutants presented ventral nerve cord disruptions, misguided axonal projections and brain malformations. Finally, ferritin accumulation was also observed in embryonic hemocytes. One ferritin mutant showed no hemocyte ferritin accumulation and this expression was also lost by genetic inhibition of the secretory pathway. Our work suggests that insect ferritin functions in iron storage, intercellular iron transport and protection from oxidative stress at multiple times during the embryonic development of Drosophila melanogaster.', u'Motivation: In environmental risk assessment, information about potential health risks of chemicals released into the environment is compiled and distilled for use in informing public policy. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) produces Integrated Science Assessments (ISA) that provide a review of literature on air pollutants, including nitrogen oxides (NOx). That review process currently requires much human labor to evaluate thousands of potentially-relevant documents published each year, a problem this study seeks to alleviate by using automated topic classification methods. Results: For this study, abstracts and titles of scientific documents about NOx were labeled by subject matter experts in four domains relevant to ISAs: toxicology, atmospheric science, epidemiology, and exposure science. In addition, documents not relevant to the four domains were included to simulate the background literature that we want to filter out of consideration. The labeled documents were used to train models using a Naive Bayes Multinomial classifier, via the Weka data mining platform. Separate tests were performed using multi-class or single-class models, and including background literature or not including it. For the multi-class models, recall (% of all documents in a class that are classified correctly) for scientific domains ranged between 74% and 94%, with precision (% of classified documents that are in the desired class) between 38% and 93%, with models created with background literature performing worse than models without the background documents. Single-class models had precision that ranged from 31% to 90%, and recall that ranged from 84% to 98%, with better precision for models not using background literature, but better overall recall for models using background literature. Single-class models generally performed better than multi-class models in recall, though multi-class models without the background screen tended to be best for precision.', u'Castration can change levels of plasma testosterone. Androgens such as testosterone play an important role in stabilizing birdsong. The robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) is an important premotor nucleus critical for singing. In this study, we investigated the effect of castration on singing patterns and electrophysiological properties of projection neurons (PNs) in the RA of adult male zebra finches.Adult male zebra finches were castrated and the changes in bird song assessed. We also recorded the electrophysiological changes from RA PNs using patch clamp recording. We found that the plasma levels of testosterone were significantly decreased, song syllable\u2019s entropy was increased and the similarity of motif was decreased after castration. Spontaneous and evoked firing rates, membrane time constants, and membrane capacitance of RA PNs in the castration group were lower than those of the control and the sham groups. Afterhyperpolarization\uff08AHP\uff09time to peak of spontaneous action potential (AP) was prolonged after castration.These findings suggest that castration decreases song stereotypy and excitability of RA PNs in male zebra finches.', u'The maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) method, typically used for polytomous logistic regression, is prone to bias due to both misclassification in outcome and contamination in the design matrix. Hence, robust estimators are needed. In this study, we propose such a method for nominal response data with continuous covariates. A generalized method of weighted moments (GMWM) approach is developed for dealing with contaminated polytomous response data. In this approach, distances are calculated based on individual sample moments. And Huber weights are applied to those observations with large distances. Mellow-type weights are also used to downplay leverage points. We describe theoretical properties of the proposed approach. Simulations suggest that the GMWM performs very well in correcting contamination-caused biases. An empirical application of the GMWM estimator on data from a survet demonstrates its usefulness.', u'The abundance and species richness of the cartilaginous fish community of the continental shelf and slope off central Chile is described, based on fishery-independent trawl tows made in 2006 and 2007. A total of 194,705 specimens comprising 20 species (9 sharks, 10 skates, 1 chimaera ) were caught at depths of 100 \u2013 500 m along a 1,000 km transect between 29.5\xb0 S and 39\xb0 S. Sample site locations were grouped to represent eight geographical zones within this latitudinal range. Species richness fluctuated from 1 to 6 species per zone. There was no significant latitudinal trend for sharks, but skates showed an increased species richness with increasing latitude. Standardised catch per unit effort increased with increasing depth for sharks, but not for skates, but the observed trend for increasing CPUE with latitude was not significant for either sharks or skates. A change in community composition occurred along the depth gradient with the skates, Psammobatis rudis, Zearaja chilensis and Dipturus trachyderma dominating communities between 100 and 300 m, but small-sized, deep-water dogfishes, such as Centroscyllium spp . dominated the catch between 300 and 500 m. Cluster and ordination analysis identified one widespread assemblage, grouping 58% of sites, and three shallow-water assemblages. Assemblages with low diversity ( coldspots ) coincided with highly productive fishing grounds for demersal crustaceans and bony fishes. The community distribution suggested that the differences between assemblages may be due to compensatory changes in mesopredator species abundance, as a consequence of continuous and unselective species removal. Distribution patterns and the quantitative assessment of sharks, skates and chimaeras presented here complement extant biogeographic knowledge and further the understanding of deep-water ecosystem dynamics in relation to fishing activity in the south-east Pacific Ocean.', u'Classification of antibody Complementarity-Determining Region (CDR) conformations is an important step that drives antibody modelling and engineering, prediction from sequence, directed mutagenesis and induced-fit studies, and allows inferences on sequence-to-structure relations. Most of the previous work performed conformational clustering on a reduced set of structures or after application of various structure pre-filtering criteria. In this study, it was judged that a clustering of every available CDR conformation would produce a complete and redundant repertoire, increase the number of sequence examples and allow better decisions on structure validity in the future. In order to cope with the potential increase in data noise, a first-level statistical clustering was performed using structure superposition Root-Mean-Square Deviation (RMSD) as a distance-criterion, coupled with second- and third-level clustering that employed Ramachandran regions for a deeper qualitative classification. The classification of a total of 12712 CDR conformations is thus presented, along with rich annotation and cluster descriptions, and the results are compared to previous major studies. The present repertoire has procured an improved image of our current CDR Knowledge-Base, with a novel nesting of conformational sensitivity and specificity that can serve as a systematic framework for improved prediction from sequence as well as a number of future studies that would aid in knowledge-based antibody engineering such as humanisation.', u'The accurate prediction of the conformation of Complementarity-Determining Regions (CDRs) is important in modelling antibodies for protein engineering applications. Specifically, the Canonical paradigm has proved successful in predicting the CDR conformation in antibody variable regions. It relies on canonical templates which detail allowed residues at key positions in the variable region framework or in the CDR itself for 5 of the 6 CDRs. While no templates have as yet been defined for the hypervariable CDR-H3, instead, reliable sequence rules have been devised for predicting the base of the CDR-H3 loop. Here a new method termed Disjoint Combinations Profiling (DCP) is presented, which contributes a considerable advance in the prediction of CDR conformations. This novel method is explained and compared with canonical templates and sequence rules in a 3-way blind prediction. DCP achieved 93% accuracy over 951 blind predictions and showed an improvement in cumulative accuracy compared to predictions with canonical templates or sequence-rules. In addition to its overall improvement in prediction accuracy, it is suggested that DCP is open to better implementations in the future and that it can improve as more antibody structures are deposited in the databank. In contrast, it is argued that canonical templates and sequence rules may have reached their peak.', u"Background There is a substantial amount of research in child health published each year in the European Union. Much of this work is paid for from public funds, or from charitable donations. This work covers many areas, but it is fragmented, and a great deal of it, especially the material not published in the indexed scientific literature, is hard to find, and harder to access. Response The EU, as one of the major funders of child health research, has funded a project, the Research Inventory of Child Health in Europe (RICHE), to prepare a roadmap for the future of child health research in Europe. Using a life course perspective, the project sought to identify the research done, define the gaps in the research, and make recommendations for future research funding priorities. Content RICHE is an FP7 funded project (contract no. 242181) tasked with preparing roadmaps for the future of child health research across Europe. Using a life-course perspective, the project has designed, and carried out, an open, transparent, and justifiable process to make recommendations for future research funding. We acknowledge that such recommendations are value judgements, and our aim was to present carefully justified value judgements. The project, which had 25 partners, in 19 countries, was organised into six workpackages \u2013 WP1 an inventory of child health research, including funded projects, reports, funders, and people; WP2 on ways of measuring child health, and indicators for child health; WP3 on gaps in child health research; WP4 on the roadmaps for future research; WP5 maintains a platform at http://childhealthresearch.eu/ ; WP6 was responsible for project management. Results The project has finished, and launched a report on 'Roadmaps for the Future of Child Health Research in Europe'. A key recommendation is the establishment of a European Child Health Observatory, with a focus on participation by children and young people. The work of implementing these proposals to improve the health of European children can begin.", u'Histopathology is the most useful tool for diagnosis of a number of diseases, especially cancer. To be effective, histopathology requires that tissues be fixed prior to processing. Formalin is currently the most common histologic fixative, offering many advantages: it is cheap, readily available, and pathologists are routinely trained to examine tissues fixed in formalin. However, formalin fixation substantially degrades tissue DNA, hindering subsequent use in diagnostics and research. We therefore evaluated three alternative fixatives, TissueTek\xae Xpress\xae Molecular Fixative, modified methacarn, and PAXgene\xae, all of which have been proposed as formalin alternatives, to determine their suitability for routine use in a veterinary diagnostic laboratory. This was accomplished by examining the histomorphology of sections produced from fixed tissues as well as the ability to amplify fragments from extracted DNA. Tissues were sampled from two dogs and four cats, fixed for 24-48 hours, and processed routinely. While all fixatives produced acceptable histomorphology, formalin had significantly better morphologic characteristics than the other three fixatives. Alternative fixatives generally had better DNA amplification than formalin, although results varied somewhat depending on the tissue examined. While no fixative is yet ready to replace formalin, the alternative fixatives examined may be useful as adjuncts to formalin in diagnostic practices.', u'William Bateson\u2019s background and training suggest sympathy with the black emancipation movement. Yet the movement\u2019s success is attributed more to battles between political figures, than between scientists with contending views on the biology of racial differences. Perhaps, in the long term, Bateson\u2019s contributions to slavery andeugenic issues will be seen as no less important than those of politicians. Mendel\u2019sdiscovery of what we now know as \u201cgenes\u201d languished until seized upon by Bateson in 1900. For six exhausting years he struggled to win scientific acceptance of these biological character-determining units. Later, he pressed the Mendelian message home to the general public, opposing simplistic applications of Mendelian principles to human affairs, and arguing that minor genic differences that distinguished races \u2013 e.g. skin colour \u2013 can seldom initiate new species. Indeed, the spark that initiates a divergence into two species can be non-genic. We are one reproductively isolated population, the human species.', u'The two major brain networks, i.e. the default mode network (DMN) and the task positive network, typically reveal negative and variable connectivity in resting-state. In the present study, we examined whether the connectivity between the DMN and different components of the task positive network were modulated by other brain regions by using physiophysiological interaction (PPI) on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Spatial independent component analysis was first conducted to identify components that represented networks of interest, including the anterior and posterior DMNs, salience, dorsal attention, left and right executive networks. PPI analysis was conducted between pairs of these networks to identify networks or regions that showed modulatory interactions with the two networks. Both network-wise and voxel-wise analyses revealed reciprocal positive modulatory interactions between the DMN, salience, and executive networks. Together with the anatomical properties of the salience network regions, the results suggest that the salience network may modulate the relationship between the DMN and executive networks. In addition, voxel-wise analysis demonstrated that the basal ganglia and thalamus positively interacted with the salience network and the dorsal attention network, and negatively interacted with the salience network and the DMN. The results demonstrated complex modulatory interactions among the DMNs and task positive networks in resting-state, and suggested that communications between these networks may be modulated by some critical brain structures such as the salience network, basal ganglia, and thalamus.', u'Falls have significant impact on affected individuals. They may lead to injuries including fractures, hospitalization, decrase in mobility, and loss of independence. Therefore, falls constitute a relevant outcome parameter in clinical trials. However, especially elderly and frail patients may forget to report or neglect falls. The use of fall-detection technology in clinical trials may overcome this challenges. However, commercially-available fall-detection technologies are designed as personal emergency response systems rather than as measurement tools to assess the effects of an intervention. Hence, before adopting a commercially-availablefall-detection technology in a clinical trial one has to assess its suitability for such application.', u'Molecular surveys of aphotic habitats have indicated the presence of major uncultured lineages phylogenetically classified as members of the Cyanobacteria. One of these lineages has recently been proposed as a non-photosynthetic sister phylum to the Cyanobacteria, the Melainabacteria, based on recovery of standard draft population genomes from human gut and groundwater samples. Here, we expand the phylogenomic representation of the Melainabacteria through sequencing of six diverse population genomes from gut and bioreactor samples supporting the inference that this lineage is non-photosynthetic, but not the assertion that they are strictly fermentative. We propose that the Melainabacteria is a class within the phylogenetically defined Cyanobacteria based on robust monophyly and shared ancestral traits with photosynthetic representatives. Our findings are consistent with theories that photosynthesis occurred late in the Cyanobacteria and involved extensive lateral gene transfer, and refutes the long held belief that oxygenic photosynthesis is a universal feature of this phylum.', u'For a patient to be compliant in wearing a device it is necessary to consider many factors as early on as at the time of device conception. These factors are divided up into outside influences and patient behavior. Outside influences can come from the treating physician\u2019s attitude about the device or the patient\u2019s own family. Any device affecting or altering patient\u2019s behavior/lifestyle will have a major impact on compliance. It is necessary to invest time and money in order to identify these factors to understand which type of patient populations will be compliant.', u"Background. Semantic Web technologies are increasingly used in biological database systems. The improved expressiveness shows advantages in tracking provenance and allowing knowledge to be more explicitly annotated. The list of semantic web standards needs a complementary set of tools to handle data in those formats to use them in bioinformatics workflows.\nMethods. The approach proposed in this paper uses the Apache Jena library to create an environment where semantic web technologies can be used in the statistical environment R. The code is exposed as two R packages available from the Comprehensive R Archive Network (CRAN). The RJava library and a custom convenience class is used to bridge between R and the Jena library.\nResults. We here present three examples showing how the Resource Description Framework (RDF) and SPARQL query standards can be employed in R. The first example takes input on BRCA1 SNPs from a BioMart and converts this into a RDF data set. The second example runs a query on an experimental remote SPARQL end point provided by Uniprot, and searches textual annotations of proteins encoded by the BRCA1 gene. The third example shows how the package can be used to handle RDF returned by OpenTox web services.\nDiscussion. The two provided library bring basic semantic web technologies to R. This paper only shows examples from the biology domain, but we believe the approaches are generally applicable. It currently only exposes a subset of key Apache Jena, but the rrdf package makes it easy to make more of the library's functionality, such as the shortest path finding. The rrdf libraries are freely available from the CRAN under the Affero GNU Public License version 3: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rrdf/.", u'While numerous effective peak finders have been developed for eukaryotic systems, we have found that the approaches used can be error prone when run on high coverage bacterial and archaeal ChIP-Seq datasets. We have developed Pique, an easy to use ChIP-Seq peak finding application for bacterial and archaeal ChIP-Seq experiments. The software is cross-platform and Open Source, and based on only freely licensed dependencies. Output is provided in standardized file formats, and may be easily imported by the Gaggle Genome Browser (Bare et al. 2010) for manual curation and data exploration, or into statistical and graphics software such as R (R Core Team 2013) for further analysis. The software is available under the BSD-3 license, and tutorial and test data are included with the documentation.\nhttp://github.com/ryneches/pique.', u'Anhedonia, a diminished or lack of ability to experience and anticipate pleasure represents a core psychiatric symptom in depression. Current clinician assessment of anhedonia is generally limited to one or two all-purpose questions and most well-known psychometric scales of anhedonia are relatively long, self-administered, typically not state sensitive, and are unsuitable for use in clinical settings. A user-friendly tool for a more in-depth clinician assessment of hedonic capacity is needed. The present study assessed the validity and reliability of a clinician administered version of the Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale, the SHAPS-C, in 34 depressed subjects. We compared total and specific item scores on the SHAPS-C, SHAPS (self-report version), Montgomery-\xc5sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self Rating version (IDS-SR). We also examined construct, content, concurrent, convergent, and discriminant validity, internal consistency, and split-half reliability of the SHAPS-C. The SHAPS-C was found to be valid and reliable. The SHAPS and the SHAPS-C were positively correlated with one another, with levels of depression severity, as measured by the MADRS, and the IDS-SR total scores, and with specific items of the MADRS and IDS-SR sensitive to measuring hedonic capacity. Our investigation indicates that the SHAPS-C is a user friendly, reliable, and valid tool for clinician assessment of hedonic capacity in depressed bipolar and unipolar patients.', u'The molluscan shell can be viewed as a petrified representation of the organism\u2019s ontogeny and thus can be used as a record of changes in form during growth. However, little empirical data is available on the actual growth and form of shells, as these are hard to quantify and examine simultaneously. To address these issues, we studied the growth and form of a heteromorphic and heavily ornamented land snail \u2013 Plectostoma concinnum. The growth data were collected in a natural growth experiment and the actual form changes of the aperture during shell ontogeny were quantified. We used an ontogeny axis that allows data of growth and form to be analysed simultaneously. Then, we examined the association between the growth and the form during three different whorl growing phases, namely, the regular coiled spire phase, the transitional constriction phase, and the distortedly-coiled tuba phase. In addition, we also explored the association between growth rate and the switching between whorl growing mode and rib growing mode. As a result, we show how the changes in the aperture ontogeny profiles in terms of aperture shape, size and growth trajectory, and the changes in growth rates, are associated with the different shell forms at different parts of the shell ontogeny. These associations suggest plausible constraints that underlie the three different shell ontogeny phases and the two different growth modes. We found that the mechanism behind the heteromorphy is the rotational changes of the animal\u2019s body and mantle edge with respect to the previously secreted shell. Overall, we propose that future study should focus on the role of the mantle and the columellar muscular system in the determination of shell form.', u'The immune system of the horse has not been well studied, despite the fact that the horse displays several features such as sensitivity to bacterial lipopolysaccharide that make them in many ways a more suitable model of some human disorders than the current rodent models. The difficulty of working with large animal models has however limited characterisation of gene expression in the horse immune system with current annotations for the equine genome restricted to predictions from other mammals and the few described horse proteins. This paper outlines sequencing of 184 million transcriptome short reads from immunologically active tissues of three horses including the genome reference \u201cTwilight\u201d. In a comparison with the Ensembl horse genome annotation, we found 8,763 potentially novel isoforms.', u'Schooling is known to influence a wide range of economic, social and psychological aspects of people\u2019s life, but children with medical needs are subject to school failure more often than their healthy peers. The aim of this paper is to review different school options available to the paediatrics community for the education of children with medical needs. Hospital school, home tuition and mainstream school re-entry are examined. Critical aspects for each type of solution are discussed. The provision and stability of adequate educational opportunities for children with medical needs represents an important area of collaboration between doctors, educators and parents for the prevention of long-term consequences of illnesses and therapies.', u'Psychoneuroimmunology studies the increasing number of connections between neurobiology, immunology and behaviour. We establish Drosophila melanogaster as a tractable model in this field by demonstrating the effects of the immune response on two fundamental behaviours: sleep and memory ability. We used the Geneswitch system to upregulate peptidoglycan receptor protein (PGRP) expression, thereby stimulating the immune system in the absence of infection. Geneswitch was activated by feeding the steroid RU486, to the flies. We used an aversive classical conditioning paradigm to quantify memory and measures of activity to infer sleep. Immune stimulated flies exhibited reduced levels of sleep, which could not be explained by a generalised increase in waking activity. The effects on sleep were more pronounced for day compared to night sleep. Immune stimulated flies also showed a reduction in memory abilities. These results establish Drosophila as a model for immune-neural interactions and suggest a possible role for sleep in the interplay between the immune response and memory.', u"We examine heritability estimation of an ordinal trait for osteoarthritis, using a population of pig-tailed macaques from the Washington National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC). This estimation is non-trivial, as the data consist of ordinal measurements on 16 intervertebral spaces throughout each macaque's spinal cord, with many missing values. We examine the resulting heritability estimates from different model choices, and also perform a simulation study to compare the performance of heritability estimation with these different models under specific known parameter values. Under both the real data analysis and the simulation study, we find that heritability estimates from an assumption of normality of the trait differ greatly from those of ordered probit regression, which considers the ordinality of the trait. This finding indicates that some caution should be observed regarding model selection when estimating heritability of an ordinal quantity. Furthermore, w e find evidence that our real data have little information for valid heritability estimation under ordered probit regression. We thus conclude with an exploration of sample size requirements for heritability estimation under this model. For an ordinal trait, an incorrect assumption of normality can lead to severely biased heritability estimation. Sample size requirements for heritability estimation of an ordinal trait under the threshold model depends on the pedigree structure, trait distribution and the degree of relatedness between each phenotyped individual. Our sample of 173 monkeys did not have enough information from which to estimate heritability, but estimable heritability can be obtained with as few as 180 related individuals under certain scenarios examined here.", u'Background: Our objective was to test the effectiveness of a local anesthetic line block administered before surgery in reducing postoperative pain scores in dogs undergoing ovariohysterectomy (OVHX). This study was a prospective, randomized, blinded, clinical trial involving 59 healthy female dogs. An algometric pressure-measuring device was used to determine nociceptive threshold, and compared to three subjective pain scales. Group L/B received a line block of lidocaine (4 mg/kg) and bupivacaine (1 mg/kg) subcutaneously in the area of the proposed incision and saline subcutaneously as premedication; group L/BM (positive control) received a similar block and morphine (0.5 mg/kg) subcutaneously for premedication; and group SS (negative control) received a saline line block and saline premedication. Criteria for rescue analgesia were defined before the study. Dogs were assessed prior to surgery, at extubation (time 0) and at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-recovery. The data were analyzed with one-way ANOVA, and a repeated measures ANOVA with one grouping factor and one repeat factor (time). P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results: Pain was so subtle that there were no significant differences between treatment groups with any assessment method, and no significant difference between positive and negative controls. Conclusions: Pain in non-verbal responders is subtle, even in animals with a known painful stimulus. Pre-emptive, intraoperative and post-operative analgesia is necessary regardless of pain score within the first 24 hours. None of the pain scales evaluated were sensitive enough to determine pain in all animals in this study.', u'We report the first record of presumed twinning in eastern bluebird (Sialia sialis) and provide a review of previously reported twinning events in wild birds. A nest containing twin eastern bluebird nestlings was monitored in 2013 in central Pennsylvania and reported to the Cornell Lab of Ornithology\u2019s NestWatch program, a national program where volunteers submit data on wild nesting birds. A presumed double-yolked egg of a free-living eastern bluebird pair hatched successfully, and twin nestlings lived for 11 days in a nest box shared by three siblings. Due to the rarity of twinning in wild birds, engaging the public to monitor large numbers of nests is the most likely approach to documenting twinning in wild populations, and citizen science provides the infrastructure for individuals to share observations.', u'Introduction: Tissue Engineering is a new methodology for addressing meniscal injury or loss. Synovium may be an ideal source of cells for in vitro meniscal fibrocartilage formation, however, favorable in vitro culture conditions for synovium must be established in order to achieve this goal. The objective of this study was to determine cellularity, cell distribution, and extracellular matrix (ECM) formation of equine fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) cultured on synthetic scaffolds, for potential application in synovium-based meniscal tissue engineering. Scaffolds included open-cell poly-L-lactic acid (OPLA) sponges and polyglycolic acid (PGA) scaffolds cultured in static and dynamic culture conditions, and PGA scaffolds coated in poly-L-lactic (PLLA) in dynamic culture conditions. Materials and Methods: Equine FLS were seeded on OPLA and PGA scaffolds, and cultured in a static environment or in a rotating bioreactor for 12 days. Equine FLS were also seeded on PGA scaffolds coated in 2% or 4% PLLA and cultured in a rotating bioreactor for 14 and 21 days. Three scaffolds from each group were fixed, sectioned and stained with Masson\u2019s Trichrome, Safranin-O, and Hematoxylin and Eosin, and cell numbers and distribution were analyzed using computer image analysis. Three PGA and OPLA scaffolds from each culture condition were also analyzed for extracellular matrix (ECM) production via di-methylmethylene blue (sulfated glycosaminoglycan) assay and hydroxyproline (collagen) assay. PLLA coated PGA scaffolds were analyzed using double stranded DNA quantification as a reflection of cellularity and confocal laser microscopy in a fluorescent cell viability assay. Results: The highest cellularity occurred in PGA constructs cultured in a rotating bioreactor, which also had a mean sulfated glycosaminoglycan content of 22.3\u03bcg per scaffold. PGA constructs cultured in static conditions had the lowest cellularity. Cells had difficulty adhering to OPLA and the PLLA coating of PGA scaffolds; cellularity was inversely proportional to the concentration of PLLA used. PLLA coating did not prevent dissolution of the PGA scaffolds. All cell scaffold types and culture conditions produced non-uniform cellular distribution. Discussion/ Conclusion: FLS-seeding of PGA scaffolds cultured in a rotating bioreactor resulted in the most optimal cell and matrix characteristics seen in this study. Cells grew only in the pores of the OPLA sponge, and could not adhere to the PLLA coating of PGA scaffold, due to the hydrophobic property of PLA. While PGA culture in a bioreactor produced measureable GAG, no culture technique produced visible collagen. For this reason, and due to the dissolution of PGA scaffolds, the culture conditions and scaffolds described here are not recommended for inducing fibrochondrogenesis in equine FLS for meniscal tissue engineering.', u'Macromolecular assemblies play an important role in almost all cellular processes. However, despite several large-scale studies, our current knowledge about protein complexes is still quite limited, thus advocating the use of in silico predictions to gather information on complex composition in model organisms. Since protein-protein interactions present certain constraints on the functional divergence of macromolecular assemblies during evolution, it is possible to predict complexes based on orthology data. Here, we show that incorporating interaction information through network alignment significantly increases the precision of orthology-based complex prediction. Moreover, we performed a large-scale in silico screen for protein complexes in human, yeast and fly, through the alignment of hundreds of known complexes to whole organism interactomes. Systematic comparison of the resulting network alignments to all complexes currently known in those species revealed many conserved complexes, as well as several novel complex components. In addition to validating our predictions using orthogonal data, we were able to assign specific functional roles to the predicted complexes. In several cases, the incorporation of interaction data through network alignment allowed to distinguish real complex components from other orthologous proteins. Our analyses indicate that current knowledge of yeast protein complexes exceeds that in other organisms and that predicting complexes in fly based on human and yeast data is complementary rather than redundant. Lastly, assessing the conservation of protein complexes of the human pathogen Mycoplasma pneumoniae, we discovered that its complexes repertoire is different from that of eukaryotes, suggesting new points of therapeutic intervention, whereas targeting the pathogen\u2019s Restriction enzyme complex might lead to adverse effects due to its similarity to ATP-dependent metalloproteases in the human host.', u'Finding and relocating food sources is not only crucial for individuals in changing natural environments - it is also of importance in domestic animals under husbandry conditions, for instance to reduce stress when transferring animals into new housing conditions. This study makes a first attempt by investigating young pigs\xb4 use of conflicting spatial and feature cues in a simultaneous discrimination task. In a training phase, subjects (n = 9) first learned to approach a food container with distinct spatial and feature cues. In a subsequent test phase, spatial and feature cues were brought into conflict. Results show that young pigs significantly preferred to approach the spatial position rather than the feature cue of a food container \u2013 at least for the visual domain - while inter-individual differences in choice behaviour suggest that animals recognized the changed context. However, the actual test setup did not exclude alternatives to the use of spatial cues, e.g. instrumental learning. The results may contribute to a better understanding of learning mechanisms in domestic pigs and could be used to improve husbandry designs, reduce stress levels after transfer and may prove to be helpful in designing further test paradigms investigating discriminative learning abilities in the domestic pig.', u'Background: While often first treated in the Emergency Department (ED), identification of sepsis is difficult. Electronic medical record (EMR) clinical decision tools offer a novel strategy for identifying patients with sepsis. The objective of this study was to test the accuracy of an EMR-based, automated sepsis identification system. Methods : We tested an EMR-based sepsis identification tool at a major academic, urban ED with 64,000 annual visits. The EMR system collected vital sign and laboratory test information on all ED patients, triggering a \u201csepsis alert\u201d for those with \u22652 SIRS (systemic inflammatory response syndrome) criteria (fever, tachycardia, tachypnea, leukocytosis) plus \u22651 major organ dysfunction (SBP\u226490 mm Hg, lactic acid \u22652.0 mg/dL). We confirmed the presence of sepsis through manual review of physician, nursing, and laboratory records. We also reviewed a random selection of non-sepsis alert records. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of the sepsis identification tool. Results : From January 1 through March 31, 2012, we analyzed 795 automated sepsis alerts and 300 non-alerts. The true prevalence of sepsis was 293/795 (37%) among alerts and 0/300 (0%) among non-alerts. The positive predictive value was 36.9% (41.7-49.6). Respiratory infections (36.5%) and urinary tract infection (35.5%) were the most common infections among the 293 patients with true sepsis (true positives). Among false-positive sepsis alerts, the most common medical conditions were gastrointestinal (22.9%), traumatic (22.3%), and cardiovascular (17.5%). Conclusion : This ED EMR-based automated sepsis identification system was able to detect sepsis patients. Automated EMR-based detection may provide a viable strategy for identifying sepsis.', u'Heart rate variability (HRV) is the study of the beat\u2010to\u2010beat variability in the heart rate, which is a consequence of the immediate state of the autonomic nervous system. While it is a popular psychobiological technique, flexibility within analytical methods allows any finding to be presented as significant.Here we present a potential demonstration of this, by automating analytical decisions to manipulate findings into significance by automating an extreme number of different yet plausible paths for analysis (PMinerEKG).It should be possible to demonstrate \u2018extremely significant\u2019 \u2010 and entirely spurious \u2010 differences between even extremely similar datasets simply by performing enough analyses.', u'Background Traditional Chinese medicine encompasses a well established alternate system of medicine based on a broad range of herbal formulations and is practiced extensively in the region for the treatment of a wide variety of diseases. In recent years, several reports describe in depth studies of the molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines on the biological activities including anti-bacterial activities. The availability of a well-curated dataset of molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines and accurate in-silico cheminformatics models for data mining for antitubercular agents and computational filters to prioritize molecules has prompted us to search for potential hits from these datasets.\nResults  We used a consensus approach to predict molecules with potential antitubercular activities from a large dataset of molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines available in the public domain. We further prioritized 160 molecules based on five computational filters (SMARTSfilter) so as to avoid potentially undesirable molecules. We further examined the molecules for permeability across Mycobacterial cell wall and for potential activities against non-replicating and drug tolerant Mycobacteria. Additional in-depth literature surveys for the reported antitubercular activities of the molecular ingredients and their sources were considered for drawing support to prioritization.\nConclusions Our analysis suggests that datasets of molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines offer a new opportunity to mine for potential biological activities. In this report, we suggest a proof-of-concept methodology to prioritize molecules for further experimental assays using a variety of computational tools. We also additionally suggest that a subset of prioritized molecules could be used for evaluation for tuberculosis due to their additional effect against non-replicating tuberculosis as well as the additional hepato-protection offered by the source of these ingredients.', u'Pendred syndrome (PDS) and DFNB4 comprise a phenotypic spectrum of sensorineural hearing loss disorders that typically result from biallelic mutations of the SLC26A4 gene. Although PDS and DFNB4 are recessively inherited, sequencing of the coding regions and splice sites of SLC26A4 in individuals suspected to be affected with these conditions often fails to identify two mutations. We investigated the potential contribution of large SLC26A4 deletions and duplications to sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) by screening 107 probands with one known SLC26A4 mutation by Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA). A heterozygous deletion, spanning exons 4-6, was detected in only one individual, accounting for approximately 1% of the missing mutations in our cohort. This low frequency is consistent with previously published MLPA results. We also examined the potential involvement of digenic inheritance in PDS/DFNB4 by sequencing the coding regions of FOXI1 and KCNJ10. Of the 29 probands who were sequenced, three carried nonsynonymous variants including one novel sequence change in FOXI1 and two polymorphisms in KCNJ10. We performed a review of prior studies and, in conjunction with our current data, conclude that the frequency of FOXI1 (1.4%) and KCNJ10 (3.6%) variants in PDS/DFNB4 individuals is low. Our results, in combination with previously published reports, indicate that large SLC26A4 deletions and duplications as well as mutations of FOXI1 and KCNJ10 play limited roles in the pathogenesis of SNHL and suggest that other genetic factors likely contribute to the phenotype.', u'Individuals in acoustic communities compete for the use of the sound resource for communication, a problem that can be studied as niche competition. The acoustic niche hypothesis presents a way to study the partitioning of the resource, but the studies have to take into account the three dimensions of this niche: time, acoustic frequency, and space. I used an Automated Digital Recording System to determine the partitioning of time and acoustic frequency of eight frogs of the genus Eleutherodactylus from Puerto Rico. The calling activity was measured using a calling index. The community exhibited no temporal partitioning since most species called at the same time, between sunset and midnight. The species partitioned the acoustic frequency of their signals, which, in addition to the microhabitat partitioning, can provide some insight into how these species deal with the problem. This data also suggest that monitoring projects with this group should take place only before midnight to avoid false negatives.', u'Experimentation is fundamental to the scientific method, whether for exploration, description or explanation. In the exploration of a novel system, children and researchers alike will mess about with things just to see what happens. More formalized experimental protocols ensure reproducible results and form a basis for comparing systems in terms of their response to a specific stimulus. Finally, experiments can be carefully designed to distinguish between competing causal hypotheses based on their different testable predictions about the outcome of the experimental manipulation. One would therefore expect experiments to be central in computational biology too.\nIndeed, a mathematical model embodies a thought experiment, a causal hypothesis, and its falsifiable predictions. It is easy to ask "what if" we were to change a parameter, an initial state, or the model structure. Papers in computational biology focus on describing and analyzing the effects of such changes, and on confronting models with experimental data. This confrontation often generates new hypotheses, and many if not most new models arise by modification of existing ones. However, most virtual experiments are not built to be reproducible, and thus die with the paper they are published in. This inhibits the critical scrutiny of models, as models are seldom subjected to the same simulation experiments as their predecessors, or revisited later in the light of new data. Perhaps worse, the status quo fails to take full advantage of experiments as a common language between modellers and experimentalists. Despite the growing availability of data and model repositories, there has been only a slow uptake of emerging tools and standards for documenting and sharing the protocols for simulation experiments and their results.\nWe argue that promoting the reuse of virtual experiments would vastly improve the usefulness and relevance of computational models, including in biomedical endeavours such as the Virtual Physiological Human and the Human Brain Project. We review the benefits of reusable virtual experiments: in specifying, assaying, and comparing the behavioural repertoires of models; as prerequisites for reproducible research; to guide model reuse and composition; and for quality assurance in the application of computational biology models. Next, we discuss potential approaches for implementing virtual experiments, arguing that models and experimental protocols should be represented separately, but annotated so as to facilitate the linking of models to experiments and data. We follow with some consideration of open questions and challenges that remain before the use of virtual experiments can become widespread. Lastly, we outline a vision for how the rigorous, streamlined confrontation between experimental datasets and candidate models would enable a "continuous integration" of biological knowledge, akin to the strategy used in software development.', u'Background: The phylogeny of birds which are adapted to aquatic environments is controversial because of convergent evolution. Methods: To understand water bird evolution in more detail, we sequenced the majority of mitochondrial protein coding genes (6699 nucleotides in length) of 14 water birds, and reconstructed their phylogeny in the context of other taxa across the whole class of birds for which complete mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences were available. Results: The water bird clade, as defined by Hackett et al. (2008) based on nuclear DNA (ncDNA) sequences, was also found in our study by Bayesian Inference (BI) and Maximum Likelihood (ML) analyses. In both reconstruction methods, genera belonging to the same family generally clustered together with moderate to high statistical support. Above the family level, we identified three monophyletic groups: one clade consisting of Procellariidae, Hydrobatidae and Diomedeidae, and a second clade consisting of Sulidae, Anhingidae and Phalacrocoracidae, and a third clade consisting of Ardeidae and Threskiornithidae. Discussion: Based on our mtDNA sequence data, we recovered a robust direct sister relationship between Ardeidae and Threskiornithidae for the first time for mtDNA. Our comprehensive phylogenetic reconstructions contribute to the knowledge of higher level relationships within the water birds and provide evolutionary hypotheses for further studies.', u'With rising environmental concerns on potable watersafety and eutrophication, increased media attention and tighter environmental regulations, managing animal wastes in an environmentally responsible and economically feasible way can be a challenge. In this study, the possibility of using granular anammox process for ammonia removal from swine waste treatment water was investigated. A rapid decrease of NO2 --N and NH4 +-N was observed during incubation with wastewater from an activated sludge deodorization reactor and anaerobic digestion-partial oxidation treatment process treating swine manure and its corresponding control artificial wastewaters. Ammonium removal dropped from 98.0 \xb1 0.6% to 66.9 \xb1 2.7% and nearly absent when the organic load in the feeding increased from 232 mg COD/L to 1160 mg COD/L and 2320 mg COD/L. The presence of organic carbon had limited effect on nitrite and total nitrogen removal. At a COD to N ratio of 0.9, COD inhibitory organic load threshold concentration was 727 mg COD/L. Mass balance indicated that denitrifiers played an important role in nitrite, nitrate and organic carbon removal. These results demonstrated that anammox system had the potential to effectively treat swine manure that can achieve high nitrogen standards at reduced costs.', u'The enzyme glutamine synthetase serves key roles in central nitrogen metabolism, catalyzing the biosynthesis of glutamine, as well as regulating ammonia assimilation and integrating metabolic signals to balance nitrogen use. The budding yeast enzyme was recently found to form intracellular bodies (GS bodies) composed of glutamine synthetase and Hsp90 chaperones following various types of nutrient depletion or chemical stress. In order to better quantify and characterize the in vivo formation of GS bodies, we developed an assay for their formation in single yeast cells using imaging flow cytometry, which enables the quantitative measurement of rates of GS body formation and their population penetrance. Either reduction of supplied glucose, or addition of the competitive inhibitor of glycolysis, 2-deoxyglucose, markedly enhanced the formation of GS bodies. The occurrence of GS bodies increased with increasing cell size, a proxy for cell age, while treatment with rapamycin antagonized their formation. Direct measurement of GS body formation as a function of replicative age showed that mother cells exhibited a significantly higher incidence of GS bodies than daughter cells, and the frequency of GS body formation increased with increasing replicative cell age. Thus, we find that yeast glutamine synthetase bodies form in a manner strongly dependent on available glucose and increase markedly with cell age.', u'Background: Amplifiers are signals that improve the perception of underlying differences in quality. They are cost free and advantageous to high quality individuals, but disadvantageous to low quality individuals, as poor quality is easier perceived because of the amplifier. For an amplifier to evolve, the average fitness benefit to the high quality individuals should be higher than the average cost for the low quality individuals. The human nose is, compared to the nose of most other primates, extraordinary large, fragile and easily broken \u2013 especially in male-male interactions. May it have evolved as an amplifier, allowing easy assessment of individual quality and influencing the perception of attractiveness?\nMethods: We tested whether nose tip centrality had a particular influence on attractiveness by manipulating the position of the nose tip or, as a control, the mouth in facial pictures and had the pictures rated for attractiveness.\nResults: Our results show that facial attractiveness is not influenced by mouth manipulations. Yet, facial attractiveness increased when the nose tip was artificially centered according to other facial features. Conversely, facial attractiveness decreased when the nose tip was displaced away from its central position.\nDiscussion: Our results suggest that the centering of the nose tip is important for evaluation of attractiveness, maybe because it has a particularly strong effect on our perception of facial symmetry or averageness. However, whether such centering is related to individual quality remains unclear.', u'Symbiodinium, a large group of dinoflagellates, live in symbiosis with marine protists, invertebrate metazoans, and free-living in the environment. Symbiodinium are functionally variable and play critical energetic roles in symbiosis. Our knowledge of Symbiodinium has been historically constrained by the limited number of molecular markers available to study evolution in the genus. Here we compare six functional genes, representing three cellular compartments, in the nine known Symbiodinium lineages. Despite striking similarities among the single gene phylogenies from distinct organelles, none were evolutionarily identical. A fully concatenated reconstruction, however, yielded a well-resolved topology identical to the current benchmark nr28S gene. Evolutionary rates differed among cellular compartments and clades, a pattern largely driven by higher rates of evolution in the chloroplast genes of Symbiodinium clades D2 and I. The rapid rates of evolution observed amongst these relatively uncommon Symbiodinium lineages in the functionally critical chloroplast may translate into potential innovation for the symbiosis. The multi-gene analysis highlights the potential power of assessing genome-wide evolutionary patterns using recent advances in sequencing technology and emphasizes the importance of integrating ecological data with more comprehensive sampling of free-living and symbiotic Symbiodinium in assessing the evolutionary adaptation of this enigmatic dinoflagellate.', u'Well-established scientists are expected to be more likely to have their work recognised than early-career individuals and thus receive more citations. Estimating the degree of inequality in citation counts in environmental sciences can help identify the dynamics behind citation inequalities. Using the scientific profiles of researchers in the Google Scholar database, we estimated the inequality in the distribution of citations in the disciplines of evolutionary biology, conservation biology and ecology. The data were modelled using short-tailed (exponential) and long-tailed power-law (Pareto) distributions. The inequality in performance in each distribution was assessed using Gini coefficients. Citations counts per researcher presented Gini coefficients of 0.83\u20130.84, indicating extreme inequality. The results suggest that the reinforcement in citation counts due to seniority and previous success might be very strong. To produce meaningful comparisons of actual research impact using citation counts, factors such as lab size, collaborations or role in articles should ideally be controlled for.', u'Caribbean coral reefs have deteriorated substantially over the past 30 years, which is broadly attributable to the effects of global climate change. In the same time, Indo-Pacific reefs maintain higher coral cover and typically recover rapidly after disturbances. This difference in reef resilience is largely due to much higher coral recruitment rates in the Pacific. We hypothesized that the lack of Caribbean coral recruitment might be explained by diminishing quality of settlement cues and/or impaired sensitivity of Caribbean coral larvae to those cues, relative to the Pacific. To evaluate this hypothesis, we assembled a collection of bulk samples of reef encrusting communities, mostly consisting of crustose coralline algae (CCA), from various reefs around the world and tested them as settlement cues for several coral species originating from different ocean provinces. Cue samples were meta-barcoded to evaluate their taxonomic diversity. We observed no systematic differences either in cue potency or in strength of larval responses depending on the ocean province, and no preference of coral larvae towards cues from the same ocean. Instead, we detected significant differences in cue preferences among coral species, even for corals originating from the same reef. We conclude that the region-wide disruption of the settlement process is unlikely to be the major cause of Caribbean reef loss. However, due to their high sensitivity to the effects of climate change, shifts in the composition of CCA-associated communities, combined with pronounced differences in cue preferences among coral species, could substantially influence future coral community structure.', u'The number of cervical vertebrae in mammals is highly conserved at seven. We have shown that changes of this number are selected against due to a coupling with major congenital abnormalities (pleiotropic effects, (Galis 1999, Galis et al. 2006, Varela-Lasheras et al. 2011, ten Broek et al. 2012)). Here we show that the incidence of abnormal cervical vertebral numbers in Late Pleistocene mammoths from the North Sea is high (33.3%) and approximately 10 times higher than that of extant elephants (3.6%). Abnormal numbers were due to the presence of large cervical ribs on the seventh vertebra, which we deduced from the presence of rib articulation facets on sixth (posterior side) and seventh (anterior side) cervical vertebrae. The incidence of abnormal cervical vertebral numbers in mammoths appears to be much higher than in other mammalian species, apart from exceptional sloths, manatees and dugongs (Varela-Lasheras, Bakker et al. 2011) and indicates a vulnerable condition. We argue that the increased incidence of cervical ribs in mammoths is probably caused by inbreeding and adverse conditions that impact early pregnancies in declining populations close to extinction in the Late Pleistocene.', u'A novel model is presented to explain human social behavior. In recent years, a cephalo-caudal directionality to behavior has been reported in a few mammals including rodents, cattle and cats. This model shows how complex human behavior also follows this rule of cephalo-caudal directionality. The positions of the lower motor neurons mediating the specific acts in the cephalo-caudal neural axis are considered to be an important correlate of the act. The model consists of a primary layer, consisting of the orienting modules \u2013 eyes, head and body and a secondary layer consisting of the six transmitting channels \u2013 the eyes, facial expression, speech, upper limbs, lower limbs and the external genitalia. The model demonstrates through multiple examples that complex human behavior also follows a cephalo caudal directionality, both in the orienting modules as well as in the transmitting channels. In this paradigm, conciliatory and agonistic communications are examined as prototypes for analysis of more complex dominant and submissive behavior as well as psychiatric conditions such as mania and depression. The model is sensitive to the social context of behavior which is without precedent in the literature. Further, the concept of \u2018mobility gradient\u2019 is applied to human behavior to understand motor behavior in depression and mania and catatonic behavior. Finally, certain issues pertinent to difficulties of behavioral description and model building in human behavior are discussed. The model emphasizes the role of objective behavioral description paradigms that borrow from concepts in comparative psychology and animal behavior.', u'Biotic resistance is the idea that native species negatively affect the invasion success of introduced species, but whether this can occur at large spatial scales is poorly understood. Here we re-evaluated the hypothesis that native large-bodied grouper and other predators are controlling the abundance of exotic lionfish (Pterois volitans/miles) on Caribbean coral reefs. We assessed the relationship between the biomass of lionfish and native predators at 71 reefs in three biogeographic regions while taking into consideration several cofactors that may affect fish abundance, including among others, proxies for fishing pressure and habitat structural complexity. Our results indicate that the abundance of lionfish, large-bodied grouper and other predators were not negatively related. Lionfish abundance was instead controlled by several physical site characteristics, and possibly by culling. Taken together, our results suggest that managers cannot rely on current native grouper populations to control the lionfish invasion.', u'Background: Individuals with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) are reported to manifest visual problems (including ophthalmological and color perception problems, particularly for blue-yellow stimuli), but findings are inconsistent. Accordingly, this study investigated visual function and color perception in adolescents with ADHD using VEP.\nMethod: Participants were 31 adolescents (aged 13-18); 16 with a confirmed diagnosis of ADHD, and 15 healthy peers, matched for age, gender, and IQ. All underwent ophthalmological exam, color vision testing (Mollon-Reffin Minimalist Colour Vision Test), as well as electrophysiological testing (color Visual Evoked Potentials; cVEP) which measured the latency and amplitude of the neural P1 response to chromatic stimuli (Blue-Yellow, Red-Green).\nResult: No group differences were found in clinical measure of color perception or opthalmological exam. However, significantly larger P1 amplitude was found for blue and yellow stimuli, but not red/green stimuli, in the ADHD group compared to controls.\nDiscussion: Larger amplitude in the P1 component for blue-yellow in ADHD group compared to control group may account for no difference in colour perception task. Perhaps activating more resources in early sensory processing (P1) compensated for any underlying problems including compromised retinal input of s-cones due to hypo-dopaminergic tone.', u'Metagenomics is a valuable tool for the study of microbial communities but has been limited by the difficulty of \u201cbinning\u201d the resulting sequences into groups corresponding to the individual species and strains that constitute the community. Moreover, there are presently no methods to track the flow of mobile DNA elements such as plasmids through communities or to determine which of these are co-localized within the same cell. We address these limitations by applying Hi-C, a technology originally designed for the study of three-dimensional genome structure in eukaryotes, to measure the cellular co-localization of DNA sequences. We leveraged Hi-C data generated from a synthetic metagenome sample to accurately cluster metagenome assembly contigs into groups that contain nearly complete genomes of each species. The Hi-C data also reliably associated plasmids with the chromosomes of their host and with each other. We further demonstrated that Hi-C data provides a long-range signal of strain-specific genotypes, indicating such data may be useful for high-resolution genotyping of microbial populations. Our work demonstrates that Hi-C sequencing data provide valuable information for metagenome analyses that are not currently obtainable by other methods. This metagenomic Hi-C method could facilitate future studies of the fine-scale population structure of microbes, as well as studies of how antibiotic resistance plasmids (or other genetic elements) mobilize in microbial communities. The method is not limited to microbiology; the genetic architecture of other heterogeneous populations of cells could also be studied with this technique.', u'In Tayrona National Natural Park (Colombian Caribbean), abiotic factors such as light intensity, water temperature, and nutrient availability are subjected to high temporal variability due to seasonal coastal upwelling. These factors are major drivers controlling coral reef primary production. This offers the opportunity to assess the effects of abiotic factors on key coral reef ecosystem services in terms of productivity. We therefore quantified primary net (Pn) and gross production (Pg) of the dominant local primary producers (scleractinian corals, macroalgae, algal turfs, crustose coralline algae, and microphytobenthos) at a water current/wave-exposed (EXP) and -sheltered (SHE) site in an exemplary bay of Tayrona National Natural Park. A series of short-term incubations was conducted to quantify O2 fluxes of the different primary producers before and at the end of the upwelling event 2011/2012. At the level of the organism, scleractinian corals showed highest Pn and Pg rates before upwelling (16 and 19 mmol O2 m-2 specimen area h-1), and corals and algal turfs dominated the primary production at the end of upwelling (12 and 19 mmol O2 m-2 specimen area h-1, respectively). At the ecosystem level, corals contributed most to total Pn (EXP: 81 %; SHE: 65 %) and Pg (EXP: 78 %; SHE: 55 %) before the upwelling, while at the end of the upwelling, corals contributed most to Pn and Pg only at EXP (73 and 75 %) and macroalgae at SHE (52 and 46 %, respectively). Despite the significant spatial and temporal differences in individual productivity of investigated groups and their different contribution to reef productivity, no spatial or temporal differences in daily ecosystem Pn and Pg were detected (194 \u2013 218 and 311 \u2013 409 mmol O2 m-2 seafloor area d-1). Our findings therefore indicate that local autotrophic benthic reef communities are well adapted to pronounced fluctuations of environmental key parameters. This might lead to a higher resilience against climate change consequences and anthropogenic disturbances.', u'Background: The thickness and composition of the surface liquid lining the human lungs are maintained by a balance between epithelial secretion and absorption of ions and water. An understanding of epithelial transport pathways and the factors that regulate them will provide insight into the development of conditions such as lung edema and guide the development of treatment modalities. Here we report on the development and characterisation of a cell culture model of the alveolar epithelium that will be useful for investigating the components of epithelial transport pathways and interpreting molecular mechanisms involved in transport related diseases. Methods: An in vitro cell culture model was developed using human alveolar epithelial cell lines NCI-H441 and A549 cultured with the apical surface exposed to air (air-medium) or covered by nutrient medium (medium-medium). Cell monolayer was presented by visualizing cell morphology under microscope. Transepithelial electrical resistance, potential difference and fluorescence permeability measurements were used to assess the formation of a polarised epithelium with functional barrier properties. Expression of tight junction, adherens junction and ion/water transport proteins were examined by Western blot and RT-PCR. Results: NCI-H441 cells cultured under air-medium conditions exhibited electrical resistance (258 \xb1 28 \u2126\u2022 cm2), potential difference (4.8\xb1 0.1 mV) and strong expression of \u03b11-Na+-K+-ATPase and tight junction protein ZO-1 consistent with the formation of a polarised epithelium. These cultures also expressed the chloride channel CFTR and all four subunits of the sodium channel ENaC. Cells cultured under medium-medium conditions had a 4-fold higher electrical resistance (1009 \xb1 15 \u2126\u2022 cm2), but similar level of potential difference (4.9 \xb1 0.2 mV) and weaker expression of \u03b11-Na+-K+-ATPase and ZO-1. The A549 cell line developed low levels of electrical resistance and potential difference and did not express ZO-1. No significant difference in CFTR and ENaC transport protein expression was observed between the cell lines or culture conditions. Conclusion: The NCI-H441 cell line cultured under air-medium conditions develops into a polarised epithelium with functional barrier properties and expresses transport proteins for sodium and chloride transport. Hence it can serve as a suitable model for investigating water and ion transport in the alveolar epithelium.', u'Multi-bird water bath stunning is the only method permitted for stunning broilers in halal plants in the UK. The electrocardiogram (ECG) was measured in broilers that were stunned electrically in a commercial water bath using four of the frequency/current parameters permitted under EU Regulation (1099/2009) plus a control treatment (pulsed DC waveform). The results showed that there were no differences between the treatments in that all the birds displayed a rhythmic heart beat following stunning and before slaughter. An opportunity to observe recovery in a small number of broilers (nine) in a Spanish processing plant suggested that AC at 1000 Hz applied at 200 mA per bird would also meet both the legislative requirements and the needs of the halal market, in that all birds recovered from the stun.', u'Sheng-Chia Chung and colleagues report in The Lancet (23 January 2014) an international comparison of cardiovascular patient mortality between the UK and Sweden. They suggest that \u201cmore than 10000 deaths at 30 days would have been prevented or delayed had UK patients experienced the care of their Swedish counterparts.\u201d Further, they estimate that 1741 deaths would have been prevented in the UK had the Swedish pattern of primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and beta-blocker use been replicated in the NHS from 2004 to 2010. However, their study does not provide convincing evidence that faster uptake of primary PCI or beta-blockers on discharge would have had an effect on cardiovascular patient mortality in the UK.', u'Severe fragmentation is a typical fate of native remnant habitats in cities, and urban wildlife with limited dispersal ability are predicted to lose genetic variation in isolated urban patches. However, little information exists on the characteristics of urban green spaces required to conserve genetic variation. In this study, we examine whether isolation in New York City (NYC) parks results in genetic bottlenecks in white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus), and test the hypotheses that park size and time since isolation are associated with genetic variability using nonlinear regression and information-theoretic model selection. White-footed mice have previously been documented to exhibit male-biased dispersal, which may create disparities in genetic variation between males and females in urban parks. We use genotypes of 18 neutral microsatellite data and four different statistical tests to assess this prediction. Given that sex-biased dispersal may create disparities between population genetic patterns inferred from bi- vs. uni-parentally inherited markers, we also sequenced a 324 bp segment of the mitochondrial D-loop for independent inferences of historical demography in urban P. leucopus. We report that isolation in urban parks does not necessarily result in genetic bottlenecks; only three out of 14 populations in NYC parks exhibited a signature of a recent bottleneck at 18 neutral microsatellite loci. Mouse populations in larger urban parks, or parks that have been isolated for shorter periods of time, also do not generally contain greater genetic variation than populations in smaller parks. These results suggest that even small networks of green spaces may be sufficient to maintain the evolutionary potential of native species with certain characteristics. We also found that isolation in urban parks results in weak to nonexistent sex-biased dispersal in a species known to exhibit male-biased dispersal in less fragmented environments. In contrast to nuclear loci, mitochondrial D-loop haplotypes exhibited a mutational pattern of demographic expansion after a recent bottleneck or selective sweep. Estimates of the timing of this expansion suggest that it occurred concurrent with urbanization of NYC over the last few dozens to hundreds of years. Given the general non-neutrality of mtDNA in many systems and evidence of selection on related coding sequences in urban P. leucopus, we argue that the P. leucopus mitochondrial genome experienced recent negative selection against haplotypes not favored in isolated urban parks. In general, rapid adaptive evolution driven by urbanization, global climate change, and other human-caused factors is underappreciated by evolutionary biologists, but many more cases will likely be documented in the near future.', u'Gazania linearis is reported to be naturalized in California (amongst a host of cultivated Gazania hybrids and species), and the fruits of Baccharis salicifolia ssp. salicifolia are reported to have 5 ribs. By carrying out a morphological study of a naturalized Gazania population, and fruits of a B. s. ssp. salicifolia individual, I was able to conclude that G. linearis may not be the only naturalized Gazania species in the population studied here (and perhaps across California), and that the number of ribs on the fruits of B. s. ssp. salicifolia are not restricted to 5, and in fact, vary in numbers.', u'This paper focuses on the effects of repeated head trauma in athletes and how these repetitive blows to the head are causing a range of mental health problems. The primary focus, in terms of problems addressed, is chronic traumatic encephalopathy (often referred to as CTE) in the population of athletes, especially those participating in contact and combat sports. The disorders covered are caused by the cumulative effects of both concussive and sub-concussive blows to the head over a period of time.', u'Background: The incidence of injuries in minimal footwear or barefoot runners compared to runners using conventional running shoes is still being discussed.\nMethods: We focus here on methods and results of a online survey in a community of minimal footwear/barefoot (MF/B) runners. The aim of the survey was to investigate the viability of the method and to record first insights on running behavior, distance performance and injuries.\nResults: In total 226 runners answered the questionnaire, 15 subjects had to be removed due to invalid data. A total of 211 (94%) subjects (152 male, ages 15-71 years [mean=40]) were included in the analysis. The risk to suffer a running related injury was significantly increased during the time period of changing from shod running to MF/B running (see Table 2). The injury rate per km was markedly lower \u2013 about one half - in MF/B than in shod running, but threefold higher during the transition period.\nDiscussion/Conclusion: Future research into the right \u201cdosage\u201d of barefoot/minimal footwear running in the transition period is warranted. We speculate that special adaptations - which may take years and thousands of kilometers to become effective - of the neuromuscular control play a major role, very similar to the thousands of hours a person needs to play and practice playing the piano before becoming a musician.', u"Marine ecosystems are experiencing rapid and pervasive loss of species. Understanding the consequences of species loss is critical to effectively managing these systems. Over the last several years, numerous experimental manipulations of species richness have been performed, yet existing quantitative syntheses have focused on a just a subset of processes measured in experiments and, as such, have not summarized the full data available from marine systems. Here, we present the results of a meta-analysis of 174 marine experiments from 42 studies that have manipulated the species richness of organisms across a range of taxa and trophic levels and analysed the consequences for various ecosystem processes (categorised as production, consumption or biogeochemical fluxes). Our results show that, generally, mixtures of species tend to enhance levels of ecosystem function relative to the average component species in monoculture, but have no or negative effect on functioning relative to the \u2018highest-performing' species. These results are largely consistent with those from other syntheses, and extend conclusions to ecological functions that are most commonly measured in the marine realm (e.g. nutrient release from sediment bioturbation). For experiments that manipulated three or more levels of richness, we attempted to discern the functional form of the BEF relationship. We found that, for response variables categorised as consumption, a power-function best described the relationship, which is also consistent with previous findings. However, we identified a linear relationship between richness and production. Combined, our results suggest that losses of species will, on average, tend to alter the functioning of marine ecosystems. We outline several research frontiers that will allow us to more fully understand how, why, and when diversity may drive the functioning of marine ecosystems.", u'Offspring of individuals with psychoses sometimes display an abnormal development of cognition, language, motor performance, social adaptation, and emotional functions. The aim of this study was to investigate the ability of children of mothers with schizophrenia (n=28) and bipolar disorder (n=23) to understand mental states of others using the Eyes Test (folk psychology or \u201ctheory of mind\u201d) and physical causal interactions of inanimate objects (folk psychics). Compared with healthy controls (n=29), the children of mothers with schizophrenia displayed significantly impaired performances on the Eyes Test but not on the folk physics test. The children of mothers with bipolar disorder did not differ from the controls and outperformed the children of mothers with schizophrenia on the folk physics test. These results suggest that the attribution of mental states, but not the interpretation of causal interaction of objects, is impaired in offspring of individuals with schizophrenia, which may contribute to social dysfunctions.', u'The genetic composition of the resident Symbiodinium endosymbionts appears to strongly modulate the physiological performance of reef-building corals. Here, we used deep amplicon sequencing to quantitatively assess Symbiodinium genetic diversity for the two mountainous star corals, Orbicella franksi and Orbicella faveolata, from two reefs separated by 19 kilometers of deep water. We aimed to determine if symbiont diversity is largely partitioned with respect to coral host species or geographic location. Our results demonstrate that across the two reefs both coral species contained only Symbiodinium identifiable as clade B type B1, represented by five distinct haplotypes. Three of these haplotypes have not been previously described and may be endemic to the Flower Garden Banks. No consistent differences in symbiont composition were detected between the two coral species. However, significant quantitative differences were observed between the east and west banks for two of the five haplotypes. These results highlight the need for consistent molecular genotyping techniques to assess local community assemblages of Symbiodinium-host relationships, which could be largely irrespective of host genetic background. This deep-sequencing approach used to sensitively characterize cryptic genetic diversity of Symbiodinium will potentially contribute to the understanding of physiological variations among coral populations.', u'Organoselenium compounds have been pointed out as therapeutic agents. In contrast, the potential therapeutic aspects of tellurides have not yet been demonstrated. The present study evaluated the comparative toxicological effects of diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 and diphenyl ditelluride (PhTe)2 in mice after in vivo administration. Genotoxicity (as determined by comet assay) and mutagenicicity were used as end-points of toxicity. Subcutaneous administration of high doses of (PhSe)2 or (PhTe)2 (500 \u03bcmol/Kg) caused distinct genotoxicity in mice. (PhSe)2 significantly decreased the DNA damage index after 48 and 96 hours of its injection (p<0.05). In contrast, (PhTe) caused a significant increase in DNA damage (p<0.05) after 48 and 96 hours of intoxication. (PhSe)2 did not cause mutagenicity but (PhTe)2 increased the micronuclei frequency, indicating its mutagenic potential. The present study demonstrated that acute in vivo exposure to ditelluride caused genotoxicity in mice, which may be associated with pro-oxidant effects of diphenyl ditelluride. These results indicated that exposure to ditelluride can be genotoxic to mice and the use of this compound and possibly other related tellurides must be carefully controlled.', u'Garden Warblers Sylvia borin were studied during autumn stopover in Crete before crossing the barrier of the Mediterranean Sea and the Sahara desert. Birds followed with transmitters show extensive stopover periods, which were longer in first-year birds, 16 days, compared with adult birds, 14 days. The distribution of body masses from birds trapped in fig trees were used to estimate the departure body mass and the results found indicate that both age categories on average depart with a fuel load close to 100% of lean body mass. The movement of transmitter birds shows differences between first-year and adult birds. Adult birds move further away from the release site and many also left the study area. Several were found settled outside the study area, up to 17 km away, indicating that they regularly make longer stopover movements. It is suggested that this might be a result of that they return to a place where they stayed during an earlier migration. It was shown that stopover site fidelity exists and nine garden warblers were recaptured in the area during a following autumn. The results found highlights the importance of stopover areas close to the Sahara desert.', u'Allopolyploidy combines two progenitor genomes in the same nucleus, and is a common mechanism for producing new species, especially in plants. Deciphering the origins of polyploid species is a complex problem, due to, among other things, extinct progenitors, multiple origins, gene flow between different polyploid populations, and loss of parental contributions through gene or chromosome loss. In this work,\nwe studied three allopolyploid species in the genus Glycine, which includes the cultivated soybean (G. max). Previous work based on two nuclear sequences showed that these allopolyploids combine the genomes of extant diploid species in the G. tomentella complex. We use several phylogenetic and population genomics approaches to clarify the origin of these species using single nucleotide polymorphism data and a guided transcriptome assembly. The results support the hypothesis that each of the three polyploid species are fixed hybrids combining the homoeologous genomes of its two putative parents. Based on mapping to the soybean reference genome, there appear to be no large regions for which one homoeologous contribution is missing. Phylogenetic analyses of 27 selected transcripts using a coalescent approach also indicates multiple origins for G. tomentella polyploid species, and suggest that origins occurred within the last several hundred thousands years.', u'Pioneered by companies like 23andMe.com, deCODEme.com, and Navigenics.com, direct-to-consumer genetic testing refers to genetic tests that are marketed directly to consumers via television, print media, or the Internet. This kind of testing provides access to a customer\u2019s genetic information without necessarily involving either a medical health care professional or a genetic counselor in the process. In recent years, a course offered to medical and graduate students at Stanford University has included an option for students to undergo personal genotyping, raising the possibility that direct-to-consumer genetic testing could also be incorporated into undergraduate biology courses to enhance student learning. In this study, I assess the attitudes and concerns of college students enrolled in the first semester of an introductory majors course in biology, before and after they had completed the course, regarding the availability of this technology and its possible use in the college classroom. The pre-course survey revealed that these students were open to the possibility of using this technology in their courses, but that they had concerns about the confidentiality and the accuracy of their genetic results. Strikingly, however, completing the genetics, molecular and cellular biology semester-long portion of the yearlong introductory sequence in biology appeared to boost student confidence in this technology and its use in the undergraduate classroom.', u'Aim of this study was to describe the toxicity of a set of different commercially available silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) to the gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas putida (growth inhibition assay, ISO 10712) in order to contribute to their environmental hazard and risk assessment. Different AgNP sizes and coatings were selected in order to analyze whether those characteristics are determinants of nanoparticle toxicity. Silver nitrate was tested for comparison. In general Pseudomonas putida reacted very sensitive towards the exposure to silver, with an EC 05  value of 0.043 \xb5 g L-1 for AgNO 3  and between 0.13 and 3.41 \xb5 g L-1 for the different AgNPs (EC 50  values 0.16 \xb5 g L-1 for AgNO3, resp. between 0.25 and 13.5 \xb5 g L-1 for AgNPs). As the ionic form of silver is clearly the most toxic, an environmental hazard assessment for microorganisms based on total silver concentration and the assumption that AgNPs dissolve is sufficiently protective. Neither specific coatings nor certain sizes could be linked to increasing or decreasing toxicity. The characterization of particle behavior as well as the total and dissolved silver content in the medium during the exposures was not possible due to the high sensitivity of Pseudomonas (test concentrations were below detection limits), indicating the need for further development in the analytical domain. Monitored silver concentrations in the aquatic environment span six orders of magnitude (0.1 \u2013 120000 ng L-1 ), which falls into the span of observed EC 05  values and might hence indicate a risk to environmental bacteria.', u'', u'This study documents tree mortality in Big Bend National Park in Texas in response to the most acute one-year drought on record, which occurred in conjunction with a five-day winter freeze. I estimated changes in forest stand structure and species composition due to drought in the Chisos Mountains of Big Bend National Park using permanent monitoring plot data. Tree mortality was pervasive, and it occurred across the entire elevation gradient. Significant mortality occurred in trees up to 20 cm diameter (P < 0.05). Pinus cembroides Zucc. experienced the greatest seedling and tree mortality (P < 0.0001), and over five times as many standing dead pines were observed in 2012 than in 2009. Juniperus deppeana vonSteudal and Quercus emoryi Leibmann also experienced significant declines (P < 0.02). Trees probably died as a result of hydraulic failure, however the preferential mortality of P. cembroides relative to other species could also be tied to its adoption of an isohydric drought tolerance strategy. Subsequent droughts under climate change will likely cause even greater damage to trees that survived this record drought, especially if such events are coupled with freezes. The results from this study highlight the vulnerability of trees in the Southwest to climatic change and that future shifts in forest structure can have large-scale community consequences.', u'Recent scientific discoveries lead inexorably to the conclusion that the \u2018total human\u2019 incorporates a necessary body of numerous microbes, including bacteria. These bacteria play a very important role in immunity by actively resisting infections by outside bacteria; however, under certain conditions they can degrade their community. They can arrogate to themselves resources that normally flow through other metabolic pathways and form persistent biological structures. In this situation, these bacteria constitute an insurgency, with strategic ramifications.', u'Open science is increasingly gaining attention in recent years. In this mini-review, we briefly discuss and summarize the reasons of introducing open science into academic publications for scientists. We argue that open-source software (like R and Python software) can be the universal and important platforms for doing open science because of their appealing features: open source, easy-reading document, commonly used in various scientific disciplines like statistics, chemistry and biology. At last, the challenges and future perspectives of performing open science are discussed.', u'Dwarfism is a condition characterized by shorter stature, at times accompanied by differential skeletal growth proportions relative to the species-typical physical conformation. Causes vary and are well-documented in humans as well as certain mammalian species in captive or laboratory conditions, but rarely observed in the wild. Here we report on a single case of apparent dwarfism in a free-ranging adult male Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) in Sri Lanka, comparing physical dimensions to those of other males in the same population, males in other populations, and previous records. The subject was shorter than typical mature males, with a shoulder height of approximately 195cm and a body length of 218cm. This ratio of body length to height also deviates from what is typically observed, which is nearly 1:1. The subject also exhibits a slight elongation of the skull. We discuss how this phenotype compares to cases of dwarfism in other non-human animals.', u'Horses and elephants have extreme foot designs; horses have an unguligrade foot posture with small, single-toed, rigid hooves housing a small fibrous digital cushion, whereas elephants have large, multi-toed, functionally plantigrade, compliant feet with large adipose filled digital cushions. The morphology of the digital cushion is divergent in these species, in terms of its size, shape, volume, composition and organisation. In the context of foot-ground contact this is interesting, because feet nonetheless have to perform similar mechanical functions in all terrestrial species. How well the digital cushion functions under load may contribute to the aetiopathogenesis of foot disease; a sub-optimal digital cushion is less likely to distribute (and thus reduce) high pressures, moderate impact shock and vibration, or prevent unwarranted bone displacement.\nIn this study, we seek to understand how the digital cushion morphologies evident in horse and elephant feet influence internal and external foot pressures. Our novel use of invasive blood pressure monitoring equipment, combined with a pressure pad and force plate, enabled measurements of (ex vivo) digital cushion pressure under increasing axial loads in seven horse and six elephant forefeet. Linear mixed effects models (LMER) revealed that internal digital cushion pressures increase under load and differ depending on region; elephant feet experienced higher magnitudes of medial digital cushion pressure, whereas horse feet experienced higher magnitudes of centralised digital cushion pressure. Direct comparison of digital cushion pressure magnitudes in both species, at equivalent loads relative to body weight, revealed that medial and lateral pressures increased more rapidly with load in elephant limbs. Within the same approximate region, internal pressures exceeded external, palmar pressures (on the sole of the foot), supporting previous Finite Element (FE) predictions. High pressures and large variations in pressure may relate to the development of foot pathology, which is a major concern in horses and elephants in a captive/domestic environment.\nWe suggest that heterogeneity within the digital cushion allows it to perform conflicting mechanical functions during locomotion; different digital cushion regions may be responsible for specific functions and therefore feature appropriate properties to do so. Determining how internal structures such as the digital cushion respond to locomotor loading is essential to understanding foot health and pathology, as well as the functional consequences of evolutionary changes in foot morphology.', u'Cassava beer, or chicha, is typically consumed daily by the indigenous Shuar people of the Ecuadorian Amazon. This traditional beverage made from cassava tuber (Manihot esculenta) improves nutritional quality and flavor while extending shelf life in a tropical climate. Bacteria responsible for chicha fermentation could be a source of microbes beneficial to human health, but little is known regarding the microbiology of chicha. We investigated bacterial community composition of chicha batches using Illumina high-throughput sequencing. Fermented chicha samples were collected from seven Shuar households in two neighboring villages in the Morona-Santiago region of Ecuador, and the composition of the bacterial communities within each chicha sample was determined by sequencing a region of the 16S ribosomal gene. Members of the genus Lactobacillus dominated all samples, demonstrating that chicha is a source of organisms related to known probiotics. Significantly greater taxonomic similarity was observed between communities in chicha samples taken within a village than those from different villages. Community composition varied among chicha samples, even those separated by short geographic distances, suggesting that ecological and/or evolutionary processes, including human preference, may be responsible for creating locally adapted and regionally resilient ferments. Our results suggest that traditional fermentation may be a form of domestication that provides endemic beneficial inocula for consumers.', u'One way to initiate the reconstruction of molecular circuits is by using automated text-mining techniques. Developing more efficient methods for such reconstruction is a topic of active research, and those methods are typically included by bioinformaticians in pipelines used to mine and curate large literature datasets. Nevertheless, experimental biologists have a limited number of available user-friendly tools that use text-mining for network reconstruction and require no programming skills to use. One of these tools is Biblio-MetReS. Originally, this tool permitted an on-the-fly analysis of documents contained in a number of web-based literature databases to identify co-occurrence of proteins/genes. This approach ensured results that were always up-to-date with the latest live version of the databases. However, this \u201cup-to-dateness\u201d came at the cost of large execution times. Here we report an evolution of the application Biblio-MetReS that permits constructing co-occurrence networks for genes, GO process, Pathways, or any combination of the three types of entities and graphically represent those entities. We show that the performance of Biblio-MetReS in identifying gene co-occurrence is as least as good as that of other comparable applications (STRING and iHOP). In addition, we also show that the identification of GO processes is on par to that reported in the latest BioCreAtIvE challenge. Finally, we also report the implementation of a new strategy that combines on-the-fly analysis of new documents with preprocessed information from documents that were encountered in previous analyses. This combination simultaneously decreases program run time and maintains \u201cup-to-dateness\u201d of the results. Availability:  http://metres.udl.cat/index.php/downloads Contact:  metres.cmb@gmail.com', u'The characterization of complex diseases remains a great challenge for biomedical researchers due to the myriad interactions of genetic and environmental factors. Adaptation of phylogenomic techniques to increasingly available genomic data provides an evolutionary perspective that may elucidate important unknown features of complex diseases. Here an automated method is presented that leverages publicly available genomic data and phylogenomic techniques. The approach is tested with nine genes implicated in the development of Alzheimer Disease, a complex neurodegenerative syndrome. The developed technique, implemented through a suite of Ruby scripts entitled \u201cASAP2,\u201d first compiles a list of sequence-similarity based orthologues using PSI-BLAST and a recursive NCBI BLAST+ search strategy, then constructs maximum parsimony phylogenetic trees for each set of nucleotide and protein sequences, and calculates phylogenetic metrics (partitioned Bremer support values, combined branch scores, and Robinson-Foulds distance) to provide an empirical assessment of evolutionary conservation within a given genetic network. This study demonstrates the potential for using automated simultaneous phylogenetic analysis to uncover previously unknown relationships among disease-associated genes that may not have been apparent using traditional, single-gene methods. Furthermore, the results provide the first integrated evolutionary history of an Alzheimer Disease gene network and identify potentially important co-evolutionary clustering around components of oxidative stress pathways.', u'Zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs) and transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) comprise a powerful class of tools that are redefining the boundaries of biological research. Although these technologies have begun to enable targeted genome modifications, there remains a need for new technologies that are scalable, affordable, and easy to engineer. In this paper, we propose a new tool for genetic engineering, the pseudocomplementary peptide nucleic acid nucleases (pcPNANs), which are composed of a pseudocomplementary PNA (pcPNA) specific for a DNA target sequence, a FokI nuclease cleavage domain and a nuclear localization signal. pcPNANs may induce targeted DNA double-strand breaks that activate DNA damage response pathways and enable custom alterations. Their cleavage-site is determined by simple Watson-Crick rule, and thus pcPNANs for aimed cleavage of genomes can be straightforwardly designed and synthesized without any selection procedure. Accordingly, the cleavage-site and site-specificity are freely chosen by changing the sequences and the lengths of pcPNA strands. We believe that the potentiality of pcPNAN as a new tool for genetic engineering will be confirmed in the future.', u'RATIONALE: Several lines of evidence suggest that dopamine (DA)-influenced neuronal pathways may malfunction in Tourette Syndrome (TS). Some PET studies support the hypothesis of presynaptic abnormalities in levodopa uptake, dopamine synthesis, or dopamine release.\nOBJECTIVE: Directly test the presynaptic hypothesis using a new approach.\nMETHODS: We used positron emission tomography (PET) and [11C]raclopride (RAC*) to measure synaptic dopamine release before and during levodopa and placebo infusions (with carbidopa) in 5neuroleptic-na\xefve adults with TS and 5 matched control subjects. The primary analysis examined RAC* binding potential (BPND) in predefined volumes of interest (VOIs). A secondary analysis compared BPND voxel by voxel over the entire brain.\nRESULTS: (1) Baseline RAC* BPND did not differ significantly between groups, though nucleus accumbens BPND was higher in TS (16%, p=0.051). (2) DA release declined from before to during infusions (p=0.014), including with placebo. (3) This decline was smaller in TS (p=0.080). (4) Levodopa\u2019s effect on BPND differed significantly in right midbrain (p=0.002, corrected), where levodopa displaced RAC* by 59% in control subjects but increased BPND by 74% in TS subjects, and in parahippocampal gyrus (p=0.02, corrected).\nDISCUSSION: Our finding that a before/after RAC* design is confounded by time and/or expectation effects may have implications for other RAC* PET studies. The smaller decrease of BPND with time in TS may be attributable to impaired habituation to the scan environment. Levodopa\u2019s opposite effect on RAC* binding in TS dopaminergic midbrain but may signify an abnormal response to dopaminergic stimulation in TS.', u'Agricultural use of antibiotics differs quantitatively and qualitatively in tropical and temperate countries. To gain insight into the nature and magnitude of physiological adaptations prompted by these drugs in microbial communities from tropical agroecosystems, we compared community-level physiological profiles of sediment bacteria from a protected wetland (PV), a pig farm (RD), treated (TIL1) and untreated effluents (TIL2) from a tilapia farm, an estuary close to shrimp farms (CA), and an irrigation channel adjacent to a rice plantation (AZ) exposed to a range of oxytetracycline (OTC) concentrations in Ecoplates (Biolog\xae). In addition, we used LC/MS/MS and plate counts to determine the concentration of OTC and the number of OTC-resistant bacteria in the samples, respectively. Water samples collected at RD contained maximum amounts of OTC (640 ng L-1), followed by TIL2 (249 ng L-1), TIL1 (72 ng L-1), and CA (85 ng L-1). In average, the microbial community of RD was more tolerant to OTC (EC50: 14.30 \xb1 3.12 mg L-1) than bacteria from CA (8.83 \xb1 1.85 mg Ll-1), TIL2 (EC50: 4.97 \xb1 1.43 mg L-1), TIL1 (4.25 \xb1 0.60 mg L-1), AZ (3.66 \xb1 0.97 mg L-1) and PV (3.77 \xb1 0.62 mg L-1). Congruently, PV, AZ, TIL1, CA, TIL2, and RD appeared in that order in a cumulative distribution of individual EC50 values and higher plate counts of bacteria resistant to 10 \xb5g mL-1 (5.0x105- 1.5x107) and 100 \xb5g mL-1 of OTC (1.5x104-8.4x105) were obtained for RD than for the other sites (10 \xb5g ml-1: 4.8x104-3.3x105 and 100 \xb5g mL-1: 1.0x102-4.4x103). These results are compatible with a scenario in which the basal level of tolerance to OTC that characterizes pristine environments (PV) is amplified in proportion to the intensity of antibiotic exposure (agriculture<aquaculture<swine farming).', u'In the Central Red Sea, relatively pristine coral reefs meet intense coastal development, but data on the effects of related stressors for reef functioning are lacking. This in situ study therefore investigated the independent and combined effects of simulated overfishing and eutrophication on settlement of reef associated invertebrates on light-exposed and -shaded tiles over 4 months. Findings revealed that at the end of the study period invertebrates had almost exclusively colonized shaded tiles, indicating that algae were superior settling competitors on light-exposed tiles. On the shaded tiles, simulated overfishing prevented settlement of hard corals, but significantly increased settlement of polychaetes, while simulated eutrophication only significantly decreased hard coral settlement relative to controls. The combined treatment significantly increased settlement of bryozoans and bivalves compared to controls and individual manipulations, but significantly decreased polychaetes compared to simulated overfishing. These results suggest settlement of polychaetes and hard corals as potential bioindicators for overfishing and eutrophication, respectively, and settlement of bivalves and bryozoans for a combination of both. Therefore, if investigated stressors are not controlled, phase shifts from dominance by hard corals to that by other invertebrates may occur at shaded reef locations in the Central Red Sea.', u'Background: Disorganization of tonotopy in the auditory cortex has been described in schizophrenia. Subjects with schizophrenia show little to no spatial organization of responses to different tone frequencies in the auditory cortex. Previous studies have called into question the use of MEG and the M100 response to assess tonotopy. This study seeks to replicate prior results of tonotopic disorganization in schizophrenia compared to healthy controls. \nMethods: The tonotopic organization for 400 Hz and 4,000 Hz sound in 19 patients with schizophrenia and 11 comparison subjects was determined using MEG by examining the M100 auditory-evoked magnetic field dipole in primary auditory cortex. The equivalent current dipole locations were then mapped and compared. \nResults: The previous result of a lack of tonotopy in subjects with schizophrenia was partly replicated. In control subjects, the 400 Hz tone auditory evoked field was found anterior to the 4000 Hz in the primary auditory cortex.\n Conclusions: The lack of tonotopic organization of the auditory cortex is replicable in patients with schizophrenia and suggests that the architecture underlying tonotopy in the auditory cortex is disordered. This result suggests possible alteration in the organization of the auditory cortex, which may in turn influence higher order cognitive processes by altering the perception of incoming auditory stimuli.', u"The dramatic increase in genome sequencing during the last years has changed our ideas about bacterial diversity, from single gene to whole community DNA surveys; we have learned that nature's lagest gene repository resides in bacteria resides in bacteria. Comparison of bacteria genomes has contributed to understand the flexibility in size and gene content as well as the gene movement due to gene family expansions and Horizontal Gene Transfer. Bacteria species are currently defined by means of 16S rRNA sequence comparisons and some limited phenotypic traits. There is an ongoing debate about the biological and evolutive significance of the bacteria species, and thus the need to refine the definition of it using the most of the genomic shared information across any taxonomic range. When comparing multiple genomes of related strains we can distinguish a set of common shared features which are known as the core genome. In the other hand, the set of strain specific genes are known as accessory genome. The accessory and core genome conform the total of the genetic composition, and are known as pan-genome. Here we present the possibilities using pan-genomics as a workhorse to describe both taxonomical and functional diversity within bacteria.", u'Background: The purpose of this study was to determine what floral differences exist in North Mountain Park and Casa Grande Mountain Park which are both located on opposite sides of the Casa Grande Valley, Pinal County, Arizona and to attempt to explain any measured differences. Previous authors have proposed several explanations for floral variation within the Sonoran Desert including elevation, soil pH, and mineral content. This study explicitly tests several of these proposed mechanisms for determining community composition. Methods: The floral composition was measured in both North Mountain Park and Casa Grande Mountain Park through a series of transects which were sampled by multiple times in 2012 and 2013. Elevation data soil pH were also sampled. Results: The data recovered from North Mountain Park differed from the expected values in Casa Grande Mountain Park by 22%. This indicates a significant difference in the flora between these two localities that was not predicted by earlier studies. Elevation and soil pH differences between sampled localities were not significant. This suggests that mineral composition of the soil may play an important role within this basin in determining community composition. Discussion: Many factors that have been proposed in prior studies do not appear to play a significant role within the Casa Grande Valley in determining community composition. This indicates that the composition of a community is influenced by different factors in different locations within the Sonoran Desert. This makes determining overall controlling factors across an ecosystem difficult.', u'Research indicates that there is a potential for persuasive technologies to be used as a means for increasing physical activity. In this exploratory work, we developed a mobile web application to gather movement data to explore the potential of a health tool in the context of a dance floor to promote physical activity. We wanted to explore if the mobile application in combination with the context and mechanisms seen in other health applications could drive physical activity. In total, 208 participants generated 20,279 data points through the mobile application on the dance floor. The result from this work points out that the concept should be further investigated in more studies.', u'Assembling the Tree Of Life (TOL) faces the pressing challenge of incorporating a rapidly growing number of sequenced genomes. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that different sets of genes are informative at different evolutionary scales. Here, we present a novel phylogenetic approach ( N ested P hylogenetic R econstruction) in which each tree node is optimized based on the genes shared at that taxonomic level. We apply such procedure to reconstruct a 216-species eukaryotic TOL and compare it with a standard concatenation-based approach. The resulting topology is highly accurate, and reveals general trends such as the relationship between branch lengths and genome content in eukaryotes. The approach lends itself to continuous update, and we show this by adding 29 and 173 newly-sequenced species in two consecutive steps. The proposed approach, which has been implemented in a fully-automated pipeline, enables the reconstruction and continuous update of highly-resolved phylogenies of sequenced organisms.', u'In many biological applications, we would like to be able to computationally predict mutational effects on affinity in protein-\xadprotein interactions. However, many commonly used methods to predict these effects perform poorly in important test cases. In particular, the effects of multiple mutations, non\xadalanine substitutions, and flexible loops are difficult to predict with available tools and protocols. We present here an existing method applied in a novel way to a new test case; we interrogate affinity differences resulting from mutations in a host-\xadvirus protein-\xadprotein interface. We use steered molecular dynamics (SMD) to computationally pull the machupo virus (MACV) spike glycoprotein (GP1) away from the human transferrin receptor (hTfR1). We then approximate affinity using the maximum applied force of separation and the area under the force-\xadversus-\xaddistance curve. We find, even without the rigor and planning required for free energy calculations, that these quantities can provide novel biophysical insight into the GP1/hTfR1 interaction. First, with no prior knowledge of the system we can differentiate among wild type and mutant complexes. Moreover, we show that this simple SMD scheme correlates well with relative free energy differences computed via free energy perturbation. Second, although the static co-\xadcrystal structure shows two large hydrogen-\xadbonding networks in the GP1/hTfR1 interface, our simulations indicate that one of them may not be important for tight binding. Third, one viral site known to be critical for infection may mark an important evolutionary suppressor site for infection-\xadresistant hTfR1 mutants. Finally, our approach provides a framework to compare the effects of multiple mutations, individually and jointly, on protein-protein interactions.', u'Purpose. To design and validate a prenatal chromosome microarray testing strategy that moves away from size-based detection thresholds, towards a more clinically relevant analysis, providing higher resolution than G-banded chromosomes but avoiding the detection of imbalances of unclear prognosis that cause parental anxiety.\nMethods. All prenatal samples fulfilling our criteria for karyotype analysis (n=342) were tested by chromosome microarray and only copy number variants of established deletion/duplication syndrome regions and any other imbalance >3Mb were detected and reported. A retrospective full-resolution analysis of 249 of these samples was carried out to ascertain the performance of this testing strategy.\nResults. Using our prenatal analysis, 23/342 (6.7%) samples were found to be abnormal. Of the remaining samples, 249 were anonymized and reanalyzed at full-resolution; a further 46 regions of imbalance were detected in 44 of these traces (17.7%). None of these additional imbalances were of clear clinical significance.\nConclusion. This prenatal chromosome microarray strategy detected all CNVs of clear prognostic value and did not miss any imbalances of clear clinical significance. This strategy avoided both the problems associated with interpreting imbalances of uncertain prognosis and the parental anxiety that are a result of such findings.', u'Background. As whole genome sequence data from bacterial isolates becomes cheaper to generate, computational methods are needed to correlate sequence data with biological observations. Here we present the large-scale BLAST score ratio (LS-BSR) pipeline, which rapidly compares the genetic content of hundreds to thousands of bacterial genomes, and returns a matrix that describes the relatedness of all coding sequences (CDSs) in all genomes surveyed. This matrix can be easily parsed in order to identify genetic relationships between bacterial genomes. Although pipelines have been published that group peptides by sequence similarity, no other software performs the large-scale, flexible, full-genome comparative analyses carried out by LS-BSR. Results. To demonstrate the utility of the method, the LS-BSR pipeline was tested on 96 Escherichia coli and Shigella genomes; the pipeline ran in 163 minutes using 16 processors, which is a greater than 7-fold speedup compared to using a single processor. The BSR values for each CDS, which indicate a relative level of relatedness, were then mapped to each genome on an independent core genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) based phylogeny. Comparisons were then used to identify clade specific CDS markers and validate the LS-BSR pipeline based on molecular markers that delineate between classical E. coli pathogenic variant (pathovar) designations. Scalability tests demonstrated that the LS-BSR pipeline can process 1,000 E. coli genomes in ~60h using 16 processors. Conclusions. LS-BSR is an open-source, parallel implementation of the BSR algorithm, enabling rapid comparison of the genetic content of large numbers of genomes. The results of the pipeline can be used to identify specific markers between user-defined phylogenetic groups, and to identify the loss and/or acquisition of genetic information between bacterial isolates. Taxa-specific genetic markers can then be translated into clinical diagnostics, or can be used to identify broadly conserved putative therapeutic candidates.', u"The Data Rate Theorem that establishes a formal linkage between linear control theory and information theory carries deep implications for the design of biologically inspired cognitive architectures (BICA), and for the more general study of embodied cognition. For example, modest extensions of the theorem provide a spectrum of necessary conditions dynamic statistical models that will be useful in empirical studies. A large deviations argument, however, suggests that the stabilization of such systems is itself an interpenetrating dynamic process necessarily convoluted with embodied cognition. As our experience with mental disorders and chronic disease implies, evolutionary process has had only modest success in the regulation and control of cognitive biological phenomena. For humans, the central role of culture has long been known. Although a ground-state collapse analogous to generalized anxiety appears ubiquitous to such systems, lack of cultural modulation for real-time automatons or distributed cognition man-machine `cockpits' makes them particularly subject to a canonical pathology under which `all possible targets are enemies'. More general dysfunctions of large-scale topology and connectivity analogous to autism spectrum and schizophenoform disorders also appear likely. A kind of machine psychiatry may become a central engineering discipline as the number of computation cores in real-time critical systems increases exponentially over the next few decades.", u'We built climate envelope models under contemporary and future climates to explore potential range shifts of the invasive Red Shiner-Cyprinella lutrensis. Our objective was to estimate aquatic habitat vulnerability to Red Shiner invasion in North America under future climatic change. We used presence records from within the species\u2019 native and invaded distributions, a suite of bioclimatic predictor variables from three climate models (CCCma, CSIRO, and HadCM3), and maximum entropy modeling to generate potential distribution maps for the year 2080. Our model predicted major range expansion by Red Shiner under both low and high carbon emissions scenarios. The models exceeded average area under the receiver operator characteristic curve values of 0.92, indicating good overall model performance. The model predictions fell largely outside of areas of climatic extrapolation (i.e. regions predicted into environments different from training region) indicating good model performance. The results from this study highlight the large potential range expansion across North America of Red Shiner under future warmer climates.', u'Identification of the majority of organisms present in human-associated microbial communities is feasible with the advent of high throughput sequencing technology. However, these data consist of non-negative, highly skewed sequence counts with a large proportion of zeros. Zero-inflated models are useful for analyzing such data. Moreover, the non-zero observations may be over-dispersed in relation to the Poisson distribution, biasing parameter estimates and underestimating standard errors. In such a circumstance, a zero-inflated negative binomial (ZINB) model better accounts for these characteristics compared to a zero-inflated Poisson (ZIP). In addition, complex study designs are possible with repeated measurements or multiple samples collected from the same subject, thus random effects are introduced to account for the within subject variation. A zero-inflated negative binomial mixed model contains components to model the probability of excess zero values and the negative binomial parameters, allowing for repeated measures using independent random effects between these two components. The objective of this study is to examine the application of a zero-inflated negative binomial mixed model to human microbiota sequence data.', u'The structure pattern of the tree of life clues on the key ecological issues; hence knowing the fractal dimension is the fundamental question in understanding the tree of life. Yet the fractal dimension of the tree of life remains unclear since the scale of the tree of life has hypergrown in recent years. Here we show that the tree of life display a consistent power-law rules for inter- and intra-taxonomic levels, but the fractal dimensions were different among different kingdoms. The fractal dimension of hierarchical structure (Dr) is 0.873 for the entire tree of life, which smaller than the values of Dr for Animalia and Plantae but greater than the values of Dr for Fungi, Chromista, and Protozoa. The hierarchical fractal dimensions values for prokaryotic kingdoms are lower than for other kingdoms. The Dr value for Viruses was lower than most eukaryotic kingdoms, but greater than prokaryotes. The distribution of taxa size is governed by fractal diversity but skewed by overdominating taxa with large subtaxa size. The proportion of subtaxa in taxa with small and large sizes was greater than in taxa with intermediate size. Our results suggest that the distribution of subtaxa in taxa can be predicted with fractal dimension for the accumulating taxa abundance rather than the taxa abundance. Our study determined the fractal dimensions for inter- and intra-taxonomic levels of the present tree of life. These results emphases the need for further theoretical studies, as well as predictive modelling, to interpret the different fractal dimension for different taxonomic groups and skewness of taxa with large subtaxa size.', u'The tremendous variation in brain size among vertebrates has long been thought to be related to differences in species\u2019 metabolic rates. Species with higher metabolic rates can supply more energy to support the relatively high cost of brain tissue. And yet, while body temperature is known to be a major determinant of metabolic rate, the possible effects of temperature on brain size have scarcely been explored. Thus, here I explore the effects of temperature on brain size among diverse vertebrates (fishes,amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals). I find that, after controlling for body size,brain size increases exponentially with temperature in much the same way asmetabolic rate. These results suggest that temperature-dependent changes in aerobic capacity, which have long been known to affect physical performance, similarly affect brain size. The observed temperature-dependence of brain size may explain observed gradients in brain size among both ectotherms and endotherms across broad spatial and temporal scales.', u'The minimisation of exposure of mammalian cell lines to potential microbial contaminants is handled by routine adherence to quality laboratory procedures. Mycoplasma, are capable of sustainable intracellular existence, are not v isible in light microscopy and must be tested for using dedicated methods. Bacterial contamination is usually detectable by relatively simple optical, spectroscopy and pH methodology. Symbiont occupation assumes an evolved mutually beneficial relationship and does occur with many eukaryote-prokaryotes, but rarely mammals. Other, purely intracellular low density, low energy and relatively stable and non-visible bacterial occupation of mammalian cytoplasm, assumes the existence of new intra-genus relationships and associated mechanisms. In this study, preliminary microscopy and sequence data has been collated implying the presence of low density Cocci in the cytoplasm of hepatocyte lines with negligible impact on cell function and behaviour.', u'Background: Many families find regular checking of children\u2019s heads for head louse infestation too onerous and would prefer to be able to prevent infestation by use of a topical application that deters lice from infesting the head. Identification in the laboratory of a repellent activity for piperonal provided the basis for developing a spray product to repel lice.\nMethods: A proof of principle field study in Dhaka, Bangladesh, compared the effect of using 2% piperonal spray with that of a placebo in 105 children and adults from three communities with infestation levels close to 100%. All participants were treated for infestation and subsequent incidence of reinfestation monitored daily by investigators. A second randomised, controlled, double blind, study in North London, UK, evaluated the effect of the product in normal use. One hundred and sixty-three children from schools with a high level (20-25%) of infestation were treated and confirmed louse free and randomly divided between 2% piperonal, a placebo spray, and a control group for up to 22 weeks. Parents applied the spray and monitored for infestation. Regular investigator visits confirmed the parental monitoring and replenished supplies of spray.\nResults: In Dhaka, over 18 days there were only 4 infestations in the piperonal group and 8 in the placebo group. This difference was not significant (p = 0.312). In North London, there were 41 cases of infestation over the course of the study. Analysis of time to first infestation showed a non-significant (p = 0.4368) trend in favour of piperonal.\nConclusion: Routine use of 2% piperonal spray in communities with a high prevalence of head louse infestation may provide some protection from infestation. However, the difference between use of the product and no active intervention was sufficiently small that regular checking for presence of lice is likely to be a more practical and cost effective approach to prevention of infestation.', u'The extra-hepatic metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) usually hints late disease stage and poor prognosis. However, we treated 5 unusual HCC patients with isolated para-vertebral metastasis by tumor excision and the surgical result is satisfactory during 3.5 years follow-up in mean. To explain why the unusual situation of isolated metastasis of HCC occurred, an alternative spreading route of cancer cells bypass pulmonary circulation and avoid pulmonary vascular filtration, the Batson\u2019s plexus, was highly suspected. We supposed that isolated para-vetebral metastases seems not to mean a late disease stage, aggressive management made longer survival possible, and it was confirmed by our clinical experience.', u'The eukaryotic polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB) serves primarily as a regulator of alternative splicing of messenger RNA, but is also co-opted to other roles such as RNA localisation and translation initiation from internal ribosome entry sites. The neuronal paralogue of PTB (nPTB) protein is 75% identical in amino acid sequence with PTB. Although the two proteins have broadly similar RNA binding specificities and effects on RNA splicing, differential expression of PTB and nPTB can lead to the generation of alternatively spliced mRNAs. RNA binding by PTB and nPTB is mediated by four RNA recognition motifs (RRMs). We present here the crystal and solution structures of the C-terminal domain of nPTB (nPTB34) which contains RRMs 3 and 4. As expected the structures are similar to each other and to the solution structure of the equivalent fragment from PTB (PTB34). The result confirms that, as found for PTB, RRMs 3 and 4 of nPTB interact with one another to form a stable unit that presents the RNA-binding surfaces of the component RRMs on opposing sides. The major differences between PTB34 and nPTB34 arise from amino acid side chain substitutions on the exposed \u03b2-sheet surfaces and adjoining loops of each RRM, which are likely to modulate interactions with RNA.', u'Due to the advancement of bioinformatics and genome sequencing project, entire genome and proteome sequences of different organisms are available in the public domain. These vast data are repeatedly compared and explored to find out identical and similar sequence patterns. In this paper we employed NCBI\u2019s Standalone BLAST program for entire proteome comparison of any two strains / species and illustrate a simple algorithm for the same. The implementation of this epcALGO algorithm is to identify systematically conserved proteins that are missing in a given proteome and also identify proteins unique to a particular species. This algorithm is simple and quick to apply for revealing the species / strain variation among any two closely related species / strains by identifying identical and non-identical proteins in their proteomes and also identifying where there is mutation in the protein sequence. We implemented this algorithm for proteome comparison of two strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv and H37Ra and elucidated the methodology for finding out their proteomic variation.', u'Background: In the wake of burgeoning slum population, a substantial reduction in the prevalence of diarrhea and acute respiratory infections (ARI) is necessary for to achieve necessary reduction in child mortality in urban India. To achieve this, we need evidence based public health interventions and programs. However, a review of previous studies indicate that national level studies focused on slum population are very few. Therefore, the present study aims to study differentials and determinants of diarrhea and ARI in urban slums of India. Methodology: Using data obtained from the third round of National Family Health Survey conducted in 2005-06, we analyzed information on 2687 under-5 children living in urban slums located in eight selected India cities. Apart from bivariate analysis, logistic regression analysis was performed to identify factor associated with diarrhea and ARI among slum children. Results: The prevalence diarrhea and ARI is about 8% and 8.5%, respectively. Age, birth weight, access to safe water and improved toilet and region emerge as main factors affecting prevalence of diarrhea among slum children. Safe drinking water reduces the likelihood of getting diarrhea by about 19% compared to unsafe water [CI=0.563-1.151]. Children with normal birth are about 51% less likely to suffer from diarrhea compared to those with unknown birth weight [CI=0.368-0.814]. Older children are about 63% less likely to suffer from diarrhea [CI=0.274-0.502]. Children from Southern cities are about half as likely to have diarrhea as children from slums in Northern cities. ARI is associated with age, birth weight, religion, caste, education, family type, safe water, improved toilet, mass-media exposure, region and separate kitchen. Older children and children with normal birth weight are less likely to suffer from ARI. Children from \u2018Other\u2019 religions and OBC are 39% [CI=1.000-1.924] and 49% [CI=1.008-2.190], respectively, more likely to suffer from ARI. Parents\u2019 education is strongly associated with prevalence of ARI. Exposure to mass media reduces the likelihood of ARI to 50% compared to the situation when mother of the child did not have any exposure to mass-media [CI=0.324-0.819]. Non-flush toilet and lack of separate kitchen increase the likelihood of ARI. Children from slums located in Southern region are less likely to suffer from ARI. Conclusion: The findings call for dedicated programs and policies, in line with those already existing ones such as RAY, IHSDP, NUHM, ICDS and JNNURM, for the development of urban slums through provision of affordable housing, improved sanitation, safe water and clean fuel. Adequate nutrition to mothers and their children should be ensured and vulnerable groups identified in the analysis should be the focus of future public health intervention and strategies. The use of mass-media to change health behavior should also be considered.', u'Visual media can captivate, fascinate, and inspire. Whether skillfully taken photographs or artfully crafted visual illustrations, visuals convey beauty in ways that words can\u2019t, and can tell even complex stories to audiences that might otherwise not listen. The story of biological evolution is highly complex and the subject of an enduring quest for better understanding. Yet it is also one of remarkable beauty, as given testimony by the numerous phylogenetic illustrations in publications that show in fascinating detail how traits, function, or morphology may have evolved along a tree. Despite their unique ability to make stories of evolutionary history understandable at a glance, and despite the considerable amount of skill, time, and creativity authors spend on making them, almost all of them end up buried in articles, undiscoverable on their own, locked away behind paywalls, copyrighted by the publisher rather than the creator, and unavailable for repurposing. Published as static images on printed pages or in PDFs on journal websites, they are non-interactive, and cannot be extended or improved by others. While many of these constraints may have been brought about by the limitations of printed journal issues, modern internet-based technologies offer little justification for perpetuating them. We suggest that a grass-roots community initiative uniting people with shared enthusiasm can redefine how we create, distribute, share, repurpose, and interact with the visual depictions of our primary phylogenetic knowledge. Imagine a world in which beautiful trees are archived in open digital repositories, discoverable through metadata specific to the illustration, and assigned digital identifiers that allow tracking their impact and reuse. Imagine if the art of phylogenetic trees used media formats amenable to collaboratively maintaining, modifying, and sharing them through the powerful mechanisms familiar from source code version control. Beautiful trees could become living, collaborative and interactive works of visual art that change as our knowledge evolves, and that pique curiosity in millions of people worldwide. Technologies abound to realize this vision; the main hurdle is changing the culture in how we treat this part of the scientific knowledge production enterprise.', u'Antimycins are an extended family of depsipeptides that are made by filamentous actinomycete bacteria and were first isolated more than 60 years ago. Recently, antimycins have attracted renewed interest because of their activities against the anti-apoptotic machineries inside human cells which could make them promising anti-cancer compounds. The biosynthetic pathway for antimycins was recently characterised but very little is known about the organisation and regulation of the antimycin (ant) gene cluster. Here we report that the ant gene cluster in Streptomyces albus is organized into four transcriptional units; the antBA, antCDE, antGF and antHIJKLMNO operons. Unusually for secondary metabolite clusters, the antG and antH promoters are regulated by an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) RNA polymerase sigma factor named \u03c3AntA which represents a new sub-family of ECF \u03c3 factors that is only found in antimycin producing strains. We show that \u03c3AntA controls production of the unusual precursor 3-aminosalicylate which is absolutely required for the production of antimycins. \u03c3AntA is highly conserved in antimycin producing strains and the -10 and -35 elements at the \u03c3AntA regulated antG and antH promoters are also highly conserved suggesting a common mechanism of regulation. We also demonstrate that altering the C-terminal Ala-Ala residues found in all \u03c3AntA proteins to Asp-Asp increases expression of the antFG and antGHIJKLMNO operons and we speculate that this Ala-Ala motif may be a signal for the protease ClpXP.', u'Using data from the third round of National Family Health Survey (NFHS, 2005-06), the present study examined the effect of quality of housing on the risk of anthropometric failure and child health status among migrant and non-migrant children in urban India. It is very urgent to from the policy and program perspective to understand whether source of safe drinking water, type of toilet facilities, and type of housing and cooking fuel really make a difference when it comes to the health and nutritional status of Indian children, particularly the urban poor. The main findings from the present studies indicate the poor nutritional and health status of migrant and non-migrant children in urban India. There were also large interstate disparities in anthropometric failures and ARI & diarrhea among migrant and non-migrant children across various Indian states. Result from the multivariate analysis suggest that poor source of sanitation facilities and poor quality of housing significantly raised the risk of stunting and diarrhea, whereas use of safe cooking fuel reduces the likelihood of ARI among children in urban India. However, we do not find any significant effect of quality of housing on the risk of underweight and wasting. Furthermore, few of the findings from the analysis appear in opposite directions that should be interpreted with caution which might be possible due to small sample size in few categories. Therefore, we need further in-depth research at micro-level to explore the plausible mechanism of how does housing quality influence child health and nutritional status in urban India.', u'Schistosomes are parasitic worms that can survive in the hostile environment of the human bloodstream where they appear refractory to both immune elimination and thrombus formation. We hypothesize that parasite migration in the bloodstream can stress the vascular endothelium causing this tissue to release chemicals alerting responsive host cells to the stress. Such chemicals are called damage associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) and among the most potent is the proinflammatory mediator, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Furthermore, the ATP derivative ADP is a pro-thrombotic molecule that acts as a strong activator of platelets. Schistosomes are reported to possess at their host interactive tegumental surface a series of enzymes that could, like their homologs in mammals, degrade extracellular ATP and ADP. These are alkaline phosphatase (SmAP), phosphodiesterase (SmNPP-5) and ATP diphosphohydrolase (SmATPDase1). In this work we employ RNAi to knock down expression of the genes encoding these enzymes in the intravascular life stages of the parasite. We then compare the abilities of these parasites to degrade exogenously added ATP and ADP. . We find that only SmATPDase1-suppressed parasites are significantly impaired in their ability to degrade these nucleotides. Suppression of SmAP or SmNPP-5 does not appreciably affect the worms\u2019 ability to catabolize ATP or ADP. These findings are confirmed by the functional characterization of the enzymatically active, full-length recombinant SmATPDase1 expressed in CHO-S cells. The enzyme is a true apyrase; SmATPDase1 degrades ATP and ADP in a cation dependent manner. Optimal activity is seen at alkaline pH. The Km of SmATPDase1 for ATP is 0.4 \xb10.02 mM and for ADP, 0.252 \xb1 0.02 mM. The results confirm the role of tegumental SmATPDase1 in the degradation of the exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides ATP and ADP by live intravascular stages of the parasite. By degrading host inflammatory signals like ATP, and pro-thrombotic signals like ADP, these parasite enzymes may minimize host immune responses, inhibit blood coagulation and promote schistosome survival.)', u'Urban exploiters and adapters are often coalesced under a term of convenience as \u2018urban tolerant\u2019. This useful but simplistic characterisation masks a more nuanced interplay between and within assemblages of birds that are more or less well adapted to a range of urban habitats. Furthermore, cues are generally sought in behavioural ecology and physiology for the degree to which particular bird species are predisposed to urban living. The data in this paper are focused on two assemblages characterised as urban exploiters and suburban adapters from Melbourne, Australia. This study departs from the approach taken in many others of similar kind in that urban bird assemblages that form the basis of the work were identified at the landscape scale and from direct data analyses rather than indirect inference. Further, this paper employs a paired, partitioned analysis of exploiter and adapter preferences for points along the urban-rural gradient that seeks to decompose the overall trend into diagnosable parts for each assemblage. In the present paper I test the hypotheses that the distinct urban exploiter and suburban adapter assemblages within the broad urban tolerant grouping in Melbourne vary in their responses within the larger group to predictor variables, and that the most explanatory predictor variables vary between the two assemblages. In the end, habitat-of-origin better predicts degree of adaptation amongst urban tolerant birds.', u'The conservation of disturbance-prone ecosystems such as rangelands may depend on the spatial and temporal variation in the application of disturbances. Patch-burn management approaches attempt to increase overall landscape biodiversity by creating a mosaic of habitat patches using a patchy application of fire and grazing. Three fundamental assumptions underlay the patch-burn management approach: 1) fire and grazing drive spatial patch differentiation in community structure, 2) species composition of patches diverge through time in response to disturbance, 3) high spatio-temporal variation in fire and grazing results in high compositional variation and thus high landscape-scale diversity. We tested the first two assumptions of the patch-burn approach by comparing the importance of variation in management (changes in fire frequency and grazer species) relative to inherent sources of landscape heterogeneity at the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Osage Co., Oklahoma, USA. We sampled 150 square 100 m2 quadrats on a 1 x 1 km UTM grid. We randomly selected 20 of those quadrats to annually resample for 12-years. We recorded visual cover of all vascular plant species rooted within each quadrat. We used variation partitioning within multiple regression and direct ordination frameworks to estimate the relative contribution of classes of variables on species richness and composition respectively.\nOur results indicate that there was some support for the two assumptions underlying patch-burn management; however, independent spatial and temporal inherent landscape heterogeneity played a much larger role than management in shaping both plant richness and composition. The strength of inherent landscape heterogeneity on the plant community suggests that fine-tuning the application of fire and grazing is not critical for maintaining this community as long as fire and grazing remain part of the system. More generally, the effects of intrinsic spatiotemporal template on biodiversity may dominate even in disturbance-prone ecosystems.', u'BACKGROUND: Several lines of evidence show that abdominal fat is strongly associated with insulin resistance and dysglycemia (impaired glucose tolerance - IGT or type 2 diabetes mellitus - T2DM). However, which component of abdominal fat, subcutaneous or intra-abdominal, has a major impact on the development of insulin resistance and dysglycemia is still a matter of debate. The aim of this review is to summarize the best available evidence on the contribution of subcutaneous and/or intra-abdominal adipose tissues to the incidence of impaired glucose tolerance and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus, in adults as well as to determine which type of abdominal fat is a better predictor of these metabolic disorders. METHODS: A search of published articles on PUBMED (1966 to June 2013), EMBASE (1980 to June 2013), LILACS (1982 to June 2013) and Central Cochrane databases was conducted to identify studies evaluating the relationship between intra-abdominal and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue and the incident IGT or T2DM). Cohort studies examining the association between intra-abdominal and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue values and the prospective development of impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus (estimated risk) were included in this review. Data extraction and risk of bias assessments were performed in duplicate by 2 reviewers. Random-effects meta-analyses were performed to pool OR estimates from individual studies to assess the association between intra-abdominal and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue values at baseline and the risk of development of impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus. Statistical heterogeneity was assessed using the I2 statistics. The risk of bias was assessed by examining the sample selected, recruitment method, completeness of follow up and blinding according to the guidelines for assessing quality in prognostic studies proposed by Hayden (29) and the MOOSE (30) statement, and adapted by us. RESULTS: Five relevant studies were suitable for this review. The analysis showed that both VAT and abdominal SAT measurements at baseline were strong predictors of incident impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus, in minimally adjusted models. However, when other confounding variables besides age, sex and ethnicity were taken into account, VAT, but not SAT, measurements pose a high risk of the incident IGT or T2DM in a wide range of age and ethnic backgrounds (Japanese-, Hispanic-, African-Americans and Canadians). CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the present results provide some evidence that VAT imposes more risk to the development of IGT and T2DM than abdominal SAT. However, more studies are necessary to confirm these results and to address the issue of changes in VAT and abdominal SAT and their predictive value regarding IGT and type 2 diabetes developments.', u'Minimal pairs are defined as pair of words in a particular language which differ in only one phonological element and have a different meaning (Roach, 2000). Several authors argued their relevance in the treatment of phonological disorders (for instance, Barlow and Gierut, 2002). In this study we investigate the nature of minimal pairs showing that a subtype of them entails a peculiar form of processing. In many languages bound morphemes used to mark inflection generate minimal pairs. In English, the present third person singular morpheme -s and the past tense morpheme -ed generate in most cases minimal pairs, such as \u201casks / asked\u201d. Several authors (Stemberger and MacWhinney, 1986, Bertram et al, 2000) have argued that inflected forms may be stored in the lexicon as units, i.e. together with the bound morpheme. If inflected forms are stored as units in the lexicon, discriminating lexical minimal pairs and morphosyntactic minimal pairs should not be different processes. Elements should be stored similarly in the lexicon, and then compared phonologically when the subject is presented with a minimal pair. In this study we addressed this question presenting 20 monolingual native speakers of English with lexical and morphosyntactic minimal pairs (30 per condition, frequency differences not significant), and with pairs of identical words (leading, thus, to 120 trials). Participants were asked to press \u201cwhite\u201d if words were different and \u201cblack\u201d if words were identical. Conditions were matched on word length. Results show that subjects are significantly faster in discriminating words generating a lexical minimal pair, such as \u201cback / badge\u201d than words generating a morphosyntactic minimal pair, such as \u201casks / asked\u201d, t (19) = -4.486, p < .001. A third condition was also present to deepen our understanding of the processing of morphosyntactic minimal pairs. In this condition subjects were presented with morphosyntactic minimal pairs generated by very infrequent verbs. Unexpectedly, minimal pairs generated by infrequent verbs revealed to be faster recognised (19) = 2.120, p < .05 than the other morphosyntactic minimal pairs. Even if this may be interpreted as a consequence of attention arousal for unexpected stimuli, the result is problematic if we assume inflected forms to be stored in the lexicon as units. Together, these results suggest that inflected forms are not stored as units and that the discrimination of morphosyntactic minimal pairs relies on the discrimination of inflectional morphemes. As such, we suggest that increasing the sensibility to morphosyntactic minimal pairs in people with a morphosyntactic disorder, such as children with Specific Language Impairment (SLI), should improve their language performance.', u'Traditional Chinese medicine has become increasingly popular in Europe and North America.There is evidence that quality control in terms of species authentication is sometimes inappropriate. Repeated incidents of adulterations and wrong identification, some even with serious consequences have occurred recently. The necessity of a quality control for TCM drugs to avoid these incidents is given since many years. DNA barcoding was used in this study to authenticate drugs which are often used in Chinese herbal medicine. 37 plants from 28 families were identified using nucleotide sequences of the rbcL gene. Only one adulteration could be detected. Both the advantages and limitations of rbcL as a marker gene for identification were analysed and discussed. We could show that DNA barcoding is a valid and fast method to identify medicinal herbs, showing some advantages over chemical profiling because of its universal application even for unknown plant species.', u"Coral guard crabs in the genus Trapezia are well-documented defenders of their pocilloporid coral hosts against coral predators such as the Crown-of-Thorns seastar (Acanthaster planci complex). The objectives of this study were to examine the protective services of six species of Trapezia against corallivory, and the extent of functional diversity among these Trapezia species. Studies conducted in Mo'orea, French Polynesia showed the Trapezia \u2013 coral mutualism protected the host corals from multiple predators through functional diversity in the assemblage of crab symbionts. Species differed in their defensive efficacy, but species within similar size classes shared similar abilities. Smaller Trapezia species, which were previously thought to be ineffective guards, play important defensive roles against small corallivores. We also measured the benefits of this mutualism to nearby coral species in the midst of an Acanthaster outbreak that reduced the live coral cover on the fore reef to less than 4%. The mutualism positively affects the reef coral demography and potential for recovery during adverse predation events through shelter of multiple species of small corals near the host coral. Our results show that some Trapezia species may be functionally equivalent within the same size class, decreasing the threat of gaps in coral protection caused by absence or replacement of any single Trapezia species.", u'A novel degradation pathway of 2-chloro-4-aminophenol (2C4AP) was studied in an Arthrobacter sp. SPG that utilized 2C4AP as a sole carbon and energy source. The 2C4AP degradation was initiated by a 2C4AP-deaminase that catalyzed the conversion of 2C4AP into chlorohydroquinone (CHQ) with removal of ammonium ion. In the next step, a CHQ-dehalogenase catalyzed the dehalogenation of CHQ to hydroquinone (HQ). The further degradation of HQ was proceeded with ring cleavage and the formation of \u03b3-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde. This is the first report of degradation of 2C4AP by any bacteria.', u'In common interest games in which players are motivated to coordinate their strategies to achieve a jointly optimal outcome, orthodox game theory provides no general reason or justification for choosing the required strategies. In the simplest cases, where the optimal strategies are intuitively obvious, human decision makers generally coordinate without difficulty, but how they achieve this is poorly understood. Most theories seeking to explain strategic coordination have limited applicability, or require changes to the game specification, or introduce implausible assumptions or radical departures from fundamental game-theoretic assumptions. The theory of strong Stackelberg reasoning, according to which players choose strategies that would maximize their own payoffs if their co-players could invariably anticipate any strategy and respond with a best reply to it, avoids these problems and explains strategic coordination in all dyadic common interest games. Previous experimental evidence has provided evidence for strong Stackelberg reasoning in asymmetric games. Here we report evidence from two experiments consistent with players being influenced by strong Stackelberg reasoning in a wide variety of symmetric 3 \xd7 3 games but tending to revert to other choice criteria when strong Stackelberg reasoning generates small payoffs.', u'In this study, we have investigated the association between osteoporosis and estrogen receptor 1 (ER1) 397 T>C, and calcitonin receptor (CALCR) 1340 T>C polymorphisms. Genomic DNA was obtained from 104 persons (52 osteoporotic and 52 healthy controls). Genomic DNA was extracted from EDTA-preserved peripheral venous blood of patients and controls and analyzed by PCR-RFLP. As a result, there was no statistically significant difference in the genotype and allele frequencies of patients and controls for ER1 397 T>C and CALCR 1340 T>C polymorphisms. ER1 CC and TC single nucleotides genotypes compared with TT genotypes was found more significantly women with osteoporosis [p=0.016; p=0.0046, OR=2.66; 0.44, 95% CI 1.185-5.988; 0.199-0.991)]. There was no statistically significant difference in the genotype and allele frequencies of patient and controls for ER1 combined nucleotides [p=0,148, OR=1.051, 95% CI (0.993\u20131.112)]. Our study showed that CALCR genes single and combined nucleotides genotypes were not significant women with osteoporotic and healthy postmenopausal women.', u'Partial least squares (PLS) have gained wide applications especially in chemometrics, metabolomics/metabonomics as well as bioinformatics. To our knowledge, an integrated PLS library that include not only basic PLS modeling algorithms but also advanced and/or recently developed methods on model assessment, outlier detection and variable selection is in lack. Here we present libPLS which provides an integrated platform for developing PLS regression and/or discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) models. This library is written in MATLAB and freely available at www.libpls.net.', u'In oceanic gyres, primary producers are numerically dominated by small (1-5 \xb5m diameter) pro- and eukaryotic cells that primarily utilize recycled nutrients produced by rapid grazing turnover in a highly efficient microbial loop. Continuous losses of nitrogen to depth by sinking, either as single cells, aggregates or fecal pellets, are balanced by both nitrate inputs at the base of the euphotic zone and nitrogen-fixation. This input of N (new nitrogen) to balance export losses (the biological pump) is a fundamental aspect of nitrogen cycling and central to understanding carbon fluxes in the ocean. In the Pacific Ocean, detailed nitrogen budgets at the time-series station HOT require upward transport of nitrate from the nutricline (80-100 m) into the surface layer (~0-40 m) to balance productivity and export needs. However, concentration gradients are negligible and cannot support the fluxes. Physical processes can inject nitrate into the base of the euphotic zone, but the mechanisms for transporting this nitrate into the surface layer across many 10s of m in highly stratified systems are unknown. In these seas, vertical migration by the very largest 102-103 \xb5m diameter) phytoplankton is common as a survival strategy to obtain nitrogen from sub-euphotic zone depths. This vertical migration is driven by buoyancy changes rather than by flagellated movement and can provide upward nitrogen transport as nitrate (mM concentrations) in the cells. However, the contribution of vertical migration to nitrate transport has been difficult to quantify over the required basin scales. In this study, we use towed optical systems and isotopic tracers to show that migrating diatom (Rhizosolenia) mats are widespread in the N. Pacific Ocean from 140\xb0W to 175\xb0E and together with other migrating phytoplankton (Ethmodiscus, Halosphaera, Pyrocystis, and solitary Rhizosolenia) can mediate time-averaged transport of N (235 \xb5mol N m-2 d-1) equivalent to eddy nitrate injections (242 \xb5mol NO3- m-2 d-1). This upward biotic transport can close nitrate budgets in the upper 250 m of the central Pacific Ocean and together with diazotrophy creates a surface zone where biological nutrient inputs rather than physical processes dominate the new N flux. In addition to these numerically rare large migrators, there is extensive evidence in the literature of ascending behavior in small phytoplankton that contributes to upward flux as well. Although passive downward movement has dominated models of phytoplankton flux, there is now sufficient evidence to require a rethinking of this paradigm. Quantifying these fluxes is a challenge for the future and requires a reexamination of individual phytoplankton sinking rates as well as methods for capturing and enumerating ascending phytoplankton in the sea.', u'Background: High blood pressure is a serious public health problem in Morocco; the national survey of cardiovascular risk factors in Morocco found a prevalence of 33.6% of people with high blood pressure (HBP) with a higher prevalence among women, also, the World Health Organization estimated the prevalence of HBP in 2008 at 41.2%. Our study aimed to evaluate the amount of salt provided by the consumption of bread, since it is a staple food, in daily food intake and compare it to the recommendations. This study aims to raise awareness about salt consumption and its impact in causing high blood pressure. Methods: We used the MOHR method to quantify sodium in bread samples from 80 professional bakeries in Casablanca. Results: Results showed that the average amount of salt used in the preparation of bread is 17.42 \xb1 1.28 g / kg, which is the equivalent of a daily intake of 8 to 9 g of salt through bread alone, and exceeds all recommendations. Conclusion: We can only recommend using it as a vector for the programme of awareness about salt over-consumption and its impact on raising the prevalence of hypertension.', u'Based on the hydrological and meteorological data of the upper reaches of Shiyang River basin in Northwest China from 1960 to 2009, this paper analyzed the change in runoff and its related climatic factors, and estimated the contribution of climate change and human activity to runoff change by using the moving T test, cumulative analysis of anomalies and multiple regression analysis. The results showed that temperature revealed a significant increasing trend, and potential evaporation capacity decreased significantly, while precipitation increased insignificantly in the past recent 50 years. Although there were three mutations in 1975, 1990 and 2002 respectively, runoff presented a slight decreasing trend in the whole period. The contributions of climate change and human activity to runoff change during the period of 1976-2009 were 45% and 55% respectively.', u"Background. Up to 75 % of crop species benefit at least to some degree from animal pollination for fruit or seed set and yield. However, basic information on the level of pollinator dependence and pollinator contribution to yield is lacking for many crops. Even less is known about how insect pollination affects crop quality. Given that habitat loss and agricultural intensification are known to decrease pollinator richness and abundance, there is a need to assess the consequences for different components of crop production. Methods. We used pollination exclusion on flowers or inflorescences on a whole plant basis to assess the contribution of insect pollination to crop yield and quality in four flowering crops (spring oilseed rape, field bean, strawberry, and buckwheat) located in four regions of Europe. For each crop, we recorded abundance and species richness of flower visiting insects in ten fields located along a gradient from simple to heterogeneous landscapes. Results. Insect pollination enhanced average crop yield between 18 and 71% depending on the crop. Yield quality was also enhanced in most crops. For instance, oilseed rape had higher oil and lower chlorophyll contents when adequately pollinated, the proportion of empty seeds decreased in buckwheat, and strawberries' commercial grade improved; however, we did not find higher nitrogen content in open pollinated field beans. Complex landscapes had a higher overall species richness of wild pollinators across crops, but visitation rates were only higher in complex landscapes for some crops. On the contrary, the overall yield was consistently enhanced by higher visitation rates, but not by higher pollinator richness. Discussion. For the four crops in this study, there is clear benefit delivered by pollinators on yield quantity and/or quality, but it is not maximized under current agricultural intensification. Honeybees, the most abundant pollinator, might partially compensate the loss of wild pollinators in some areas, but our results suggest the need of landscape-scale actions to enhance wild pollinator populations.", u'We modeled the ecotoxicological risks of the pharmaceutical mixtures emitted from STP effluents into the environment. The classic mixture toxicity concept of Concentration Addition was used to calculate the total expected risk of the analytically determined mixtures, compare the expected impact of seven effluent streams and pinpoint the most sensitive group of species. The risk quotient of a single, randomly selected pharmaceutical is often more than a factor of 1 000 lower than the mixture risk, clearly indicating the need to systematically analyse the overall risk of all pharmaceuticals present. The MCR, which is the ratio between the most risky compound and the total mixture risk, varies between 1.2 and 4.2, depending on the actual scenario and species group under consideration. The mixture risk quotients, based on acute data and an assessment factor of 1 000, regularly exceed 1, indicating a potential risk for the environment, depending on the dilution in the recipient stream. The top 10 mixture components explain more than 95% of the mixture risk in all cases. A mixture toxicity assessment cannot go beyond the underlying single substance data. The lack of data on the chronic toxicity of most pharmaceuticals as well as the very few data available for in vivo fish toxicity has to be regarded as a major knowledge gap in this context. On the other hand, ignoring Independent Action or even using the sum of individual risk quotients as a rough approximation of Concentration Addition does not have a major impact on the final risk estimate.', u'Background. Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (HB) may cause severe neurological damage, but serious consequences are effectively controlled by phototherapy and blood exchange transfusion. HB is still a serious health problem in economically compromised parts of the world. The long term outcome has been regarded favorable based on epidemiological data, but has not been confirmed in prospective follow-up studies extending to adulthood.Methods. We studied the long term consequences of HB in a prospective birth cohort of 128 HB cases and 82 controls. The cases are part of a neonatal at-risk cohort (n=1196) that has been followed up to 30 years of age. HB cases were newborns \u2265 2500 g birth weight and \u2265 37 weeks of gestation who had bilirubin concentrations > 340\xb5mol/l or required blood exchange transfusion. Subjects with HB were divided into subgroups based on the presence (affected HB) or absence (unaffected HB) of diagnosed neurobehavioral disorders in childhood, and compared with healthy controls. Subjects were seen at discharge, 5, 9 and 16 years of life and parent\u2019s and teacher\u2019s assessments were recorded. At 30 years they filled a questionnaire about academic and occupational achievement, life satisfaction, somatic and psychiatric symptoms including a ADHD self-rating score. Cognitive functioning was tested using ITPA, WISC, and reading and writing tests at 9 years of life. Results. Compared to controls, the odds for a child with HB having neurobehavioral symptoms at 9 years was elevated (OR=4.68). Fortyfive per cent of the HB group were affected by cognitive abnormalities in childhood and continued to experience problems in adulthood. This was apparent in academic achievement (p<0.0001) and the ability to complete secondary (p<0.0001) and tertiary (p<0.004) education. Also, the subgroup of affected HB reported persisting cognitive complaints e.g. problems with reading, writing and mathematics. Childhood symptoms of hyperactivity/impulsivity (p<0.0001) and inattention (p<0.02) were more common in HB groups, but in adulthood the symptoms were equal. The affected HB had lower scores in parameters reflecting life satisfaction, less controlled drinking, but not increased substance abuse. Discussion. Our results indicate that neonatal HB has negative consequences in adult age. A prospectively collected cohort with strict inclusion criteria enables to control most of the bias factors involved with retrospective data. The control and HB groups were remarkably similar at birth in terms of medical data, and the growth environment of the children, as well as the parents\u2019 social groups, education, size of family, type of housing at birth and at 9 years of age. Our findings bear resemblance to disorders of the fronto-striatal network, and also symptoms of the ADHD spectrum were frequent in the HB group suggesting a link of HB to other neurodevelopmental disorders.', u'Background. The identification and characterisation of appropriate management units (stocks) is important as a basis for responsible fisheries management as well as conservation of within species biodiversity. The Banggai cardinalfish Pterapogon kauderni (F.P. Koumans,1933), a mouthbrooding apogonid with Endangered status (IUCN Red List) has been shown to have a high level of genetic population structure across the endemic distribution in the Banggai Archipelago. With a life-cycle making recovery frrm extirpation extremely unlikely, this indicates a need to conserve each reproductively isolated population (stock), in particular to support zonation of Banggai Island in the context of the proposed district marine protected area. Genetic and morphological variations are often but not always related, and ideally both should be used in stock identification. However there were no data on classical or geometric morphometric characteristics of P. kauderni populations. Methods. Adult P. kauderni for classical and geometric morphometric analyses were collected randomly at six sites on Banggai Island (31-34 adult fish/site, total 193). Eleven morphometric parameters were measured and 10 dimensionless ratios were compared using the ANOVA function in Microsoft Excel 2007. A landmark set for P. kauderni was developed. Each specimen was photographed, digitised (tps.dig and tps.util). Characteristics of the six populations were analysed using Canonical Variate Analysis (CVA) and Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) in MorphoJ geometric morphometric software to identify significant between-site variation. The results were compared with genetic, geophysical, bio-ecological and socio-economic data to determine meaningful stocks or management units. Results. Except for one site pair (Monsongan and Tinakin Laut) we found significant or highly significant differences between sites (sub-populations) in morphometric characteristics, as well as from the CVA and DFA results. The greatest morphometric difference was between sub-populations at the north (Popisi) and southeast (Matanga) extremities of the Banggai Island P. kauderni distribution. The Popisi population was characterised by short/high head shape, Matanga by a more hydrodynamic shape (elongated with a more pointed head). The findings were consonant with genetic study results. We propose a population model with four closed populations and one metapopulation resulting in five P. kauderni stocks around Banggai Island. Discussion. Observed patterns of morphometric variation could be related to geographical spread (radiation or North-South gradient), habitat-driven selection or growth patterns, stochastic events, or a combination. Such fine-scale characterisation calls for intra-species conservation, with implications for the management of this restricted range ornamental fish around Banggai Island and throughout the P. kauderni endemic distribution.', u'Aim Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is exceptionally rare in population from the north-eastern region of Peninsular Malaysia. This provides us an opportunity to contemplate the future without H. pylori in acute non-variceal upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding.Methods All prospective cases in the GI database registry with GI bleeding between 2003 and 2006 were reviewed. Cases with confirmed non-variceal aetiology were analysed. Rockall score > 5 was considered high risk for bleeding and primary outcomes studied were in-hospital mortality, recurrent bleeding and need for surgery. Results The incidence of non-variceal upper GI bleeding was 2.2/100,000 person-years. Peptic ulcer bleeding was the most common aetiology (1.8/100,000 person-years). In-hospital mortality (3.6%), recurrent bleeding (9.6%) and need for surgery (4.0%) were uncommon in this population with a largely low risk score (85.2% with score \u2264 5). Elderly were at greater risk for bleeding (mean 68.5 years, P = 0.01) especially in the presence of duodenal ulcers (P = 0.04) despite gastric ulcers being more common. NSAIDs (34%) and aspirin (22.8%) were the main risk factors. Conclusions The absence of H. pylori infection may not reduce the risk of peptic ulcer bleeding in the presence of risk factors especially offending drugs in the elderly.', u'P300-based brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are especially useful for people with illnesses, which prevent them from communicating in a normal way (e.g. brain or spinal cord injury). However, most of the existing P300-based BCI systems use visual stimulation which may not be suitable for patients with sight deterioration (e.g. patients suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). Moreover, P300-based BCI systems rely on expensive equipment, which greatly limits their use outside the clinical environment. Therefore, we propose a multi-class BCI system based solely on auditory stimuli, which makes use of low-cost EEG technology. We explored different combinations of timbre, pitch and spatial auditory stimuli (TimPiSp: timbre-pitch-spatial, TimSp: timbre-spatial, and Timb: timbre-only) and three inter-stimulus intervals (150ms, 175ms and 300ms), and evaluated our system by conducting an oddball task on 7 healthy subjects. This is the first study in which these 3 auditory cues are compared. After averaging several repetitions in the 175ms inter-stimulus interval, we obtained average selection accuracies of 97.14%, 91.43%, and 88.57% for modalities TimPiSp, TimSp, and Timb, respectively. Best subject\u2019s accuracy was 100% in all modalities and inter-stimulus intervals. Average information transfer rate for the 150ms inter-stimulus interval in the TimPiSp modality was 14.85 bits/min. Best subject\u2019s information transfer rate was 39.96 bits/min for 175ms Timbre condition. Based on the TimPiSp modality, an auditory P300 speller was implemented and evaluated by asking users to type a 12-characters-long phrase. Six out of 7 users completed the task. The average spelling speed was 0.56 chars/min and best subject\u2019s performance was 0.84 chars/min. The obtained results show that the proposed auditory BCI is successful with healthy subjects and may constitute the basis for future implementations of more practical and affordable auditory P300-based BCI systems.', u'Proficiency in mathematics and statistics is essential to modern ecological science, yet few studies have assessed the level of quantitative training received by ecologists. To do so, we conducted an online survey. The 937 respondents were mostly early-career scientists who studied biology as undergraduates. We found a clear self-perceived lack of quantitative training: 75% were not satisfied with their understanding of mathematical models; 75% felt that the level of mathematics was \u201ctoo low\u201d in their ecology classes; 90% wanted more mathematics classes for ecologists; and 95% more statistics classes. Respondents thought that 30% of classes in ecology-related degrees should be focused on quantitative disciplines, which is likely higher than for most existing programs. The main suggestion to improve quantitative training was to relate theoretical and statistical modeling to applied ecological problems. Improving quantitative training will require dedicated, quantitative classes for ecology-related degrees that contain good mathematical and statistical practice.', u'Background: Many Long-Term Care (LTC) patients suffer from dental neglect due to difficulties in achieving appropriate dental professional care; although oral health has important influence on the quality of life among them. Dental care of the long term institutionalized adults is often limited to emergency and first aid care and there is insufficient data regarding oral health status in this population.Objectives: To describe the oral health status of the long-term hospitalized adults. Materials and methods: A cross-sectional study including clinical oral examinations was carried out among institutionalized LTC patients aged 18 and older in a geriatric - psychiatric Hospital in Israel. Main outcome measures were: edentulousness, presence of dentures, mucosal findings, number of teeth, number of functional teeth, level of dental hygiene and, dental caries. Results: Subjects\u2019 mean age was 65 years; 31.3% of the patients were edentulous, and only 14% had partial or full dentures. Only 17.2% were caries free. Females had significantly higher number of caries cavitation than men (p=0.044). The number of caries cavitation was higher among patients with higher plaque scores (p<0.001) and when taking Clonex (p=0.018). Number of residual teeth in mouth was higher in the low plaque score group (p<0.001). Carious teeth percentage was higher among the high plaque score group (p<0.001)', u'Mycobacterium species have a complex cAMP regulatory network indicated by the high number of adenylate cyclases annotated in their genomes. However the need for a high level of redundancy in adenylate cyclase genes remains unknown. We have used semiquantitiative RT-PCR to examine the expression of the eight Mycobacterium smegmatis cyclases with orthologs in the human pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis, where cAMP has recently been shown to be important for virulence. All eight cyclases were transcribed in the cell in all environments tested, and only four demonstrated environmental-mediated changes in transcription. M. smegmatis genes MSMEG_0545 and MSMEG_4279 were upregulated during starvation conditions while MSMEG_0545 and MSMEG_4924 were downregulated in H2O2 and MSMEG_3780 was downregulated in low pH. Promoter fusion constructs containing M. tuberculosis H37Rv promoters showed consistent regulation compared to their M. smegmatis orthologs. Overall our findings indicate that while low levels of transcriptional regulation occur, regulation at the mRNA level does not play a major role in controlling cellular cyclase availability in a given environment.', u'Barren rocky seafloor landscapes, denuded of almost all life by ravenous sea urchins, liberated from their predators, stands as one of the iconic images of trophic cascades in Ecology. While this paradigm has been cited in nearly every temperate rocky reef ecosystem across the globe, there is widespread disagreement as to its generality. Given their biology, sea urchins are clearly one of the ocean\u2019s strongest herbivores in many systems, but where will their impact be strongest? Here we perform a global meta-analysis of sea urchin-kelp relationships in the field. We find that sea urchins appear to be able to control kelp abundances in any system where they can achieve high densities. Furthermore, their ability to create large-scale long-lasting barrens appears to be limited to biogeographic regions where they can achieve high consumptive potential. Based on the literature, we outline a conceptual model that examines when and where sea urchins should be able to have a strong regulating impact on kelp forest ecosystems. We suggest that many elements of global change may shift the balance of forces regulating sea urchin consumptive potential in these ecosystems. Given their ability to have strong impacts on temperate rocky reefs, these drivers need to be considered in concert with their effect on sea urchins when attempting to predict future change to marine ecosystems.', u'Snout shape is a prominent aspect of herbivore feeding ecology, controlling both forage selectivity and intake rate. Many previous investigations have suggested that ruminant feeding classes can be discriminated via snout shape, with grazing and browsing species attributed \u2018blunt\u2019 and \u2018pointed\u2019 snouts respectively, with an intermediate sub-grouping. This aspect of functional ecology is analysed for the first time using a statistically rigorous geometry-based framework to compare the two-dimensional profiles of the premaxilla in ventral aspect for a large sample of ruminant species. Our results suggest that, when a sample of browsing and grazing ruminants are classified ecologically based on a range of independent indicators of their feeding strategy, they cannot be fully discriminated on the basis of their premaxilla profile shape. Instead, our sample forms a shape variation continuum with overlap between groupings, but with a 78 percent chance of successful categorisation. Moreover, previously used terminology such as \u2018pointed\u2019 and \u2018blunt\u2019 are largely inadequate for delimiting snout shape varieties, insofar as these terms lack the descriptive power to define the morphological disparity demonstrated. These results suggest that previous attempts to use snout shape as a proxy for feeding style in ruminants may have been biased due to under-sampling of this highly diverse group and to lack of geometric rigour in the assessment of shape data. Alternatively, conflicting or inadequate evidence in defining \u2018browsers\u2019 and \u2018grazers\u2019 could have caused incorrect assignment to ecological groups, distorting our analyses. The relation between snout shape and body mass are also documented.', u'Background. Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is a debilitating condition that often persists into adulthood. The past number of decades an increased number of adults with ADHD have gained entrance into the post-secondary education section and register with college or university Disability Service Offices. There is a need to explore utility of affordable materials to gain confidence in validating the original diagnoses and potentially detect feigning. Methods. 135 college students (mean age = 24, 42% males) with ADHD were recruited from post-secondary institutions. The freely available Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS) self-report was utilized to assess current ADHD symptomatology. The ASRS was compared to an interview (over the phone) and other-report version (filled out by a significant other) that were directly derived from the original Self-report. Results. Results showed moderate levels of congruency between ASRS-Self and Other Report (correlation = .47). Furthermore, a robust relationship was shown between the ASRS-Self and the interview version (correlation = .66). Discussion. Current findings suggest the telephone-interview version of the ASRS may be an easy-to-use, reliable, and cost-effective supplement in gaining more confidence in determining ADHD in post-secondary education students. More research is required specifically testing its merits to detect feigning or support in diagnosis.', u"Background: Childhood immunization is the most effective preventive services, and is critical to monitor and evaluate. A study reported an association between parental satisfactions with pediatric care and up-to-date immunization at 24 months independent of maternal age, race, and education. In addition to promoting utilization, satisfaction may increase involvement in the health care process. Health system factors included inconvenient clinic hours, dates or locations, waiting lines, and conflicting information. The inconvenience of clinic hours dates of immunization clinics, and locations of clinics were reported by 75% of parents. Objectives of the study: to determine the relationship between maternal knowledge about vaccination and satisfaction about vaccination program. Methods: A cross section study was conducted on three hundred and thirty five mothers chosen from PHCC participating in the study by providing information on satisfaction about the program and their knowledge about vaccination. Result: Inappropriate knowledge was reported by most of mothers (84.8%). Moreover, 95.2% of mothers were satisfied with childhood immunization services in primary healthcare center. Conclusion: The study shows that there was no statistically significant relation between maternal satisfaction with childhood immunization services and knowledge score, priorities from client's perspectives are changing, so on- going monitoring of client satisfaction is the cornerstone to improve quality of care.", u'Connectance and degree distributions are important components of the structure of ecological networks. In this contribution, we use a statistical argument and simple network generating models to show that properties of the degree distribution are driven by network connectance. We discuss the consequences of this finding for (1) the generation of random networks in null-model analyses, and (2) the interpretation of network structure and ecosystem properties in relationship with degree distribution.', u'Understanding patterns of larval dispersal is key in determining whether no-take marine reserves are self-sustaining, what will be protected inside reserves and where the benefits of reserves will be observed. However, explicitly incorporating dispersal data into designing reserves for fisheries and conservation is still uncommon in many places around the world. We followed a multidisciplinary approach that merged detailed descriptions of fishing zones and spawning time at 17 sites distributed in the Midriff Island region of the Gulf of California (GC) with a biophysical oceanographic model that simulated larval transport at Pelagic Larval Duration (PLD) 14, 21 and 28 days for the most common and targeted predatory reef fish (leopard grouper Mycteroperca rosacea). M. rosacea is endemic to the GC and considered \u2018Vulnerable\u2019 according to World Conservation Union. We described metapopulation dynamics using graph theory and employed empirical sequence data from a subset of 10 sites at two mitochondrial genes to verify the model predictions. Our approach made sense of seemingly chaotic patterns of genetic diversity and structure, and provided a mechanistic explanation of the location of fishing zones. Most of the connectivity patterns observed were strictly asymmetric, except for a small region in the Southeast. The best-supported gene flow model confirmed a pulse of larvae from the Baja Peninsula, across the GC and northward up the Sonoran coastline, in agreement with the cyclonic gyre present at the peak of spawning (May). We found support that genetic diversity increased in sink sites that concentrated larvae from many sources at the time of larval flexion (PLD 14 days), while diversity decreased at important gateways identified at PLD 28 days with high betweenness centrality that are key for multigenerational dispersal and population resilience. Heavily targeted fished areas seem to be sustained by high levels of local retention, contribution of larvae from upstream sites and oceanographic patterns that concentrate larval density from all over the region. The general asymmetry in marine connectivity observed highlights that benefits from reserves are biased towards particular directions, that no-take areas need to be located upstream of targeted fishing zones, and that some fishing localities might not directly benefit from avoiding fishing within reserves located adjacent to their communities. We discuss the implications of marine connectivity for the current network of marine protected areas and no-take zones, and identify ways of improving it.', u'Several bacterial families are known to be highly abundant within the human microbiome, but their ecological roles and evolutionary histories have yet to be investigated in depth. One such family, Lachnospiraceae (phylum Firmicutes, class Clostridia) is abundant in the digestive tracts of many mammals and relatively rare elsewhere. Members of this family have been linked to obesity and protection from colon cancer in humans, mainly due to the association of this group with the production of butyric acid, a substance that is important for both microbial and host epithelial cell growth. We examined the genomes of 30 Lachnospiraceae isolates to better understand the phylogenetic relationships and basis of ecological differentiation within this group. Although this family is often used as an indicator of butyric acid production, fewer than half of the examined genomes contained genes from either of the known pathways that produce butyrate, with the distribution of this function likely arising in part from lateral gene transfer. An investigation of environment-specific functional signatures indicated that human gut-associated Lachnospiraceae possessed genes for endospore formation while other members of this family lacked key sporulation-associated genes, an observation supported by analysis of metagenomes from the human gut, oral cavity and bovine rumen. Our analysis demonstrates that despite a lack of agreement between Lachnospiraceae phylogeny and assigned habitat there are several examples of genetic signatures of habitat preference derived from both lateral gene transfer and gene loss.', u'Sleep duration, either short or long, has been associated with diseases such as obesity, type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Characterizing the prevalence and patterns of sleep duration at the population-level, especially in resource-constrained settings, will provide informative evidence on a potentially modifiable risk factor. The aim of this study was to explore the patterns of sleep duration in the Peruvian adult and adolescent population, together with its socio-demographic profile. This is a cross-sectional study, secondary analysis of the Use of Time National Survey conducted in 2010. Weighted means and proportions were used to describe sleep duration according to socio-demographic variables. Poisson regressions, taking into account the multistage sampling design of the survey, were used to calculate crude and adjusted prevalence ratios (PR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). Main outcomes were short- (<6 hours) and long-sleep duration (\u22659 hours). A total of 12,424 observations, mean age 35.8 years (SD \xb117.7), 50.6% males, were included in the analysis. On average, Peruvians slept 7.7 hours (95% CI 7.4-8.0) on weekdays and 8.0 hours (95% CI 7.8-8.1) during weekends. The proportions of short- and long-sleep, during weekdays, were 4.3% (95% CI 2.9%-6.3%) and 22.4% (95% CI 14.9%-32.1%), respectively. Regarding urban and rural areas, a much higher proportion of short-sleep was observed in the former. On the multivariable analysis, compared to regular-sleepers (\u22656 to <9 hours), short-sleepers were twice more likely to be older and to have higher educational status, and 50% more likely to be currently employed. Similarly, relative to regular-sleep, long-sleepers were more likely to have a lower socioeconomic status as per educational attainment. In this nationally representative sample, the sociodemographic profile of short-sleep contrasts the long-sleep. These scenarios in Peru, as depicted by sleeping duration, differ from patterns reported in other high-income settings and could serve as the basis to inform and to improve sleep habits in the population.', u'Background: Pacifier use decreases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). An emergency department (ED) visit may provide an opportunistic \u2018teachable moment\u2019 for parents. Objectives: To test the hypotheses (1) that caregivers were less familiar with the role of pacifiers in sudden infant death (SIDS) prevention than other recommendations, and (2) that an ED educational intervention would increase pacifier use in infants younger than six months, and (3) that otitis media would not occur more frequently in pacifier users. Methods: An intervention-group-only longitudinal study in a county hospital ED. We measured pacifier use infants and baseline knowledge of SIDs prevention recommendations in caregivers. We followed up three months later to determine pacifier use, and 12 months later to determine episodes of otitis media. Results: We analyzed data for 780 infants. Parents knew of advice against co-sleeping in 469/780 (60%), smoking in 660/776 (85%), and prone sleeping in 613/780 (79%). Only 268/777 (35%) knew the recommendation to offer a pacifier at bedtime. At enrollment 449/780 (58%) did not use a pacifier. Of 210/338 infants aged less than 6 months followed up 41/112 (37%) non-users had started using a pacifier at bedtime (NNT 3). Over the same period, 37/98 (38%) users had discontinued their pacifier. Otitis media did not differ between users and non-users at 12 months. Conclusion: Caregiver knowledge of the role of pacifiers in SIDS prevention was less than for other recommendations. Our educational intervention appeared to increase pacifier use. Pacifier use was not associated with increased otitis media.', u'During the period of March 2004 to December 2007, samples of aerial litter (dead but still attached plant parts) and ground litter were collected from study sites representing a wide range of latitudes (34\xb0 S to 50\xb0 S) and a variety of different types of habitats throughout New Zealand (including Stewart Island and the Auckland Islands). The objective was to survey the assemblages of protosteloid amoebae present in this region of the world. Twenty-nine described species of protosteloid amoebae were recorded, along with the heterolobesean acrasid, Acrasis rosea. Of the species recovered, Protostelium mycophaga was by far the most abundant and was found in more than half of all samples. Most species were found in fewer than 10% of the samples collected. Seven abundant or common species were found to display significant preferences for aerial litter or ground litter microhabitats. There was some evidence of a general pattern of a decrease in species richness and diversity with increasing latitude and precipitation and elevation.', u'Models of collective animal behaviour frequently make assumptions about the effects of neighbours on the behaviour of focal individuals, but these assumptions are rarely tested. One such set of assumptions is that the switch between active and inactive behaviour seen in herding animals is influenced by the activity of close neighbours, where neighbouring animals show a higher degree of behavioural synchrony than would be expected by chance. We tested this assumption by observing the simultaneous behaviour of paired individuals within a herd of red deer Cervus elaphus. Focal individuals were more synchronised with their two closest neighbours than with the third closest or randomly selected individuals from the herd. Our results suggest that the behaviour of individual deer is influenced by immediate neighbours. Even if we assume that there are no social relationships between individuals, this suggests that the assumptions made in models about the influence of neighbours may be appropriate.', u'Following a radiation incident, preliminary dose estimates made by \u03b3-H2AX foci analysis can supplement the early triage of casualties based on clinical symptoms. Sample processing time is important when many individuals need to be rapidly assessed. A protocol was therefore developed for high sample throughput that requires less than 0.1 ml blood, thus enabling finger prick sampling. The technique combines red blood cell lysis and leukocyte fixation in one step on a 96 well plate, in contrast to the routine protocol, where lymphocytes are separated by Ficoll density gradient centrifugation with subsequent washing and fixation steps. The rapid lyse/fix method reduced the estimated sample processing time for 96 samples to about 4 h compared to 15 h using the routine protocol. However, scoring 20 cells in 96 samples prepared by the rapid protocol took longer than for the routine method (3.1 versus 1.5 h at zero dose; 7.0 versus 6.1 h for irradiated samples). Similar foci yields were scored for both protocols and reliable dose estimates were obtained for coded samples, with mean absolute differences from the actual doses of 0.26 and 0.27 Gy for the routine and lyse/fix method, respectively. The lyse/fix protocol can therefore facilitate high throughput processing for \u03b3-H2AX biodosimetry for use in large scale radiation incidents, at the cost of somewhat longer foci scoring times.', u'The directed harvest and global trade in the gill plates of mantas, and other mobulid rays, has led to increased fishing pressure and steep population declines in some locations. The slow life history, particularly of the manta rays, is cited as a key reason why such species have little capacity to withstand directed fisheries. Here, we place their life history and demography in the context of other sharks and rays. Despite the limited availability of data, we use life history theory and comparative analysis to develop plausible ranges of somatic growth rate, annual pup production and age at maturity to estimate risk of extinction (maximum intrinsic rate of population increase rmax) using a variant of the classic Euler-Lotka model. Manta ray rmax is most sensitive to the length of the reproductive cycle, and the median rmax of 0.11 year-1(CI: 0.089-0.137) is one of the lowest known of the 106 sharks and rays for which we have comparable demographic information. In common with other unprotected, unmanaged, high-value large-bodied species with low or very low productivity, manta rays are unlikely to sustain unmonitored, unregulated exploitation and may face increasing local and regional extinction risk.', u'Many microbial, fungal, or oomcyete populations violate assumptions for population genetic analysis because these populations are clonal or partially clonal. Furthermore, few tools exist that are specifically designed for analyzing data from clonal populations, making analysis difficult and haphazard. We developed the R package poppr providing unique tools for analysis of data from admixed, clonal, and/or mixed populations. Currently, poppr can be used for dominant/codominant and haploid/diploid genetic data. Data can be imported from several formats including GenAlEx formatted text files and can be analyzed on a user-defined hierarchy that includes unlimited levels of subpopulation structure and clone censoring. New functions include calculation of Bruvo\u2019s distance for microsatellites, batch-analysis of the index of association with several indices of genotypic diversity, and graphing including dendrograms with bootstrap support and minimum spanning networks. A manual with documentation and examples is provided. Poppr is open source and major releases are available on CRAN: http://cran.r-project.org/package=poppr. More supporting documentation and tutorials can be found under \u2018resources\u2019 at: http://grunwaldlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/.', u"Plesiochelyidae are a major component of Late Jurassic shallow marine environments throughout Europe. However, the taxonomy of the plesiochelyid turtles is rather confused. Over the years, many taxa have been synonymized with Plesiochelys etalloni, one of the first described species. However, the holotype of P. etalloni (and only specimen known from the type locality) was lost for more than 150 years. This specimen has been recently rediscovered in the collections of the Mus\xe9e d'arch\xe9ologie du Jura in Lons-le-Saunier, France. For the first time since its original description in 1857, the holotype of P. etalloni is redescribed and compared to relevant material. The taxonomical status of this taxon is revised accordingly. Based on the morphology of the newly rediscovered holotype, the species P. solodurensis, P. sanctaeverenae and P. langii are synonymized with P. etalloni. Known skull-shell associations for P. etalloni are re-evaluated in light of the new morphological information available since the rediscovery of this holotype specimen. Finally, we confirm that Plesiochelys is represented by a single species in Solothurn, Switzerland.", u'Hybridization between hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata) and loggerhead (Caretta caretta) breeding groups is unusually common in Bahia state, Brazil. Such hybridization is possible because hawksbill and loggerhead nesting activities overlap temporally and spatially along the coast of this state. Nevertheless, the destinations of their offspring are not yet known. This study is the first to identify immature hawksbill x loggerhead hybrids (n = 4) from this rookery by analyzing the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of 157 immature turtles morphologically identified as hawksbills. We also compare for the first time modeled dispersal patterns of hawksbill, loggerhead, and hybrid offspring considering hatching season and oceanic phase duration of turtles. Particle movements varied according to season, with a higher proportion of particles dispersing southwards throughout loggerhead and hybrid hatching seasons, and northwards during hawksbill season. Hybrids from Bahia were not present in important hawksbill feeding grounds of Brazil, being detected only at areas more common for loggerheads. The genetic and oceanographic findings of this work indicate that these immature hybrids, which are morphologically similar to hawksbills, could be adopting behavioral traits typical of loggerheads, such as feeding in temperate waters of the western South Atlantic. Understanding the distribution, ecology, and migrations of these hybrids is essential for the development of adequate conservation and management plans.', u'How do humans see three-dimensional shape based on two-dimensional shading? Much research has assumed that a \u2018light from above\u2019 bias solves the ambiguity of shape from shading. Counter to the \u2018light from above\u2019 bias, studies of Bayesian priors have found that such a bias can be swayed by other light cues. Despite the persuasive power of the Bayesian models, many new studies and books cite the original \u2018light from above\u2019 findings. Here I present a version of the Bayesian result that can be experienced. The perception of shape-from-shading based was found here to be influenced by an external light source, even when the light was obstructed and did not directly illuminate a two-dimensional stimulus. The results imply that this effect is robust and not low-level in nature. The perception of shape from shading is not necessarily based on a hard-wired internal representation of lighting direction, but rather assesses the direction of lighting in the scene adaptively. Here, for the first time, is an experiential opportunity to see what the Bayesian models have supported all along.', u'The ability to perform at high levels of aerobic activity (i.e. athletic ability) increases with temperature among vertebrates. These differences in species\u2019 activity levels, from highly active to sedentary, are reflected in their ecology and behavior. Yet, the changes in the cardiovascular system that allow for greater oxygen supply rates at higher temperatures, and thus greater activity levels, remain unclear. Here we show that vertebrates provide more oxygen to tissues at higher temperatures in part by increasing the total volume of red blood cells in the body. Across 60 species of vertebrates (fishes,amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals), whole-body red blood cell volume increases exponentially with temperature after controlling for effects of body size and taxonomy. These changes are accompanied by increases in relative heart mass, an indicator of athletic ability. The results help explain how temperature-dependent changes in cardiovascular design allow species to overcome the constraints of passive diffusion on oxygen supply.', u'Climate change affects communities both directly and indirectly via changes in interspecific interactions. One such interaction that may be altered under climate change is the ant-plant seed dispersal mutualism common in deciduous forests of the eastern US. As climatic warming alters the abundance and activity levels of ants, the potential exists for shifts in rates of ant-mediated seed removal. We used an experimental temperature manipulation at two sites in the eastern US (Harvard Forest in Massachusetts and Duke Forest in North Carolina) to examine the potential impacts of climatic warming on overall rates of seed dispersal (using Asarum canadense seeds) as well as species-specific rates of seed dispersal at the Duke Forest site. We also examined the relationship between ant critical thermal maxima (CTmax) and the mean seed removal temperature for each ant species. We found that seed removal rates did not change as a result of experimental warming at either study site, nor were there any changes in species-specific rates of seed dispersal. There was, however, a positive relationship between CTmax and mean seed removal temperature, whereby species with higher CTmax removed more seeds at hotter temperatures. The temperature at which seeds were removed was influenced by experimental warming as well as diurnal and day-to-day fluctuations in temperature. Taken together, our results suggest that while temperature may play a role in regulating seed removal by ants, ant plant seed-dispersal mutualisms may be more robust to climate change than currently assumed.', u'The paper examined the vegetation coverage dynamic and its response to climate elements in Yellow River Basin from 1998 to 2008 by an integrated approach made from series methods including correlation analysis, wavelet analysis, and wavelet regression analysis. The main findings are as follows: (1) Vegetation coverage exhibited significant, positive correlation with temperature and precipitation, but negative correlation with sunshine hours and relative humidity at some sites. The correlation between NDVI and precipitation is closest, followed respectively by temperature, relative humidity, and sunshine hours. Precipitation and temperature are the two major climate elements affecting vegetation coverage dynamics. (2) The vegetation coverage dynamics reflected by NDVI time series presented nonlinear variations that depended on the time-scale. Precipitation and temperature both presented nonlinear variations that were morphologically similar with those of NDVI. These further supported the close relationship between NDVI and these two climate elements from a new perspective. (3) Although NDVI, temperature, and precipitation revealed nonlinear variations at different time scales, the vegetation coverage showed a significantly, positively linear correlation with temperature and precipitation at all the time scales under examination.', u"Bothrops punctatus is an endangered, semi-arboreal pitviper species distributed in Panam\xe1, Colombia, and Ecuador, whose venom is poorly characterized. In the present work, the protein composition of this venom was profiled using the 'snake venomics' analytical strategy. Decomplexation of the crude venom by RP-HPLC and SDS-PAGE, followed by tandem mass spectrometry of tryptic digests, showed that it consists of proteins assigned to at least nine snake toxin families. Metalloproteinases are predominant in this secretion (41.5% of the total proteins), followed by C-type lectin/lectin-like proteins (16.7%), bradykinin-potentiating peptides (10.7%), phospholipases A2 (9.3%), serine proteinases (5.4%), disintegrins (3.8%), L-amino acid oxidases (3.1%), vascular endothelial growth factors (1.7%), and cysteine-rich secretory proteins (1.2%). Altogether, 6.6% of the proteins were not identified. In vitro, the venom exhibited proteolytic, phospholipase A2, and L-amino acid oxidase activities, as well as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitory activity, in agreement with the obtained proteomic profile. Cytotoxic activity on murine C2C12 myoblasts was negative, suggesting that the majority of venom phospholipases A2 likely belong to the acidic type, which often lack major toxic effects. The protein composition of B. punctatus venom shows a good correlation with toxic activities here and previously reported, and adds further data in support of the wide diversity of strategies that have evolved in snake venoms to subdue prey, as increasingly being revealed by proteomic analyses.", u'Agricultural intensification is implicated as a major driver of global biodiversity loss. Local management and landscape scale factors both influence biodiversity in agricultural systems, but there are relatively few studies to date looking at how local and landscape scales influence biodiversity in tropical agroecosystems. Understanding what drives the diversity of groups of organisms such as spiders is important from a pragmatic point of view because of the important biocontrol services they offer to agriculture. Spiders in coffee are somewhat enigmatic because of their positive or lack of response to agricultural intensification. In this study, we provide the first analysis, to our knowledge, of the arboreal spiders in the shade trees of coffee plantations. In the Soconusco region of Chiapas, Mexico we sampled across 38 sites on 9 coffee plantations. Tree and canopy connectedness were found to positively influence overall arboreal spider richness and abundance. We found that different functional groups of spiders are responding to different local and landscape factors, but overall elevation was most important variable influencing arboreal spider diversity. Our study has practical management applications that suggest having shade grown coffee offers more suitable habitat for arboreal spiders due to a variety of the characteristics of the shade trees. Our results which show consistently more diverse arboreal spider communities in lower elevations are important in light of looming global climate change. As the range of suitable elevations for coffee cultivation shrinks promoting arboreal spider diversity will be important in sustaining the viability of coffee.', u'All strategies to prevent Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) during rituximab treatment have their rationale in patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and to some extent in patients with other autoimmune diseases (AID). Risk factors of PCP and severe infections are very similar in GPA patients. The decision of PCP prophylaxis should not be limited at RTX initiation and during RTX treatment, but should be reassessed continuously in all GPA patients. Since PCP increases the mortality risk in GPA (and AID) patients, the treating physician should always consider PCP as a possible diagnosis in patients treated with RTX - receiving or not PCP prophylaxis.', u'The wasteful practice of discarding catch is one of the major problems associated with European fisheries. Despite this, estimates of discarded catch are not included in the \u2018Official Catch Statistics\u2019 database (1905 to present) collected and maintained by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES). Furthermore, removals through recreational sea angling and estimates of other forms of unreported landings are often also missing from this dataset. Here, total discarded catch and unreported landings made by Irish commercial fishing vessels, and the total amount of fish caught and retained through Irish sea angling activities within the Northeast Atlantic from 1950 to 2010 have been estimated. Total reconstructed catches were 19.3% and 20.9% higher than the officially recorded total landings as reported by ICES from the Northeast Atlantic, and those estimated as being from within the Irish Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), respectively. Discarded catch was proportionately the largest component of the reconstruction, representing 12.7% of the total catch within the Irish EEZ. The Irish catch reconstruction presented here is by no means assumed to represent the complete record of total removals and the authors encourage further efforts to improve upon this attempt. However, considering the current absence of estimated values for discarded catch, recreational removals and other unreported landings from officially and publicly reported data, we feel that our reconstruction provides an improved baseline estimate of more accurate total Irish marine fisheries catch that has not previously been made publicly available.', u'Stem cells have the remarkable potential to develop into many different specialized cells in the body. Serving as a sort of repair system for the body, they can theoretically divide without limit to repletion other cells as long as the person or animal is still alive. When a stem cell divides, each new cell has the potential to either endure a stem cell or become another type of cell with a more specialized function, such as a muscle cell, or a red blood cell, or a brain cell. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are a group of cells present in bone-marrow stroma and the stroma of various organs with the capacity for mesoderm-like cell differentiation into, many types like osteoblasts, adipocytes, and chondrocytes. MSC are being use in the clinic for the treatment of a variety of clinical conditions. Cell-based therapies (CBTs) are quickly taking hold as a revolutionary new approach to treat many human diseases. Among the cells used for therapeutic functions, multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells, also often and imprecisely termed (MSC), are widely used because they are considered clinically safe, unique in their immune-capabilities, easily obtained from adult tissues, and easily developed and restore.', u'Background Identifying genetic interactions in data obtained from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) can help in understanding the genetic basis of complex diseases. The large number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GWASs however makes the identification of genetic interactions computationally challenging. We developed the Bayesian Combinatorial Method (BCM) that can identify pairs of SNPs that in combination have high statistical association with disease. Results We applied BCM to two late-onset Alzheimer\u2019s disease (LOAD) GWAS datasets to identify SNP-SNP interactions between a set of known SNP associations and the dataset SNPs. For evaluation we compared our results with those from logistic regression, as implemented in PLINK. Gene Ontology analysis of genes from the top 200 dataset SNPs for both GWAS datasets showed overrepresentation of LOAD-related terms. Four genes were common to both datasets: APOE and APOC1, which have well established associations with LOAD, and CAMK1D and FBXL13, not previously linked to LOAD but having evidence of involvement in LOAD. Supporting evidence was also found for additional genes from the top 30 dataset SNPs. Conclusion BCM performed well in identifying several SNPs having evidence of involvement in the pathogenesis of LOAD that would not have been identified by univariate analysis due to small main effect. These results provide support for applying BCM to identify potential genetic variants such as SNPs from high dimensional GWAS datasets.', u'Water immersion skin wrinkling has long been used as a test for sympathetic nerve function. However, the cause of underlying mechanism remained elusive. In this article, we theoretically investigate a possible cause of the phenomenon by taking various properties of sweating into consideration. The pressure exerted by the surface tension of sweat droplets counterbalances the secretory pressure of sweat glands at the pore. When a hand is immersed in water, sweat droplets easily merge with the water, causing the pressure to drop at the pore. Our calculations, using earlier measurements of secretory pressure, show that the water pressure at the sweat pore will be less than the secretory pressure of sweat glands when the hand is immersed at a shallow depth. The resulting pressure imbalance enables the sweat to flow freely into the water. We believe that there will be an initial vasodilation to feed the excess generation of sweat. Sweat flow continues as long as there is blood flow to the hand. To prevent excessive loss of sweat from the body and to maintain homeostasis, sympathetic nerves trigger vasoconstriction to reduce the blood flow to the hand. The overlying skin wrinkles due to loss of volume under the skin. It is possible that denerved fingers remain in the vasodilation state during immersion due to a lack of sympathetic nerve function.', u'Identifying discontinuities (or change-points) in otherwise stationary time series is a powerful analytic tool. This paper outlines a general strategy for identifying an unknown number of change-points using elementary principles of Bayesian statistics. Using a strategy of binary partitioning by marginal likelihood, a time series is recursively subdivided on the basis of whether adding divisions (and thus increasing model complexity) yields a justified improvement in the marginal model likelihood. When this approach is combined with the use of conjugate priors, it yields the Conjugate Partitioned Recursion (CPR) algorithm, which identifies change-points without computationally intensive numerical integration. Using the CPR algorithm, methods are described for specifying change-point models drawn from a host of familiar distributions, both discrete (binomial, geometric, Poisson) and continuous (exponential, Gaussian, uniform, and multiple linear regression), as well as multivariate distribution (multinomial, multivariate normal, and multivariate linear regression). Methods by which the CPR algorithm could be extended or modified are discussed, and several detailed applications to data published in psychology and biomedical engineering are described.', u'Current genome-wide technologies allow interrogation and exploration of the human genome as never before. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies, along with high resolution Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNP) arrays and array Comparative Genomic Hybrization (aCGH) enable assessment of human genome variation at the finest resolution from base pair changes such as simple nucleotide variants (SNVs) to large copy-number variants (CNVs). The application of these genomic technologies in the clinical setting has also enabled the molecular characterization of genetic disorders and the understanding of the biological functions of more genes in human development, disease, and health. In this review, the current approaches and platforms available for high-throughput human genome analyses, the steps involved in these different methodologies from sample preparation to data analysis, their applications, and limitations are summarized and discussed.', u'The quantification of landscape structures is an important part in many ecological analysis dealing with GIS derived satellite data. This paper introduces a new free and open-source tool for conducting landscape ecology analysis. LecoS is able to compute a variety of basic and advanced landscape metrics in an automatized way by iterating through an optional provided vector layer. It is integrated into the QGIS processing framework and can thus be used as a stand-alone tool or within bigger complex models. Finally a potential case-study is demonstrated, which tries to quantify pollinators responses on landscape derived metrics at various scales.', u'Background. The rapidly decreasing cost of components and growing open source electronics industry has enabled access to improved tools for monitoring the behavior of aquatic species on a fine scale never before achieved. We use the new Open Tag as a novel approach to visualizing feeding behavior of whale sharks. Methods. The Open Tag is a Arduino compatible open-source inertial measurement unit for recording high speed motion sensor data to a microSD memory card. A three dimensional gyroscope, accelerometer, and magnetometer allow for calculating pitch, yaw, and heading, while depth and temperature sample continuously. The rechargeable lithium battery allows for deployments up to 7 days sampling at 100Hz. The Open Tag is placed in a hydrodynamic syntactic foam float, with a band that stretches around the dorsal fin. A galvanic release incorporated into the tag allows for a release time to be programmed and a VHF tag (ATS) aids in recovery. Results. An Open Tag was successfully deployed on a whale shark for 101 hours in August of 2013 in Yucatan Mexico. Behaviors noted included frequent surface intervals, even during the night when previously believed whale sharks were normally in deeper waters. A maximum depth of 49 meters was observed, with dives to 25 meters recorded regularly. We were able to identify possible harassment at the surface and defecation events. Conclusion. The Open Tag fills a unique niche in whale shark studies as a useful tool to better understanding of fine scale habitat use and behavior. By incorporating these data into Trackplot with data on the position of ecotour vessels, we can visualize behavior and investigate potential erratic changes in depth, heading and lateral movement amplitude indicative of harassment', u'Understanding the dynamics of harmful algal blooms (HABs) in lakes can inform management strategies to reduce their economic and health impacts. Previous studies have analyzed spatially replicated samples from a single time or have fit phenomenological models to time series data. We fit mechanistic population models to test the effects of critical nutrient concentrations and the density of potential algal competitors on population growth parameters in HABs in Lake Champlain, U.S.A. We fit models to five years (2003-2006, 2008) of weekly cyanobacteria counts. Plankton dynamics exhibited two phases of population growth: an initial \u201cbloom phase\u201d of rapid population growth and a subsequent \u201cpost-bloom phase\u201d of stochastic decline. Population growth rates in the bloom phase were strongly density dependent and increased with increasing TN:TP ratios. The post-bloom phase was largely stochastic and was not obviously related to nutrient concentrations. Because TN:TP was important only in the initial phase of population growth, correlative analyses of the relationship between cyanobacteria blooms and nutrient concentrations may be especially sensitive to when snapshot data are collected. Limiting nutrient inputs early in the season could be an effective management strategy for suppressing or reducing the bloom phase of cyanobacteria population growth.', u'Mumby et al. (2011) tested the biotic resistance hypothesis by comparing the biomass of invasive lionfish (introduced from the Indo-Pacific) and native grouper (Serranidae) at 12 sites within and adjacent to the Exuma Cays Land and Sea Park, The Bahamas. They reported that mean lionfish biomass was slightly lower within the reserve, compared to adjacent fished sites, and that there was a negative relationship between the biomass of lionfish and grouper. However, their study has a number of limitations and does not constitute sufficient evidence of a level of biotic resistance that would be ecologically meaningful. For example, the study design is pseudoreplicated and the biomass of lionfish is extremely low relative to observed values across the Caribbean. Furthermore, the effect size (assuming that there is an effect of native grouper) is very small compared to the natural range of lionfish biomass. Given the problems with Mumby et al. (2011) and evidence from other studies (e.g., Hackerott et al. 2013) that the biomass of lionfish and grouper is unrelated, it seems clear that managers cannot rely on native grouper populations to control the lionfish invasion.', u'Mammary gland tumors represent 42% of all tumors in the bitch. Although there are numerous studies about disease development and progression, some questions remain concerning the surgical treatment. Many surgical techniques may be used for the treatment of canine mammary tumors similar to Medicine, the advantages and disadvantages of each procedure have been extensively discussed. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the influence of surgical procedure on survival, disease free interval and new lesion development interval in dogs with mammary tumors treated according to the biological behavior of these lesions. For this, 143 intact bitches were submitted to surgery for the treatment of mammary tumors between 2007 and 2011. Removal of mammary tumors was performed through the simplest and less invasive surgical procedure necessary for the complete removal of all tumors and main known lymphatic connections between affected glands: lumpectomy, mammectomy, regional mastectomy (including abdominal cranial mammary gland or not) or radical mastectomy. Mean clinical follow-up was 738.5 days. Considering only the first surgical event, 84.6% of animals had more than one mammary tumor, and 52.5% had tumors in both mammary chains. Comparing surgical techniques, there was no difference in ipsilateral and contralateral tumor development. Only 33 dogs developed new lesions in remaining mammary tissue, without correlation with primary lesion. Surgical technique had no effect on overall survival, disease-free interval and new lesion development interval in patients on this study, treated according to oncological surgery principles and established prognostic factors for mammary gland tumors in dogs. It is important to consider these results when deciding on the surgical management of dogs with mammary tumors, to avoid aggressive surgical procedures that will not translate into clinical advantages to the patient.', u'Background: In literature-based meta-analyses of cancer prognostic studies, methods for extracting summary statistics from published reports have been extensively employed. However, no assessment of the magnitude of bias produced by these methods or comparison of their influence on fixed vs. random effects models have been published previously. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to empirically assess the degree of bias produced by the methods used for extracting summary statistics and examine potential effects on fixed and random effects models. Methods: Using published data from cancer prognostic studies, systematic differences between reported statistics and those obtained indirectly using log-rank test p-values and total number of events were tested using paired t tests and the log-rank test of survival-agreement plots. The degree of disagreement between estimates was quantified using an information-based disagreement measure, which was also used to examine levels of disagreement between expressions obtained from fixed and random effects models. Results: Thirty-four studies provided a total of 65 estimates of lnHR and its variance. There was a significant difference between the means of the indirect lnHRs and the reported values (mean difference = -0.272, t = -4.652, p-value <0.0001), as well as between the means of the two estimates of variances (mean difference = -0.115, t = -4.5556, p-value <0.0001). Survival agreement plots illustrated a bias towards under-estimation by the indirect method for both lnHR (log-rank p-value = 0.031) and its variance (log-rank p-value = 0.0432). The magnitude of disagreement between estimates of lnHR based on the information-based measure was 0.298 (95% CI: 0.234 \u2013 0.361) and, for the variances it was 0.406 (95% CI: 0.339 \u2013 0.470). As the disagreement between variances was higher than that between lnHR estimates, this increased the level of disagreement between lnHRs weighted by the inverse of their variances in fixed effect models. In addition, results indicated that random effects meta-analyses could be more prone to bias than fixed effects meta-analyses as, in addition to bias in estimates of lnHRs and their variances, levels of disagreement as high as 0.487 (95% CI: 0.416 \u2013 0.552) and 0.568 (95% CI: 0.496 \u2013 0.635) were produced due to between-studies variance calculations. Conclusions: Extracting summary statistics from published studies could introduce bias in literature-based meta-analyses and undermine the validity of the evidence. These findings emphasise the importance of reporting sufficient statistical information in research articles and warrant further research into the influence of potential bias on random effects models.', u'Plant weeds, pests and diseases comprise significant threats to pastoral agriculture in New Zealand. The extent of damage incurred by New Zealand\u2019s agricultural industry from these weed and pest threats varies significantly depending on the response implemented, and the technologies available. This paper assesses the projected economic impact of three individual potential failures in plant protection, specifically the spread of clover root weevil, giant buttercup and glassy-winged sharpshooter across New Zealand, and the potential mitigation of economic loss caused by these failures through various response methods. This assessment is carried out with the use of a national-level agricultural production and value model, based on data from the Ministry for Primary Industries farm models and the Lincoln Trade and Environment Model, an international trade and environment model. The model projects economic impact on agriculture until 2030, comparing the differences in economic impact between business as usual without the advent of each threat and then with the advent of each threat alongside various potential responses. The modelled responses cover firstly the most probable responses, and secondly the use of biological control agents, in the form of a parasitoid or bio-herbicide control. The results show that biological controls offer the most effective and feasible responses to the modelled threats to pastoral agriculture compared with other responses.', u'Biotic resistance is the idea that native species negatively affect the invasion success of introduced species. We tested the hypothesis that native grouper are controlling the abundance of exotic lionfish on Caribbean coral reefs by assessing the relationship between the density and biomass of lionfish and native predators at 71 reefs in three biogeographic regions. Our results indicated that: (a) the abundance of lionfish and large grouper are not negatively related, and (b) lionfish abundance is controlled by a number of physical site characteristics, and possibly by culling. Taken together, our results suggest that managers cannot rely on native grouper populations to control the lionfish invasion. Mumby et al. (2013) objected to several aspects of our analysis and conclusions. Here we address their criticisms and argue that our original conclusions are valid.', u'As part of an ongoing assessment of the physical health needs of injecting drug users during 2005, all 167 general practices in the Lambeth, Southwark & Lewisham (LSL) area were sent a questionnaire. The results indicate that the majority of IDUs visited the surgery because of DVT, pregnancy, chest infections or skin ulceration, and the GPs themselves opportunistically identified more serious problems such as BBV\u2019s and Liver problems. Interestingly we found significant variation in the rate of opportunistic detection between PCTs. Many practices indicated that health promotion activity would benefit their IDU clients, in particular issues related to smoking and drinking, as well as dental health, diet and exercise needed to be addressed. In general it was felt that a nurse led resource integrated into existing services, such as that offered by the Drug and Alcohol Health Care Team, would be of greatest benefit to IDU clients.', u'Glioblastoma multiforme is a grade IV astrocytoma arising de novo or progressing from lower grade II and III gliomas. Currently the etiology of glioma and prediction of disease progression are unknown. Recent epidemiological studies have suggested that hormonal factors, including estrogen treatment, may impact glioma risk however these studies have been limited to case-control trials and retrospective cohort studies. Here, we evaluate results from the Women\u2019s Health Initiative, which involved 161,808 women with robust data regarding hormone exposures. During a median of 12.7 years of follow-up, 167 cases of glioma (130 cases of GBM) were ascertained. The relationship between gliomas and hormone therapy (HT; estrogen-alone [E-alone] or estrogen plus progestin [E+P]) was evaluated using Cox proportional hazards models as well as Kaplan-Meier time-to-event analysis. There was no association with gliomas for the E-alone group (HR=0.76, 95% CI=0.43,1.36) but there was an inverse association for E+P (HR=0.48, 95% CI= 0.26, 0.88, p=0.02) after accounting for patient, hormone exposure and reproductive factors. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis demonstrated a significant reduction in time-to-incidence for the E+P group (p=0.0035). Findings from the matched case-control arm of the WHI trial did not demonstrate significant impact of HT on glioma incidence. The results of this study suggest a reduction in glioma risk after treatment with estrogen plus progesterone however a further large scale case-controlled study is warranted to evaluate the impact of HT on this disease.', u'Background. Utila, Bay Islands, Honduras, is one of the few locations in the Western Hemisphere where whale sharks can be spotted year-round, while off the northeastern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, they aggregate during summertime in large numbers of up to several hundred. When our research on these sharks began, we hypothesized they migrate south to north from Honduras, then to Belize and finally to Mexico. Methods. From 2007-2013, we documented the presence of whale sharks in both locations using visual tags and photo-identification, to establish the connections between the sites. The international whale shark library ECOCEAN was an important tool for this research. Results. Our research collaboration began on 2007, we have registered and photographed 59 \u201cencounters\u201d, from these, 9 were \u201cBelizeans\u201d and 8 become new Honduran recruits. While 5 more remain as unassigned since positive individual identification has not been possible yet. From our database and ECOCEAN compare, we know that we share several individuals in between the two locations, and some even visit Belize. Conclusion. At least some individuals of the western Atlantic population travel between Honduras and Mexico, and some hang around Belize in between as well.We conclude that whale sharks wander in the Caribbean, the Gulf of M\xe9xico and the open Atlantic Ocean, and aggregate when food blooms are available.', u'Background: Whale shark feeding aggregations in northeastern Quintana Roo (Yucatan Peninsula) between May and September are a natural phenomenon well known to local people for decades. Since 2001 we have observed these animals, first as tourists and then as part of formal research activities including conventional tagging, aerial survey and photographic identification. During this time we have made significant behavioral observations, other than previously described: passive and active feeding, banking as predatory response, tolerance even to be touched by people.\nMethods: Observations were made primarily during snorkeling surveys of the wale shark aggregation between 2001 and 2013. Video documenting and photographic identifications were made using ECOCEAN and our own photographic catalogue of individual Quintana Roo animals. Data collected on each whale shark included its location, sex, total length estimation, tagging, photographs and behavioral observations. Over 1,340 hours were spent in documenting many conducts performed by whale sharks. Important to notice that these observations were made mostly around tourism activities, but many were made before or after tour operation, or on separate sub-aggregations, under SEMARNAT permission: SGPA/DGVS/10048/12 Results: 54,662 photographs were obtained during 366 observation days, plus 1,382 videos for over 315 minutes, on a decade of study and survey. Individual whale sharks in the QR aggregation have also been observed in Belize, Honduras and the Gulf of Mexico and some have visitation records exceeding 10 years. Occasionally, early spring ephemeral aggregations occur, perhaps in response to short term plankton blooms, these are composed by the same individual animals as revealed after photographic identification. These aggregations are mostly male and immature. Larger females seem to stay on the periphery of the aggregation or even form separate small groups. Smaller animals appear to be more curious of humans than ar e older animals. Many animals feed vertically and some are observed \u201ccoughing\u201d and \u201cmouth washing\u201d. Vigorous tail-flapping and increased remora activity often precedes defecation, banking behavior may be social.\nConclusion: Prolonged observation shows that whale sharks have a more diverse behavioral repertoire than known previously and confirming observations made of aquarium-held animals, as well as their ability to synchronize their presence with high productivity occurrence. More detailed studies of group composition are definitely needed, as are functional studies of some of the other intriguing behaviors. Since whale shark behavior is often opportunistic and facultative, and depends on many factors to coincide, like specific weather and oceanic conditions, food concentration as well as anthropogenic influence, statistical analysis is beyond this study consideration. Do these events play a role in breeding opportunity?', u'The Roche 454 GS Junior sequencing platform allows locus-specific DNA methylation analysis using deep bisulfite amplicon sequencing. However, bisulfite-converted DNA reads may contain long T homopolymers, and the main sources of errors on pyrosequencing platforms are homopolymer over- and undercalls. Furthermore, existing tools do not always meet the analysis requirements for complex assay designs with multiple regions of interest (ROIs) from multiple samples. We have developed the amplikyzer software package to address the above challenges. It directly aligns the intensity sequences from standard flowgram files (SFF format) to given amplicon reference sequences, without converting to nucleotide FASTA format first, avoiding information loss by rounding flow intensities, and taking special measures to correctly process long homopolymers. It offers a variety of options to analyze complex multiplexed samples with several regions of interest and outputs useful statistics and publication-quality analysis plots without mandatory manual interaction. This allows our software to be used as part of automated pipelines as well as interactively. The underlying analysis algorithms, using a novel hybrid flowgram-DNA sequence representation are described in detail. We also discuss configuration options and use cases of our open source amplikyzer software and present exemplary results. The software, including required libraries, is available at https://bitbucket.org/svenrahmann/amplikyzer/downloads.', u'The resolution of rapid evolutionary radiations or \u201cbushes\u201d in the tree of life has been one of the most difficult and interesting problems in phylogenetics. The avian order Galliformes appears to have undergone several rapid radiations that have limited the resolution of prior studies and obscured the position of taxa important both agriculturally and as model systems (chicken, turkey, Japanese quail). Here we present analyses of a multi-locus data matrix comprising over 15,000 sites, primarily from nuclear introns but also including three mitochondrial regions, from 46 galliform taxa with all gene regions sampled for all taxa. The increased sampling of unlinked nuclear genes provided strong bootstrap support for all but a small number of relationships. Coalescent-based methods to combine individual gene trees and analyses of datasets independent of published data indicated that this well-supported topology is likely to reflect the galliform species tree. Some of the key findings include support for a second major clade within the core phasianids that includes the chicken and Japanese quail and clarification of the phylogenetic relationships of turkey. Jackknifed datasets suggested that there is an advantage to sampling many independent regions across the genome rather than obtaining long sequences for a small number of loci, possibly reflecting the differences among gene trees that differ due to incomplete lineage sorting. Despite the novel insights we obtained using this increased sampling of gene regions, some nodes remain unresolved, likely due to periods of rapid diversification. Resolving these remaining groups will likely require sequencing a very large number of gene regions, but our analyses now appear to support a robust backbone for this order.', u'Many police forces operate a policy of high visibility in disordered neighbourhoods with high crime. However, little is known about whether increased police presence influences people\u2019s beliefs about a neighbourhood\u2019s social environment or their fear of crime. Three experimental studies compared people\u2019s perceptions of social capital and fear of crime in disordered and ordered neighbourhoods, either with a police presence or no police presence. In all studies, neighbourhood disorder lowered perceptions of social capital, resulting in a higher fear of crime. Police presence or absence had no significant effect. The pervasive effects of disorder above other environmental cues are discussed.', u'Wildlife biologists often use grid-based designs to sample animals and generate abundance estimates. Although sampling in grids is theoretically sound, in application, the method can be logistically difficult and expensive when sampling elusive species inhabiting extensive areas. These factors make it challenging to sample animals and meet the statistical assumption of all individuals having an equal probability of capture. Violating this assumption biases results. Does an alternative exist? Perhaps by sampling only where resources attract animals (i.e. targeted sampling), it would provide accurate abundance estimates more efficiently and affordably. However, biases from this approach would also arise if individuals have an unequal probability of capture, especially if some failed to visit the sampling area. Since most biological programs are resource limited, and acquiring abundance data drives many conservation and management applications, it becomes imperative to identify economical and informative sampling designs. Therefore, we evaluated abundance estimates generated from grid and targeted sampling designs using simulations based on geographic positioning system (GPS) data from 42 Alaskan brown bears (Ursus arctos). Migratory salmon drew brown bears from the wider landscape, concentrating them at anadromous streams. This provided a scenario for testing the targeted approach. Grid and targeted sampling varied by trap amount, location (traps placed randomly, systematically or by expert opinion), and traps stationary or moved between capture sessions. We began by identifying when to sample, and if bears had equal probability of capture. We compared abundance estimates against seven criteria: bias, precision, accuracy, effort, plus encounter rates, and probabilities of capture and recapture. One grid (49 km2 cells) and one targeted configuration provided the most accurate results. Both placed traps by expert opinion and moved traps between capture sessions, which raised capture probabilities. The grid design was least biased (-10.5%), but imprecise (CV 21.2%), and used most effort (16,100 trap-nights). The targeted configuration was more biased (-17.3%), but most precise (CV 12.3%), with least effort (7,000 trap-nights). Targeted sampling generated encounter rates four times higher, and capture and recapture probabilities 11% and 60% higher than grid sampling, in a sampling frame 88% smaller. Bears had unequal probability of capture with both sampling designs, partly because some bears never had traps available to sample them. Hence, grid and targeted sampling generated abundance indices, not estimates. Overall, targeted sampling provided the most accurate and affordable design to index abundance. Targeted sampling may offer an alternative method to index the abundance of other species inhabiting expansive and inaccessible landscapes elsewhere, provided their attraction to resource concentrations.', u'Background: The whale shark feeding aggregation in the Seychelles has been studied in detail since 2002, including aerial survey and collection of environmental data. In these coastal waters previous tagging studies have shown whale sharks spend considerable time in the top 10m of water (44-60% of daylight hours). Although protected locally there is currently no management structure to conserve them outside of protected areas. This is the first attempt to develop Temporary Protected Areas using statistical modeling of their ecological distribution to conserve the aggregation.\nMethods: Data on whale shark occurrence and distribution were collected via standardized aerial surveys from microlight aircraft that also recorded locations of surface-feeding schools of fish and environmental variables. These data were input into Geographical Information System (GIS) software to create density distribution maps; further layers generated included distance from the coastline, and chlorophyll-a (Chl-a) concentration (from MODIS satellite imagery). MAXENT ecological modeling software and Kernel Density Estimate analysis were used to produce a habitat suitability map and probability distribution estimate. The MAXENT model was tested using pseudo-absence data in a binomial generalized linear model.\nResults: Chl-a concentration, distance from coast and fish schools were all found to influence whale shark presence and Maxent results closely matched those from the Kernel Density Estimate analysis. Predictions of suitable habitat for whale sharks avoided higher Chl-a concentrations, but showed positive correlations with schools of fish, possibly acting as a direct indication of zooplankton abundance. Whale sharks preferentially selected feeding areas close to the coast.\nConclusion: Maxent and Kernel Density Estimates can provide useful tools to guide the development of appropriate conservation and management of this species that take into consideration temporal behavior and ecology.', u'Background: Do-not-resuscitate (DNR) orders are often active in patients with multiple comorbidities and a short natural life expectancy, but limited information exists as to how often these patients undergo high-risk operations and of the perioperative outcomes in this population. Methods: Using comprehensive inpatient administrative data from the Public Discharge Data file (years 2005 through 2010) of the California Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development, which includes a dedicated variable recording DNR status, we identified cohorts of DNR patients who underwent major cardiac or thoracic operations and compared them to age- and procedure-matched comparison cohorts. The primary study outcome was in-hospital mortality. Results: DNR status was not uncommon in cardiac (n=2,678, 1.1% of all admissions for cardiac surgery, age 71.6 \xb1 15.9 years) and thoracic (n=3,129, 3.7% of all admissions for thoracic surgery, age 73.8 \xb1 13.6 years) surgical patient populations. Relative to controls, patients who were DNR experienced significantly greater in-hospital mortality after cardiac (37.5% vs. 11.2%, p<0.0001) and thoracic (25.4% vs. 6.4%) operations. DNR status remained an independent predictor of in-hospital mortality on multivariate analysis after adjustment for baseline and comorbid conditions in both the cardiac (OR 4.78, 95% confidence interval 4.21-5.41, p<0.0001) and thoracic (OR 6.11, 95% confidence interval 5.37-6.94, p<0.0001) cohorts. Conclusions: DNR status is associated with worse outcomes of cardiothoracic surgery even when controlling for age, race, insurance status, and serious comorbid disease. DNR status appears to be a marker of substantial perioperative risk, and may warrant substantial consideration when framing discussions of surgical risk and benefit, resource utilization, and biomedical ethics surrounding end-of-life care.', u"Aging is mysterious with unknown managing patterns. A surprising finding on the tune mode of autophagy by S-nitrosylation is a distinctive step towards the interpretation of the mechanism underlying aging and age-related diseases. This commentary article will discuss, in a wider sense, the implications of S-nitrosylation- and nitration-switched dysfunction of proteins/enzymes in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's diseases (HD) and Parkinson's disease (PD).", u'The purpose of this study was to infer the possible impact of unmonitored discard of by-catch on a recreational fishery. We recorded by-catch of fishes at a recreational fishery in Northeast Texas, statistically analyzed them, and then projected estimates of mortality if our observations represent a general pattern of behavior. Anglers discarded nine species of fishes during our study. The most frequently discarded fish were Gizzard Shad and Freshwater Drum. Four species of game fish were among the discarded species, but only Channel Catfish and Hybrid Striped Bass composed a large portion of the discarded fishes. Based on our observations, recreational fishing can produce a large amount of by-catch throughout the year and potentially pose an important unmonitored source of fish mortality.', u'The etiology of kwashiorkor remains enigmatic and longitudinal studies examining potential causes of kwashiorkor are scarce. Using historical, longitudinal study data from the rural area of Bwamanda, Democratic Republic of Congo, we investigated the potential causal association between diet and the development of kwashiorkor in 5 657 preschool children followed 3-monthly during 15 months.We compared dietary risk factors for kwashiorkor with those of marasmus. Kwashiorkor was diagnosed as pitting oedema of the ankles; marasmus as abnormal visibility of skeletal structures and palpable wasting of the gluteus muscle. A food frequency questionnaire was administered 3-monthly to record the consumption of the 41 locally most frequent food items. We specified Hanley-Miettinen smooth-in-time risk models containing potential causal factors, including food items, specialmeals prepared for the child, breastfeeding, disease status, nutritional status, birth rank, age, season and number of meals. Bayesian Information Criteria identified the most plausible causal model of why some children developed kwashiorkor.In a descriptive analysis of the diet at the last dietary assessment prior to development of kwashiorkor, the diet of children who developed kwashiorkor was characterized by a low intake of sweet potatoes, papaya and \u201cother vegetables\u201d [0.0% , 2.3% (95%CI: 0.4, 12.1) and 2.3% (95%CI: 0.4, 12.1)] in comparison with children who did not develop kwashiorkor [6.8% (95%CI: 6.4, 7.2), 15.5% (95%CI: 15, 16.1) and 15.1% (95%CI: 14.6, 15.7)] or children who developed marasmus [4.5% (95%CI 2.6, 7.5) 11.8% (95%CI: 8.5, 16.0) and 17.6% (95%CI: 13.7, 22.5)]. Sweet potatoes and papaya have high \u03b2-Carotene content and so may some of \u201cthe other vegetables\u201d. We found that a risk model containing an age function, length/height-for age Z-score, consumption of sweet potatoes, papaya or other vegetables , duration of this consumption and its interaction term, was the most plausible model. Among children aged aged 10-42 months, the risk of developing kwashiorkor increased with longer non-consumption of theses foods.The analysis was repeated with only children who developed marasmus as the reference series, yielding similar results. Our study supports that \u03b2-Carotene  may play an important role in the protection against kwashiorkor development.', u'Objective: To analyze the immunoprotection of pigs by heterologous P. acnes vaccination against A. pleuropneumoniae infection, by vaccine and infection in pig. Methods: 12 five-week-old healthy pigs were randomly divided into 2 groups, of which 1 group (n=6) was vaccinated twice with living P. acnes and the other group served as a non-vaccinated control (n=6). Both groups were experimentally infected with A. pleuropneumoniae (serotype 1, 5*107 CFU, CCVC 259) then the clinical symptoms and pathological changes were monitored. Results: Compared to the control group, the vaccination group showed significantly reduced clinical symptoms and pathological changes. The P. acnes-vaccinated group showed a significant increase in the levels of specific serum antibody titer against A. pleuropneumoniae soluble antigen and serum IL-2 and IL-4 concentration. Conclusion: Immunization with heterologous P. acnes enabled an effective humoral immune response against A. pleuropneumoniae infection in pigs.', u'Language Workbenches (LWs) are software engineering tools that help domain experts develop solutions to various classes of problems. Some of these tools focus on non-technical users and provide languages to help organize knowledge while other workbenches provide means to create new programming languages. A key advantage of language workbenches is that they support the seamless composition of independently developed languages. This capability is useful when developing programs that can benefit from different levels of abstraction. We reasoned that language workbenches could be useful to develop bioinformatics software solutions. In order to evaluate the potential of language workbenches in bioinformatics, we tested a prominent workbench by developing an alternative to shell scripting. To illustrate what LWs and Language Composition can bring to bioinformatics, we report on our design and development of NYoSh (Not Your ordinary Shell). NYoSh was implemented as a collection of languages that can be composed to write programs as expressive and concise as shell scripts. This manuscript offers a concrete illustration of the advantages and current minor drawbacks of using the MPS LW. For instance, we found that we could implement an environment-aware editor for NYoSh that can assist the programmers when developing scripts for specific execution environments. This editor further provides semantic error detection and can be compiled interactively with an automatic build and deployment system. In contrast to shell scripts, NYoSh scripts can be written in a modern development environment, supporting context dependent intentions and can be extended seamlessly by end-users with new abstractions and language constructs. We further illustrate language extension and composition with LWs by presenting a tight integration of NYoSh scripts with the GobyWeb system. The NYoSh Workbench prototype, which implements a fully featured integrated development environment for NYoSh is distributed at http://nyosh.campagnelab.org .', u'Based on psychophysical evidence about how learning of visuomotor transformation generalizes, it has been suggested that movements are planned on the basis of movement direction and magnitude, i.e. the vector connecting movement origin and targets. This notion is also known under the term \u201cvectorial planning hypothesis\u201d. Previous psychophysical studies, however, have included separate areas of the workspace for training movements and testing the learning. This study eliminates this confounding factor by investigating the transfer of learning from forward to backward movements in a center-out-and-back task, in which the workspace for both movements is completely identical. Visual feedback allowed for learning only during movements towards the target (forward movements) and not while moving back to the origin (backward movements). When subjects learned the visuomotor rotation in forward movements, initial directional errors in backward movements also decreased to some degree. This learning effect in backward movements occurred predominantly when backward movements featured the same movement directions as the ones trained in forward movements (i.e., when opposite targets were presented). This suggests that learning was transferred in a direction specific way, supporting the notion that movement direction is the most prominent parameter used for motor planning.', u'This paper reports on a survey of 39 Accident and Emergency departments (AED) in England regarding presentations over a three month time period before and after the changes in the Licensing Act (2003) which came into force in November 2005. The time periods reported are January \u2013 March 2005 (the PRE period) and January \u2013 March 2006 (the POST period). Our data indicated NO significant change in the number of attendances that could be related to alcohol consumption (hereafter referred to as \u2018attendances\u2019) in the first two months following increased availability. In the third month there was a significant decrease in \u2018attendances\u2019. There was considerable variation in the changes in \u2018attendances\u2019 between participating AEDs. The pattern of \u2018attendances\u2019 on weekdays (Monday \u2013 Thursday) was unchanged. Following increased availability \u2018attendances\u2019 on Saturday fell, but increased on Fridays and Sundays. There were no changes in the pattern of \u2018attendances\u2019 across the 24 hour period, with most patients presenting at around Midday. Rates of \u2018attendances\u2019 for Assault and Head Injury fell significantly following the change in availability. The number of \u2018attendances\u2019 where alcohol was specifically mentioned increased significantly during the POST period. Prior to the increase in availability, the number of \u2018attendances\u2019 where alcohol was specifically mentioned peaked sharply around Midnight. Following the change in the law, there was a general increase in such \u2018attendances\u2019 from 11PM through to 3AM. Although there was a general increase in alcohol specified \u2018attendances\u2019 across the week, there was a significant increase in such \u2018attendances\u2019 on a Sunday. Data from one Northern and one Southern Local Ambulance Service was provided to complement the data obtained from individual AEDs. The number of alcohol related ambulance call outs for the LAS and NEAS increased following the change in the law.', u'The mutant form of the D-glucose/D-galactose-binding protein GGBP/H152C with the solvatochromic dye BADAN attached to cysteine residue Cys 152 can be used as a potential base for a sensitive element of glucose biosensor system. We investigated the influence of various factors on the physical-chemical properties of GGBP/H152C-BADAN and on its complexation with glicose . The high affinity (K d = 8.5 \u03bcM) and rapid binding of glucose ( even in solutions with a viscosity value of 4 cP, the formation time of the protein-glucose is not longer than three seconds ) allows for theuse of GGBP/H152C-BADAN to determine the sugar content in biological fluids extracted using transdermal techniques. It was shown that the changes in the ionic strength and pH within the physiological range did not have a significant influence on the fluorescent characteristics of GGBP/H152C-BADAN. The mutant form GGBP/H152C has relatively low resistance to denaturation action. This result emphasizes the need to find more stable proteins for the creation of a sensitive element for a glucose biosensor system.', u'Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) play an important role in detecting invading pathogens and mounting a robust defense response to restrict infection. In rice, one of the best characterized PRRs is XA21, a leucine rich repeat receptor-like kinase that confers broad-spectrum resistance to multiple strains of the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). In 2009 we reported that an Xoo protein, called Ax21, was secreted by a type I-secretion system and that it served to a ctivate X A 21 -mediated immunity. This report has recently been retracted. Here we present data that corrects our previous model. We first show that Ax21 secretion does not depend on the predicted type I secretion system and that it is processed by the general secretion (Sec) system. We further show that Ax21 is an outer membrane protein, secreted in association with outer membrane vesicles. Finally, we provide data showing that ax21 knockout strains do not overcome XA21-mediated immunity.', u'Injecting drug use is highly prevalent in London and is associated with specific physical health problems. These problems are related to the toxicity of the substances, their mode of consumption and as a consequence of the drug taking lifestyle. Hepatitis B and C viral infections are common among drug users due to sharing of both needles and other drug taking paraphernalia. Hepatitis B infection can be prevented by immunisation. Hepatitis C infection can interact with alcohol consumption to accelerate liver damage. Sharing of drug injection equipment is high (up to 78%). Injecting drug users (IDUs) that live close to needle exchanges are significantly less likely to engage in sharing activities than those that live further away. Drug users are at particular risk of developing poor dental health, which is associated with morbidity and mortality, particularly cardio-vascular conditions and respiratory disease. Many female drug users have been involved with the commercial sex industry and are at risk of contracting blood borne viruses. Drug users who also use alcohol have an increased likelihood of physical morbidity and injury / trauma. Problem drug users have an increased likelihood of experiencing physical morbidity, but are less likely to engage with primary care services. Barriers to accessing primary care include convenience (access), apathy, procrastination and \u201cself-medication\u201d. Drug users are more likely to report physical health complications at an Accident & Emergency department (AED) than at a GP practice. Further investigation of local AEDs is required to ascertain their potential for assessing and referring drug users to specialist services and other primary care providers. Integration of primary care and drug treatment services may encourage drug users to engage in treatment for physical morbidity and promote retention within addictions services. Physical health of drug users may be assessed as part of a formal induction to treatment services, or opportunistically as appropriate. Drug users presenting to primary care services for prescriptions related to their addiction may not experience such an assessment. Increasing GPs knowledge and skills can lead to greater implementation of screening practices. The provision of primary care services to clients attending addiction treatment centres can lead to improvements in drug users\u2019 physical health and enhanced treatment outcomes.', u'UAP56/SUB2 is a DExD/H-box RNA helicase that is critically involved in pre-mRNA splicing and mRNA nuclear export. This helicase is broadly conserved and essential in many eukaryotic lineages, including protozoan and metazoan parasites. Previous research suggests that helicases from parasites could be promising drug targets for treating parasitic diseases. Accordingly, characterizing the structure and function of these proteins is of interest for structure-based, de novo design of new lead compounds. Here, we used homology modeling to construct a three-dimensional structure of PfU52 (PMDB ID: PM0079288), the Plasmodium falciparum ortholog of UAP56/SUB2. Comparative in silico analysis revealed that although PfU52 shared many physicochemical, structural and dynamic similarities with its human homolog, it also displayed some unique features that could be exploited for drug design.', u'Water-borne and poor sanitation related diseases still account for much of the morbidity and mortality in India. Out of the 300 million urban dwellers in India, 22.6% reside in slums. This paper aims to examine the sanitation conditions of slums in the city of Mumbai. About 6.9 million slum dwellers are residing in almost 2000 slum pockets in Mumbai, which constitutes 54% of the population of the city. Most of the slum households depend on inadequate public toilet facilities of very poor quality. Efforts and investments in sanitation have failed to alleviate the situation, as the local population has not been involved. Only recently a demand-driven approach has been applied largely inspired by experiences in rural sanitation programmes. Still supply-driven initiatives by short-term political interests are, to some extent, eroding the resources available for sanitation. However, experiences from the last decade locally and globally, reveal that the demand-driven model is a way forward.', u'Background: With the increasing depth and decreasing costs of RNA-sequencing researchers are now able to profile the transcriptome with unprecedented detail. These advances not only allow for precise approximation of gene expression levels, but also for the characterization of alternative transcript usage/switching between conditions. Recent software improvements in full-length transcript deconvolution prompted us to develop spliceR, an R package for classification of alternative splicing and prediction of coding potential.\nResults: spliceR uses the full-length transcripts output from RNA-seq assemblers, to detect single- and multiple exon skipping, alternative donor and acceptor sites, intron retention, alternative first or last exon usage, and mutually exclusive exon events. For each of these events spliceR also annotates the genomic coordinates of the differentially spliced elements facilitating downstream sequence analysis. Furthermore, isoform fraction values are calculated for effective post-filtering, i.e. identification of transcript switching between conditions. Lastly spliceR predicts the coding potential, as well as the potential nonsense mediated decay (NMD) sensitivity of each transcript.\nConclusions: spliceR is a easy-to-use tool that allows detection of alternative splicing, transcript switching and NMD sensitivity from RNA-seq data, extending the usability of RNA-seq and assembly technologies. spliceR is implemented as an R package and is freely available from the Bioconductor repository (http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/2.13/bioc/html/spliceR.html).', u'We present a tool Node-Match that can do ontology matching using node ranking over graphical representation of the ontologies. Simple ontology matching algorithms are based on lexical measures that only consider text similarity. Taking the shape and structure of the ontology into account while matching can lead to better results [1, 2, 3]. Node-Match illustrates the difference between the two approaches. It is based on S-Match [4] an open source toolkit for lightweight ontology matching and alignment. S-Match supports a rich GUI for designing lightweight ontologies and several ontology alignment algorithms. We use the Department Ontology from the running example in [1] to show the difference between difference ontology matching algorithms.', u'Background: Worldwide, whale shark encounters are a highly sought ecotourism activity. Encounter Codes are implemented to help reduce anthropogenic disturbances. To assess their design and effectiveness, aerial behavioral surveys provide an excellent platform to identify behaviors with little or no observer induced bias. Methods: Five-minute focal-animal behavioral surveys were conducted during micro-light aerial surveys of whale sharks in Seychelles, both in the absence (n=26) and presence (n=24) of Marine Conservation Society, Seychelles research/ecotourism boats and in-water swimmers (following boat and in-water Encounter Codes). Whale shark behaviors with no anthropogenic influences were identified from encounters without boats and recorded as the percentage of survey time. Ordinal logistic regression (OLR) was used to determine whether the proportion of time sharks spent on the surface was dependent upon environmental, morphometric and/or anthropogenic predictors. Differences between the surface swimming time before and after arrival of a boat were also assessed using a paired t-test. Results: The altitude of the aircraft was not found to influence whale shark behavior, neither did environmental factors. There was a significant probability of whale sharks spending shorter periods of time swimming on the surface when in the presence of boats and in-water swimmers (OLR p-value<0.001, paired t-test p-value<0.001). Smaller-sized sharks spent considerably longer periods of time on the surface than larger sharks (p-value<0.05), which was more evident in the absence of anthropogenic influences. Conclusions: Aerial survey methods permit monitoring of behavior without observer induced bias, enabling critical evaluation of encounter management. Boat presence and in-water swimmers did affect the behavior of sharks suggesting that experimental examination of encounter regulations can help determine optimal restrictions to minimize the disturbance to this protected species.', u'Biomarker is the measurable change associated with a physiological or pathophysiological process. Unlike blood which has mechanisms to keep the internal environment homeostatic, urine is more likely to reflect changes of the body. In other words, urine is likely to be a better biomarker source than blood. However, the urinary proteome are affected by many factors. In this study, the effects of three commonly used diuretics (furosemide, hydrochlorothiazide and spirolactone ) on the urinary proteome were analyzed in rats. Urine samples were collected before and after the intragastric administration of diuretics at therapeutic doses and analyzed using LC-MS/MS. Based on quantification by Progenesis LC-MS software, there are 7, 5 and 2 proteins with the p value \u22640.05, a fold change \u22652, a spectral count \u22655 and FDR \u22641%, respectively. Most their human orthologs were considered to be stable in the healthy human urinary proteome. 10 of the 14 proteins have been reported as disease biomarkers in previous studies. So the effects of diuretics should be given more attention in future urinary protein biomarkers studies. The effects of diuretics on urinary proteome are different which can provide clues to elucidate the mechanisms of the diuretics.', u'Involuntary movement during and after neuraxial anesthesia, such as spinal and epidural anesthesia, is rarely observed. In this report, we describe a case of myoclonus-like involuntary movement of the upper extremities in a patient undergoing a planned repeat cesarean section under spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine that completely subsided after 2mg midazolam administration. The myoclonus-like movement never recurred or caused any apparent neurological side effects. No abnormal sensation or spontaneous pain of the upper extremities was observed. The patient was discharged on foot on post-operative day 3.', u'Initial soil water conditions play a critical role when seeding is the primary approach of revegetation on post-mining areas. In some semi-arid climates, such as the Brigalow Belt Bioregion in eastern Australia, extensive areas are affected by surface mine developments. Together with erratic rainfall patterns and clayey soils water deficit is the primary environmental stressor, which makes the Brigalow Belt representative for other water-limited ecosystems worldwide. Apart from other environmental stressors germination is governed by the water potential of the surrounding soil material. While previous studies confirmed the high tolerance of Brigalow (Acacia harpophylla) seeds to a broad range of temperature and salinity, the question remains how soil water potential triggers seed germination. In this study, we used three replicates of 50 seeds of predominant native Brigalow to investigate germination in relation to water potential as environmental stressor. Solutions of Polyethylene Glycol (PEG 6000) were applied to expose seeds to nine osmotic water potentials ranging from soil water saturation (0 kPa) and field capacity (-10 to -30 kPa) to the permanent wilting point (-1,500 kPa). We measured germinability (number of germinated seeds relative to total number of seeds per lot) and mean germination time (mean time required for maximum germination of a seed lot) to quantify germination. Based on these empirical data we estimated the parameters of the hydrotime model, which facilitates to simulate timing and success of seed emergence. Our findings indicate that Brigalow seeds are remarkably water stress tolerant with germination being observed at a water potential as low as -1,500 kPa. Likewise, the average base water potential of a seed population (hydrotime model) was very low and ranged between -1,533 kPa and -1,451 kPa. In general, Brigalow seeds germinate opportunistically over a broad range of abiotic conditions related to temperature, salinity, and water availability. Direct seeding and germination of native plants on post-mining land may be an effective and economically viable solution in order to re-establish plant communities. However, due to their ability of asexual reproduction, alternative rehabilitation approaches such as transplantation of whole soil-root compartments may become attractive for restoration ecologists to achieve safe, stable, and non-polluting ecosystems.', u'Macroglossia is defined as an abnormal enlargement of the tongue that predominantly affects pediatric patients and is not frequent in adult patients. Hypothyroidism and hyperpituitarism may cause macroglossia in adults. In addition, infiltration of the tongue by abnormal tissues, including angiomatous and lymphatic malformations and amyloidosis, is a major cause of macroglossia, particularly in adults. Here we describe the case of a 63-year-old male patient with massive macroglossia due to tongue hemangioma who underwent laser ablation under general anesthesia. Elaborate preanesthetic anatomical and functional airway evaluation facilitated successful airway management in this patient, even in the presence of massive macroglossia.', u'Background: Although whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) occur circum-globally, most studies focus on feeding aggregations in small regional areas. Photo identification is a proven tool in assessing population size and structure. While population estimates have been obtained for individual aggregation sites, there has been a lack of broader estimates despite known movement. The aim of this work is to demonstrate connectivity throughout the Gulf of Mexico (GOM) and Caribbean, and provide the first regional population estimate. Methods: Photographs submitted to the ECOCEAN Whale Shark Photo-ID Library Sightings were used to identify individual sharks using techniques described in Holmberg et al. (2009). Sightings data were used to assess the lagged identification rate (LIR) in order to investigate residency, regional mixing, population size, and transition probabilities using modules within SOCPROG 2.4. Results: Identifications from 1998 \u2013 2013, were obtained from Belize (n =132), Mexico (n=3642), Honduras (n = 360), and the USA (n=147). Fifty-four individual sharks were seen in more than one country and used for analysis. For the entire study area, LIR decreased rapidly between one and 64-127 (mean 94.4) days then slightly increased between 256-511 (mean 381.2) days, suggesting a near-annual resighting periodicity. Estimates of mean population size from the best-fitting model were 1897.39 \xb1 414.30 S.E. (95% C.I. 1191.77 \u2013 2784.03). Evidence suggests individual heterogeneity in movement patterns. Resightings were most likely to occur in the country where initial identification occurred, with the exception of Belize. The highest site fidelity was in Mexico, followed by USA. Conclusions: This study demonstrated individual heterogeneity, fidelity to initial identification site and regional linkages. These data suggest that national and regional cooperation is required for successful whale shark management in the West Atlantic.', u'We previously reported that the sigmoid-descending colon junction becomes linear and the colonoscope can be readily inserted into the descending colon in the left semiprone position. In addition, we encountered a situation whereby the sigmoid colon becomes more linear and the colonoscope can be more straightly inserted in the sigmoid colon when the colonoscope is inserted with twisting to the left in the left semiprone position. Therefore, our new insertion method was devised so that the colonoscope neutral position was rotated 45 degrees to the left compared to our conventional insertion method, and this method was performed to determine whether the colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon can be reduced. The colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon could be reduced by using our new insertion method. These results suggest that safer colonoscope insertion is possible by using our new insertion method compared with our conventional insertion method.', u'Background: Reports of whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) in the northern Gulf of Mexico (GOM) date back to the 1930s. In 2003, the Northern Gulf of Mexico Whale Shark Research Program was established and began making directed efforts to document the regional occurrence, seasonal distribution and habitat preferences of whale sharks. Methods: Whale shark sightings data (WSS: 1989 \u2013 present; n=644) and tagging geoposition data (TD: 2009-2012; n=450) were used in seasonal kernel density (KD) analyses to delineate home range (95%) and core habitat (50%) use areas in the northern GOM. Kernel density estimation of distribution is a statistically robust manner of handling data sources with differing sampling designs (anecdotal vs. directed). Habitat use patterns from the two datasets were used to identify critical use areas. Results: In the study area, whale shark home range was 276,000 km2 (WSS) to 369,000 km2 (TD) in size, with 52,000 km2 (WSS) to 62,000 km2 (TD) being core habitat. Whale shark habitat use varied seasonally, with the largest home range occurring during summer (WSS: 213,000 km2) and fall (TD: 221,000 km2). Tag data revealed more winter habitat (75,000 km2) than the sightings dataset (41,000 km2), which was shifted further offshore to slope waters. Significant use patterns occurred along the continental shelf-edge, encompassing shelf-edge banks south of Louisiana, and near the mouth of the Mississippi River. Conclusions: The combination of sightings data and satellite tagging data represents an effective methodology for assessing seasonality of occurrence, distribution, and habitat use of whale sharks. Shelf-edge bank habitats were most commonly used by whale sharks in the region. Satellite tagging data provided additional evidence of connectivity between multiple jurisdictions, which lends support for international management of the species.', u'The East Indian Sandalwood tree, Santalum album L. has been widely used in folk medicine for treatment of common colds, bronchitis, skin disorders, heart ailments, general weakness, fever, infection of the urinary tract, inflammation of the mouth and pharynx, liver and gallbladder complaints and other maladies. With more than 200 constituents, the essential oil is emerging as a biologically valuable active source of phytochemicals. Therapeutic potentials associated with this oil and its constituents promise future health care applications, as shown by recent pharmacological investigations, such as the roles of santalols in combating cancer, tumor, viral diseases, microbes, oxidants, as well as neuroleptic, skin nourishing agent and as dietary factors, thus supporting its traditional uses. The aim of this review is to comprehend and put forth, available information on biological activities of this plant from a pharmacological point of view for future directions in clinical applications.', u'Insects have been losing their habitats with the rapid expansion of many urban cities such as Toronto. This study aims at understanding the dispersal patterns insects take once they are placed under a heavy amount of disturbance. The use of power line corridors allows us to have a disturbance gradient within an urban city that allows us to observe the normal distribution of insects across the gradient and compare it to how their distribution patterns change once a disturbance has been applied. It is important in understanding insect dispersal patterns, because only then can we accurately create conservation strategies, and plan urban development to minimize the amount of damage done to insect populations. In this study, sweep nets, pan traps, and point counts were used to sample five areas of a disturbance gradient along a power line corridor. The experiment was conducted over three weeks and it was found that the gradient studied followed a quadratic distribution pattern predicted by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis, although with the application of disturbance, the insects diapered into an exponential type pattern in which the greatest abundance of insects were found in the area of least disturbance. The findings of this study have important implications in understanding the effects of disturbance on insects in urban ecosystems and are a step in the direction of forming a unified theory of insect/disturbance dynamics.', u'Abstract: Intercontinental dislocations between tropical regions harboring two-thirds of the flowering plants have always drawn attention from taxonomists and bio-geographers. The focus had always been on woody land plants rather than on herbs. Orchidaceae is one such family belonging to angiosperms, with an herbaceous habit and high species diversity in the tropics. Here, we investigate the evolutionary and bio-geographical history of the genus Cymbidium, which represents a monophyletic subfamily (Epidendroideae) of the orchids and comprises 50 odd species that are disjunctly distributed in tropical to temperate regions. A relatively well-resolved and highly supported phylogeny of Cymbidiums was reconstructed based on sequence analyses of internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) regions and maturaseK (matK) from the chloroplast region available on the public domain in GenBank at NCBI. Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) is one of the photosynthetic pathways regarded as adaptation to water stress in land plants. Hardly any information exists on correlations among the level of CAM activity, habitat, life form, and phylogenetic relationship of a plant group from an evolutionary perspective. This study examines a genus level analyses by integrating ITS and matK data to all fossil data available on orchids in a molecular Bayesian relaxed clock employed in BEAST and assessed divergence times for the genus Cymbidium with a focus on evolutionary plasticity of photosynthetic characters. Our study has enabled age estimations for the genus Cymbidum (12Ma) for the first time using BEAST by addition of previously analyzed two internal calibration points.', u'As medical and molecular microbiologists who regularly read the scientific literature, it is our impression that many published papers contain data that is inappropriately presented and/or analysed. This is borne out by a number of studies which indicate that typically at least half of published scientific articles that use statistical methods contain statistical errors. While there are an abundance of resources dedicated to explaining statistics to biologists, the evidence would suggest that they are largely ineffective. These resources tend to focus on how particular statistical tests work, with reams of complicated-looking mathematical formulae. In addition, many statisticians are unfamiliar with the application of statistical techniques to molecular microbiology, instead telling us we need more samples, which can be difficult both ethically and practically in fields that include animal work and painstaking sample collection. In an age where performing a statistical test merely requires clicking a button in a computer programme, it could be argued that what the vast majority of biologists need is not mathematical formulae but simple guidance on which buttons to click. We have developed an easy to follow decision chart that guides biologists through the statistical maze. Our practical and user friendly chart should prove useful not only to active researchers, but also to journal editors and reviewers to rapidly determine if data presented in a submitted manuscript has been correctly analysed.', u'Background. From the coastal seas near Taiwan to the 6.3 million gallon Ocean Voyager habitat at Georgia Aquarium in Atlanta, Georgia, whale sharks, Rhincodon typus, were brought in stages: two females arrived in June 2006 and two males in June 2007. The behavioral observations described in this study began in 2008 as the first reported observations in captivity to assist in husbandry and better understand whale shark behavior variation between individuals and across time.\nMethods. Two types of observations were made of the four sharks currently in the Georgia Aquarium Ocean Voyager habitat: 1) 15-minute focal observations throughout the day of individual sharks from a high gantry vantage point using Stopwatch+ software to time stamp all recorded behavior and 2) observations of swim speed, depth, and swimming direction for all sharks passing by a section of wall over longer periods of time (15 min-hours). Z-tests were used for inter-observer reliability.\nResults. For most traits, whale sharks demonstrated unique behavioral profiles that were consistent over many years, but, over the course of years, some of these behavioral traits changed for individual sharks. There were also daily changes in behavior that were consistent across days. For instance, whale sharks showed a clear anticipation of feeding time marked by increases in swimming speed prior to obvious cues of the feed (i.e. 1 hour prior). During observations recorded during the day, whale sharks spent the majority of their time swimming at or near the surface. Most spent relatively equal times swimming clockwise as they did counterclockwise. Swim speeds observed in the habitat were similar to the range of those estimated from work in the field.\nConclusion. Each shark in the habitat demonstrated a behavioral profile unique to that individual, and we have observed short-term and long-term consistent patterns as well as changes in some behavior. These observations increase our knowledge of whale shark behavior, assisting in the husbandry of these animals and giving a better understanding of individual differences, temporal changes, and interactions between sharks.', u'Objective: To determine whether etomidate is associated with longer seizures than methohexital in ECT anesthesia. Methods: Retrospective chart review in 39 patients who were switched from one anesthetic to the other. We compared motor and EEG seizure duration in the last ECT session on one anesthetic and the first session on the other anesthetic. Results: Motor seizures were about 10 seconds longer with etomidate (p < 0.05). However, few of the increases in seizure duration had obvious clinical import. Conclusions: Etomidate can lengthen ECT seizure time compared with methohexital, but the clinical significance of this observation requires further study.', u'Predator-prey interactions are among the main ecological interactions that shape the diversity of biological form. In many cases, the evolution of the mollusc shell form is presumably driven by predation. However, the adaptive significance of several uncommon, yet striking, shell traits of land snails are still poorly known. These include the distorted coiled \u201ctuba\u201d and the protruded radial ribs that can be found in micro-landsnails of the genus Plectostoma. Here, we experimentally tested whether these shell traits may act as defensive adaptations against predators. First, we identified the predators, namely, Atopos slugs and Pteroptyx beetle larvae, and their predatory strategies towards Plectostoma snails. Then, we characterised and quantified the possible anti-predation behaviour and shell traits of Plectostoma snails both in terms of their properties and efficiencies in defending against the Atopos slug predatory strategies, namely, shell-apertural entry and shell-drilling. The results showed that Atopos slugs would first attack the snail by shell-apertural entry, and, should this fail, shift to the energetically more costly shell-drilling strategy. We found that the shell tuba of Plectostoma snails is an effective defensive trait against shell-apertural entry attack. None of the snail traits, such as resting behaviour, shell thickness, shell tuba shape, shell rib density and intensity can protect the snail from the slug\u2019s shell-drilling attack. However, these traits could increase the predation costs to the slug. Further analysis on the shell traits revealed that the lack of effectiveness these anti-predation shell traits may be caused by a functional trade-off between shell traits under selection of two different predatory strategies. Lastly, we discuss our results in the framework of Red Queen predator-prey coevolution and escalation, and propose several key elements for future study.', u'Background: The Northern Gulf of Mexico Whale Shark Research Program was initiated in 2003 to increase our knowledge of whale shark occurrence and distribution within the region. A primary goal was to obtain sightings data from \u201ccitizen scientists\u201d to guide directed research. Whale sharks are typically solitary animals, but are known to aggregate in areas of high prey abundance. Methods: Whale shark sightings data reported from 2003 to present were compiled. Aggregations were defined as more than one whale shark, and large aggregations were defined as 10 or more sharks, observed at a specific location at the same time. Efforts were made to encounter aggregations to determine size and sex assemblage of the sharks, and to collect plankton samples to identify potential prey. Results: To date we have over 600 whale shark sightings reports and four research encounters of large aggregations. Whale shark aggregations represented 31% of reported sightings, 25% of which were large aggregations between 10-150 individuals. All of thereported large aggregations occurred during summer, almost exclusively along the continental shelf edge, with 41% occurring at Ewing Bank. Three out of the four scientific encounters occurred at Ewing Bank (2009, 2010, 2013). Aggregations were dominated by immature males that were primarily feeding on Euthynnus alletteratus eggs. Conclusions: The use of sightings data provided by \u201ccitizen scientists\u201d has proven to bean inexpensive and effective technique for identifying whale shark aggregation locations in the northern Gulf of Mexico. Aggregation assemblages appear to consist of largely juvenile males that were feeding on tuna eggs. Similar to other regions, it is unknown if whale sharks in the northern Gulf of Mexico primarily consist of juveniles or if juveniles simply dominate these large feeding aggregations.', u'The 14th annual Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC) was held in Berlin in July 2013, bringing together over 100 bioinformatics researchers, developers and users of open source software. Since its inception in 2000, BOSC has been organised as a Special Interest Group (SIG) satellite meeting preceding the large International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB), which is the annual meeting of the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB). BOSC provides bioinformatics developers with a forum for communicating the results of their latest efforts to the wider research community, and a focused environment for developers and users to interact and share ideas about standards, software development practices, and practical techniques for solving bioinformatics problems. As in previous years, BOSC 2013 was preceded by a Codefest, a two day hackathon that brings together bioinformatics open source project developers and members of the community and allows them to work collaboratively and achieve greater interoperability between tools developed by different groups.\nThe session topics at BOSC 2013 included several that have been popular in previous years, including Cloud and Parallel Computing, Visualization, Software Interoperability, Genome-scale Data Management, and a session for updates on ongoing open source projects, as well as two new sessions: Translational Bioinformatics, recognizing the growing use of computational biology in medical applications, and Open Science and Reproducible Research. Open Science, a movement dedicated to making all aspects of scientific knowledge production freely available for reuse and extension, not only validates published results by allowing others to reproduce them, but also accelerates the pace of scientific discovery by enabling researchers to more efficiently build on previous work, rather than having to reinvent tools and reassemble data sets.\nBOSC typically features two keynote talks by researchers who are influential in some aspect of open source bioinformatics. Our first keynote talk this year was by Cameron Neylon, the Advocacy Director for the Public Library of Science (PLOS), who is a prominent advocate for open science. He discussed the cultural issues that are hindering open science, and how openness in scientific collaborations can generate impact. Our second keynote speaker, Sean Eddy, who is perhaps best known as the author of the HMMER software suite, began his keynote talk with an inspiring history of how he got involved in bioinformatics and proceeded to argue that dedicating effort to thorough engineering in tool development, which is often shunned as incremental, can become the key to creating a lasting impact.\nWith the increasing reliance of more and more fields of biology on computational tools to manage and analyze their data, BOSC is well positioned to stay relevant to life science, and thus life scientists, for many years to come.', u'1. Occupancy \u2013 the proportion of area occupied by a species \u2013 is a key notion for addressing important questions in ecology, biogeography and conservation biology. Occupancy models allow estimating and inferring about species occurrence while accounting for false absences (or imperfect species detection). 2. Most occupancy models can be formulated as hidden Markov models (HMM) in which the state process captures the Markovian dynamic of the actual but latent states while the observation process consists of observations that are made from these underlying states. 3. We show how occupancy models can be implemented in program E-SURGE, which was initially developed to analyse capture-recapture data in the HMM framework. Replacing individuals by sites provides the user with access to several features of E-SURGE that are not available altogether or just not available in standard occupancy software: i) user-friendly model specification through a SAS/R-like syntax without having to write custom code, ii) decomposition of the observation and state processes in several steps to provide flexible parameterisation, iii) up-to-date diagnostics of model identifiability and iv) advanced numerical algorithms to produce fast and reliable results (including site random effects). 4. To illustrate E-SURGE features, we provide simulated data and the details of the implementation on the analysis of several occupancy models. These detailed examples are gathered in a companion wiki platform http://occupancyinesurge.wikidot.com/ .', u'Background. The Western Indian Ocean is a globally important region for the whale shark Rhincodon typus, with well-studied coastal aggregation sites in southern Mozambique, Seychelles and Djibouti. Here we present an overview of a new study at Mafia Island, Tanzania. Methods. We monitored whale shark abundances on 103 boat trips from October 2012\u2013March 2013. We also used passive acoustic telemetry (VEMCO\xae V16 tags) and photographic identification to monitor the residency times and local movements of 29 tagged individuals. Shark sizes were estimated using laser photogrammetry. Results. In total we observed 87 individual sharks with a mean of 5.1 \xb1 5.2 (\xb1 SD) per trip and a peak in December of 8.2 \xb1 6.3. Total length ranged from 4.1 to 9.7 m and almost all sharks were immature. After boat-based visual observations dropped to zero in March 2013 (with the same ongoing sampling effort), the acoustic array still detected 75% of tagged sharks. Tagged individuals were detected by the acoustic array for 73 \xb1 40 days on average. They showed a strong site fidelity to a 15 km2 area in the inner part of the bay and then progressively moved offshore at the end of the season, matching a decrease in plankton abundance. Sharks were mostly observed feeding on dense patches of the pelagic shrimp Lucifer hanseni, often in association with planktivorous fishes. Photo IDs from 2007-09 and 2012-13 indicate that a large proportion of the juvenile individuals return to Mafia Island each spring-summer. Conclusion. The size range and gender distribution of whale sharks at Mafia Island is similar to other coastal aggregations in the Indian Ocean, but the relatively high site fidelity and residency time stands in contrast.', u'A central tenet of ecology and biogeography is that the broad outlines of species ranges are determined by climate, whereas the effects of biotic interactions are manifested at local scales. While the first proposition is supported by ample evidence, the second is still a matter of controversy. To address this question, we develop a mathematical model that predicts the spatial overlap, i.e., co-occurrence, between pairs of species subject to all possible types of interactions. We then identify the scale in which predicted range overlaps are lost. We found that co-occurrence arising from positive interactions, such as mutualism (+/+) and commensalism (+/0), are manifested across scales of resolution. Negative interactions, such as competition (-/-) and amensalism (-/0), generate checkerboard-type co-occurrence patterns that are discernible at finer resolutions. Scale dependence in consumer-resource interactions (+/-) depends on the strength of positive dependencies between species. Our results challenge the widely held view that climate alone is sufficient to characterize species distributions at broad scales, but also demonstrate that the spatial signature of competition is unlikely to be discernible beyond local and regional scales.', u'Since Darwin\u2019s time, waterbirds have been considered an important vector for the dispersal of continental aquatic invertebrates. Bird movements have facilitated the worldwide invasion of the American brine shrimp Artemia franciscana, transporting cysts (diapausing eggs), and favouring rapid range expansions from introduction sites. Here we address the impact of bird migratory flyways on the population genetic structure and phylogeography of A. franciscana in its native range in the Americas. We examined the sequence variation for two mitochondrial gene fragments (COI and 16S for a subset of the data) in a large set of population samples representing the entire native range of A. franciscana. Furthermore, we performed Mantel tests and redundancy analyses (RDA) to test the role of flyways, geography and human introductions on the phylogeography and population genetic structure at a continental scale. A. franciscanamitochondrial DNA was very diverse, with two main clades, largely corresponding to Pacific and Atlantic populations, mirroring American bird flyways. There was a high degree of regional endemism, with populations subdivided into at least 12 divergent, geographically restricted and largely allopatric mitochondrial lineages, and high levels of population structure ( \u03a6 ST of 0.92), indicating low ongoing gene flow. We found evidence of human-mediated introductions in nine out of 39 populations analysed. Once these populations were removed, Mantel tests revealed a strong association between genetic variation and geographic distance (i.e., isolation-by-distance pattern). RDA showed that shared bird flyways explained around 20% of the variance in genetic distance between populations and this was highly significant, once geographic distance was controlled for. The variance explained increased to 30% when the factor human introduction was included in the model. Our findings suggest that bird-mediated transport of brine shrimp propagules does not result in substantial ongoing gene flow; instead, it had a significant historical role on the current species phylogeography, facilitating the colonisation of new aquatic environments as they become available along their main migratory flyways.', u'Background: This study\u2019s goal was to provide dose-response data for a dopamine agonist in the baboon using standard methods (replicate measurements at each dose, across a range of doses), as a standard against which to subsequently validate a novel pharmacological MRI (phMRI) method. Dependent variables were functional MRI (fMRI) data from brain regions selected a priori, and systemic prolactin release. Necessary first steps included estimating the magnitude and time course of prolactin response to anesthesia alone and to various doses of agonist. These first steps (\u201ctime course studies\u201d) were performed with three agonists, and the results were used to select promising agonists and to guide design details for the single-dose studies needed to generate dose-response curves.\nMethods: We studied 6 male baboons (Papio anubis) under low-dose isoflurane anesthesia after i.m. ketamine. Time course studies charted the changes in plasma prolactin levels over time after anesthesia alone or after an intravenous (i.v.) dose of the dopamine D1-like agonists SKF82958 and SKF38393 or the D2-like agonist pramipexole. In the single-dose dopamine agonist studies, one dose of SKF38393 (ranging from 0.0928 \u2013 9.28 mg/kg, N=5 animals) or pramipexole (0.00928 \u2013 0.2 mg/kg, N=1) was given i.v. during a 40-minute blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI session, to determine BOLD and plasma prolactin responses to different drug concentrations. BOLD response was quantified as the area under the time-signal curve for the first 15 minutes after the start of the drug infusion, compared to the linearly predicted signal from the baseline data before drug. The ED50(estimated dose that produces 50% of the maximal possible response to drug) for SKF38393 was calculated for the serum prolactin response and for phMRI responses in hypothalamus, pituitary, striatum and midbrain.\nResults: Prolactin rose 2.4- to 12-fold with anesthesia alone, peaking around 50-90 minutes after ketamine administration and gradually tapering off but still remaining higher than baseline on isoflurane 3-5 hours after ketamine. Baseline prolactin level increased with age. SKF82958 0.1mg/kg i.v. produced no noticeable change in plasma prolactin concentration. SKF38393 produced a substantial increase in prolactin release that peaked at around 20-30 minutes and declined to pre-drug levels in about an hour. Pramipexole quickly reduced prolactin levels below baseline, reaching a nadir 2-3 hours after infusion. SKF38393 produced clear, dose-responsive BOLD signal changes, and across the four regions, ED50 was estimated at 1.6-7.7mg/kg.\nConclusions: In the baboon, the dopamine D1receptor agonist SKF38393 produces clear plasma prolactin and phMRI dose-response curves. Variability in age and a modest sample size limit the precision of the conclusions.', u'Several studies have found evidence of motor deficits in poor readers. There is no obvious reason for motor and literacy skills to go together, and it has been suggested that both deficits could be indicative of an underlying problem with cerebellar function and/or procedural learning. However, the picture is complicated by the fact that reading problems often co-occur with oral language impairments, which have also been linked with motor deficits. This raises the question of whether motor deficits characterise poor readers when language impairment has been accounted for \u2013 and vice versa. We considered these questions by assessing motor deficits associated with reading disability (RD) and language impairment (LI). A large community sample provided a subset of 9- to 10-year-olds, selected to oversample children with reading and/or language difficulties, to give 37 children with comorbid LI+RD, 67 children with RD only, 32 children with LI only, and 117 typically-developing (TD) children with neither type of difficulty. These children were given four motor tasks that taxed speed, sequence, and imitation abilities to differing extents. Different patterns of results were found for the four motor tasks. There was no effect of RD or LI on two speeded fingertip tapping tasks, one of which involved sequencing of movements. LI, but not RD, was associated with problems in imitating hand positions and slowed performance on a speeded peg-moving task that required a precision grip. Fine motor deficits in poor readers may be more a function of language impairment than literacy problems.', u'Effective marine reserves can restore fish abundance and diversity in areas impacted by overfishing, but the outcomes of some reserves in developing countries where resources for enforcement are limited have seldom been evaluated. Here we assess whether the establishment of the largest marine reserve in the Caribbean has had a positive effect on the abundance of commercially valuable reef fish species in relation to neighboring unprotected areas. We surveyed 25 sites including two reef habitats (reef crest and reef slope) inside and outside the marine reserve Gardens of the Queen in Cuba over a 1.5-year period. Densities of the most targeted reef fish species were significantly higher inside than outside the reserve in both habitats. This trend was mostly consistent over time. Supporting evidence from previously published studies in the area indicates that habitat complexity, benthic communities, and the intensity of fishing pressure were similar inside and outside the reserve before reserve establishment. Additionally, reported differential fish behavior towards divers inside and outside the reserve and relative low poaching inside the reserve supported our results. Therefore, the differences observed during the study in the density of targeted reef fish among non-reserve and reserve sites have likely resulted from protection.', u'Computational protein design attempts to create protein sequences that fold stably into pre-specified structures. Here we compare alignments of designed proteins to alignments of natural proteins and assess how closely designed sequences recapitulate patterns of sequence variation found in natural protein sequences. We design proteins using RosettaDesign, and we evaluate both fixed-backbone designs and variable-backbone designs with different amounts of backbone flexibility. We find that proteins designed with a fixed backbone tend to underestimate the amount of site variability observed in natural proteins while proteins designed with an intermediate amount of backbone flexibility result in more realistic site variability. Further, the correlation between solvent exposure and site variability in designed proteins is lower than that in natural proteins. This finding suggests that site variability is too uniform across different solvent exposure states (i.e., buried residues are too variable or exposed residues too conserved). When comparing the amino acid frequencies in the designed proteins with those in natural proteins we find that in the designed proteins hydrophobic residues are underrepresented in the core. From these results we conclude that intermediate backbone flexibility during design results in more accurate protein design and that either scoring functions or backbone sampling methods require further improvement to accurately replicate structural constraints on site variability.', u'Background. No studies have evaluated the biochemistry of whale sharks. The illness of two animals in the collection at Georgia Aquarium provided an opportunity to evaluate the blood chemistry of healthy and unhealthy animals in a search for biomarkers of health in this species. Methods. In the absence of existing data on whale shark biochemistry, we used a discovery based approach called metabolomics, wherein the compounds (and sometimes their concentrations) in a fluid sample can be determined using proton NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. Samples from both healthy and unhealthy whale sharks were compared by both methods. NMR data were analysed by principal components analysis whereas the MS data were evaluated for presence/absence frequency for each analyte Results. PCA of proton NMR data could clearly discriminant between samples from healthy and unhealthy whale sharks. Analysis of PC loadings identified a shift region that was driving this discrimination and subsequent experiments determined that this region consisted of homarine, or n-methyl picolinic acid. Mass spectrometric data revealed 26 compounds that varied meaningfully, implying that they may be biomarkers of health in this species. A set of keto-acids was more frequently encountered in unhealthy animals, which was consistent with their primary clinical presentation (inappetance) Conclusion. Metabolomic approaches proved a powerful way to explore biochemistry of whale sharks, discriminating healthy from unhealthy and offering a selection of potential biomarker compounds for use in future studies of this species. The obvious next step is to attempt to obtain samples from field populations so that', u'Meta-analysis offers ecologists a powerful tool for knowledge synthesis. Albeit a form of review, it also shares many similarities with primary empirical research. Consequently, critical reading of meta-analyses incorporates criteria from both sets of approaches particularly because ecology is a discipline that embraces heterogeneity and broad methodologies. The most important issues in critically assessing a meta-analysis initially include transparency, replicability, and clear statement of purpose by the authors. Specific to ecology more so than other disciplines, tests of the same hypothesis are generally conducted at different study sites, have variable ecological contexts (i.e., seasonality), and use very different methods. Clear reporting and careful examination of heterogeneity in ecological meta-analyses is thus crucial. Ecologists often also test similar hypotheses with different species, and in these meta-analyses, the reader should expect exploration of phylogenetic dependencies. Finally, observational studies not only provide the substrate for potential current manipulative experiments in this discipline but also form an important body of literature historically for synthesis. Sensitivity analyses of observational versus manipulative experiments when aggregated in the same ecological meta-analysis are also frequent and appropriate. This brief conceptual review is not intended as an instrument to rate meta-analyses for ecologists but does provide the appropriate framing for those purposes and directs the reader to ongoing developments in this direction in other disciplines.', u'Because mangroves can capture and store organic carbon, their protection and restoration is an obvious component of climate change mitigation. However, there are few empirical measurements of long-term carbon storage in mangroves or of how storage varies across environmental gradients. The context dependency of this process combined with geographically limited field sampling has made it difficult to generalize regional and global rates of mangrove carbon sequestration. This has in turn hampered the inclusion of sequestration by mangroves in carbon cycle models and in carbon offset markets. The purpose of this study was to estimate the relative carbon capture and storage potential in natural and restored mangrove forests. We measured depth profiles of soil organic carbon content in 72 cores collected from six sites (three natural, two restored, and one afforested) surrounding Muisne, Ecuador. Samples up to 1 m deep were analyzed for organic matter content using loss-on-ignition and values were converted to organic carbon content using an accepted ratio of 1.72 (g/g). Results suggest that average soil carbon storage is 0.055 \xb1 0.002 g\u2219cm-3 (11.3 \xb1 0.8% carbon content by dry mass, mean \xb1 1 SE) up to 1 m deep in natural sites, and 0.058 \xb1 0.002 g\u2219cm-3 (8.0 \xb1 0.3%) in restored sites. These estimates are concordant with published global averages. Evidence of equivalent carbon stocks in restored and afforested mangrove patches emphasizes the carbon sink potential for reestablished mangrove systems. We found no relationship between sediment carbon storage and aboveground biomass, forest structure, or within-patch location. Our results demonstrate the long-term carbon storage potential of natural mangroves, high effectiveness of mangrove restoration and afforestation, a lack of predictability in carbon storage strictly based on aboveground parameters, and the need to establish standardized protocol for quantifying mangrove sediment carbon stocks.', u'Background: Prior to this study, the aggregation of whale sharks in the waters of Oslob had never been described. Provisioning (Orams, 2002) activities started in late 2011, and systematic data collection in March 2012, attracting over 100,000 tourists in the first year, and is currently the most reliable aggregation of R. typus in the Philippines. Methods: Daily in-\xad\u2010water photographic identification was used as a non-\xad\u2010invasive means to describe the population throughout the study period. A total of 135 sharks were identified, and IDs were independently matched by three researchers to minimize error. Photogrammetry (Rohner, 2011) was adopted to complement population description. Results: Daily sightings ranged from 2 to 23 different animals in the interaction area (mean=11.14). A total of 109 males, 15 females and 11 R. typus of undetermined sex were described. The size was estimated for 73.3% of the population, with an average of 5.36m \xb11.3m. Photogrammetry posed a mean of 5.63m \xb10.59m on 14 sharks, 6.75% >than researchers\u2019 estimates. Resighting (>1d) was observed in 66.7% of the population. Five individuals were present for >300d (n=443) in the interaction area, with a maximum of 420d. Nine individuals were successfully matched across regional hotspots including Donsol and Southern Leyte. Conclusion: Despite the presence of animals in Oslob year round and the influence of the provisioning, there appears to be a seasonal influx of animals, with a maximum of 46 different animals present in the month of June 2012 and again in May 2013, contrasting with a monthly average of 28.9. It appears these waters are important to the species and it\u2019s paramount to fully investigate the impact of the provisioning on the population of R. typus in the Philippines.', u'Background. Provisioning is a growing practice used to facilitate wildlife-tourist interaction, especially with elusive marine species, but still little is known about its effect on the host species. This work discusses the practice, effect and proposed measures to manage the whale shark provisioning activities and related tourism industry in the waters of Oslob, Philippines.\nMethods. Since March 2012, the research team has been studying daily the whale shark population, the tourism industry and its compliances with the local and national laws. During 443 days of survey, 135 individual whale sharks where identified within the interaction area, 197h of shark behavioral observations and tourist compliance surveys have been collected along with 45 biopsy samples, 1000h of dive profiles from TDR tags and 500 tourist satisfaction questionnaires.\nResults. Since its official opening in January 2012 more than 140,000 interaction tickets have been sold bringing over 1M USD to the local community and making it one of the largest marine wildlife tourist attractions in South East Asia. The benefits for the community and regional economy are undeniable, however behavioral modification, extended residency time, poor nutritional value of provided food and thermal stress related to the extended permanence in shallow water together with habitat destruction caused by poor diving practices and unregulated coastal developments are some of the quantified side effects of this industry.\nConclusion. A series of meeting with the stakeholders and an education campaign have been initiated as bottom up approach and an adaptive management model based on the identification of the limits of acceptable change is being developed in collaboration with the Authorities to address current limitations in the long-term sustainable management of the whale shark watching industry in Oslob.', u'A previous study has shown barium is instilled in the left lateral position or the prone position. However, we previously reported that the colonoscope can be readily inserted into the descending colon in the left semiprone position. Indeed, when the colonoscope was inserted in the left semiprone position, the lumen of the sigmoid colon was observed linearly and the colon position lowered toward the oral side. In addition, it was often observed that the rectosigmoid colon nearly overlapped with the sigmoid-descending colon junction when the patient was placed in the left semiprone position in the single-contrast enema examination. Therefore, we considered that the rectosigmoid colon is located in the highest position while the sigmoid-descending colon junction is located in the lowest position and various kinds of drugs can be readily administered into the proximal colon in the left semiprone position. Our new barium instillation method was devised and this method was performed to determine whether barium can be readily instilled into the proximal colon. Barium (300 ml) passed the hepatic flexure before air insufflation in 32 (67%) of the 48 patients by using our new barium instillation method. By contrast, barium (300 ml) passed the hepatic flexure before air insufflation in 3 (6%) of the 48 patients by using our conventional barium instillation method. These results suggest that effective rectal administration is possible by using our new barium instillation method compared with our conventional barium instillation method.', u'Barosaurus is a diplodocid sauropod from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of the western United States, and is known for its very long neck. It is related to the sympatric Diplodocus, and often thought of as more or less identical except with a longer neck. The holotype YPM 429 includes three and a half posterior cervical vertebrae, somewhat distorted and damaged, which are nevertheless very distinctive and quite different from those of Diplodocus. The cervicals of the better known and more complete referred Barosaurus specimen AMNH 6341 show the same characteristic features as the holotype, though not to the same extent: transversely broad but anteroposteriorly short zygapophyseal facets; prezygapophyses carried on broad, squared-off rami; zygapophyses shifted forward relative to the centrum; diapophyses, parapophyses and neural spines shifted backwards; and broad diapophyseal \u201cwings\u201d. These features form a single functional complex, enabling great lateral \ufb02exibility, but restricting vertical \ufb02exibility. This may indicate that Barosaurus  used a different feeding style from other sauropods perhaps sweeping out long arcs at ground level. The Morrison Formation contains at least nine diplodocid species in six to eight genera whose relationships are not yet fully understood, but Barosaurus remains distinct from its relatives.', u'Socioeconomic gradients in health behaviour are pervasive and well documented. Yet, there is little consensus on their causes. Behavioural ecological theory predicts that, if people of lower socioeconomic position (SEP) perceive greater personal extrinsic mortality risk than those of higher SEP, they should disinvest in their future health. We surveyed North American adults for reported effort in looking after health, perceived extrinsic and intrinsic mortality risks, and measures of SEP. We examined the relationships between these variables and found that lower subjective SEP predicted lower reported health effort. Lower subjective SEP was also associated with higher perceived extrinsic mortality risk, which in turn predicted lower reported health effort. The effect of subjective SEP on reported health effort was completely mediated by perceived extrinsic mortality risk. Our findings indicate that perceived extrinsic mortality risk may be a key factor underlying SEP gradients in motivation to invest in future health.', u'Natural photosynthesis allows biological systems to remarkably combine carbon dioxide and water molecules under sunlight to produce energy in the form of stored sugars. The stored sugar is then used by plants and animals to exert vital biological functions. If scientists can find the right protocol and materials to mimic this natural system to produce fermentable sugars, it could be the McCoy sustainable energy source for the future. The objective here is not to recall the photosynthesis mechanism, but to provide a future brief vision for a conceptual application of photosynthesis to produce bioethanol from organic synthetized sugar rather than from plants, which should be saved for human and animal feeding.', u'In the last years the need for a non-invasive diagnostic tool that would help to discriminate between organic and functional gastrointestinal disorders directed research towards potential immunological markers. A great number of non-invasive bio-markers has been proposed, including eosinophilic cationic protein, elastase, esterase, myeloperoxidase, lysozyme, lactoferrin, and calprotectin. Compared to other biomarkers, calprotectin (also called MRP8/14, calgranulin A/B , S100 A8/A9) may offer advantages based on its biological characteristics. Calprotectin is a 36.5-kDa, calcium and zinc binding polypeptide which constitutes about 60% of soluble cytosol proteins in human neutrophils. It is also found in monocytes, keratinocytes, muscle tissue and infiltrating tissue macrophages. When bound to calcium it becomes resistant to proteolysis and colonic bacterial degradation. This make is stable for up to 1 week at room temperature and facilitate its determination in feces. Calprotectin is involved in the regulation of the inflammatory process, participate to the early innate immune response and exert antimicrobial, anti-proliferative and apoptotic properties. Fecal calprotectin is a direct measure of mucosal inflammation activity and becomes detectable when intestinal inflammation is still at an insufficient level to cause an increase in serum inflammation markers. In the last decade fecal calprotectin has been proposed as a marker to rule out acute and chronic intestinal inflammatory diseases in children with typical gastrointestinal symptoms. Many studies demonstrated its diagnostic utility in identifying children and adults with inflammatory bowel disease and correlate with the degree of disease activity. The detection of elevated levels of fecal calprotectin in healthy infants during the first few weeks of age, limits their use as screening test for intestinal inflammatory diseases in early life. Despite this evidence, the measurement of calprotectin in the serum has been proposed to identify neonates with necrotizing enterocolitis. Recent studies have shown higher fecal calprotectin levels in infants with irritable bowel syndrome and colics, compared with healthy controls. Additionally, a correlation was found between fecal calprotectin concentration and IBS clinical presentation severity. However, these studies do not provide data on diagnostic accuracy in distinguish between organic and functional gastrointestinal disorders. Despite significant limitations, these evidences suggest the presence of a subtle inflammatory process underlying functional gastrointestinal disorders and open new perspectives on their pathogenesis. Fecal calprotectin may play a role that could be revealed in further, specifically designed, studies. Changes in microflora, permeability, calprotectin excretion and other inflammatory biomarkers, should be investigated to clarify if a continuum exists between inflammatory conditions and intestinal functional diseases.', u'Infantile colic is a common disturbance occurring in the first three months of life. It is a benign condition and one of the main causes of pediatric consultation in the early part of life because of its great impact on family life. Some pediatricians are prone to undervalue this issue and there is no consensus concerning management and treatment. In literature are growing evidences about the effectiveness of dietary, pharmacological, complementary and behavioral therapies as options for the management of infantile colic. Dietary approach is based on the avoidance of cow\u2019s milk proteins in breast-feeding mothers and bottle-fed infants. Currently pharmacological agents over the counter or by prescription are not recommended because of reported side effects. There is limited evidence supporting the use of complementary and alternative treatments (herbal supplements, manipulative approach and acupuncture) or behavioral modification interventions. Recent studies have partially clarified the pathogenesis of this disturb and so new treatments, such as probiotics, have been proposed. Further investigations are needed in order to provide evidence-based guidelines.', u'A farmer grew crops by adding only organic material with a high C:N ratio (40) to the soil for 30 years. He focused on the role of carbon in increasing the number of microorganisms. This idea was based on the concepts of 1) indirect crop management via microorganisms and 2) providing carbon to microorganisms for energy. Here, we name this practice \u201ccarbon -driven eco-agriculture\u201d (CDEA). We determined the effect of CDEA on a laterite soil vegetable field in Sao Paulo for 4 years. The yield exceeded the national average. Soil aggregates formed to 29 cm thickness, and the microbial activity was one order of magnitude higher than that in a conventional control field. The output/input ratios of carbon and nitrogen were 1.88 \u20132.35 and 3.58\u20136.00, respectively, indicating a sustainable system for these elements. Incorporating high-C:N-ratio (>20) organic material results in nitrogen deficiency. However, our results indicate that large numbers of microorganisms provide crops with sufficient nitrogen at low concentrations. This method overcomes the yield limitation of chemical fertilizer application and reverses soil degradation.', u'Toxoplasma gondii is a kind of obligate intracellular parasites that are capable of infecting virtually all warm-blooded animals. It is one of the most common parasites in human. Serological studies estimated that up to a third of the global population has been chronically infected with the parsites. Toxoplasma gondii is also used as a model orgnisim of Apicomplexans that includes Plasmodium \u2013 the parasites that cause malaria. Gene knockout is a very important way to study gene function in all organisms. When it comes to Toxoplasma, it\u2019s very difficult as this haploid parasite has strong adaptability to circumvent the condition of gene defects by gene duplication. High throughput screening at very early stage of transfection is very important for generating a true knockout of this parasite. For some genes that are required forToxoplasma gondii, the high throughput screening is necessary. Different labs use different protocols. After reading and practicing protocols from different papers or different labs, here I established an efficient pipeline for this purpose.', u'Background: The selenocysteine(Sec)-containing proteins, selenoproteins, are an important group of proteins present in all three kingdoms of life. Although the selenoproteomes of many organisms have been analyzed, systematic studies on selenoproteins in platyhelminthes are still lacking. Moreover, comparison of selenoproteomes between free-living and parasitic animals is rarely studied. Results: In this study, three representative organisms (Schmidtea mediterranea, Schistosoma japonicum and Taenia solium) were selected for comparative analysis of selenoproteomes in Platyhelminthes. Using a SelGenAmic-based selenoprotein prediction algorithm, a total of 37 selenoprotein genes were identified in these organisms. The size of selenoproteomes and selenoprotein families were found to be associated with different lifestyles: free-living organisms have larger selenoproteome whereas parasitic lifestyle corresponds to reduced selenoproteomes. Five selenoproteins, SelT, Sel15, GPx, SPS2 and TR, were found to be present in all examined platyhelminthes as well as almost all sequenced animals, suggesting their essential role in metazoans. Finally, a new splicing form of SelW that lacked the first exon was found to be present in S. japonicum. Conclusions: Our data provide a first glance into the selenoproteomes of organisms in the phylum Platyhelminthes and may help understand function and evolutionary dynamics of selenium utilization in diversified metazoans.', u"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory molecules that repress the translational processes of their target genes by binding to their 3' untranslated regions (3' UTRs). Because the target genes are predominantly determined by their sequence complementarity to the miRNA seed regions (nucleotides 2-7) which are evolutionarily conserved, it is inferred that the target relationships and functions of the miRNA family members are conserved across many species. Therefore, detecting the relevant miRNA families with confidence would help to clarify the conserved miRNA functions, and elucidate miRNA-mediated biological processes. We present a mixture model of position weight matrices for constructing miRNA functional families. This model systematically finds not only evolutionarily conserved miRNA family members but also functionally related miRNAs, as it simultaneously generates position weight matrices representing the conserved sequences. Using mammalian miRNA sequences, in our experiments, we identified potential miRNA groups characterized by similar sequence patterns that have common functions. We validated our results using score measures and by the analysis of the conserved targets. Our method would provide a way to comprehensively identify conserved miRNA functions.", u'Helminths include both parasitic nematodes (roundworms) and platyhelminths (trematode and cestode flatworms) that are abundant, and are of clinical importance. The genetic characterization of parasitic flatworms using advanced molecular tools is central to the diagnosis and control of infections. Although the nuclear genome houses suitable genetic markers (e.g., in ribosomal (r) DNA) for species identification and molecular characterization, the mitochondrial (mt) genome consistently provides a rich source of novel markers for informative systematics and epidemiological studies. In the last decade, there have been some important advances in mtDNA genomics of helminths, especially lung flukes, liver flukes and intestinal flukes. Fasciolopsis buski, often called the giant intestinal fluke, is one of the largest digenean trematodes infecting humans and found primarily in Asia, in particular the Indian subcontinent. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies now provide opportunities for high throughput sequencing, assembly and annotation within a short span of time. Herein, we describe a high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatics pipeline for mt genomics for F. buski that emphasizes the utility of short read NGS platforms such as Ion Torrent and Illumina in successfully sequencing and assembling the mt genome using innovative approaches for PCR primer design as well as assembly. We took advantage of our NGS whole genome sequence data (unpublished so far) for F. buski and its comparison with available data for the Fasciola hepatica mtDNA as the reference genome for design of precise and specific primers for amplification of mt genome sequences from F. buski. A long-range PCR was carried out to create a NGS library enriched in mt DNA sequences. Two different NGS platforms were employed for complete sequencing, assembly and annotation of the F. buski mt genome. The complete mt genome sequences of the intestinal fluke comprise 14,118 bp and is thus the shortest trematode mitochondrial genome sequenced to date. The noncoding control regions are separated into two parts by the tRNA-Gly gene and donot contain either tandem repeats or secondary structures, which are typical for trematode control regions. The gene content and arrangement are identical to that of F. hepatica. The F. buski mtDNA genome has a close resemblance with F. hepatica and has a similar gene order tallying with that of other trematodes. The mtDNA for the intestinal fluke is reported herein for the first time by our group that would help invesigate Fasciolidae taxonomy and systematics with the aid of mtDNA NGS data. More so, it would serve as a resource for comparative mitochondrial genomics and systematic studies of trematode parasites.', u'Exosomes are nanosized (30-100 nm) membrane vesicles secreted by most cell types. Exosomes have been found to contain various RNA species including miRNA, mRNA and long non-protein coding RNAs. A number of cancer cells produce elevated levels of exosomes. Because exosomes have been isolated from most body fluids they may provide a source for non-invasive cancer diagnostics. Transcriptome profiling that uses deep-sequencing technologies (RNA-Seq) offers enormous amount of data that can be used for biomarkers discovery, however, in case of exosomes this approach was applied only for the analysis of small RNAs. In this study, we utilized RNA-Seq technology to analyze RNAs present in microvesicles secreted by human breast cancer cell lines.Exosomes were isolated from the media conditioned by two human breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-436. Exosomal RNA was profiled using the Ion Torrent semiconductor chip-based technology. Exosomes were found to contain various classes of RNA with the major class represented by fragmented ribosomal RNA (rRNA), in particular 28S and 18S rRNA subunits. Analysis of exosomal RNA content revealed that it reflects RNA content of the donor cells. Although exosomes produced by the two cancer cell lines shared most of the RNA species, there was a number of non-coding transcripts unique to MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-436 cells. This suggests that RNA analysis might distinguish exosomes produced by low metastatic breast cancer cell line (MDA-MB-436) from that produced by highly metastatic breast cancer cell line (MDA-MB-231). The analysis of gene ontologies (GOs) associated with the most abundant transcripts present in exosomes revealed significant enrichment in genes encoding proteins involved in translation and rRNA and ncRNA processing. These GO terms indicate most expressed genes for both, cellular and exosomal RNA.For the first time, using RNA-seq, we examined the transcriptomes of exosomes secreted by human breast cancer cells. We found that most abundant exosomal RNA species are the fragments of 28S and 18S rRNA subunits. This limits the number of reads from other RNAs. To increase the number of detectable transcripts and improve the accuracy of their expression level the protocols allowing depletion of fragmented rRNA should be utilized in the future RNA-seq analyses on exosomes. Present data revealed that exosomal transcripts are representative of their cells of origin and thus could form basis for detection of tumor specific markers.', u"Previous theoretical work on consciousness and other punctuated global broadcasts associated with attention states has focused on the evolutionary exaptation of the inevitable crosstalk between related sets of unconscious cognitive modules (UCM). This has invoked a groupoid treatment of the equivalence class structure arising from information sources 'dual', in a formal sense, to the UCM, via a standard spontaneous symmetry breaking/lifting methodology abducted from statistical physics, and through an index theorem approach based on an Onsager-like stochastic differential equations model. Surprisingly, similar arguments can be applied to the formally 'fuzzy' generalizations that are likely to better fit actual biological complexities.", u'In order to conduct a replicable analysis of the possible phylogenetic patterns of extinction risk, one must first formulate a clear set of definitions of ecosystem boundaries and risk categories. Subsequently, a robust and internally consistent dataset that includes all the available information on species distributions and risk assessments must be assembled. Here, we review the dataset and methodology of a recent paper focused on phylogenetic patterns of plant extinction risk in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Kenya and Tanzania and point out some of the limitations of inferring such patterns from inadequate and biased data. We show that bias in the dataset is probably responsible for the conclusion that Vulnerable species are more closely related than expected by chance, and provide guidelines for the construction of an appropriate dataset for such an analysis.', u'BioNames is a web database of taxonomic names for animals, linked to the primary literature and, wherever possible, to phylogenetic trees. It aims to provide a taxonomic "dashboard" where at a glance we can see a summary of the taxonomic and phylogenetic information we have for a given taxon and hence provide a quick answer to the basic question "what is this taxon?" BioNames combines classifications from the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF) and GenBank, imagery from the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL), animal names from the Index of Organism Names (ION), and bibliographic data from multiple sources including the Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL) and CrossRef. The user interface includes display of full text articles, interactive timelines of taxonomic publications, and zoomable phylogenies. It is available at http://bionames.org.', u'In the light of recent advances in radionuclide diagnostics of occult infectious states, it is clearly seen that positron emission tomography will have a part in routine work-up especially for critically ill patients in near future. For the purpose of further development of a specific agent that might be capable of detecting a living microorganism in occult focus inside the host organism, we come with a concept of probably a new radiopharmaceutical agent besides well-known fluorinated glucose, labelled leucocytes and gallium based radiopharmaceuticals. The aim of this opinion letter is to propose a specific agent for almost all bacteria and fungi genera not depending on host\u2019s metabolism, thus letting differentiation of infection foci from host\u2019s tissue. The discussion of this letter is mainly on the background of developing a compound for folate biosynthesis in bacteria and fungi which is a specific way of metabolization by the mentioned species which is provided by microbiological studies.', u'Group brainstorming is a well-known idea generation technique, which plays a key role in software development processes. Despite this, the relevant literature has had little to offer in advancing our understanding of the effectiveness of group brainstorming sessions. In this paper we present a research-in-progress on brainstorming while walking, which is a practice built upon the relationship between thinking and walking. The objective is to better understand how to conduct group brainstorming effectively. We compared two brainstorming sessions, one performed during a mountain walk, the other traditionally in a room. Three preliminary findings are obtained: walking can lead to an effective idea generation session; brainstorming while walking can encourage team members to participate in and contribute to the session in an equal manner; and it can help a team to maintain sustainable mental energy. Our study opens up an avenue for future exploration of effective group brainstorming practices.', u'Urbanization is a major cause of ecological degradation around the world, and human settlement in large cities is accelerating. New York City (NYC) is one of the oldest and most urbanized cities in North America, but still maintains 20% vegetation cover and substantial populations of some native wildlife. The white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus, is a common resident of NYC\u2019s forest fragments and an emerging model system for examining the evolutionary consequences of urbanization. In this study, we developed transcriptomic resources for urban P. leucopus to examine evolutionary changes in protein-coding regions for an exemplar \u2018urban adapter\u2019. We used Roche 454 GS FLX+ high throughput sequencing to derive transcriptomes from multiple tissues from individuals across both urban and rural populations. From these data, we identified 31,015 SNPs and several candidate genes potentially experiencing positive selection in urban populations of P. leucopus. These candidate genes are involved in xenobiotic metabolism, innate immune response, demethylation activity, and other important biological phenomena in novel urban environments. This study is one of the first to report candidate genes exhibiting signatures of directional selection in divergent urban ecosystems.', u'Modern instances of disease emergence have shown that human subjective reactions to a novel disease can be as important as the objective reality of the disease spread. Therefore, this work introduces human cognitive heuristics and biases into epidemiological modeling. Human subjective perception and reaction to the presence of the disease is represented in the difference between the objective and subjective probability of contagion. It is assumed that humans within a disease spread situation will have either limited or full information about the objective probability of contagion. From this information, humans subjectively react, forming a subjective assessment of probability of contagion. Although the translation from the objective to subjective probability of contagion is rooted in a biological basis, the translation has been adequately determined by previous research in Prospect theory as developed by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky. The formulation of Lotka-Volterra epidemiology models with parameters for perceived probability of contagion was followed by numerical experimentation and sensitivity analysis that determined values of parameters that create cyclic population behavior, whether growing or dampened, as well as acyclic behavior. The results show that the model is capable of capturing stable as well as unstable behavior, and is able to model key epidemiological disease behaviors and states, such as epidemic and endemic conditions.', u"A 68 year old male with a history of classical Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and precursor T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) received an allogenic stem cell transplant from an unrelated donor to treat his ALL. He developed acute graft-vs.-host-disease (GVHD) which was treated by increasing immunosuppressants. KS, which had been in remission for years, then recurred aggressively. Tapering immunosuppressants to treat the KS was not possible because of GVHD. Chemotherapy could not be used because of its adverse effect on the bone marrow so soon after transplant. The only option was to use antiviral therapy (cidofovir) to lower the level of HHV-8, the virus that is a causal factor in KS. Although HHV-8 levels were significantly reduced, new KS lesions continued to appear. The patient developed acute kidney injury after the third cidofovir infusion and died from renal and respiratory failure soon afterward. Post-mortem revealed extensive internal KS lesions involving multiple organs. Based on the experience with this patient, allogenic transplant using an unrelated donor has been found to be a questionable treatment modality for classical KS patients requiring treatment for another condition such as leukemias and lymphomas. Post-transplant immunosuppression is required to prevent GVHD, and if it occurs, immunosuppression may have to be increased. Aggressive KS developed in this patient under these conditions, and could not be controlled by tapering immunosuppressants. Although the risk of GVHD is lower for an allogenic transplant using a matched sibling instead of an unrelated donor, the risk of both GVHD and aggressive KS both developing may still be unacceptably high.Alternative treatment modalities for these patients might include continuing with chemotherapy and autologous transplant. These avoid GVHD and lower the need for long term immunosuppression, but have a much higher risk of relapse of the underlying malignancy. Still, they could be preferable to an allogenic transplant for such cases.", u'Chondrichthyians (sharks, ratfish, and rays) can function at extremes (growing big, swimming fast, and eating hard-prey) suggesting their skeletons are experiencing loading regimes equal to or greater than those of other fishes. In most vertebrates, cartilage is a soft connective tissue serving two purposes; a low-friction bearing surface and contour filler; however, cartilaginous fishes maintain a skeleton made of cartilage throughout life. We examined material properties and biochemical components of cartilage from the jaws and/or chondrocranium of seven species of shark. For each species cylindrical plugs were drilled from the specimen, mineralized tesserae were removed, and plugs tested in compression to ten percent of initial thickness (\u03b5=0.10) at 2mm/sec. Stiffness and strength varied significantly among species and in both cases the chondrocranial properties were greater than those of the jaws. After materials testing, cartilage plugs were lyophilized to obtain water content; then collagen and proteoglycan was measured with hydroxyproline and DMMB assays, respectively. Water content was greatest in the chondrocranial cartilage while collagen content was consistent between the jaws and chondrocrania. However, proteoglycan content was greater in the jaw cartilage. The average values for water and proteoglycan content were consistent with mammalian cartilage, while collagen content was much lower than mammalian cartilage. Material properties and biochemical components were also similar to the mineralized cartilage found in elasmobranch vertebral cartilage.', u'The environmental benefits of sustainability efforts can be rendered less effective due to economic feedback mechanisms. As a remedy against such rebound effects, a reinvestment strategy towards environmental causes has been suggested. Here, a practical implementation of such a reinvestment strategy is presented. It involves a) estimating the financial savings resulting from sustainability efforts, b) informing the participants that the environmental benefit of the efforts is reduced by economic feedback mechanisms and c) asking them to donate a fraction of the expected savings towards environmental causes. An easy-to-use methodology for estimating rebound effects of sustainability efforts is presented in order to quantify the efficacy of this approach. CO2 emission offsets are used as an example of donations towards environmental causes. It is shown, that donating even a small amount (less than 1% of financial savings obtained from conservation or engineering savings) of donated carbon offsets can more than eliminate the estimated rebound effects. This then leads to the restore principle, that states that the environmental benefit of reducing activities with average environmental impact is dramatically improved if a fraction of the resulting financial savings is applied towards environmental causes. This approach is made practical by augmenting the common reduce, reuse, recycle motto with a fourth component: reduce, reuse, recycle and restore.', u'The Indo-Pacific lionfish, Pterois volitans, has invaded most of the Tropical Western Atlantic in the last few years. The degree to which populations of this invasive species can be controlled by native predatory fish (mostly grouper), is controversial with conflicting reports. Here, we review the evidence of two recent papers and point out some of the difficulties in inferring predator-limitation purely from observational data. A negative relationship has been found between large-bodied grouper and lionfish during early colonisation though the degree to which this is caused by direct predation versus behavioural mechanisms is unclear. Evidence to the contrary from a recent study suffers confounding effects of habitat quality, fishing, and dispersal and therefore remains equivocal.', u'Background. Sterols such as cholesterol, are important components of cellular membranes. But unlike mammalian cells, the main sterols found in the membranes of trypanosomes and fungi are ergosterol, and other 24-methyl sterols, which are required for growth and viability. In spite of this strict requirement, this group of organisms have evolved different strategies to produce and/or obtain sterols. Trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas Disease. In this parasite, one of the few validated targets for chemotherapeutic intervention is the sterol biosynthesis pathway. In this work we present a study of the genetic diversity observed in genes of the isoprenoid and sterol biosynthesis pathways in T. cruzi, and a comparative analysis of the diversity found in other trypanosomatids.\nMethodology/Principal Findings. Using a number of bioinformatic strategies, we first completed a number of holes in the pathway by identifying the sequences of genes that were missing and/or were truncated in the draft T. cruzi genome. Based on this analysis we identified a non-orthologous homolog of the yeast ERG25 gene (sterol methyl oxidase, SMO) and propose that the orthologs of ERG25 have been lost in trypanosomes (but not in leishmanias). Next, starting from a set of 16 T. cruzi strains representative of six major evolutionary lineages, we have amplified and sequenced ~ 24Kbp from 18 genes of the pathway, and identified a total of 975 SNPs or fixed differences, of which 28% represent nonsynonymous changes. We observed different patterns of accumulation of nucleotide changes for different genes of the pathway, from genes with a density of substitutions ranging from those close to the average (~2.5/100 bp) to some showing a high number of changes (11.4/100 bp, for a putative lathosterol oxidase gene). The majority of genes are under apparent purifying selection. However, two genes (TcPMK, TcSMO-like) have a ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous changes that is close to neutrality. None of the nonsynonymous changes identified affect a catalytic or a ligand binding site residue. However, after mapping these changes on top of available structural data, we identified a number of changes that are in the close vicinity (7 Angstrom) of key residues, and that could therefore be functionally important. A comparative analysis of the corresponding T. brucei and Leishmania genes, obtained from available complete genomes highlights a high degree of conservation of the pathway, but with differences in the genes that are under apparent purifying selection in each case.\nConclusions/Significance. We have identified a number of genes of the sterol biosynthesis pathway that were missing from the T. cruzi genome assembly. Also, we have identified unequal apparent selection acting on these genes, which may provide essential information for the future of drug development studies focused on this pathway.', u"Background. Natural selection operates on genetically influenced phenotypic variations that confer differential survival or reproductive advantages. Common diseases are frequently associated with increased mortality and disability and complex heritable factors play an important role in their pathogenesis. Hence, common diseases should trigger the process of natural selection with subsequent population genetic response. However, empirical impact of natural selection on genetics of complex diseases is poorly understood. In this paper, I hypothesize that negative selection of diseased individuals leads to systemic genetic differences between common diseases that primarily occur before or during the reproductive years (early onset) and those that occur after the reproductive years (late onset).\nMethods. To test this hypothesis, a comprehensive literature survey of highly penetrant (80% or more) nonpleiotropic, nonsyndromic susceptibility genes (hereafter defined as Mendelian phenocopies) was completed for early versus late onset common diseases, organized using the World Health Organization (WHO) ICD-10 classification scheme. An average age at sporadic disease onset of 30 years was selected for dividing early versus late onset common diseases.\nResults. Mendelian phenocopies were identified for 16 primarily late onset common diseases from 9 distinct WHO diagnostic categories. Late onset common diseases with Mendelian phenocopies include papillary renal carcinoma, obesity, Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, frontotemporal dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, primary open angle glaucoma, age-related hearing loss, coronary artery disease, stroke, pancreatitis, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, systemic lupus erythematosus, inclusion body myositis, Paget's disease of bone and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (steroid resistant). In contrast, no Mendelian phenocopy was found for any primarily early onset common disease (p<5.8x10-4). Thus, highly predictive rare variants are present for a subset of late onset common diseases, but not for early onset common diseases.\nDiscussion. These findings suggest that genetic architecture of early onset common diseases is more robust against the phenotypic expression of highly penetrant predisposing mutations than is the case for late onset common diseases. The primary candidate for increased genetic robustness in early onset common diseases is proposed to be natural selection.", u'There is an interface between priming memory and working memory that acts to limit the amount of data in working memory, and also allows priming memory to be actively maintained so that memories stay intact while they are in working memory. This interface converts from functional clusters to chunks automatically as part of the transfer from priming to working memory. As a result, memories in working memory can be rehearsed in order to actively maintain them. This represents more than a change in state, it represents a radical change in the way memories are accessed. Priming memory without this stage can only be extended it cannot be refreshed and so there is a limit of about 3 seconds to how long it will last before it begins to degrade. With priming, an actively maintained and refreshed signal can last almost indefinitely.', u'Sharing data is increasingly considered to be an important part of the scientific process. Making your data publicly available allows original results to be reproduced and new analyses to be conducted. While sharing your data is the first step in allowing reuse, it is also important that the data be easy to understand and use. We describe nine simple ways to make it easy to reuse the data that you share and also make it easier to work with it yourself. Our recommendations focus on making your data understandable, easy to analyze, and readily available to the wider community of scientists.', u'Reverse engineering approaches to construct context-specific gene regulatory networks (GRNs) based on genome-wide mRNA expression data have led to significant biological findings. However, the reliability and reproducibility of the reconstructed GRNs needs to be improved. Here, we propose an ensemble-based network aggregation approach to improve the accuracy of the network topology constructed from mRNA expression data. To evaluate the performance of different approaches, we created dozens of simulated networks and also tested our methods on three Escherichia coli datasets. We demonstrate three novel applications from this development. First, bootstrapping can be done on the available samples, turning any network reconstruction approach into an ensemble method. Second, this aggregation approach can be used to combine GRNs from different network inference methods, creating a novel network reconstruction approach that consistently outperforms any constituent method. Third, the approach can be used to effectively integrate GRNs constructed from different studies \u2013 producing more accurate networks. We are releasing an implementation of these techniques as an R package \u201cENA\u201d which is able to run network inference in parallel across multiple servers. We made all of the code and data used in our simulations and analysis available online at https://github.com/QBRC/ENA-Research to ensure the reproducibility of our results.', u'Narrative reviews are dead. Long live systematic reviews (and meta-analyses). Synthesis in many forms is now a driving force in ecology. Advances in open big data for ecology and new tools provide vastly improved capacity for novel, emergent knowledge synthesis in our discipline. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses are two formal synthesis opportunities for ecologists. To date, systematic reviews are rarely used whilst the rate of meta-analyses published in ecological journals is increasing exponentially. Systematic reviews provide an overview of the literature landscape for a topic, and meta-analyses examine the strength of evidence integrated across different studies. Effective synthesis benefits from both approaches, but better data reporting and more rapid changes in the culture of data sharing will further energize these efforts. At this junction, synthetic efforts that include systematic reviews and meta-analyses should continue as stand-alone publications. This is a necessary step in the evolution of synthesis in our discipline. Nonetheless, they are still evolving tools, and meta-analyses in particular are simply an extended set of statistical tests. Admittedly, understanding the statistics and assumptions influence how we conduct synthesis much as statistical choices often shape experimental design, i.e. ANOVA versus regression-based experiments, but statistics do not make the paper. Clear ideas and excellent questions do. Titles with \u2018a meta-analysis of\u2026\u2019 in them may have their days numbered as these tools become more widely adopted and as we seek to integrate evidence across many scales not just between studies. Approaches associated with both sets will inevitably and appropriately also become routine mechanisms to contrast primary study-level research to the work of others. For instance, in the Introduction of a primary study, formal systematic review techniques are applied, the authors identify a gap that they proceed to examine within that particular study via an experiment, and in the Discussion, the strength of the evidence is linked to other effect size estimates reported in the literature. This is already occurring but will certainly become more frequent. First steps, primary research articles need to more effectively report evidence, we need to continue to share data, and systematic reviews and meta-analyses should be used to identify research gaps and examine patterns in evidence to further predictive ecology.', u'Biological samples from patients are invaluable for both medical research and medical practice. Ideally, the samples should be preserved for the same period of time as the duration of their corresponding medical records. Urine is a body fluid that can be non-invasively acquired, and it contains important biological information about the patient. Unlike blood which has mechanisms to keep the internal environment homeostatic, urine is more likely to reflect changes of the body. In other words, urine is likely to be a better biomarker source than blood. Here, we propose a method to adsorb urinary proteins onto a polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane called Urimem. The method is very simple and inexpensive and requires minimal sample handling. It does not use organic solvents, and it is environmentally friendly. The proteins on the membrane are dried and stored in vacuum bag, which keeps the protein pattern faithfully preserved. The membrane may even permit storage at room temperature for weeks. The quantity of eluted proteins from the membrane is sufficient for biomarker validation experiments. Using this simple and inexpensive urinary protein preservation method, it is possible to begin preserving urine samples from all consenting patients. Thus, medical research especially biomarker research can be conducted more economically, ultimately benefiting the patients who provided the samples. This sample storage approach can facilitate the biomarker research and potentially change the landscape of medical research and medical practice.', u"There are two streams of thought about memory that don't seem to jibe with each other, one thought stream works with implicit and explicit memory and one stream works with working memory. The problem is that the theories are not visible each within the other. In this article I attempt to combine the two threads of thought by pointing out a simple but overlooked identity between priming memory and primary memory, explaining why they look so different when looked at from their own particular threads of interpretation, and showing how the difference is really one of the interface between priming and working memory, not an incompatibility in design as first seems obvious.", u"Many bacteria antagonize each other in nature; laboratory evidence of these interactions dates from 1925 (Gratia). However, antagonism assays are typically performed between a small number of 'sensitive' strains screening a range of potential 'killers' in the hunt for natural antibiotics, or a single 'killer' against a broad range of 'pathogens.' By contrast, several recent studies have performed pairwise assays across a range of organisms; including marine Vibrio (Cordero et al 2012) and fresh water Bacillus (Perez-Gutierrez et al 2012) strains. These studies have revealed some critical new microbial ecology by using the complete suite of antagonisms among strains. Environmental strains are often viewed as more microdiverse than clinical strains, in part because clinical strains experience purifying selection by the immune system and rapid population expansions. To explore the frequency and distribution of antagonism in clinical isolates, a pairwise antagonism dataset is being collected from clinical Acinetobacter. Significant method development has gone into finding a method robust and sensitive. Overnight cultures, grown in trypticase soy broth at 37\xb0C, are spread on trypticase soy agar to create a confluent bacterial lawn. Using a 96-well pin replicator, 94 isolates of Acinetobacter and two negative control checks are inoculated on the lawn. The plates are incubated at 37\xb0C for 18 to 24 hours and the assay scored for the presence or absence of a colony growing on the bacterial lawn and the presence or absence of a clearing around the inoculation points. The revealed suite of antagonisms is rich and diverse. 8,836 interactions were scored; of them, at least 5,640 are suggestive of antagonism. In a preliminary dataset, almost every strain already participates as an antagonist against some other strain. This is much higher than the frequencies reported in other environmental collections; and does not suggest a single ecological niche for the clinical strains. This data is collected in the context of antimicrobial susceptibilities and limited clinical metadata, providing a contrast to the environmental data which has been generated for the environmental strains. As we continue to collect antagonism data on clinical Acinetobacter isolates, we will learn more about the naturally occurring antimicrobial chemicals that these organisms produce and secrete.", u"The Angular Gyrus sits at the point where the Temporal and Parietal Lobes join. It is a point where integrative processes link together the Where and What pathways through the brain and link them to time. It is also the most likely location for at least two centers of consciousness. In this article the location is discussed and it's potential for a model of consciousness that replaces the Declarative Memory Model of Consciousness previously put forward. It's main benefit over the Declarative Memory Model of Consciousness is that it allows for the preservation of consciousness despite the loss of declarative memory in the cases of Medial Temporal Lobe injury/disease. However Connectome studies might support this model in that the TemporoParietal Fiber Intersection Area provides 7 different white matter tracts that intersect in this area.", u'As wireless EEG devices have become affordable at low cost, have a small form factor and quick setup time, they can be deployed at universities and schools for teaching purposes. However they have not been applied for evoked potential recording since they lack an option to receive stimulus markers. Meanwhile evoked potential recording is required for functional assessment of the sensory systems such as auditory and visual. This paper describes a wireless system that embeds information about the stimulus in the EEG channels. The transmitter unit is connected to the stimulus device to detect the stimulus and transmit the stimulus information to the receiver unit. The receiver unit attached to two of the EEG electrodes decodes the information and generates a pulse across the electrodes. The pulse width conveys the information about the stimulus. Hence the stimuli are synchronised with the EEG data allowing users to evaluate the evoked potentials in the offline processing. The wireless marker system was verified with audio stimuli consisting of 1000Hz and 1200Hz tones and reliably generated pulses with 100ms and 200ms width respectively. The delay between the onset of the tone and the onset of the pulse was 19.3 +/- 0.1ms. Since the variability of the delay was under 1ms and so negligible, the evoked potentials could be evaluated reliably. The evoked potential could be shifted back by 19.3ms to compensate for the delay. The system was also verified with a black-and-white checkerboard pattern stimuli and reliably generated pulses with 100ms width when the pattern reversed. The delay between the onset of the reversal and the onset of the pulse was 6.4ms. Similarly the variability of the delay was negligible.', u'The Extended Consciousness builds on the strengths of the proto conscious and the core consciousness to add a sense of experience onto the basic alertness provided by core consciousness. The Angular Gyrus Model of Consciousness provides some hints as to how the experential image is built. In this article I explore the role of the Temporal-Parietal Fiber Intersection Area in providing links between other parts of the brain and the Angular Gyrus that encourage the formation of the experential image.', u'Background: Nucleosome organization and DNA methylation are two mechanisms that are important for proper control of mammalian transcription, as well as epigenetic dysregulation associated with cancer. Whole-genome DNA methylation sequencing studies have found that methylation levels in the human genome show periodicities of approximately 190 bp, suggesting a genome-wide relationship between the two marks. A recent report (Chodavarapu et al., 2010) attributed this to higher methylation levels of DNA within nucleosomes. Here, we analyzed a number of published datasets and found a more compelling alternative explanation, namely that methylation levels are highest in linker regions between nucleosomes.\nResults: Reanalyzing the data from (Chodavarapu et al., 2010), we found that nucleosome-associated methylation could be strongly confounded by known sequence-related biases of the next-generation sequencing technologies. By accounting for these biases and using an unrelated nucleosome profiling technology, NOMe-seq, we found that genome-wide methylation was actually highest within linker regions occurring between nucleosomes in multi-nucleosome arrays. This effect was consistent among several methylation datasets generated independently using two unrelated methylation assays. Linker-associated methylation was most prominent within long Partially Methylated Domains (PMDs) and the positioned nucleosomes that flank CTCF binding sites. CTCF adjacent nucleosomes retained the correct positioning in regions completely devoid of CpG dinucleotides, suggesting that DNA methylation is not required for proper nucleosomes positioning.\nConclusions: The biological mechanisms responsible for DNA methylation patterns outside of gene promoters remain poorly understood. We identified a significant genome-wide relationship between nucleosome organization and DNA methylation, which can be used to more accurately analyze and understand the epigenetic changes that accompany cancer and other diseases.', u'Background: A hierarchical taxonomy of organisms is a prerequisite for semantic integration of biodiversity data. Ideally, there would be a single, expansive, authoritative taxonomy that includes extinct and extant taxa, information on synonyms and common names, and monophyletic supraspecific taxa that reflect our current understanding of phylogenetic relationships.\nDescription: As a step towards development of such a resource, and to enable large-scale integration of phenotypic data across the vertebrates, we created the Vertebrate Taxonomy Ontology (VTO), a semantically defined taxonomic resource derived from the integration of existing taxonomic compilations, and freely distributed under a Creative Commons Zero (CC0) public domain waiver. The VTO includes both extant and extinct vertebrates and currently contains 106,927 taxonomic terms, 23 taxonomic ranks, 104,506 synonyms, and 162,132 taxonomic cross-references. Key challenges in constructing the VTO included (1) extracting and merging names, synonyms, and identifiers from heterogeneous sources; (2) replacing subgroups with more authoritative local taxonomies; and (3) automating this process as much as possible to accommodate updates in source taxonomies.\nConclusions: The VTO is the primary source of taxonomic information used by the Phenoscape Knowledgebase (http://phenoscape.org/), which integrates genetic and evolutionary phenotype data across both model and nonmodel vertebrates. The VTO is useful for crudely inferring phenotypic changes on the vertebrate tree of life, which enables queries for candidate genes for different episodes in vertebrate evolution.', u"Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are widely considered to be one of the best strategies available for protecting species diversity and ecosystem processes in marine environments,  particularly in developing, tropical nations. While data on connectivity and genetic structure of marine populations are critical to designing appropriately sized and spaced networks of MPAs, such data are rarely available. Here we present an assessment of genetic structure in reef-building corals from Papua and West Papua, Indonesia, among the most biologically diverse and least disturbed coral reef regions in the world, and the focus of the multi-institutional Bird's Head Seascape initiative to design and implement a functional network of MPAs. Microsatellite variation was assessed within and among populations of Pocillopora damicornis (Linnaeus , 1758) and Seriatopora hystrix (Dana 1846) (family: Pocilloporidae) from three regions, each currently under a different conservation regime: Teluk Cenderawasih, Raja Ampat, and southwest Papua. Analyses of molecular variance, assignment tests, and genetical bandwidth mapping revealed significant local-scale structure in both species, and a lack of regional filters to gene flow. Overall, P. damicornis populations were less structured (FST = 0.139, p < 0.00001) than those of S. hystrix (FST = 0.357, p < 0.00001). In order to maintain connectivity within and among regions, coral reef conservation on the local scale is needed. These data have been directly applied to the design of a MPA network in the Bird\u2019s Head Seascape.", u'Many studies have shown that adverse experience in early life is associated with accelerated reproductive timing in humans. There are two different classes of adaptive explanation for such associations. Both can be seen as predictive adaptive responses (PARs). According to external PAR hypotheses, early-life adversity provides a \u2018weather forecast\u2019 of the environmental conditions into which the individual will mature, and it is adaptive for the individual to develop an appropriate phenotype for this anticipated environment. In internal PAR hypotheses, early-life adversity has a lasting negative impact on the individual\u2019s somatic state, such that her health is likely to fail more rapidly as she gets older, and there is an advantage to adjusting her reproductive schedule accordingly. We use a model of fluctuating environments to derive evolveability conditions for acceleration of reproductive timing in response to early-life adversity. For acceleration to evolve via the external PAR process, early-life cues must have a high degree of validity and the level of annual autocorrelation in the individual\u2019s environment must be almost perfect. For acceleration to evolve via the internal PAR process requires that early-life experience must determine a significant fraction of the variance in survival prospects in adulthood. The two processes are not mutually exclusive, and mechanisms for calibrating reproductive timing on the basis of early experience could evolve through a combination of the predictive value of early-life adversity for the later environment and its negative impact on somatic state.', u'Unintentional injuries represent an important health threat to the lives of children and adolescents world-wide. The epidemic of injury and resulting harm such as disability or death, are likely to be the most severe in the low- and middle-income countries of the African continent. The following paper is intended to document an area-based sampling method designed to facilitate an epidemiological study to examine injury patterns among children and adolescents in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. We used official census data and geographic information system software to create a series of area maps for Dar es Salaam city. Then, based on these maps, we identified population clusters for sampling based on area population density.', u"The fuzzy lock-and-key (FLK) powers a vast array of sophisticated logic gates at inter- and intra-cellular levels. We invoke representations of groupoid tiling wreath products analogous to the study of nonrigid molecules - or of related fuzzy symmetry extensions - to build a Morse Function that can describe spontaneous symmetry breaking phase transitions driven by information catalysis. The Function can, however, also be used to construct an Onsager-like stochastic dynamics, linked to the phase transition approach by the rich stability criteria associated with stochastic differential equations. The two methods provide complementary ways of looking at the FLK. A limit condition emerging from the stochastic dynamics gives insight into a cellular 'generalized inflammation' requiring progressively higher commitment of metabolic free energy for maintenance of basic FLK processes. These results suggest that more systematic study may illuminate pathologies associated with the failure of the FLK, a centrally-important but enigmatic biological process.", u'Researchers require infrastructures that ensure a maximum of accessibility, stability and reliability to facilitate working with and sharing of research data. Such infrastructures are being increasingly summarized under the term Research Data Repositories (RDR). The project re3data.org \u2013 Registry of Research Rata Repositories has begun to index research data repositories in 2012 and offers researchers, funding organizations, libraries and publishers an overview of the heterogeneous research data repository landscape. Information icons help researchers to easily identify an adequate repository for the storage and reuse of their data. This article describes the RDR landscape, outlines the practicality of re3data.org as a service, and shows how this service helps to find research data.', u"A survey of the cultural psychology and related literatures suggests that Western biomedicine's fascination with atomistic, individual-oriented, interventions is a cultural artifact that may have little consonance with complex, subtle, multiscale, multilevel, social, ecological, or biological realities. Other cultural traditions may, in fact, view atomistic strategies as inherently unreal. A contrary perspective - similar to that of health promotion - suggests that the most effective medical or public health interventions must be analogously patterned across scale and level of organization: 'magic strategies' will almost always be synergistically - and often emergently - more effective than 'magic bullets'. The result can be formally derived in a relatively straightforward manner using an adaptation of the Black-Scholes economietric model, applied here to the metabolic cost of bioregulation under uncertainty. Multifactorial interventions focused at the human 'keystone' ecosystem level of mesoscale social and geographic groupings may be particularly effective. The analysis indicates that there is unlikely to be much in the way of 'simple' chronic disease. That is, serious comorbidity is usually inevitable, and may often be a consequence of therapeutic intervention itself. Study suggests that pairing of medical and prevention strategies with appropriate mesoscale neighborhood/social network interventions would: (1) Damp down unwanted treatment side effects. (2) Make the therapeutic alliance between practitioner and patient more effective. (3) Improve patient compliance. (4) Enhance placebo effect. (5) In the context of real stress reduction, synergistically improve the actual biological impacts of medical interventions or prevention strategies.", u'Identifying the baseline or natural state of an ecosystem is a critical step in effective conservation and restoration. Like most marine ecosystems, coral reefs are being degraded by human activities: corals and fish have declined in abundance and seaweeds, or macroalgae, have become more prevalent. The challenge for resource managers is to reverse these trends, but by how much? Based on surveys of Caribbean reefs in the 1970s, most reef scientists believe that the average cover of seaweed was very low in the natural state. On the other hand, evidence from remote Pacific reefs, ecological theory, and impacts of over-harvesting in other systems all suggest that, historically, macroalgal biomass may have been higher than assumed. Uncertainties about the natural state of coral reefs illustrate the difficulty of determining the baseline condition of even well-studied systems.', u'Supertree methods reconcile a set of phylogenetic trees into a single structure that is often interpreted as a branching history of species. A key challenge is combining conflicting evolutionary histories that are due to artifacts of phylogenetic reconstruction and phenomena such as lateral gene transfer (LGT). Although they often work well in practice, existing supertree approaches use optimality criteria that do not reflect underlying processes, have known biases and may be unduly influenced by LGT. We present the first method to construct supertrees by using the subtree prune-and-regraft (SPR) distance as an optimality criterion. Although calculating the rooted SPR distance between a pair of trees is NP-hard, our new maximum agreement forest-based methods can reconcile trees with hundreds of taxa and > 50 transfers in fractions of a second, which enables repeated calculations during the course of an iterative search. Our approach can accommodate trees in which uncertain relationships have been collapsed to multifurcating nodes. Using a series of simulated benchmark datasets, we show that SPR supertrees are more similar to correct species histories under plausible rates of LGT than supertrees based on parsimony or Robinson-Foulds distance criteria. We successfully constructed an SPR supertree from a phylogenomic dataset of 40,631 gene trees that covered 244 genomes representing several major bacterial phyla. Our SPR-based approach also allowed direct inference of highways of gene transfer between bacterial classes and genera; a small number of these highways connect genera in different phyla and can highlight specific genes implicated in long-distance LGT.', u'Since the discovery of tumour initiating cells (TICs) in solid tumours, studies focussing on their role in cancer initiation and progression have abounded. The biological interrogation of these cells continues to yield volumes of information on their pro-tumourigenic behaviour, but actionable generalised conclusions have been scarce. Further, new information suggesting a dependence of tumour composition and growth on the microenvironment has yet to be studied theoretically. To address this point, we created a hybrid, discrete/continuous computational cellular automaton model of a generalised stem-cell driven tissue with a simple microenvironment. Using the model we explored the phenotypic traits inherent to the tumour initiating cells and the effect of the microenvironment on tissue growth. We identify the regions in phenotype parameter space where TICs are able to cause a disruption in homeostasis, leading to tissue overgrowth and tumour maintenance. As our parameters and model are non- specific, they could apply to any tissue TIC and do not assume specific genetic mutations. Targeting these phenotypic traits could represent a generalizable therapeutic strategy across cancer types. Further, we find that the microenvironmental variable does not strongly effect the outcomes, suggesting a need for direct feedback from the microenvironment onto stem-cell behaviour in future modelling endeavours.', u"Twitter is a micro-blogging social media platform for short messages that can have a long-term impact on how scientists create and publish ideas. We investigate the usefulness of twitter in the development and distribution of scientific knowledge. At the start of the 'life cycle' of a scientific publication, twitter provides a large virtual department of colleagues that can help to rapidly generate, share and refine new ideas. As ideas become manuscripts, twitter can be used as an informal arena for the pre-review of works in progress. Finally, tweeting published findings can communicate research to a broad audience of other researchers, decision makers, journalists and the general public that can amplify the scientific and social impact of publications. However, there are limitations, largely surrounding issues of intellectual property and ownership, inclusiveness and misrepresentations of science \u2018sound bites\u2019. Nevertheless, we believe twitter is a useful social media tool that can provide a valuable contribution to scientific publishing in the 21st century.", u'GenGIS is free and open source software designed to integrate biodiversity data with a digital map and information about geography and habitat. While originally developed with microbial community analyses and phylogeography in mind, GenGIS has been applied to a wide range of datasets. A key feature of GenGIS is the ability to test geographic axes that can correspond to routes of migration or gradients that influence community similarity. Here we introduce GenGIS version 2, which extends the linear gradient tests introduced in the first version to allow comprehensive testing of all possible linear geographic axes. GenGIS v2 also includes a new plugin framework that supports the development and use of graphically driven analysis packages: initial plugins include implementations of linear regression and the Mantel test, calculations of alpha-diversity (e.g., Shannon Index) for all samples, and geographic visualizations of dissimilarity matrices. We have also implemented a recently published method for biomonitoring reference condition analysis (RCA), which compares observed species richness and diversity to predicted values to determine whether a given site has been impacted. The newest version of GenGIS supports vector data in addition to raster files. We demonstrate the new features of GenGIS by performing a full gradient analysis of an Australian kangaroo apple data set, by using plugins and embedded statistical commands to analyze human microbiome sample data, and by applying RCA to a set of samples from Atlantic Canada.GenGIS release versions, tutorials and documentation are freely available at http://kiwi.cs.dal.ca/GenGIS, and source code is available at https://github.com/beiko-lab/gengis.', u'Recently introduced funding agency policies seek to increase the availability of data from individual published studies for reuse by the research community at large. The success of such policies can be measured both by data input (\u201cis useful data being made available?\u201d) and research output (\u201care these data being reused by others?\u201d). A key determinant of data input is the extent to which data producers receive adequate professional credit for making data available. One of us (HP) previously reported a large citation difference for published microarray studies with and without data available in a public repository. Analysis of a much larger sample, with more covariates, provides a more reliable estimate of this citation boost, as well as additional insights into patterns of reuse and how the availability of data affects publication impact. A more recent study tracking the reuse of 100 datasets from each of ten different primary data repositories reveals large variation in patterns of reuse and citation. Our findings (a) illuminate ways in which the reuses of archived data tend to differ in purpose from that of the original producers; (b) inform data archiving policy, such as how long data embargoes need to be in order to protect the proprietary interests of producers; (c) and allow us to answer the vexing question of what the return on investment is for data archiving. In conducting these studies, we have become aware of gaps in data citation practice and infrastructure that limit the extent to which researchers receive credit for their contributions. We describe early efforts to bake good data citation and usage tracking into cyberinfrastructure as part of DataONE, the Data Observation Network for Earth. Finally, we introduce total-impact, a tool that allows researchers to track the diverse impacts of all their research outputs, including data, and empowers them to be recognized for their scholarly work on their own terms.\nSoftware and Data Availability:\nResearch software and data: https://github.com/hpiwowar (CCZero for data where possible, MIT for code);\nDryad: new BSD license: http://code.google.com/p/dryad;\nDataONE: Apache license: http://www.dataone.org/developer-resources;\ntotal-impact: MIT license: https://github.com/total-impact.\nThis is an abstract that was submitted to the iEvoBio 2012 conference, held on July 10-11, 2012, in Ottawa, Canada.', u'With the rise of electronic publishing and the inherent paradigm shifts for so many other scientific endeavours, it is time to consider a change in the practices of scholarly publication in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.  To facilitate the speed and quality of science, the future of scholarly communication will rest on four pillars - an ecosystem of scholarly products, immediate and open access, open peer review, and full recognition for participating in the process. These four pillars enable us to build better tools to facilitate the discovery of new relevant work for individual scientists, one of the greatest challenges of our time as we cope with the current deluge of scientific information. By incorporating these principles into future publication platforms, we argue that science and society will be better served than by remaining locked into a publication formula that arose in the 1600s. It has served its purpose admirably and well, but it is time to move forward. With the rise of the Internet, scholarly publishing has embraced electronic distribution. But the tools afforded by the Internet and other advancing technologies have profound implications for scholarly communication beyond just distribution. We argue that, to best serve science, the process of scholarly communication must embrace these advances and evolve. Here we consider the current state of the process in ecology and evolutionary biology and propose directions for change. We identify four pillars for the future of scientific communication: (1) an ecosystem of scholarly products; (2) immediate and open access; (3) open peer review; and (4) full recognition for participating in the process. These four pillars will guide the development of better tools and practices for discovering and sharing scientific knowledge in a modern networked world. Things were far different when the existing system arose in the 1600s, and though it has served its purpose admirably and well, it is time to move forward.', u'Mating systems are critical determinants of the intensity of sexual selection and sexual conflict, but understanding how variation in reproductive behavior influences these phenomena requires consistent, accurate descriptions of the array of mating arrangements observed in nature. As understanding of animal mating systems has evolved, behavioral ecologists have shifted from using behavioral information to an increasing reliance on genetic data to characterize patterns of reproductive behavior and success. Although genetic data are critical for an accurate accounting of parentage and reproductive success, they exclude critical information regarding the nature of behavioral relationships among reproductive partners, thereby potentially confounding fundamentally different types of mating systems. I contend that the ability to identify common evolutionary trends and their underlying selective pressures is significantly enhanced by using a terminological framework that differentiates explicitly between social and genetic mating systems. Furthermore, inclusion of both types of information can reveal new and intriguing relationships between behavior and fitness that further our understanding of how selection shapes mating systems. Here, I offer behavioral ecologists a new terminological framework for the study of mating systems that allows us to more appropriately merge genetic with behavioral data in an attempt to improve our understanding of this critical aspect of animal behavior.  Lastly, I suggest a potential way in which we can begin to fully embrace the complexity of animal mating systems, in part via the adoption of a more quantitative framework for behavioral and genetic data.', u'This paper details the development of a portable \u2018Lab on chip\u2019 DNA analyser that was developed to facilitate rapid analysis of DNA samples for \u2018at scene of crime\u2019 and in custody suite situations where human identification is required rapidly. This system was proven to work with human DNA for 3 loci, namely    VWA, D21 and D18 taken from raw sample through PCR separation to detection within 90miniutes. Once the sample was loaded onto the microfluidic chip which in turn was loaded into the instrument no further human interaction took place. This paper details the approach to the biochemistry, hardware before going on to give results proving the proof of principle and then the authors\u2019 conclusions.', u'In the clinical/microbiological laboratory there are currently several ways of separating specific cells from a fluid suspension. Conventionally cells can be separated based on size, density, electrical charge, light-scattering properties, and antigenic surface properties. Separating cells using these parameters can require complex technologies and specialist equipment which may damage sensitive cells. The pumping mechanism described here leaves samples undamaged either mechanically or chemically unlike many other current filtration techniques. This paper proposes new Bio-MEMS filtration chips manufactured using micro systems technology (MST) that, when used in conjunction with an optical microscope and a syringe, can filter and grade cells for size without the requirement for additional expensive equipment. These chips also offer great versatility in terms of design and their low cost allows them to be disposable, eliminating sample contamination.', u'The West African soft cheese (wara) is traditionally produced using latex extracts of the leaves of Calotropis procera. Even though no death has been apparently traced to it, the extract is said to be poisonous causing death by paralysis of the heart. This project, therefore, aims at obtaining an alternative (in this case lactic acid bacteria protease) to the latex extract of C. procera in order to rule out possible poisoning effect. The physiological characteristics of such alternative protease was studied and compared to that of the extracts from C. procera.      Seven lactic acid bacteria species were isolated from samples of the West African soft cheese (wara) obtained from local retailers. They were identified as   Streptococcus lactis  , Streptococcus pyogenes, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus brevis, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis and Streptococcus faecalis. The isolates were subjected to growth and protease production studies.  Optimization of protease production was carried out on three selected isolates - Streptococcus lactis, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Lactococcus lactis.  Enzymes obtained were further characterized and separated using molecular exclusion procedures. Results obtained were compared to those of different extracts of C. procera.    It was observed that Streptococcus lactis had the highest (4.25 units/ml) protease production at 28\xb0C after 72 hours with peptone and casein as nitrogen sources in the presence of glucose as carbon source. The ethanolic extract of Calotropis procera had the highest protease activity (12.60 units/ml) at 5% substrate concentration. Lactococcus lactis and C. procera extracts were inhibited (0.00 units/ml) at 0.2M and 0.3M concentrations EDTA respectively thus suggesting the presence of a metallic protease. Na2+    ion was seen to enhance protease activity in all the extracts. Comparative results show that Streptococcus lactis   protease had a Km of 0.42 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 2.0; Lactobacillus acidophilus protease had a Km of 0.77 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 2.50; Lactococcus lactis protease had a Km of 3.3 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 0.87; The crude extract of Calotropis procera had a Km of 5.0 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 1.54; the ethanolic extract of C. procera had a Km of 2.44 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 8.77 while the methanolic extract of C. procera had a Km of 5.0 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 4.17.    In conclusion, the lactic acid bacteria protease from Streptococcus lactis was found to fare better physiologically, while the protease from the ethanolic extract of C. procera faired better amongst the plant extracts.', u'This essay discusses the current situation in USA Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) higher education. Possible solutions to the current "skills gap" facing an entire generation of young Americans are considered. It is put forth that an "Industry PhD" may be helpful for guiding the next generation of scientists into stable careers in the sciences. Discovery science, wherein one discovers natural laws of the universe, requires a different toolkit than one needs for doing applied science. This is the proposed "Academic PhD" track. Applied science is usually focused around a three to five year targeted plan, with a directly patentable application as the "end product". Discovery science usually takes longer, and is by its very nature uncertain. However, one must discover natural laws before one can apply and patent them. Both "Academic PhD" and "Industry PhD" tracks are required for healthy economic growth in industrial nations.', u"This paper describes a circuit that enables auditory evoked potential recordings using a wireless EEG device (Emotiv     EPOC) and a portable computer as the stimulus machine. The need arises since neither the portable computer nor   EPOC   has serial/parallel ports to send/receive marker signals that indicate the stimulus onset. The circuit produces a pulse on the EEG channels when it detects an audio stimulus. First it amplifies the audio tones produced by the stimulus machine and detects their envelope. If the envelope exceeds the threshold, it will activate the emitter side of an   optocoupler. This in turn switches on the photo-transistor of the   optocoupler   and produces a pulse that is electrically isolated from the stimulus machine. The pulse's amplitude is reduced to at most 300 microvolts using a voltage divider and is fed to a pair of the EEG channels. The delay between the output pulse and the onset of the 1 kHz audio tone is under 1 ms   when the tone is instantly switched on and hence insignificant. Each of the two EEG channels was also biased to   DRL   via a 4.7 kohm resistor so that it is free from EEG and movement   artifact.", u'BACKGROUND:     Attribution to the original contributor upon reuse of published data is important both as a reward for data creators and to document the provenance of research findings. Previous studies have found that papers with publicly available datasets receive a higher number of citations than similar studies without available data. However, few previous analyses have had the statistical power to control for the many variables known to predict citation rate, which has led to uncertain estimates of the \u201ccitation boost\u201d. Furthermore, little is known about patterns in data reuse over time and across datasets.\nMETHOD AND RESULTS:     Here, we look at citation rates while controlling for many known citation predictors, and investigate the variability of data reuse. In a multivariate regression on 10,555 studies that created gene expression microarray data, we found that studies that made data available in a public repository received 9% (95% confidence interval: 5% to 13%) more citations than similar studies for which the data was not made available. Date of publication, journal impact factor, open access status, number of authors, first and last author publication history, corresponding author country, institution citation history, and study topic were included as covariates. The citation boost varied with date of dataset deposition: a citation boost was most clear for papers published in 2004 and 2005, at about 30%. Authors published most papers using their own datasets within two years of their first publication on the dataset, whereas data reuse papers published by third-party investigators continued to accumulate for at least six years. To study patterns of data reuse directly, we compiled 9,724 instances of third party data reuse via mention of GEO or ArrayExpress accession numbers in the full text of papers. The level of third-party data use was high: for 100 datasets deposited in year 0, we estimated that 40 papers in PubMed reused a dataset by year 2, 100 by year 4, and more than 150 data reuse papers had been published by year 5. Data reuse was distributed across a broad base of datasets: a very conservative estimate found that 20% of the datasets deposited between 2003 and 2007 had been reused at least once by third parties.\nCONCLUSION:    After accounting for other factors affecting citation rate, we find a robust citation benefit from open data, although a smaller one than previously reported. We conclude there is a direct effect of third-party data reuse that persists for years beyond the time when researchers have published most of the papers reusing their own data. Other factors that may also contribute to the citation boost are considered. We further conclude that, at least for gene expression microarray data, a substantial fraction of archived datasets are reused, and that the intensity of dataset reuse has been steadily increasing since 2003.']