[u'Aetosaurs are some of the most common fossils collected from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of Arizona, especially at the Petrified Forest National Park. Four partial skeletons collected from the park from 2002 through 2009 represent the holotype and referred specimens of Scutarx deltatylus. These specimens include much of the carapace, as well as the vertebral column, and shoulder and pelvic girldles. A partial skull represents the first aetosaur skull recovered from Arizona since the 1930s. Scutarx deltatylus can be distinguished from closely related forms Calyptosuchus wellesi and Adamanasuchus eisenhardtae not only morphologically, but also stratigraphically. Thus, Scutarx deltatylus is potentially an index taxon for the upper part of the Adamanian biozone.', u'This paper studies the relationship between Test Driven Development (TDD), productivity and developer sentiment in order to assess the impact of TDD on software development. We used a set of 256572 Java repositories archived from GitHub in September 2015 and made available through the Boa language and infrastructure. This research found that of these repositories, 9537 could be classified as using the TDD methodology. After obtaining these repositories we compared them to an equivalently sized set of control repositories. In general those repositories practicing TDD had fewer commits and a faster median rate of committing than did their control counterparts. We also found that TDD repositories generally contained fewer bug fixing commits. Finally, sentiment analysis was performed on both sets of repositories and it was determined that TDD repositories have a significantly (p-value 3.857e-12) more positive sentiment in comparison to the control repositories.', u'Throughout much of North America\u2019s boreal forest, the cyclical fluctuations of snowshoe hare populations (Lepus americanus) may cause other herbivores to become entrained in similar cycles. Alternating apparent competition and indirect mutualism via prey switching are the mechanisms behind this interaction. Our purpose is to document a change in the role of indirect interactions between sympatric populations of hares and arctic ground squirrels (Urocitellus parryii plesius), and to emphasize the influence of predation for controlling ground squirrel numbers. We used mark-recapture to estimate the population densities of both species over a 25-year period that covered two snowshoe hare cycles. We analysed the strength of association between snowshoe hare and ground squirrel numbers and changes in the seasonal and annual population growth rates of ground squirrels over time. A hyperbolic curve best describes the per capita rate of increase of ground squirrels relative to their population size, with a single stable equilibrium and a lower critical threshold below which populations drift to extinction. The crossing of this unstable boundary resulted in the subsequent uncoupling of ground squirrel and hare populations following the decline phase of their cycles in 1998. The implications are that this sustained Type II predator response led to the local extinction of ground squirrels. Arctic ground squirrels may also have exhibited an Allee effect caused by the disruption of social signalling of approaching predators when few individuals are left in a colony.', u'Extremophiles employ a diverse array of resistance strategies to thrive under harsh environmental conditions but maintaining these adaptations comes at an energetic cost. If energy reserves to drop too low, extremophiles may enter a dormant state of reduced metabolic activity to survive. Dormancy is frequently offered as a plausible explanation for the persistence of bacteria under suboptimal environmental conditions with the prevalence of this mechanism only expected to rise as stressful conditions intensify. We estimated dormancy in ten hypersaline and freshwater lakes across the Western United States. To our surprise, we found that extreme environmental conditions did not induce higher levels of bacterial dormancy. Based on our approach using rRNA:rDNA gene ratios to estimate activity, halophilic and halotolerant bacteria were classified as inactive at a similar percentage as freshwater bacteria, and the proportion of the community exhibiting dormancy was considerably lower (16%) in hypersaline than freshwater lakes across a range of cutoffs estimating activity. Of the multiple chemical characteristics we evaluated, salinity and, to a lesser extent, total phosphorus concentrations influenced activity. But instead of dormancy being more common as stressful conditions intensified, the percentage of the community residing in an inactive state decreased with increasing salinity in freshwater and hypersaline lakes, suggesting that salinity acts as a strong environmental filter selecting for bacteria that persist and thrive under saltier conditions. Within the compositionally distinct and less diverse hypersaline communities, abundant taxa were disproportionately active and localized in families Microbacteriaceae (Actinobacteria), Nitriliruptoraceae (Actinobacteria), and Rhodobacteraceae (Alphaproteobacteria). Our results demonstrate that extreme environments may not necessarily be stressful or suboptimal for highly adapted extremophiles causing them to need dormancy less often to survive.', u'Previous experimental studies show that captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and orangutans (Pongo abelii) cooperate with conspecifics but communication does not seem to play a crucial role. We presented a coordination task in which pairs of conspecifics had to communicate to succeed. Participants faced each other from opposite sides of an apparatus playing either a communicator or an operator role. At the beginning of each trial, the communicator was provided with a tool that could only be used from the operator\u2019s side. If the operator inserted the tool into the baited tube the apparatus delivered food for both apes. Successful cooperation required that the communicator pass the tool to the operator and indicate the location of the baited tube so that the operator could insert it into the baited tube. In the experimental condition, only the communicator could see which one of four tubes was baited, while in the control condition both individuals had visual access to the baited tube. Data collection is currently ongoing. Participants are chimpanzees (1 male, 5 females; mean age= 22 years) and orangutans (2 males, 5 females; mean age= 18 years) housed at the Wolfgang K\xf6hler Primate Research Center in Leipzig (Germany). So far, four dyads of chimpanzees have cooperated to solve the task. Preliminary results indicate that the communicator typically transfers the tool near the location of the food. In the experimental condition, success rate varies from 25% to 81% (compared to 94-100% in the control condition). Communicators pass the tool, touch or point at the food location, whereas operators request the tool, and both use attention getters aimed at their partners. We are currently analyzing whether these behaviors are independent of the operator\u2019s visual access to the baited location.', u'Background: Arterial thrombosis causes heart attacks and strokes and constitutes one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the world and few therapies are available for its treatment. Thus, new therapeutic approaches in the prevention and treatment of arterial thrombosis are needed. Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) has been shown to be expressed on vascular cells following injury and to be involved in regulating thrombus formation in vivo. Since inhibition of PDI prevents platelet accumulation and fibrin generation, it makes it a valuable target for the development of new antithrombotics. Rutin, a flavonol glycoside derivative of Quercetin, was previously described for displaying decent potency against PDI, and it inhibited the agonist-induced platelets aggregation in vivo, however its utility is limited by its low solubility and its off-target activity. Rutin was recently reported to bind specifically to the b\u2019 domain of PDI affecting protein flexibility which results in the inhibition of its reductase activity. To investigate Rutin inhibitory mechanism we used docking and molecular dynamics simulation and we observed that Rutin binds to a specific hydrophobic pocket of the b\u2019 domain which reduces PDI flexibility. Methods: In an attempt to identify more potent, soluble and specific PDI inhibitors, we established an in silico approach based on similarity search in Zinc Drug-like library composed of more than 17 million compounds satisfying Lipiniski\u2019s rule of five. A KNIME workflow was established for selecting Rutin-similar compounds based on Tanimoto coefficients. Then, a virtual screening of selected compounds was performed using Autodock Vina on PDI target pocket. In order to select PDI specific probes, a counter-screen was run to eliminate hits binding Erp57 thioredoxin active site. Hits were then submitted to druglikeness prediction using Quantitative Estimate of Druglikeness (QED). A total of 5 compounds were selected and submitted to re-docking with Autodock Vina. Complexes were subject to Molecular Dynamics simulation using NAMD. Results and Discussion: a total of 4 compounds were shown to form stable complexes with PDI binding pocket and then could constitute promising candidates for lead optimization. In conclusion, our in silico approach lead to the identification of potential novel PDI inhibitors that may form suitable candidates for Arterial thrombosis drug discovery.', u'Background. With 214 million cases and 438,000 deaths in 2015, malaria remains one of the deadliest infectious diseases in tropical countries. Several species of the protozoan Plasmodium cause malaria. However, almost all the fatalities are due to Plasmodium falciparum, a species responsible for the severest cases including cerebral malaria. Immune response to Plasmodium falciparum infection is mediated by the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and growth factors whose actions are crucial for the control of the parasites. Following this response, the induction of anti-inflammatory immune mediators downregulates the inflammation thus preventing its adverse effects such as damages to various organs and death. Methods. We performed a retrospective, nonprobability sampling study using clinical data and sera samples from patients, mainly adults, suffering of non-cerebral or cerebral malaria in Dakar, S\xe9n\xe9gal. Healthy individuals residing in the same area were included as controls. We measured the serum levels of 29 biomarkers including growth factors, chemokines, inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Results. We found an induction of both pro- and anti-inflammatory immune mediators during malaria. The levels of pro-inflammatory biomarkers were higher in the cerebral malaria than in the non-cerebral malaria patients. In contrast, the concentrations of anti-inflammatory cytokines were comparable in these two groups or lower in CM patients. Additionally, four pro-inflammatory biomarkers were significantly increased in the deceased of cerebral malaria compared to the survivors. Regarding organ damage, kidney failure was significantly associated with death in adults suffering of cerebral malaria. Conclusions. Our results suggest that a poorly controlled inflammatory response determines a bad outcome in African adults suffering of cerebral malaria.', u'Scaling laws underpin unifying theories of biodiversity and are among the most predictively powerful relationships in biology. However, scaling laws developed for plants and animals often go untested or fail to hold for microorganisms. As a result, it is unclear whether scaling laws of biodiversity will span evolutionarily distant domains of life that encompass all modes of metabolism and scales of abundance. Using a global-scale compilation of ~35,000 sites and ~5.6\xb7106 species, including the largest ever inventory of high-throughput molecular data and one of the largest compilations of plant and animal community data, we demonstrate similar rates of scaling in commonness and rarity across microorganisms and macroscopic plants and animals. We document a universal dominance scaling law that holds across 30 orders of magnitude, an unprecedented expanse that predicts the abundance of dominant ocean bacteria. In combining this scaling law with the lognormal model of biodiversity, we predict that Earth is home to upwards one trillion (1012) microbial species. Microbial biodiversity seems greater than ever anticipated yet predictable from the smallest to the largest microbiome.', u'The copper(I)-mediated reaction of nitrones with terminal acetylenes, known as the Kinugasa reaction, represents an attractive method of direct formation of the \u03b2-lactam ring. The reaction can be performed in many ways. Diastereoselective versions, including cyclic chiral nitrones or chiral acetylenes and open-chain nitrones, are the most attractive. An alternative method yielding \u03b2-lactams with high stereoselectivity, in which nitrones are used, is their 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition to unsaturated lactones. After N- O bond cleavage, cycloadducts can be easily transformed into \u03b2-lactams via an intramolecular acylation of the nitrogen atom. Both methodologies are demonstrated in the synthesis of carbapenems (Thienamycin and 4AA azetidinone), monobactams (Carumonam) and Ezetimibe, a powerful cholesterol absorption inhibitor.', u"The phylogenetic position of many fossil platyrrhines with respect to extant ones is not yet clear. Two main hypotheses have been proposed: the  layered  or  successive   radiations  hypothesis suggests that Patagonian fossils are Middle Miocene stem platyrrhines lacking modern descendants, whereas the  long lineage  hypothesis argues for an evolutionary continuity of all fossil platyrrhines with the extant ones. Our geometric morphometric analysis of a 15 landmark-based configuration of platyrrhines' first and second lower molars suggest that morphological stasis, may explain the reduced molar shape variation observed. Platyrrhine lower molar shape might be a primitive retention of the ancestral state affected by strong ecological constraints thoughout the radiation the main platyrrhine families. The Patagonian fossil specimens showed two distinct morphological patterns of lower molars,  Callicebus  -like and  Saguinus  -like, which might be the precursors of the extant forms, whereas the Middle Miocene specimens, though showing morphological resemblances with the Patagonian fossils, also displayed new, derived molar patternss,  Alouatta-  like and  Pitheciinae  -like, thereby suggesting that despite the overall morphological stasis of molars, phenotypic diversification of molar shape was already settled during the Middle Miocene.", u"Over the past 20 years, the study of personality has blossomed within primatology. Rating inventories have been extensively used across species to identify personality factor structures for different species. Chimpanzees share a common six-factor structure, composed of Dominance, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Neuroticism, and Openness. Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, and Extraversion, have been tied to positive effects on overall health and longevity in humans, while Neuroticism is associated with shorter life span. In captive gorillas, Extraversion alone is associated with longevity. We undertook a study of all captive, personality questionnaire-rated chimpanzees; the Chimpanzee and Hominoid Personality Questionnaires have been used to assess almost 600 chimpanzees from Europe, Australia, Japan, and the United States. With these data we investigated which personality dimensions and other life history characteristics might predict all-cause mortality. In an accelerated failure survival analysis, we found a strong effect of Extraversion (b = -5.88, p<0.0001), as well as lesser but significant effects of Agreeableness (b = 2.19, p<0.05), Openness (b = 1.76, p<0.05), and Neuroticism (-1.79, p<0.05). Female and wild born chimpanzees appear to also live significantly longer (ps<0.01). The robustness of an animal's social network and the quality of its social interactions play a role in the health of social organisms. This is reflected in the importance of Extraversion for gorilla and chimpanzee health, and Agreeableness for chimpanzees. Yet, the effects of Neuroticism and Openness are more similar to what has been found in humans.", u'We studied the impact of predation by cougar ( Puma concolor) on elk ( Cervus elaphus) over a 17 year time span in two watersheds in western Washington. Elk numbers ranged widely in each watershed, from a low of 130 increasing to \u2248600 in the Green River and from 600 increasing to \u22481,400 in the White River. We studied adult cow elk survival (n=244) and calf survival (n=548) in both watersheds using radio-marked animals. We manipulated cougar numbers by conducting targeted removals over 7 years and estimated cougar density prior, during, and after the removals. Cougar predation on elk calves was strongly additive (R2=0.80). Cougar predation on cow elk was partially additive in the Green River where other factors had less influence on adult elk survival. Survival of adult cow elk in the White River was less affected by cougar predation than other factors in part due to greater public access. Based on age and femur marrow condition we estimated that 25% of all radio-marked adult elk mortalities due to cougar were compensatory. We have also investigated predation rate by cougar using GPS-marked cougar (n=12). We estimated that 15% of adult elk >= 2 years old that were killed by cougar were likely compensatory and that 75% were likely additive. Removing cougars allowed elk in both watersheds to recover to, or exceed, herd objectives for both watersheds, and restore elk hunting opportunity. Our data strongly indicates that cougar were limiting elk, and that cougar removals allowed elk to escape the predator pit they were in. But simply removing cougar in other elk-cougar systems may not restore elk depending on the relative influence of other factors affecting mortality, amount of additive predation mortality, and suite of interacting predators and prey.', u'Extremophiles are considered a cornucopian source of chemically diverse and often novel metabolites. Determination of their growth and distribution pattern and their chemical nature is therefore vital to fully gauge their existential uniqueness and potential as a fount of novel compounds. Present study deals with growth characterization and chemoprofiling of halophilic fungi inhabiting a hitherto unexplored terrain of Little Rann of Kutch, India. Thirty five morphologically discrete fungi, primarily belonging to phylum Ascomycota, were isolated from the soil, suggestive of the region\u2019s low microbial diversity. Calculation of fungal salt tolerance index identified one isolate as a halophile with the remaining being halotolerant. Morphological characteristics and 18S rDNA sequencing established the halophile\u2019s identity as Aspergillus versicolor. A. versicolor was further characterized for its salt tolerance potential and degree of halophily. The fungus grew optimally at 7.5% NaCl, thereby classifying it as a moderate halophile. Macro-morphology of the fungus corresponded well with its micro-morphology. At 0% and 10% NaCl, fungal specimen exhibited mycelial distortions, loss of cytoplasm and sparse conidiation; healthy growth features were observed at 7.5% NaCl. For chemoprofiling, A. versicolor was cultured on Czapek Dox broth and Malt Extract broth and the crude extract was analysed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS). A comparative chemoprofile analysis determined Czapek Dox broth to be a better choice for profiling of this particular strain as it exhibited higher compound diversity. The rich chemical contour of A. versicolor suggests the fungus to be a potential source of novel bioactive molecules of pharmaceutical significance.', u'The skewness and kurtosis of community trait distributions (CTDs) can provide important insights on the mechanisms driving community assembly and species coexistence. However, they have not been considered yet when describing global patterns in CTDs. We aimed to do so by evaluating how environmental variables (mean annual temperature [MAT] and precipitation [MAP], precipitation seasonality [PS], slope angle and sand content) and their interactions affected the mean, variance, skewness, kurtosis of the plant CTDs in global drylands. We gathered specific leaf area and maximum plant height data from 130 dryland communities from all continents except Antarctica. Over 90% of the studied communities had skewed CTDs for SLA and height or had kurtosis values differing from those of normal distributions. Higher MAT and/or lower MAP led to a shift toward plant communities over-represented by \u201cconservative\u201d strategies, and a decrease in functional diversity. However, considering interactions among environmental drivers increased the explanatory power of our models by 20%. Sand content strongly altered the responses of height to changes in MAT and MAP (climate \xd7 topo-edaphic interactions). Increasing PS reversed the effects of MAT and MAP (climate \xd7 climate interactions) on the four moments of CTDs for SLA, particularly in dry-subhumid regions. Our results indicate that the increase in PS forecasted by climate change models will reduce the functional diversity of dry-subhumid communities. They also indicate that ignoring interactions among environmental drivers can lead to misleading conclusions when evaluating global patterns in CTDs, and thus may dramatically undermine our ability to predict the impact of global environmental change on plant communities and associated ecosystem functioning.', u'Background: There is worldwide interest in silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) synthesized by various chemical reactions for use in applications exploiting their antibacterial activity, even though these processes exhibit a broad range of toxicity in vertebrates and invertebrates alike. To avoid the chemical toxicity, biosynthesis (green synthesis) of metal nanoparticles is proposed as a cost-effective and environmental friendly alternative. Aloe vera leaf extract is a medicinal agent with multiple properties including an antibacterial effect. Moreover the constituents of aloe vera leaves include lignin, hemicellulose, and pectins which can be used in the reduction of silver ions to produce as AgNPs@aloe vera (AgNPs@AV) with antibacterial activity. Methods: AgNPs were prepared by an eco-friendly hydrothermal method using an aloe vera plant extract solution as both a reducing and stabilizing agent. AgNPs@AV were characterized using XRD and SEM. Additionally, an agar well diffusion method was used to screen for antimicrobial activity. MIC and MBC were used to correlate the concentration of AgNPs@AV its bactericidal effect. SEM was used to investigate bacterial inactivation. Then the toxicity with human cells was investigated using an MTT assay. Results: The synthesized AgNPs were crystalline with sizes of 70.70 \xb1 22-192.02 \xb1 53 nm as revealed using XRD and SEM. The sizes of AgNPs can be varied through alteration of times and temperatures used in their synthesis. These AgNPs were investigated for potential use as an antibacterial agent to inhibit pathogenic bacteria. Their antibacterial activity was tested on S. epidermidis and P. aeruginosa. The results showed that AgNPs had a high antibacterial which depended on their synthesis conditions, particularly when processed at 100 oC for 6 h and 200 oC for 12 h. The cytotoxicity of AgNPs was determined using human PBMCs revealing no obvious cytotoxicity. These results indicated that AgNPs@AV can be effectively utilized in pharmaceutical, biotechnological and biomedical applications. Discussion: Aloe vera extract was processed using a green and facile method. This was a hydrothermal method to reduce silver nitrate to AgNPs@AV. Varying the hydrothermal temperature provided the fine spherical shaped nanoparticles. The size of the nanomaterial was affected by its thermal preparation. The particle size of AgNPs could be tuned by varying both time and temperature. A process using a pure AG phase could go to completion in 6h at 200 oC, whereas reactions at lower temperatures required longer times. Moreover, the antibacterial effect of this hybrid nanomaterial was sufficient that it could be used to inhibit pathogenic bacteria since silver release was dependent upon its particle size. The high activity of the largest AgNPs might have resulted from a high concentration of aloe vera compounds incorporated into the AgNPs during hydrothermal synthesis.', u'Aetosaurs are some of the most common fossils collected from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of Arizona, especially at the Petrified Forest National Park. Four partial skeletons collected from the park from 2002 through 2009 represent the holotype and referred specimens of Scutarx deltatylus. These specimens include much of the carapace, as well as the vertebral column, and shoulder and pelvic girldles. A partial skull represents the first aetosaur skull recovered from Arizona since the 1930s. Scutarx deltatylus can be distinguished from closely related forms Calyptosuchus wellesi and Adamanasuchus eisenhardtae not only morphologically, but also stratigraphically. Thus, Scutarx deltatylus is potentially an index taxon for the upper part of the Adamanian biozone.', u'This paper studies the relationship between Test Driven Development (TDD), productivity and developer sentiment in order to assess the impact of TDD on software development. We used a set of 256572 Java repositories archived from GitHub in September 2015 and made available through the Boa language and infrastructure. This research found that of these repositories, 9537 could be classified as using the TDD methodology. After obtaining these repositories we compared them to an equivalently sized set of control repositories. In general those repositories practicing TDD had fewer commits and a faster median rate of committing than did their control counterparts. We also found that TDD repositories generally contained fewer bug fixing commits. Finally, sentiment analysis was performed on both sets of repositories and it was determined that TDD repositories have a significantly (p-value 3.857e-12) more positive sentiment in comparison to the control repositories.', u'Throughout much of North America\u2019s boreal forest, the cyclical fluctuations of snowshoe hare populations (Lepus americanus) may cause other herbivores to become entrained in similar cycles. Alternating apparent competition and indirect mutualism via prey switching are the mechanisms behind this interaction. Our purpose is to document a change in the role of indirect interactions between sympatric populations of hares and arctic ground squirrels (Urocitellus parryii plesius), and to emphasize the influence of predation for controlling ground squirrel numbers. We used mark-recapture to estimate the population densities of both species over a 25-year period that covered two snowshoe hare cycles. We analysed the strength of association between snowshoe hare and ground squirrel numbers and changes in the seasonal and annual population growth rates of ground squirrels over time. A hyperbolic curve best describes the per capita rate of increase of ground squirrels relative to their population size, with a single stable equilibrium and a lower critical threshold below which populations drift to extinction. The crossing of this unstable boundary resulted in the subsequent uncoupling of ground squirrel and hare populations following the decline phase of their cycles in 1998. The implications are that this sustained Type II predator response led to the local extinction of ground squirrels. Arctic ground squirrels may also have exhibited an Allee effect caused by the disruption of social signalling of approaching predators when few individuals are left in a colony.', u'Extremophiles employ a diverse array of resistance strategies to thrive under harsh environmental conditions but maintaining these adaptations comes at an energetic cost. If energy reserves to drop too low, extremophiles may enter a dormant state of reduced metabolic activity to survive. Dormancy is frequently offered as a plausible explanation for the persistence of bacteria under suboptimal environmental conditions with the prevalence of this mechanism only expected to rise as stressful conditions intensify. We estimated dormancy in ten hypersaline and freshwater lakes across the Western United States. To our surprise, we found that extreme environmental conditions did not induce higher levels of bacterial dormancy. Based on our approach using rRNA:rDNA gene ratios to estimate activity, halophilic and halotolerant bacteria were classified as inactive at a similar percentage as freshwater bacteria, and the proportion of the community exhibiting dormancy was considerably lower (16%) in hypersaline than freshwater lakes across a range of cutoffs estimating activity. Of the multiple chemical characteristics we evaluated, salinity and, to a lesser extent, total phosphorus concentrations influenced activity. But instead of dormancy being more common as stressful conditions intensified, the percentage of the community residing in an inactive state decreased with increasing salinity in freshwater and hypersaline lakes, suggesting that salinity acts as a strong environmental filter selecting for bacteria that persist and thrive under saltier conditions. Within the compositionally distinct and less diverse hypersaline communities, abundant taxa were disproportionately active and localized in families Microbacteriaceae (Actinobacteria), Nitriliruptoraceae (Actinobacteria), and Rhodobacteraceae (Alphaproteobacteria). Our results demonstrate that extreme environments may not necessarily be stressful or suboptimal for highly adapted extremophiles causing them to need dormancy less often to survive.', u'Previous experimental studies show that captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and orangutans (Pongo abelii) cooperate with conspecifics but communication does not seem to play a crucial role. We presented a coordination task in which pairs of conspecifics had to communicate to succeed. Participants faced each other from opposite sides of an apparatus playing either a communicator or an operator role. At the beginning of each trial, the communicator was provided with a tool that could only be used from the operator\u2019s side. If the operator inserted the tool into the baited tube the apparatus delivered food for both apes. Successful cooperation required that the communicator pass the tool to the operator and indicate the location of the baited tube so that the operator could insert it into the baited tube. In the experimental condition, only the communicator could see which one of four tubes was baited, while in the control condition both individuals had visual access to the baited tube. Data collection is currently ongoing. Participants are chimpanzees (1 male, 5 females; mean age= 22 years) and orangutans (2 males, 5 females; mean age= 18 years) housed at the Wolfgang K\xf6hler Primate Research Center in Leipzig (Germany). So far, four dyads of chimpanzees have cooperated to solve the task. Preliminary results indicate that the communicator typically transfers the tool near the location of the food. In the experimental condition, success rate varies from 25% to 81% (compared to 94-100% in the control condition). Communicators pass the tool, touch or point at the food location, whereas operators request the tool, and both use attention getters aimed at their partners. We are currently analyzing whether these behaviors are independent of the operator\u2019s visual access to the baited location.', u'Background: Arterial thrombosis causes heart attacks and strokes and constitutes one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the world and few therapies are available for its treatment. Thus, new therapeutic approaches in the prevention and treatment of arterial thrombosis are needed. Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) has been shown to be expressed on vascular cells following injury and to be involved in regulating thrombus formation in vivo. Since inhibition of PDI prevents platelet accumulation and fibrin generation, it makes it a valuable target for the development of new antithrombotics. Rutin, a flavonol glycoside derivative of Quercetin, was previously described for displaying decent potency against PDI, and it inhibited the agonist-induced platelets aggregation in vivo, however its utility is limited by its low solubility and its off-target activity. Rutin was recently reported to bind specifically to the b\u2019 domain of PDI affecting protein flexibility which results in the inhibition of its reductase activity. To investigate Rutin inhibitory mechanism we used docking and molecular dynamics simulation and we observed that Rutin binds to a specific hydrophobic pocket of the b\u2019 domain which reduces PDI flexibility. Methods: In an attempt to identify more potent, soluble and specific PDI inhibitors, we established an in silico approach based on similarity search in Zinc Drug-like library composed of more than 17 million compounds satisfying Lipiniski\u2019s rule of five. A KNIME workflow was established for selecting Rutin-similar compounds based on Tanimoto coefficients. Then, a virtual screening of selected compounds was performed using Autodock Vina on PDI target pocket. In order to select PDI specific probes, a counter-screen was run to eliminate hits binding Erp57 thioredoxin active site. Hits were then submitted to druglikeness prediction using Quantitative Estimate of Druglikeness (QED). A total of 5 compounds were selected and submitted to re-docking with Autodock Vina. Complexes were subject to Molecular Dynamics simulation using NAMD. Results and Discussion: a total of 4 compounds were shown to form stable complexes with PDI binding pocket and then could constitute promising candidates for lead optimization. In conclusion, our in silico approach lead to the identification of potential novel PDI inhibitors that may form suitable candidates for Arterial thrombosis drug discovery.', u'Background. With 214 million cases and 438,000 deaths in 2015, malaria remains one of the deadliest infectious diseases in tropical countries. Several species of the protozoan Plasmodium cause malaria. However, almost all the fatalities are due to Plasmodium falciparum, a species responsible for the severest cases including cerebral malaria. Immune response to Plasmodium falciparum infection is mediated by the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and growth factors whose actions are crucial for the control of the parasites. Following this response, the induction of anti-inflammatory immune mediators downregulates the inflammation thus preventing its adverse effects such as damages to various organs and death. Methods. We performed a retrospective, nonprobability sampling study using clinical data and sera samples from patients, mainly adults, suffering of non-cerebral or cerebral malaria in Dakar, S\xe9n\xe9gal. Healthy individuals residing in the same area were included as controls. We measured the serum levels of 29 biomarkers including growth factors, chemokines, inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Results. We found an induction of both pro- and anti-inflammatory immune mediators during malaria. The levels of pro-inflammatory biomarkers were higher in the cerebral malaria than in the non-cerebral malaria patients. In contrast, the concentrations of anti-inflammatory cytokines were comparable in these two groups or lower in CM patients. Additionally, four pro-inflammatory biomarkers were significantly increased in the deceased of cerebral malaria compared to the survivors. Regarding organ damage, kidney failure was significantly associated with death in adults suffering of cerebral malaria. Conclusions. Our results suggest that a poorly controlled inflammatory response determines a bad outcome in African adults suffering of cerebral malaria.', u'Scaling laws underpin unifying theories of biodiversity and are among the most predictively powerful relationships in biology. However, scaling laws developed for plants and animals often go untested or fail to hold for microorganisms. As a result, it is unclear whether scaling laws of biodiversity will span evolutionarily distant domains of life that encompass all modes of metabolism and scales of abundance. Using a global-scale compilation of ~35,000 sites and ~5.6\xb7106 species, including the largest ever inventory of high-throughput molecular data and one of the largest compilations of plant and animal community data, we demonstrate similar rates of scaling in commonness and rarity across microorganisms and macroscopic plants and animals. We document a universal dominance scaling law that holds across 30 orders of magnitude, an unprecedented expanse that predicts the abundance of dominant ocean bacteria. In combining this scaling law with the lognormal model of biodiversity, we predict that Earth is home to upwards one trillion (1012) microbial species. Microbial biodiversity seems greater than ever anticipated yet predictable from the smallest to the largest microbiome.', u'The copper(I)-mediated reaction of nitrones with terminal acetylenes, known as the Kinugasa reaction, represents an attractive method of direct formation of the \u03b2-lactam ring. The reaction can be performed in many ways. Diastereoselective versions, including cyclic chiral nitrones or chiral acetylenes and open-chain nitrones, are the most attractive. An alternative method yielding \u03b2-lactams with high stereoselectivity, in which nitrones are used, is their 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition to unsaturated lactones. After N- O bond cleavage, cycloadducts can be easily transformed into \u03b2-lactams via an intramolecular acylation of the nitrogen atom. Both methodologies are demonstrated in the synthesis of carbapenems (Thienamycin and 4AA azetidinone), monobactams (Carumonam) and Ezetimibe, a powerful cholesterol absorption inhibitor.', u"The phylogenetic position of many fossil platyrrhines with respect to extant ones is not yet clear. Two main hypotheses have been proposed: the  layered  or  successive   radiations  hypothesis suggests that Patagonian fossils are Middle Miocene stem platyrrhines lacking modern descendants, whereas the  long lineage  hypothesis argues for an evolutionary continuity of all fossil platyrrhines with the extant ones. Our geometric morphometric analysis of a 15 landmark-based configuration of platyrrhines' first and second lower molars suggest that morphological stasis, may explain the reduced molar shape variation observed. Platyrrhine lower molar shape might be a primitive retention of the ancestral state affected by strong ecological constraints thoughout the radiation the main platyrrhine families. The Patagonian fossil specimens showed two distinct morphological patterns of lower molars,  Callicebus  -like and  Saguinus  -like, which might be the precursors of the extant forms, whereas the Middle Miocene specimens, though showing morphological resemblances with the Patagonian fossils, also displayed new, derived molar patternss,  Alouatta-  like and  Pitheciinae  -like, thereby suggesting that despite the overall morphological stasis of molars, phenotypic diversification of molar shape was already settled during the Middle Miocene.", u"Over the past 20 years, the study of personality has blossomed within primatology. Rating inventories have been extensively used across species to identify personality factor structures for different species. Chimpanzees share a common six-factor structure, composed of Dominance, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Neuroticism, and Openness. Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, and Extraversion, have been tied to positive effects on overall health and longevity in humans, while Neuroticism is associated with shorter life span. In captive gorillas, Extraversion alone is associated with longevity. We undertook a study of all captive, personality questionnaire-rated chimpanzees; the Chimpanzee and Hominoid Personality Questionnaires have been used to assess almost 600 chimpanzees from Europe, Australia, Japan, and the United States. With these data we investigated which personality dimensions and other life history characteristics might predict all-cause mortality. In an accelerated failure survival analysis, we found a strong effect of Extraversion (b = -5.88, p<0.0001), as well as lesser but significant effects of Agreeableness (b = 2.19, p<0.05), Openness (b = 1.76, p<0.05), and Neuroticism (-1.79, p<0.05). Female and wild born chimpanzees appear to also live significantly longer (ps<0.01). The robustness of an animal's social network and the quality of its social interactions play a role in the health of social organisms. This is reflected in the importance of Extraversion for gorilla and chimpanzee health, and Agreeableness for chimpanzees. Yet, the effects of Neuroticism and Openness are more similar to what has been found in humans.", u'We studied the impact of predation by cougar ( Puma concolor) on elk ( Cervus elaphus) over a 17 year time span in two watersheds in western Washington. Elk numbers ranged widely in each watershed, from a low of 130 increasing to \u2248600 in the Green River and from 600 increasing to \u22481,400 in the White River. We studied adult cow elk survival (n=244) and calf survival (n=548) in both watersheds using radio-marked animals. We manipulated cougar numbers by conducting targeted removals over 7 years and estimated cougar density prior, during, and after the removals. Cougar predation on elk calves was strongly additive (R2=0.80). Cougar predation on cow elk was partially additive in the Green River where other factors had less influence on adult elk survival. Survival of adult cow elk in the White River was less affected by cougar predation than other factors in part due to greater public access. Based on age and femur marrow condition we estimated that 25% of all radio-marked adult elk mortalities due to cougar were compensatory. We have also investigated predation rate by cougar using GPS-marked cougar (n=12). We estimated that 15% of adult elk >= 2 years old that were killed by cougar were likely compensatory and that 75% were likely additive. Removing cougars allowed elk in both watersheds to recover to, or exceed, herd objectives for both watersheds, and restore elk hunting opportunity. Our data strongly indicates that cougar were limiting elk, and that cougar removals allowed elk to escape the predator pit they were in. But simply removing cougar in other elk-cougar systems may not restore elk depending on the relative influence of other factors affecting mortality, amount of additive predation mortality, and suite of interacting predators and prey.', u'Extremophiles are considered a cornucopian source of chemically diverse and often novel metabolites. Determination of their growth and distribution pattern and their chemical nature is therefore vital to fully gauge their existential uniqueness and potential as a fount of novel compounds. Present study deals with growth characterization and chemoprofiling of halophilic fungi inhabiting a hitherto unexplored terrain of Little Rann of Kutch, India. Thirty five morphologically discrete fungi, primarily belonging to phylum Ascomycota, were isolated from the soil, suggestive of the region\u2019s low microbial diversity. Calculation of fungal salt tolerance index identified one isolate as a halophile with the remaining being halotolerant. Morphological characteristics and 18S rDNA sequencing established the halophile\u2019s identity as Aspergillus versicolor. A. versicolor was further characterized for its salt tolerance potential and degree of halophily. The fungus grew optimally at 7.5% NaCl, thereby classifying it as a moderate halophile. Macro-morphology of the fungus corresponded well with its micro-morphology. At 0% and 10% NaCl, fungal specimen exhibited mycelial distortions, loss of cytoplasm and sparse conidiation; healthy growth features were observed at 7.5% NaCl. For chemoprofiling, A. versicolor was cultured on Czapek Dox broth and Malt Extract broth and the crude extract was analysed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS). A comparative chemoprofile analysis determined Czapek Dox broth to be a better choice for profiling of this particular strain as it exhibited higher compound diversity. The rich chemical contour of A. versicolor suggests the fungus to be a potential source of novel bioactive molecules of pharmaceutical significance.', u'The skewness and kurtosis of community trait distributions (CTDs) can provide important insights on the mechanisms driving community assembly and species coexistence. However, they have not been considered yet when describing global patterns in CTDs. We aimed to do so by evaluating how environmental variables (mean annual temperature [MAT] and precipitation [MAP], precipitation seasonality [PS], slope angle and sand content) and their interactions affected the mean, variance, skewness, kurtosis of the plant CTDs in global drylands. We gathered specific leaf area and maximum plant height data from 130 dryland communities from all continents except Antarctica. Over 90% of the studied communities had skewed CTDs for SLA and height or had kurtosis values differing from those of normal distributions. Higher MAT and/or lower MAP led to a shift toward plant communities over-represented by \u201cconservative\u201d strategies, and a decrease in functional diversity. However, considering interactions among environmental drivers increased the explanatory power of our models by 20%. Sand content strongly altered the responses of height to changes in MAT and MAP (climate \xd7 topo-edaphic interactions). Increasing PS reversed the effects of MAT and MAP (climate \xd7 climate interactions) on the four moments of CTDs for SLA, particularly in dry-subhumid regions. Our results indicate that the increase in PS forecasted by climate change models will reduce the functional diversity of dry-subhumid communities. They also indicate that ignoring interactions among environmental drivers can lead to misleading conclusions when evaluating global patterns in CTDs, and thus may dramatically undermine our ability to predict the impact of global environmental change on plant communities and associated ecosystem functioning.', u'Background: There is worldwide interest in silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) synthesized by various chemical reactions for use in applications exploiting their antibacterial activity, even though these processes exhibit a broad range of toxicity in vertebrates and invertebrates alike. To avoid the chemical toxicity, biosynthesis (green synthesis) of metal nanoparticles is proposed as a cost-effective and environmental friendly alternative. Aloe vera leaf extract is a medicinal agent with multiple properties including an antibacterial effect. Moreover the constituents of aloe vera leaves include lignin, hemicellulose, and pectins which can be used in the reduction of silver ions to produce as AgNPs@aloe vera (AgNPs@AV) with antibacterial activity. Methods: AgNPs were prepared by an eco-friendly hydrothermal method using an aloe vera plant extract solution as both a reducing and stabilizing agent. AgNPs@AV were characterized using XRD and SEM. Additionally, an agar well diffusion method was used to screen for antimicrobial activity. MIC and MBC were used to correlate the concentration of AgNPs@AV its bactericidal effect. SEM was used to investigate bacterial inactivation. Then the toxicity with human cells was investigated using an MTT assay. Results: The synthesized AgNPs were crystalline with sizes of 70.70 \xb1 22-192.02 \xb1 53 nm as revealed using XRD and SEM. The sizes of AgNPs can be varied through alteration of times and temperatures used in their synthesis. These AgNPs were investigated for potential use as an antibacterial agent to inhibit pathogenic bacteria. Their antibacterial activity was tested on S. epidermidis and P. aeruginosa. The results showed that AgNPs had a high antibacterial which depended on their synthesis conditions, particularly when processed at 100 oC for 6 h and 200 oC for 12 h. The cytotoxicity of AgNPs was determined using human PBMCs revealing no obvious cytotoxicity. These results indicated that AgNPs@AV can be effectively utilized in pharmaceutical, biotechnological and biomedical applications. Discussion: Aloe vera extract was processed using a green and facile method. This was a hydrothermal method to reduce silver nitrate to AgNPs@AV. Varying the hydrothermal temperature provided the fine spherical shaped nanoparticles. The size of the nanomaterial was affected by its thermal preparation. The particle size of AgNPs could be tuned by varying both time and temperature. A process using a pure AG phase could go to completion in 6h at 200 oC, whereas reactions at lower temperatures required longer times. Moreover, the antibacterial effect of this hybrid nanomaterial was sufficient that it could be used to inhibit pathogenic bacteria since silver release was dependent upon its particle size. The high activity of the largest AgNPs might have resulted from a high concentration of aloe vera compounds incorporated into the AgNPs during hydrothermal synthesis.', u'Background: Digital medicine and smartphone-enabled health technologies provide a novel source of human health and human biology data. However, in part due to its intricacies, few methods have been established to analyze and interpret data in this domain. We previously conducted a six-month interventional trial examining the efficacy of a comprehensive smartphone-based health monitoring program for individuals with chronic disease. This included 38 individuals with hypertension who recorded 6,290 blood pressure readings over the trial. Methods: In the present study we provide a hypothesis testing framework for unstructured time series data, typical of patient-generated mobile device data. We used a mixed model approach for unequally spaced repeated measures using autoregressive and generalized autoregressive models, and applied this to the blood pressure data generated in this trial. Results: We were able to detect, roughly, a 2 mmHg decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure over the course of the trial despite considerable intra- and inter-individual variation. Furthermore, by supplementing this finding by using a sequential analysis approach, we observed this result over three months prior to the official study end \u2013 highlighting the effectiveness of leveraging the digital nature of this data source to form timely conclusions. Conclusions: Health data generated through the use of smartphones and other mobile devices allow individuals the opportunity to make informed health decisions, and provide researchers the opportunity to address innovative health and biology questions. The hypothesis testing framework we present can be applied in future studies utilizing digital medicine technology or implemented in the technology itself to support the quantified self. The study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01975428).', u'Pemetrexed is an antifolate antineoplastic agent that acts by inhibiting the formation of precursor purine and pyrimidine nucleotides. Pemetrexed prevents the formation of DNA and RNA, which are required for the growth and survival of both normal and cancer cells. A pharmaceutical product containing pemetrexed disodium as the active ingredient is used for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The European Medicine Agency and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration require complete physicochemical characteristic not only for an active pharmaceutical ingredient, but also for its key synthetic intermediates and the impurities formed during synthesis drug products. Therefore the development of the synthesis methods for impurities and new crystalline forms of pemetrexed diacid \u2013 a key intermediate of pemetrexed disodium was described. Physicochemical characterizations of impurities and pemetrexed diacid were performed by means of thermal analysis, spectroscopic methods and powder diffraction. Structures elucidation on the basis of two-dimensional NMR experiments were discussed in details. Additionally, in this work, the crystal structure of pemetreksed diacid form C will be presented, together with its spectroscopic and thermal characteristics. The identification of these impurities and the intermediate is essential for the quality control during the production of the pemetrexed disodium salt.', u'The impact that large mammalian carnivores can have on the abundance of their ungulate prey remains contentious and achieving scientific consensus has proved elusive. Several studies in temperate latitudes in North America have documented how increases in the abundance of wolves have been associated with declines in the abundance of certain large ungulate species, and vice versa. In contrast, in African savanna ecosystems in both southern and eastern Africa, variations in the abundance of ungulate populations seem to be primarily associated with fluctuations in rainfall affecting vegetation growth and consequent food availability for herbivores. In this review, I will explain how the functional mechanisms operating in these distinct ecosystems are basically similar, despite contrasts in their diversity of predators and prey. I will describe how predation constrains the abundance of African savanna herbivores, despite resource controls over their population dynamics. For case histories I will draw particularly on findings from South Africa\u2019s Kruger National Park, where the most comprehensive information is available.', u'Turf algae are becoming more abundant on coral reefs worldwide, but their effects on other benthic organisms remain poorly described. To describe the general characteristics of competitive interactions between corals and turf algae, we determined the occurrence and outcomes of coral \u2013 turf algal interactions among different coral growth forms (branching, upright, massive, encrusting, plating, and solitary) on a shallow reef in Vietnam. In total, the amount of turf algal interaction, i.e., the proportion of the coral boundary directly bordering turf algae, was quantified for 1276 coral colonies belonging to 27 genera and the putative outcome of each interaction was noted. The amount of turf algal interaction and the outcome of these interactions differed predictably among the six growth forms. Encrusting corals interacted most often with turf algae, but also competed most successfully against turf algae. The opposite was observed for branching corals, which rarely interacted with turf algae and rarely won these competitive interactions. Including all other growth forms, a positive relationship was found between the amount of competitive interactions with neighboring turf algae and the percentage of such interaction won by the coral. This growth form dependent ability to outcompete turf algae was not only observed among coral species, but also among different growth forms in morphologically plastic coral genera (Acropora, Favia, Favites, Montastrea, Montipora, Porites) illustrating the general nature of this relationship.', u'Background.Herbivores play a critical role in structuring benthic communities on tropical coral dominated reefs because they remove macro and microalgae, which might otherwise overgrow adult corals or prevent successful recruitment of juveniles. Reducing herbivory has been implicated in promoting phase shifts from coral dominance to other ecosystem states following acute disturbances. Turbidity and sedimentation are key physical processes that also structure coral reef communities because they limit light penetration and may interfere with biological processes such as heterotrophy. Singapore\u2019s coral reefs have been heavily impacted by human activities for decades and experience very high levels of sedimentation and turbidity. Macroalgae, particularly Sargassum spp. are abundant on the reef flats, while adjacent reef slopes are dominated by diverse coral assemblages, yet nothing is known about the role of herbivory in structuring these heavily disturbed reefs. Methods. To gain a better understanding of the role of herbivore biomass and potential herbivory in structuring these disturbed reefs, we quantified benthic cover of corals and macroalgae, fish biomasses and urchin abundance at eight representative sites among Singapore\u2019s southern islands during two seasons. In addition we filmed herbivory assays on replicate experimental macroalgal stands (4 separate macroalgal species) and natural EAM patches at three of these sites to estimate species-specific rates of herbivory. Using generalised linear mixed models we examine the relationship between herbivore abundances and benthic cover of corals and macroalgae.  Results. Average coral cover at 3-4 m depth was surprisingly high (~40%) compared to other Indo-Pacific reefs, considering decades of chronic anthropogenic impacts. In contrast, the average biomass of herbivorous fishes (~4 g m-2) was more typical of degraded and overfished reefs, while urchin abundances were within the range found at other Indo-Pacific sites. Herbivorous fish were not observed feeding on macroalgal assays during 29 h of filming, with all bites counted on EAM carried out primarily by territorial damselfish. There was a significant but weak relationship between coral cover and herbivore biomass but none for macroalgae or between urchin abundance and benthic cover. Discussion. Relatively high coral cover and low macroalgal cover at 3-4 m depth has been maintained on these highly disturbed reefs, demonstrating possible resilience to coral-macroalgal phase shifts despite decades of chronic human disturbances. We suggest that low light levels at 3-4 m depth may limit algal growth rates so that only low levels of herbivory are necessary to prevent seaweeds from outcompeting corals on turbid reefs such as those in the present study.', u"Due to the rapid development of information technology, Internet has become part of everyday life gradually. People would like to communicate with friends to share their opinions on social networks. The diverse social network behavior is an ideal users' personality traits reflection. Existing behavior analysis methods for personality prediction mostly extract behavior attributes with heuristic. Although they work fairly well, but it is hard to extend and maintain. In this paper, for personality prediction, we utilize deep learning algorithm to build feature learning model, which could unsupervised extract Linguistic Representation Feature Vector (LRFV) from text published on Sina Micro-blog actively. Compared with other feature extraction methods, LRFV, as an abstract representation of Micro-blog content, could describe use's semantic information more objectively and comprehensively. In the experiments, the personality prediction model is built using linear regression algorithm, and different attributes obtained through different feature extraction methods are taken as input of prediction model respectively. The results show that LRFV performs more excellently in micro-blog behavior description and improve the performance of personality prediction model.", u'Natural vegetation in arid desert areas has been severely affected by uneven spatial-temporal precipitation and underground water distribution. Therefore, it is quite necessary to reserve maintenance water sources and water utilization strategies of natural vegetation. In our experiment, the Haloxylon ammodendron was selected to learn about the maintenance water sources and water utilization strategies. The results displayed that H. ammodendron could utilize various water sources, in which groundwater (30%) and shallow soil water (average 35%) accounted for very huge proportion to be the most important maintenance water sources H. ammodendron does not directly absorb from snowfall, but the application of shallow soil water was stemed from melt snow. The utilization percentage of groundwater is relatively higher in winter (80%) and summer (30%). The utilization percentages of different water sources change with the actual situations of these water sources; Precipitation is also one of main water sources of H. ammodendron (respond quickly but not influential). The mainly water of  H. ammodendron in the study area are as follows: groundwater, shallow soil water formed by snowmelt, medium and large precipitation. Therefore, H. ammodendron can make efficient use of water sources in arid desert areas, and transform water sources reasonably under the tremendous variations in water conditions to meet the water requirements.', u'The relationship between air pollution and public health has gained increasing attention in the past decade. Many time-series analyses have been conducted worldwide, including in all the major cities of the United States, Europe, and Asia. However, the most current time-series analysis study of Ontario, Canada dates back to 2012 and includes only a single city, calling the need of a more recent study at a provincial scale. As a result, we propose to conduct time-series analyses of major Ontario cities and then use a hierarchical model to pool the results and construct a dose-response relationship and generate a predictive regression.', u'Medicinal plants provide an enormous bioresource of potential use in modern medicine and agriculture. Phosphorous deficiency is a major constraint to plant production. Sustainable agriculture could be promoted by harnessing the plant beneficial bacteria particularly the fluorescent pseudomonads associated with the rhizosphere of plants, to mobilize soil inorganic phosphate and also to increase its bioavailability to the plants. Total five hundred seven fluorescent Pseudomonas isolates were obtained from four different Aloe barbadensis (Miller) growing locations of Varanasi. These Pseudomonas strains were further evaluated in vitro for their ability to solubilize phosphate and to produce indole acetic acid (IAA), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), siderophore and aminocyclopropane (ACC) deaminase. Total 119 fluorescent Pseudomonas isolates from the rhizospheric soil (RS) and 25 isolates from the endorhizosperic (ER) region solubilized phosphate.Whereas 53 (36.8%) Pseudomonas isolates produced IAA and siderophore, 36(25%) and 31 (21.5%) isolates, however, produced HCN and ACC deaminase. Out of 119 phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) from RS region, 51 (42.9%) isolates and 9 (36%) isolates out of 25 PSBs from ER region lacked plant growth promoting traits (PGPTs). Among the phosphate solubilizing fluorescent pseudomonads showing PGPT, 59 isolates have multiple traits and showed more than two types of PGPT. A positive correlation exists between siderophore and ACC deaminase producers. Clustering by principal component analysis (PCA) showed that RS was the most important factor influencing the ecological distribution and physiological characterization of PGPT- possessing PSB. Geographical Information System (GIS) and Kriging Interpolation method was used to map and establish spatial variation of soil properties of the study site.', u'Conventional methods in this field include identifying and screening compounds in a laboratory setting with cells and animals, and then moving on to clinical trials with promising compounds. To complicate the issue with these methods, effective compounds might not exist in the original herbals, multiple components might be involved with outcomes, long study period and high cost. The method described above might bypass bottlenecks such as, 1) promising compounds are identified from test patients who demonstrate preferred and safe results, 2) more than one compound might be identified, 3) safe and effective compounds might be metabolites and not exist in herbals. The process includes a website to collect clinical information. The promising compounds can be determined by analyzing common components from patients. Both internal and external tests could be done with promising compounds, the entire process would be very efficient and economical.', u'The advent of metagenomic methods to sequence DNA directly from an environment has revolutionized viral ecology, making it possible to \u201csee\u201d natural viral communities that could not be previously studied through culture. This technological leap has enabled further innovation in: extracting and sequencing limited viral DNA from communities, enriching and sequencing wild viruses through single-cell genomics, and creating new bioinformatics methods for large-scale comparative and functional metagenomics. Yet, the knowledge for specialized techniques in viral ecology remains in a subset of labs. We present a viral ecology community forum called VERVENet that strives to increase connectivity and knowledge dissemination in viral ecology research at all levels from undergraduates to accomplished viral ecologists. Our forum leverages and refines existing software from protocols.io to enhance a researcher\u2019s ability to: discuss and share protocols, connect with fellow community members, and learn about new and innovative research in the field. In delivering these valuable tools, VERVENet is a central resource to connect, collaborate, share and innovate for the viral ecology community. Moreover, these tools are broadly useful to any community or individual lab to promote scientific inquiry, reproduction of results, and dissemination and optimization of both molecular and bioinformatics protocols.', u'Genomic and metagenomic analyses are increasingly becoming commonplace in several areas of biological research, but recurrent specialized analyses are frequently reported as in-house scripts rarely available after publication. We describe the enveomics collection, a growing set of actively maintained scripts for several recurrent and specialized tasks in microbial genomics and metagenomics, and present a graphical user interface and several case studies. Our resource includes previously described as well as new algorithms such as Transformed-space Resampling In Biased Sets (TRIBS), a novel method to evaluate phylogenetic under- or over-dispersion in reference sets with strong phylogenetic bias. The enveomics collection is freely available under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 at https://github.com/lmrodriguezr/enveomics and for online analysis at http://enve-omics.ce.gatech.edu', u'The integration of invasive species into native food webs represent multifarious dynamics of ecological and evolutionary processes. We document incorporation of Prunus serotina (black cherry) into native insect food webs. We find that P. serotina harbours a herbivore community less dense but more diverse than its native relative, P. padus (bird cherry), with similar proportions of specialists and generalists. While herbivory on P. padus remained stable over the past century, that on P. serotina gradually doubled. We show that P. serotina may have evolved changes in investment in cyanogenic glycosides compared with its native range. In the leaf beetle Gonioctena quinquepunctata, recently shifted from native Sorbus aucuparia to P. serotina, we find divergent host preferences on Sorbus- versus Prunus-derived populations, and weak host-specific differentiation among 380 individuals genotyped for 119 SNP loci. We conclude that evolutionary processes may generate a specialized herbivore community on an invasive plant, allowing prognoses of reduced invasiveness over time. On the basis of the results presented here, we would like to caution that manual control might have the adverse effect of a slowing down of processes of adaptation, and a delay in the decline of the invasive character of P. serotina.', u"Objectives: To develop a flexible software application that uses predictive analytics to enable emergency department (ED) decision-makers in virtually any environment to predict the effects of operational interventions and enhance continual process improvement efforts. To demonstrate the ability of the application's core simulation model to recreate and predict site-specific patient flow in two very different EDs: a large academic center and a freestanding ED. To describe how the application was used by a freestanding ED medical director to match ED resources to patient demand.\nMethods: The application was developed through a public-private partnership between University of Florida Health and Roundtable Analytics, Inc., supported by a National Science Foundation Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grant. The core simulation technology was designed to be quickly adaptable to any ED using data routinely collected by most electronic health record systems. To demonstrate model accuracy, Monte Carlo studies were performed to predict the effects of management interventions in two distinct ED settings. At one ED, the medical director conducted simulation studies to evaluate the sustainability of the current staffing strategy and inform his decision to implement specific interventions that better match ED resources to patient demand. After implementation of one intervention, the fidelity of the model's predictions was evaluated.\nResults: A flexible, cloud-based software application enabling ED decision-makers to predict the effects of operational decisions was developed and deployed at two qualitatively distinct EDs. The application accurately recreated each ED's throughput and faithfully predicted the effects of specific management interventions. At one site, the application was used to identify when increasing arrivals will dictate that the current staffing strategy will be less effective than an alternative strategy. As actual arrivals approached this point, decision-makers used the application to simulate a variety different interventions; this directly informed their decision to implement a new strategy. The observed outcomes resulting from this intervention fell within the range of predictions from the model.\nConclusion: This application overcomes technical barriers that have made simulation modeling inaccessible to key decision-makers in emergency departments. Using this technology, ED managers with no programming experience can conduct customized simulation studies regardless of their ED's volume and complexity. In two very different case studies, the fidelity of the application was established and the application was shown to have a direct positive effect on patient flow. The effective use of simulation modeling promises to replace inefficient trial-and-error approaches and become a useful and accessible tool for hea", u'Biodiversity-ecosystem function (BEF) experiments often employ common garden designs, drawing samples from a local biota. However, the communities from which taxa are sampled may not be at equilibrium. I assembled pools of aquatic bacterial strains isolated at different time points from leaves on the pitcher plant Darlingtonia californica to evaluate the role of a dynamic, host-associated microbiota on the BEF relationship. I constructed experimental communities using bacteria from each time point and measured their respiration rates. Communities assembled from mid-successional species pools showed the strongest positive relationships between community richness and respiration rates, driven primarily by linear additivity among isolates. Diffuse competition was common among all communities but greatest within mid-successional isolates. These results demonstrate the dependence of the BEF relationship on the temporal dynamics of the local species pool, implying that ecosystems may respond differently to the addition or removal of taxa at different points in time during succession.', u'Objectives: This study was conducted to determine the frequency, predisposing factors and impact of urinary incontinence (UI)during pregnancyon quality of life (QOL). Materials and Method: A preliminary cross-sectional survey was carried out among pregnant women from January to June of 2014. A total of 132 pregnant women were enrolled. We used a questionnaire form for sociodemographic features, ICIQ-SF-Turkish version to determine the occurrence and characteristics of UI and Wagner\u2019s Quality of Life scale to assess impact on QOL. Results: Urinary incontinence was present in 56 out of 132 pregnant women (42.4%); these women were referred to as the UI-present group. The remaining 76 women comprised the UI-absent group. The overall mean age was 27.5 \xb1 5.1 y (p=0.780), median height in UI-present group was 160 cm (min-max: 153-176, p=0.037 <0.05) and median BMI was 28.7 kg/m2(min-max: 22.4-50.0, p=0.881).For women in the UI-present group, urine leakage occurred once a week (n=18, 32.1%) to twice or thrice a week (n=8, 14.3%), few times a day (n=14, 25%), once a day (n=5, 8.9%) and always (n=8, 14.3%). The pregnant women in the UI-present group mainly reported a small amount of urine leakage (n=33, 58.9%) or a moderate amount of leakage (n=4, 7.1%). There were statistically significant relationships between QOL scores and frequency of UI (p=0.002 <0.05) as well as the amount of leakage (p=0.002 <0.05). Impact on QOL scores ranged from mild (n=33, 58.9%) or moderate (n=4, 7.1%) to severe (n=4, 7.1%) levels. QOL has \u2018mildly deteriorated\u2019. The following features were found to favour the onset of UI: age of pregnant woman (OR= 0.845, 95% CI 0.268-2.669), occupational status (OR=1.800, 95% CI 0.850-3.810), anaemia (OR=0.939, 95% CI 0.464-1.901), parity (OR=0.519, 95% CI 0.325-0.829), miscarriage in previous pregnancies (OR=1.219, 95% CI 0.588-2.825) and living in rural vs urban settlement (OR=1.800, 95% CI 0.887-3.653).Heigt (p= 0,037<0.05), educational status (p=0.016 <0.05), miscarriage, parity and place of living (p=0.002, p=0.006, p=0.020 <0.05 respectively)were significant in favour of UI-present. Conclusions: Urinary incontinence was frequently encountered among pregnant women (42.1%). Urinary incontinence distorted the QOL in pregnant women at a mild level and caused life style changes. Frequency and amount of UI were the significant factors in deterioration. Age, parity, miscarriage, being housewife, place of living (rural) and anaemia were the factors in favour of onset of UI during pregnancy. Among them, height, educational status (primary-intermediate school graduate), place of living (rural), miscarriage and parity were statistically significant predictors. It is necessary to pay attention to UI and its impact on women\u2019s health during pregnancy.', u'I present the first documented record of the Belted Kingfisher Megaceryle alcyon in mainland Ecuador. A young male M. alcyon was observed and photographed on the surroundings of Puerto L\xf3pez, province of Manab\xed, Ecuador in September 2005. A very rare vagrant in mainland Ecuador, M. alcyon was previously known from a single sighting in December 1995. In the absence of strong evidence for the occurrence of M. alcyon in mainland Ecuador, it remains classified as a hypothetical species in all country\u2019s ornithological reference, pending corroborating evidence, which is now provided.', u'Large-scale molecular evolutionary analyses of protein coding sequences requires a number of preparatory inter-related steps from finding gene families, to generating alignments and phylogenetic trees and assessing selective pressure variation. Each phase of these analyses can represent significant challenges particularly when working with the entire genome of large sets of species. We present VESPA, software capable of automating a selective pressure analysis using codeML in addition to the preparatory analyses and summary statistics. VESPA is written in python and is designed to run within a UNIX environment. Large-scale gene family identification, sequence alignment, and phylogeny reconstruction are all important aspects of large-scale molecular evolutionary analyses. VESPA provides flexible software for simplifying these processes along with downstream selective pressure variation analyses. The software automatically interprets results from codeML and produces simplified summary files to assist the user in better understanding the results. VESPA may be found at the following website: www.mol-evol.org/VESPA', u'Uganda\u2019s Kibale National Park contains a particularly diverse primate population, including about 1400 chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). It is threatened by poaching and illegal deforestation, both of which are promoted by the extreme poverty, exponential population growth, and low educational achievements of local people. This poster describes a multifaceted approach to conservation taken by the Kibale Chimpanzee Project. We highlight its within-forest organization (Kibale Snare Removal Project, KSRP) and its partner NGO working with 10,000 children in the surrounding communities (The Kasiisi Project). Within the Park, KSRP rangers interact closely with the Ugandan Wildlife Authority to monitor illegal activity. In 2013 KSRP rangers reported over 1400 incidents of illegal activity in the forest and removed over 700 snares. Outside the Park, the Kasiisi Project focuses on changing attitudes and behavior through combining conservation education, community development, and higher standards in 14 primary schools. The Kasiisi Project\u2019s philosophy is to meet people\u2019s needs (better education, less reliance on forest resources) while providing the information, skills and motivation to reduce environmental degradation. KSRP rangers link within-forest and community activities by participating in school conservation education. Since we began, students in Kasiisi-partnered schools have achieved exceptionally high National Exam scores and show increased positive feelings towards chimpanzees and the Park. Our results suggest that because the rising human population threatens all Ugandan forests, within-forest and community activity should be combined wherever possible in order to maximize the effectiveness of conservation efforts.', u'Background: Simtics Integrated Cognitive Simulator (ICS) is a software learning environment, previously demonstrated to be of use to surgical trainees in learning the cognitive aspects of procedural skills. It also includes a Test-Mode, which has not previously been assessed for its ability to discriminate between experienced and non-experienced operators. Methods: 10 experienced and 10 non-experienced participants performed a laparoscopic appendicectomy using the ICS laparoscopic appendicectomy (LA) module. Total score, total time, and four further metrics (incorrect hand, incorrect instrument, incorrect location, time > 15s per step) were recorded for each individual, across the four sections and nine steps of the simulation. Results: Median total score was greater amongst surgically experienced participants than surgically inexperienced participants (26.5 %, p = 0.023). Instrument use was a significant discriminator between these groups in 2 of 4 of the ICS LA sections.', u'Background: Whilst most anthropometrical research within sport has focussed on muscle and fat distribution, more studies are measuring the relationship between stature and wingspan, which has been found to be selective criteria in many sports.\nMethods: In this study the stature, wingspan and stature-to-wingspan ratio (S:W) was recorded for N = 474 elite and international mixed martial arts (MMA) competitors who appeared in televised bouts over the course of one calendar year. Each weight division was split into three or four ranking groups (RG) depending on division size, as well as into groups depending on if the competitors had won a world title (Ch), competed for a world title (El) or had done neither (In).\nResults: One-way ANOVA (\u22640.05) found that shorter competitors are ranked higher in flyweight and in the middle in women\u2019s straw weight. Independent t-tests (\u22640.05) found that shorter competitors also have more chance of winning or competing for a world title in featherweight and flyweight. Independent t-tests (\u22640.05) also found a significant difference between males and female for S:W. There was a weak, negative correlation and a moderate, negative correlation between stature and rank in lightweight and light heavyweight respectively and a moderate, negative correlation between S:W and rank in featherweight. There were no other significant differences found.\nDiscussion: Overall, whilst MMA competitors have a S:W of 1:1.024, due to the paucity of significant differences found, it was determined that anthropometrical measurements cannot be used to predict success in elite and international mixed martial arts.', u'Background. Medications are not exempt from adverse drug reactions (ADR) and how the physician perceives the risk of prescription drugs could influence their availability to report ADR and their prescription behavior. Methods. We assess the perception of risk and the occurrence of ADR associated with COX2-Inbitors, paracetamol, NSAIDs, and morphine in medical students and residents. Results. The analgesic with the highest risk perception was morphine, while the drug with the least risk perceived was paracetamol. Addiction was perceived as the most probable adverse effects developed by morphine. In the case of NSAIDs, the main adverse effect perceived was GI bleeding. Discussion. Our findings show that medical students give higher risk scores than residents toward risk due to analgesics. It is probable that both groups of students have morphinophobia, although more studies are necessary to confirm this. Continuing training and informing physicians about ADRs is necessary since the lack of training is known to induce inadequate use of drugs.', u'Different food items can provide calories at different rates, yet nutritional studies of primates are generally based on the proportion of time spent eating different foods. Accordingly, estimates of energy intake are potentially wrong. To assess the importance of this problem we observed 15 female chimpanzees from the Kanyawara chimpanzee community in Kibale National Park, Uganda for 15 months. Feeding rates were recorded and nutritional analyses assembled for 90 food types. Across all foods the mean estimated rate of energy ingestion was 8.8\xb17.6 Kcals/min. Energy ingestion rates varied among food types (F8,82,=2.24, p<0.05), being higher for ripe fruits (12.2\xb18.7Kcals/min) than for young leaves (7.8\xb17.9Kcals/min), piths (6.0\xb15.2Kcals/min) or seeds (2.8\xb11.9Kcals/min). Energy ingestion rates estimated assuming high %NDF fermentation (54.3%) were significantly higher than the rates at zero (0%) fermentation (t=6.14, p<0.01). At 54.3% NDF fermentation, estimated energy ingestion rate rose by 20.5% for ripe fruits (9.7 to 12.2 Kcals/min), and by 39.7% for young leaves (4.7 to 7.8Kcals/min). Chimpanzees spent a mean of 304\xb180 minutes feeding daily, indicating that daily energy intake averaged to 3029 \xb11198Kcal. When chimpanzees spent >60% of feeding time on ripe fruits (N=79 days), the average energy intake (3367Kcal) was significantly higher than when they spent >60% of feeding time on herbaceous vegetation (2409Kcal, N=37 days) (F1,114=12.68, p<0.01). Our results highlight the value of using feeding rates to understand chimpanzee nutrition, and suggest that seasonal fluctuation in nutrient intake is more pronounced than indicated by variation in feeding time.', u'Partners of Australian combat veterans are at an increased risk of experiencing mental health problems. For a comparative analysis of mental health of partners of veterans with that of their non-military counterparts, the study sample comprised female partners of (a) Australian combat veterans (Sample 1: n = 282, age M = 60.79, SD = 5.05), (b) a random sub-sample of partners of Australian combat veterans from the previous sample (Sample 2: n = 50; M = 60.06, SD = 4.80), (c) partners of Special Air Services Regiment (SASR) personnel (Sample 3: n = 41, age M = 34.39 SD = 7.01), and (d) partners of current serving military (non-SASR) personnel (Sample 4: n = 38, age M = 32.37, SD= [i]6.20). Respondents completed measures to assess their reported levels of depression, anxiety, and stress. The two samples (Samples 1 and 2) for partners of Australian combat veterans reported significantly poorer symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress than the comparative population norms. The sample of SASR personnel partners reported significantly greater levels of depression and anxiety, while the sample with non\u2011SASR personnel partners reported a significantly poorer symptomatology in stress than the comparative norms. Lessons and protective factors can be learnt from groups within the current military as to what may assist partners and families to maintain a better level of psychosocial health.', u'Despite substantial recent research activity related to continuous delivery and deployment (CD), there has not yet been a systematic, empirical study on how the practices often associated with continuous deployment have found their way into the broader software industry. This raises the question to what extent our knowledge of the area is dominated by the peculiarities of a small number of industrial leaders, such as Facebook. To address this issue, we conducted a mixed-method empirical study, consisting of a pre-study on literature, qualitative interviews with 20 software developers or release engineers with heterogeneous backgrounds, and a Web-based quantitative survey that attracted 187 complete responses. A major trend in the results of our study is that architectural issues are currently one of the main barriers for CD adoption. Further, feature toggles as an implementation technique for partial rollouts lead to unwanted complexity, and require research on better abstractions and modelling techniques for runtime variability. Finally, we conclude that practitioners are in need for more principled approaches to release decision making, e.g., which features to conduct A/B tests on, or which metrics to evaluate.', u'Presbyopia, or long-sightedness, is one of the signs of senescence in humans. Many people first recognize it when they approach 40-years-old, though presbyopia progresses gradually with age. Not surprisingly, presbyopia has been reported in old, wild chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) at Bossou (Guinea) and Mahale (Tanzania). Bonobos are one of our closest living relatives (98.7% identical in genome level) and like us have long development periods and long longevity. We therefore expected to find presbyopia in bonobos. Here we report evidence of presbyopia in wild bonobos at Wamba, Democratic Republic of Congo, during grooming interactions. We used an interchangeable-lens camera to make precise measurements of ear dimensions for each individual, which we then used to determine grooming distance. Age estimates for older individuals were taken when the group was first identified in the late 1970s to early 1980s. We found that grooming distance increases with age. All four bonobos that showed symptoms of presbyopia, i.e. long grooming distance, were estimated to be over 40 years old in 2015. We confirmed that when grooming others, the 4 older individuals kept significantly longer distance between their hands and eyes than did younger individuals. This result indicates that bonobos begin to experience presbyopia in their 40s as do human beings.', u'We present a geometric model of image formation in Scheimpflug cameras that is most general. Scheimpflug imaging is commonly used is scientific and medical imaging either to increase the depth of field of the imager or to focus on tilted object surfaces. Existing Scheimpflug imaging models do not take into account the effect of pupil magnification (i.e. the ratio of the exit pupil diameter to the entrance pupil diameter), which we have found to affect the type of distortions experienced by the image-field upon lens rotations. In this work, we have also derived the relationship between the object, lens and sensor planes in Scheimpflug configuration, which is very similar in form with the standard Gaussian imaging equation, but applicable for imaging systems in which the lens plane and the sensor plane are arbitrarily oriented with respect to each other. Since the conventional rigid camera, in which the sensor and lens planes are constrained to be parallel to each other, is a special case of the Scheimpflug camera, our model also applies to imaging with conventional cameras.', u'While phylogenies have been getting easier to build, it has been difficult to re-use, combine, and synthesize the information they provide because published trees are often only available as image files, and taxonomic information is not standardized across studies. The Open Tree of Life (OTL) project addresses these issues by providing a digital tree that encompasses all organisms, built by combining taxonomic information and published phylogenies. The project also provides tools and services to query and download parts of this synthetic tree, as well as the source data used to build it. Here, we present rotl, an R package to search and download data from the Open Tree of Life directly in R. rotl uses common data structures allowing researchers to take advantage of the rich set of tools and methods that are available in R to manipulate, analyze, and visualize phylogenies.', u'Background. The trade in gill plates of devil and manta rays has increased greatly over the last two decades. The resulting increased mortality, in addition to mortality caused by by-catch, means that many ray populations are declining in size. The aim of this study was to ascertain the main demographic drivers of population change in reef manta rays (Manta alfredi) to increase our understanding of their demography and hence provide insight into potential conservation measures.\nMethods. We developed a population projection model for reef manta rays and used published life history data to parameterise the model and also used these data as points of reference to compare our model output to. Because little is known about yearling and juvenile survival of reef manta rays, we conducted our analyses across a range of plausible survival rate values of yearlings, juveniles, and also adults.\nResults. The model accurately captured observed patterns of variation in population growth rate, lifetime reproductive success and cohort generation time for different reef manta ray populations around the world. Varying the survival rates of the different life stages revealed that increasing adult annual survival rate always positively and additively affected population growth rate, lifetime reproductive success and cohort generation time. Variation in yearling and juvenile annual survival rate, however, had different and varying effects on the latter three population descriptors, highlighting the importance of obtaining accurate estimates of these survival rates from natural populations. Our elasticity analysis revealed that for both declining and stable populations, the population growth rate is most sensitive to changes in either juvenile or adult survival rate, depending on yearling and adult annual survival rate values.\nDiscussion. Many reef manta ray populations are declining, resulting in local extinction unless effective conservation measures are taken. Based on our detailed demographic analysis, we suggest that reef manta ray conservation would particularly benefit from focusing on increasing juvenile and adult survival.', u'Preliminary observations of whale shark behavioural ecology are presented from St. Helena, a remote volcanic island in the South Atlantic. Whale shark sightings by fishers, government biologists and the general public have been recorded by the St. Helena Government since February 1999 and are presented here through to the end of 2014. A total of 328 sightings was collected on an ad hoc basis, a total of 931 animals, although the number of re-sightings within that total is not known. Increases in observations are likely coincident with increases in surveillance and public awareness of the presence of this species in the waters surrounding St Helena. On two occasions, small aggregations of whale sharks were observed at the bay at Jamestown; the animals were engaged in surface feeding behaviour similar to that seen in coastal aggregations in Mexico and Qatar. In contrast to other aggregations, however, animals observed at St Helena were numerically dominated by adult females, although mature males and some juveniles have also been observed. On two occasions, eyewitness accounts of mating behaviour were reported by two different reliable observers. These events took place in 2005 and 2007, both approximately 16 kilometers from shore, at different sites. They both involved belly-to-belly contact behaviour at the surface, in one case involving at least two males. This is the first report of putative mating behaviour in the whale shark. With the presence of both adult and juvenile animals, surface feeding aggregations, apparently pregnant females and the first observations of putative mating, the waters around St Helena are clearly an important multi-use habitat for whale sharks and are worthy of concerted conservation efforts.', u'Introduction: Ninety percent of all injuries occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) and most of these injuries are largely preventable. Most injury surveillance systems are focused in large urban settings, which largely ignore injury mechanisms in rural contexts which are critical settings for planning future prevention efforts. Methods: Injury data was collected from July 1 to July 31, 2013 at Nzega District Hospital (NDH) in central Tanzania in the form of an injury questionnaire based off of the WHO\u2019s injury surveillance guidelines. One hundred patients were enrolled and asked questions about the location of their injury, cause of their injury, and many other contextual and demographic factors. Results: Seventy-nine percent of participants were males and the most prevalent injury cause for all participants was road traffic collisions, making up 31% of the injuries. Violence was the second most prevalent cause, accounting for 28% of the injuries, and the number one cause of injuries for women. Twenty-three percent (n=7) of patients suffering from injuries due to road traffic collisions were given a prognosis of long-term disability of six months or more. Forty-four percent of all injuries occurred in the home setting. Conclusion: The incidence rate of injuries overall of 346 per 10 000 per year is consistent with others studies conducted in LMICs and is higher than many infectious diseases that are already considered a pressing public health problem. Injuries create disabilities, which in turn creates an economic burden on the individual, health care system, and society as a whole.', u'The mechanics of animal locomotion has fascinated man for centuries. In particular, we have sought to understand why certain species are able to reach such prodigious running speeds (perhaps due to our woeful inadequacy in this area (Bramble & Lieberman, 2004)). Such investigations have focused on the role that functional anatomy and morphology play in facilitating the attainment of high running speeds (Williams, Payne & Wilson, 2007; Hudson et al., 2011). Canis lupus familiaris, or the domestic dog, serves as an excellent model for such investigations due to the great variation in running speeds exhibited across breeds, and there is a dense body of literature that has considered how the anatomy of certain canines has been adapted to the task of high speed running. Similarly, a great deal is known about the dog genome, and thus adaptations that are thought to be advantageous in the context of sprinting can be linked to their genetic basis (Mosher et al., 2007). Aerodynamics is one aspect of morphology that is known to be important for high speed running (Lull, 1904), yet despite this, the association between a dog\u2019s coat phenotype and the ability to run fast has not been determined. This omission is surprising given the influence of the surface properties of a body on its aerodynamics. Here I use the breed definitions of the American Kennel Club (American Kennel Club, 1998), to show, graphically, statistically and in prose, by reference to previous literature (Cadieu et al., 2009), and by using the mass/height ratio to indicate morphological adaptations for high speed running, that within the larger dog breeds (and in particular within breeds that are known for their running ability (Fischer & Lilje, 2011)), there is no association between coat phenotype and other morphological adaptations that are known to be conducive to high speed running (\u03c4B = -0.23, p = 0.04).', u'Background. Neuropeptides are important regulators of physiological processes and behavior. Although they tend to be generally well conserved, recent results using trancriptome sequencing on decapod crustaceans give the impression of significant differences between species, raising the question whether such differences are real or artefacts.  Methods. The BLAST+ program was used to find short reads coding neuropeptides and neurohormons in publicly available short read archives. Such reads were then used to find similar reads in the same archives and the DNA assembly program Trinity was employed to construct contigs encoding the neuropeptide precursors as completely as possible.  Results. The seven decapod species analyzed in this fashion, the crabs Eriocheir sinensis, Carcinus maenas and Scylla paramamosain, the shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei, the lobster Homarus americanus, the fresh water prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii and the crayfish Procambarus clarkii had remarkably similar neuropeptidomes. Although some neuropeptide precursors could not be assembled, in many cases individual reads pertaining to the missing precursors show unambiguously that these neuropeptides are present in these species. In other cases the tissues that express those neuropeptides were not used in the construction of the cDNA libraries. One novel neuropeptide was identified, elongated PDH (pigment dispersing hormone), a variation on PDH that has a two amino acid insertion in its core sequence. Hyrg is another peptide that is ubiquitously present in decapods and is likely a novel neuropeptide precursor.  Discussion. Many insect species have lost one or more neuropeptide genes, but apart from elongated PDH and hyrg all other decapod neuropeptides are present in at least some insect species and allatotropin is the only insect neuropeptide missing from decapods. This strong similarity between insect and decapod neuropeptidomes makes it possible to predict the receptors for decapod neuropeptides that have been deorphanized in insects. This includes the androgenic insulin like peptide that seems to be homologous to drosophila insulin-like peptide 8.', u'Propelled by recent advances in biologically-inspired computer vision and artificial intelligence, the past five years have seen significant progress in using deep neural networks to model response patterns of neurons in higher visual cortical areas. In this paper, we briefly review this progress and then discuss eight key \u201copen questions\u201d that we believe will drive research in computational models of sensory systems over the next five years, both in visual cortex and beyond. Throughout, our focus is on challenges that will require both cutting-edge algorithmic developments as well as next-generation neuroscience and cognitive science experiments.', u'Background. Availability of environmental energy, as measured by temperature, is expected to limit the abundance and distribution of endotherms wintering at temperate latitudes. A prediction of this hypothesis is that birds should attain their highest abundances in warmer areas. However, there may be a spatial mismatch between species preferred habitats and species preferred temperatures, so some species might end-up wintering in sub-optimal thermal environments. Methods. We model the influence of minimum winter temperature on the relative abundance of 106 terrestrial bird species wintering in peninsular Spain, at 10x10 Km2 resolution, using 95%-quantile regressions. We analyze general trends across species on the shape of the response curves, the environmental preferred temperature (at which the species abundance is maximized), the mean temperature in the area of distribution and the thermal breadth (area under the abundance-temperature curve). Results. There is a large interspecific variability on the thermal preferences and specialization of species. Despite this large variability, there is a preponderance of positive relationships between species abundance and temperature, and on average species attain their maximum abundances in areas 1.9 \xbaC warmer than the average temperature available in peninsular Spain. The mean temperature in the area of distribution is lower than the thermal preferences of the species, although both parameters are highly correlated. Discussion. Most species prefer the warmest environments to overwinter, which suggests that temperature imposes important restrictions to birds wintering in the Iberian Peninsula. However, most individuals overwinter in locations colder than the species thermal preferences, probably reflecting a limitation of environments combining habitat and thermal preferences. Beyond these general trends, there is a high inter-specific variation in the versatility of species using the available thermal space .', u'Bibliometric analysis is a statistical method to summarize the amount of scientific activity in a domain. Insights can be derived from bibliometrics to understand the development trend of the research domain. R is an open sourced programming language specialized for statistical computing and graphic visualization. To benefit from the convenience of R and the outcome of bibliometric analysis, we here introduce BibeR, a web-based application for the visualization of bibliometric analysis. An example of bibliometric analysis on the articles published in journal Scientometrics is used to illustrate the usage of BibeR. The development of BibeR is still in progress, and future possibly improvements on BibeR are discussed.', u'Background Despite of advances in research, at the moment, various points related to the physiology of gestation and the etiology of severe diseases that can be developed in the course of it remain unknown. One of those aspects is the behavior of biomarkers (triglycerides, prolactin, glucose and cholesterol) during pregnancy, which experience a gradual increase in their levels until they reach the peak of hypertriglyceridemia, a few days before delivery. Several studies have reported that biomarkers experience a higher elevation in diabetic and obese pregnant women and in those women who suffer preeclampsia. The description of their behavior in different population of pregnant women (healthy women and women at risk) would identify the relation of these with some of the alterations that occurs more frequently during pregnancy. Objective The aim of this study is to develop a multi-paradigm biological model of systems to determine triglyceride, prolactin, glucose and cholesterol levels during pregnancy and its relation with lactogenesis in healthy and risk pregnant women. Methods  A prospective cohort study will take place with women during pregnancy and lactation. Participating women will be divided into two groups. One group will be integrated by healthy women and the other group by pregnant women with a risk medical history. The personal, family and a detailed medical history will be collected in each group. A study of all the variables which influence the level of the mentioned biomarkers (triglycerides, cholesterol, glucose and prolactin) will be done. The universe consists in 4,300 women, who constitute the historical average deliveries during the semester in the city of Granada (Spain). The sample collection will be made in medical office\u2019s pregnancy control in Granada\u2019s hospitals, in their respective health centers and during the second half of 2015. The sample will be stratified and probabilistic. Peculiarities of pregnant women will be taken into account when calculating the size of the study sample. This sample will be made up of 224 women who comply with the inclusion criteria and that have signed the informed consent. To achieve the project objectives an organization comprising six theoretical and practical phases enabling the scientific development of the project. During the first phase, the technical and administrative preparation of the project is constructed. Thereafter, the work is divided into two action areas which encompass the collection and data modeling. The creation of a biological multi-paradigm computer simulation model of the levels of biomarkers in different months of pregnancy and in the various pathologies of pregnant women can be very effective to know the risks that involve high levels of lipids for the mother and for the baby.', u"Nearly ninety percent of allegations of biomedical research misconduct in the United States are dismissed by responsible institutions without any faculty assessment or auditable record. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress have complained that the penalties for those against whom findings of research misconduct are made are too light and that too few grant funds associated with research misconduct have been recovered for use by other researchers and taxpayers. Here we describe the laws that empower federal agencies which can oversee investigations of biomedical research misconduct: the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) and Office of the Inspector General (OIG), both located within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Research misconduct pertaining to U.S. physical sciences funded through the National Science Foundation (NSF) is overseen by the NSF's OIG. While OIGs may provide some improvement over ORI in the handling of research misconduct, we have found that a much more serious flaw exists which undermines an ability to conduct performance audits as to the effectiveness by which allegations of research misconduct are handled in the United States. Federal audit standards (GAGAS/Yellow Book), if applied to the handling of research misconduct, would allow a determination as to whether the handling of allegations of biomedical research misconduct actually functions adequately, and if not, how it might be improved. Specifically, we propose that independent, external peer review under GAGAS audit standards should be instituted without delay in assessing the performance of ORI, or any other similarly tasked federal agency, in handling allegations of research misconduct.", u"The objective of this pilot study was to evaluate the feasibility of Flash Visual Evoked Potentials (FVEPs) testing in birds of prey in a clinical setting and to describe the protocol and the baseline data for normal vision in this species. FVEP recordings were obtained from 6 normal adult birds of prey: n. 2 Harris's Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus), n. 1 Lanner Falcon (Falco biarmicus), n. 2 Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus) and n. 1 Saker Falcon (Falco cherrug). Before carrying out VEP tests, all animals underwent neurologic and ophthalmic routine examination. Waveforms were analysed to identify reproducible peaks from random variation of baseline. At least three positive and negative peaks were highlighted in all tracks with elevated repeatability. Measurements consisted of the absolute and relative latencies of these peaks (P1, N1, P2, N2, P3, and N3) and their peak-to-peak amplitudes. Both the peak latency and wave morphology achieved from normal animals were similar to those obtained previously in other animal species. This test can be easily and safely performed in a clinical setting in birds of prey and could be useful for an objective assessment of visual function.", u'', u'Background: High throughput sequencing techniques have opened up the world of microbial diversity to scientists, and a flurry of studies in the most remote and extreme habitats on earth have begun to elucidate the key roles of microbes in ecosystems with extreme conditions. These same environmental extremes can also be found closer to humans; in fact, they can be found in our homes. Here, we used high throughput sequencing techniques to assess microbial diversity in the extreme environments inside human homes (e.g. dishwashers, hot water heaters, washing machine bleach reservoirs, etc.). We focused on habitats in the home with extreme temperature, pH and chemical environmental conditions.\nResults: We found that although these habitats supported a lower diversity of microbes than less extreme habitats in the home, there were still diverse microbial assemblages in extreme home environments. Habitats with extreme temperatures alone appeared to be able to support a greater diversity of microbes than habitats with extreme pH or extreme chemical environments alone. Microbial diversity was lowest when habitats had both extreme temperature and one of these other extremes. This interactive effect was strongest when habitats had both extreme temperatures and extreme pH. Under these conditions, taxa with known associations with extreme conditions dominated.\nConclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of examining interactive effects of multiple environmental extremes on microbial communities. Inasmuch as taxa from extreme environments can be both pathogens and industrially useful, our findings also suggest future work to understand both the threats and opportunities posed by the life in these habitats.', u"Colorful ornaments have been the focus of sexual selection studies since the work of Darwin. Yellow to red coloration is often produced by carotenoid pigments. Different hypotheses have been formulated to explain the evolution of these traits as signals of individual quality. Many of these hypotheses involve the existence of a signal production cost. The carotenoids necessary for signaling can only be obtained from food. In this line, carotenoid-based signals could reveal an individual's capacity to find sufficient dietary pigments. However, the ingested carotenoids are often yellow and became transformed by the organism to produce pigments of more intense color (red ketocarotenoids). Biotransformation often involves oxidation reactions. We tested the hypothesis that biotransformation could be costly because a certain level of oxidative stress is required. Thus, the carotenoid-based signals could reveal the efficiency of the owner in successfully managing this challenge. In a bird with ketocarotenoid-based ornaments (the red-legged partridge; Alectoris rufa), the availability of different carotenoids in the diet and oxidative stress were manipulated. We found that color and pigment levels in the ornaments depended on the relative quantity in the food of those carotenoids used as substrates in biotransformation (i.e. zeaxanthin and lutein). Moreover, we found that birds exposed to certain levels of a free radical generator (diquat) developed redder bills and deposited higher amounts of ketocarotenoids (astaxanthin) in ornaments, thus supporting the hypothesis. However, the effect also depended on the relative abundance of substrate carotenoids in the diet. This last result suggests the involvement of a resource allocation trade-off, which would support, to some extent, a signaling cost linked to carotenoid acquisition.", u'Overfishing has dramatically depleted sharks and other large predatory fishes worldwide except for a few remote and/or well-protected areas. The islands of Darwin and Wolf in the far north of the Galapagos Marine Reserve (GMR) are known for their large shark abundance, making them a global scuba diving and conservation hotspot. Here we report quantitative estimates of fish abundance at Darwin and Wolf over two consecutive years using stereo-video surveys, which reveal the largest reef fish biomass ever reported (17.5 t ha-1 on average), consisting largely of sharks. Despite this, the abundance of reef fishes around the GMR, such as groupers, has been severely reduced because of unsustainable fishing practices. Although Darwin and Wolf are within the GMR, they were not fully protected from fishing until March 2016. Given the ecological value and the economic importance of Darwin and Wolf for the dive tourism industry, the current protection should ensure the long-term conservation of this hotspot of unique global value.', u"Contact with and handling of burs (the flowering heads or infructescences) from the greater burdock (Arctium lappa L., Asteraceae) and other members of the same genus, is a potential hazard for humans, horses, and dogs. The minute, sharply-pointed, bristly pappus hairs easily detach from the top of the 'seeds' and are carried by the slightest breeze \u2013 attaching to skin, mucous membranes, and eyes where they can cause severe dermal irritation, possible respiratory manifestations, and ophthalmia.", u'Amides represent an important class of compounds in chemistry, chemical biology and pharmaceutical industry. Their broad utility in many fields is closely tied to the structure of the amide moiety which endows these compounds with unique features. The low reactivity of amide carbonyls towards nucleophiles is a major obstacle to their further functionalization. Selective activation of amides and lactams enables access to novel reactivity pathways and opens up intriguing perspectives in synthesis. Recently, we have demonstrated that upon treatment with Cp2Zr(H)Cl (Schwartz\u2019s reagent), five- and six-membered lactams, including sugar- and hydroxy acid-derived lactams, can be easily converted into imines under mild conditions. In addition, as was also shown, in situ generated cyclic imines can be directly subjected to further reactions with nucleophilic reagents such as allyltributylstannane, Grignard reagents, enolates or Danishefsky\u2019s diene to afford \u03b1-functionalized pyrrolidines, piperidines and polyhydroxylated pyrrolidine peptidomimetic scaffolds in a one-pot manner. The key advantage of the presented approach is the simplicity and convenience of generation of sugar-derived imines from readily available starting materials: sugar-derived lactams. The use of sugar-derived lactams as cyclic imine precursors is crucial to the efficiency of the described synthetic method. These compounds are more readily prepared, handled, and stored than the alternative precursors of cyclic imines such as nitrones, N-chloroamines or azido aldehydes. In the second part of the lecture a method for preparing 2,3-disubstituted indoles from commercially available isatins will be briefly presented.', u'Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) activity increases in response to inflammation. Social isolation stress is related to neuroinflammation; however, it remains unclear whether ADAR1 is altered in response to social isolation stress-induced cognitive deficits. To investigate our hypothesis that ADAR1 displayed patterns of change in response to social isolation stress, we addressed this issue systemically by isolating Kunming mice for 2, 4 and 8 weeks individually since postnatal 21 days to set up isolation mouse model. Furthermore, we arranged re-socialization group to evaluate the alterations of ADAR1 in the cognitive deficits recovery. The results of behavior tests showed that social isolation stress resulted in cognitive dysfunction, which was recovered by re-socialization in re-gregarious rearing group. Furthermore, the immunohistochemistry and western blot results displayed that both the immunoreactivity and protein expression of ADAR1 in the hippocampus and frontal cortex increased obviously as compared to the same age mice without isolation. The above abnormal alterations of ADAR1 were recovered by re-socialization in re-gregarious rearing group. Our study supports the hypothesis that ADAR1 is altered in mice affected by social isolation stress-induced cognitive deficits.', u'Fullerene molecules are created entirely of carbon and form orbicular or ellipsoidal cage shape similar to a hollow tube. The derivatives of fullerenes are classified into the following categories according to their functionalization: endohedral fullerenes with active molecules residing inside the carbon cage, exohedral with wide variety of both inorganic and organic groups existing outside and connected to the fullerenes\u2019 exterior and heterofullerenes when one or more carbon atoms that form the fullerene carbon cage are replaced by a non-carbon atom, i.e. a heteroatom. Fullerene C240belongs to the family of giant fullerenes and is characterized by a greater stability than that of the well-known fullerene C60. This has been proved by observing an increased formation heat that accompanied the decreasing of the carbon cage size.In order to determine the fullerene C240 ability to transport the steroid hormones: estradiol, progesterone, androsterone and their basic structures: estrone, androstane and pregnane, the following parameters, inter alia, have been calculated: energies of stabilization, interaction and deformation of each endohedral complex. The calculations for all chosen structures were carried out with the use of the molecular modeling technique. Based on all available studies, it can be stated that fullerene C240 could be a solution for problems faced by medicine and pharmacy.', u'Morphometric differences in the optical morphology of symbiotic palaemonid shrimps can be observed among species symbiotic with different host organisms. Discriminant functional analysis revealed three distinct groups within the species examined. Of these, bivalve symbionts appear to have an eye design that is solely unique to this host-symbiont grouping, a design that spans across multiple genera of phylogenetically unrelated animals. Although some taxonomic effects may be evident, this does not explain the difference and similarities in eye morphology that are seen within these shrimps. Therefore evolutionary pressures from their host environments are having an impact on the optical morphology of eyes however, as indicated by host-hopping events there ecological adaptations occur post host invasion.', u'Background. Taking into account the high prevalence of mental disorders and the multiple barriers to the use of mental health services, new forms of fostering patient information, involvement, and self-management are needed to complement existing mental health services. The study aimed at investigating acceptance regarding design and content of the e-mental health portal www.psychenet.de. Methods. An online cross-sectional survey was conducted between May 2013 and May 2015 using a self-administered questionnaire including items on perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, attitude towards using, and perceived trust. Effects of different participants\u2019 characteristics on the portals\u2019 acceptance were analyzed. Results. The majority of the N=252 respondents suffered from mental disorders (n=139) or were relatives from persons with mental disorders (n=65). The portal was assessed as \u201cgood\u201d or \u201cvery good\u201d by 71% of the respondents. High levels of agreement (89-96%) were shown for statements on the perceived ease of use, the behavioral intention to use the portal, and the trustworthiness of the portal. Lower levels of agreement were shown for some statements on the perceived usefulness of the portals\u2019 content. There were no effects of different participants\u2019 characteristics on the perceived ease of use, the perceived usefulness, the attitude towards using the website and the perceived trust. Discussion. This survey provides preliminary evidence that the e-mental health portal www.psychenet.de appears to be a usable, useful and trustworthy information resource for a broad target group. The behavioral usefulness of the portals\u2019 content might be improved by integrating more activating patient decision aids.', u'A homologue to a widely used genetic marker, pla, for Yersinia pestis has been identified in tissue samples of two species of rat (Rattus rattus and Rattus norvegicus) and of mice (Mus musculus and Apodemus sylvaticus) using a microarray based platform to screen for zoonotic pathogens of interest. Samples were from urban locations in the UK (Liverpool) and Canada (Vancouver). The results indicate the presence of an unknown bacterium that shares a homologue with Yersinia pestis.', u"Fullerene molecules are created entirely of carbon and have a highly unusual attributes. The one of the fullerene derivatives are heterofullerenes when one or more carbon atoms that form the fullerene carbon cage are replaced by a non-carbon atom, i.e., a heteroatom. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of the aromatic compound (benzene) on the boron, silicon and sulfur fullerene C60 hetero derivatives stability. The chosen heteroatoms were occupied only one ring of one type. The following complexes have been studied: C6H6@C54B6, C6H6@C55B5, C6H6@C54Si6, C6H6@C55Si5, C6H6@C54S6 and C6H6@C55S5. The energies of stabilization (\u0394Estab.), deformation (\u0394Edef) and interaction (\u0394Eint.) as well as absolute energy (\u0394E) of each examined heterofullerens C60 and their complexes with benzene were calculated with the use of the molecular modeling technique. The least amount of fullerene's cage distortion was characterized boron derivatives of fullerene C60 and their endohedral complexes. The calculation suggests that those systems could exist despite positive energies values and it lets assume the possibility of using them as drug carriers.", u'Background: Test-driven development (TDD) is an iterative software development technique where unit-tests are defined before production code. Previous studies fail to analyze the values, beliefs, and assumptions that inform and shape TDD. Aim: We designed and conducted a qualitative study to understand the values, beliefs, and assumptions of TDD. In particular, we sought to understand how novice and professional software developers, arranged in pairs (a driver and a pointer), perceive and apply TDD. Method: 14 novice software developers, i.e., graduate students in Computer Science at the University of Basilicata, and six professional software developers with work one to 10 years work experience participated in our ethnographically-informed study. We asked the participants to implement a new feature for an existing software written in Java. We immersed ourselves in the context of the study, and collected data by means of contemporaneous field notes, audio recordings, and other artifacts. Results: A number of insights emerge from our analysis of the collected data, the main ones being: (i) refactoring (one of the phases of TDD) is not performed as often as the process requires and it is considered less important than other phases, (ii) the most important phase is implementation, (iii) unit tests for unimplemented functionalities or behaviors are almost never up-to-date, (iv) participants first build a sort of mental model of the source code to be implemented and only then write test cases on the basis of this model; and (v) apart from minor differences, professional developers and students applied TDD in a similar fashion. Conclusions: Developers write quick-and-dirty production code to pass the tests and ignore refactoring.', u'Bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum) is one of the most successful plant colonizers of soils in temperate regions; however, its effects on microbial community structure and activity and nutrient dynamics remain poorly understood. We studied whether colonization of forest soil by bracken fern modifies the structure and function of the soil microbial communities and considered the implications for ecosystem functioning. For this purpose, we analyzed microbial community structure (PLFAs) and activity (basal respiration, metabolic quotient), litter decomposition and nutrient dynamics (C, N and P) in monospecific oak (Quercus robur L.), eucalyptus (Eucalyptus globulus Labill.) and maritime pine forests (Pinus pinaster Aiton) colonized by bracken fern. Colonization of forest soil by bracken fern led to a reduction in differences in microbial community structure, as revealed by principal component and cluster analysis, although samples from oak forests were grouped separately. According to this, bracken litter decomposed to a greater extent than native tree litter in pine forest soils, whereas the opposite was found in oak forest soils. Such differences were not observed in eucalyptus forest soils. Colonization by bracken fern affected C mineralization, with no difference between the different types of forest; however, both N and P mineralization were higher in oak than in the other types of forest. In conclusion, colonization by bracken fern homogenizes soil microbial community structure. Differences in the decomposability of bracken litter in the different forest systems suggest a high degree of metabolic specialization of soil microorganisms. Thus, the soil microorganisms associated with bracken are continuously driven to decompose the bracken litter. In the long-term this will alter nutrient cycling, slowing decomposition and enhancing sequestering of nutrients by bracken ferns.', u'In this paper we describe fossil conifer branches discovered in the Mesaverde Group, Williams Fork Formation in northeastern Utah, along Snake John Reef. Fossil conifers from the Campanian of northeastern Utah have not been previously studied, despite their common occurrence in the formation. The recovered fossils closely resemble Geinitzia known from the late Cretaceous of Europe, with several previous reported occurrences in North America, including New Jersey and Southern Utah. The fossils share morphological characteristics with Geinitzia, exhibiting short spirally arranged thin needles, with appressed scale-like leaves along the shoots. They differ from Araucarites in that the appressed needles are more scale like and smaller, and differ from the members of the modern Araucariaceae in lacking broad bases to the needles, although the fossils resemble the modern species Araucaria heterophylla (Norfolk Island Pine) native to the South Pacific. The observed branching pattern in the fossil reflects similarities found in the Cupressaceae Family, and Geinitzia may be regarded as an early member of this group, or having an affinity to fossil Araucariaceae conifers, which despite having a modern southern hemisphere geographic distribution today were widespread during the late Mesozoic, extending across North America and Europe.', u'In the UK, Cumulative Impact Assessment (CIA) has become a staple component of the licensing and regulatory assessment process. CIA considers the prospective impacts originating from new developments alongside impacts arising from existing activities. This assessment provides a representation of the disturbance experienced within UK waters, yet international transboundary effects are often overlooked or data is not freely available. An assessment of Atlantic herring Clupea harengus spawning beds was conducted. Seabed sediment maps, fisheries information and larval survey data were used to identify likely spawning sites. Interactions with seabed user activities and cumulative effects were then assessed for UK waters only. This methodology and the subsequent assessment have informed revised ICES management advice on activities interacting with spawning beds. The benefit of assessing single species interactions with developments is recognised, and the need for expanding the assessment to transcend territorial boundaries accepted. To extend this assessment to cover the geographic range of a mobile species such as Atlantic herring requires more data than considered previously. A proposed wider mapping project seeks to include data from fisheries, renewable energy companies, dredging companies, and statistics and mapping experts. This co-ordination between sea users and policy makers will allow a more robust assessment of the interaction of Atlantic herring with marine activities. Extending beyond this initial single species assessment it is suggested that there is a requirement for the quantifiable assessment of other individual transboundary receptors such as habitats, and mobile species such as birds and mammals. This can only be achieved through effective co-operation and free data exchange between developers and policy makers. Without clear co-ordination and the inclusion of all parameters in a CIA the true extent of impacts on the receptor cannot be determined.', u'Managers of large wildlife conservation programs need information on the conservation status of each of many species to strategically allocate limited resources. Oversimplified status data, however, runs the risk of missing information essential to strategic allocation. Conservation status consists of two components, the status of threats a species faces and the species\u2019 demographic status. Neither component alone is sufficient to characterize conservation status. Here we present a simple key for scoring threat and demographic changes for species using detailed information provided in free-form textual descriptions of conservation status. Importantly, this key applies equally to any taxon and can be used where quantitative trend data for threats or demography is sparse. We scored the threat and demographic status of 37 species recently recommended for reclassification under the Endangered Species Act by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and 15 control (not recommended for reclassification) species. We then compared the threat and demographic status scores to two metrics that FWS uses for their decision-making and reports to Congress: the reclassification recommendation and the recovery priority numbers (RPNs). While the metrics reported by FWS are often consistent with our scores for 52 species analyzed, our analyses highlight two problems with the oversimplified metrics. First, we show that both metrics can mask underlying demographic declines or threat increases; for example, ~40% of species not recommended for reclassification had changes in threats or demography. Second, we show that neither metric is consistent with either threats or demography alone, but conflates the two. We propose that large conservation programs, such as FWS\u2019s Endangered Species program, adopt our simple scoring system for threats and demography. By doing so, program administrators will have better information to monitor program effectiveness and guide their decisions.', u'Introduction: Remediating, or preferably, predicting which residents will have difficulty before they need remediating, is a challenging task. Most of us perform better when pumped for an exam. But how do we respond when under routine pressures? Do weaker learners adapt differently, despite coaching? Methods: Using an adaptation of virtual patient software, we explored how learners cope with handling repetitive yet time-sensitive routine tasks. We emulated the performance of routine tasks within a virtual electronic medical record (EMR) environment, tracking individual learner activity and decision pathways, time to act (with and without enforced pressure from programmed time-outs) and their adaptation trajectories over time with coaching. Learners were assessed using Situational Judgement and modified Script Concordance Testing, with reproducible and granular time constraints introduced into the clinical reasoning process. Results: Our case designs introduce a number of competing elements: time pressures, competing priorities and instructions, resource availability and unpredictable outcomes. Learner behaviour is assessed using a variety of metrics including time-stamped decision points, decision pathways and internal counter scores. Clinical reasoning pathways, as compared to a reference peer panel, are in turn compared with and without the time pressures. Conclusions: Predictive analytics have made great promises in diagnosing problems for learners in difficulty but are complex and expensive to deploy widely. Our simpler, rapidly reproducible approach may provide a more practical solution.', u'Residual water is a critical parameter in assessing the quality of immunological veterinary medicinal products (IVMPs). In majority of the laboratories the Karl Fischer titration (KFT) is used for the determination of water content in IVMPs. However, the transfer of IVMP into titration cell without affecting the baseline drift and repeatability seems to be the main problem when using this method. In turn, Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) allows measurement of closed vials, therefore eliminating the impact of atmospheric conditions on the sample. The aim of the study was to create a calibration model based on the reference method (Karl Fischer titration) and its optimization. Five different IVMPs designated for two animal species (dogs and rabbits) were used. The model was constructed on the basis of 49 samples tested, each in triplicate (n=147). The spectra were divided in two sets: calibration and validation. Proper selection of samples and their processing allowed to obtain a model of high quality (Q-value>0.6).', u'Since the emergence of Zika virus (ZIKV), reports of microcephaly have increased dramatically in Brazil; however, causality between the widespread epidemic and malformations in fetal brains has not been confirmed. Here, we examine the effects of ZIKV infection in human neural stem cells growing as neurospheres and cerebral organoids. Using immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy, we show that ZIKV targets human brain cells, reducing their viability and growth as neurospheres and cerebral organoids. These results suggest that ZIKV abrogates neurogenesis during human brain development.', u'Motivation: Open model repositories provide ready-to-reuse computational models of biological systems. Models within those repositories evolve over time, leading to many alternative and subsequent versions. Taken together, the underlying changes reflect a model\u2019s provenance and thus can give valuable insights into the studied biology. Currently, however, changes cannot be semantically interpreted. To improve this situation, we developed an ontology of terms describing changes in computational biology models. The ontology can be used by scientists and within software to characterise model updates at the level of single changes. When studying or reusing a model, these annotations help with determining the relevance of a change in a given context.\nMethods: We manually studied changes in selected models from BioModels and the Physiome Model Repository. Using the BiVeS tool for difference detection, we then performed an automatic analysis of changes in all models published in\nthese repositories. The resulting set of concepts led us to define candidate terms for the ontology. In a final step, we aggregated and classified these terms and built the first version of the ontology.\nResults: We present COMODI, an ontology needed because COmputational MOdels DIffer. It empowers users and software to describe changes in a model on the semantic level. COMODI also enables software to implement user-specific filter options for the display of model changes. Finally, COMODI is the next step towards predicting how a change in a model influences the simulation study.\nConclusion: COMODI, coupled with our algorithm for difference detection, ensures the transparency of a model\u2019s evolution and it enhances the traceability of updates and error corrections.\nAvailability: COMODI is encoded in OWL. It is openly available at http://comodi.sems.uni-rostock.de/.', u'It has come to light that ZIKV infection during pregnancy can result in fetal death, damage to the central nervous system, and growth restrictions. In 2016 there are expected to be >8,600,000 births in countries with ongoing ZIKV transmission. In response to the ZIKV threat, the WHO is strategically targeting prevention of infection in pregnant women and funding contraception use in epidemic regions. I propose that the damaging effects of ZIKV can be curtailed by timing pregnancy seasonally to minimize maternal exposure to ZIKV. The ZIKV mosquito vector has seasonal changes in its abundance and flavivirus transmission competence. By seasonally planning pregnancy, this aspect of vector ecology can be leveraged to align sensitive periods of gestation with the low-transmission season.', u'While there have been enormous advances in our understanding of the genetic drivers and molecular pathways involved in cancer in recent decades, there also remain key areas of dispute with respect to fundamental theories of cancer. The accumulation of vast new datasets from genomics and other fields, in addition to detailed descriptions of molecular pathways, cloud the issues and lead to ever greater complexity. One strategy in dealing with such complexity is to develop thought experiments which selectively focus on different levels of abstraction in order to build models to replicate salient features of the system and therefore to build hypotheses which reflect on the real system. NEATG is a simple non-physiological tumour growth model which displays emergent behaviours that correspond to a number of clinically relevant phenomena including tumour growth, intra-tumour heterogeneity, growth arrest and accelerated repopulation following cytotoxic insult. Analysis of model data suggests that the processes of cell competition and apoptosis are key drivers of these emergent behaviours. Questions are raised as to the role of cell competition and cell death in physical cancer growth and the relevance these have to cancer research in general is discussed.', u'Cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) is a powerful marker for DNA barcoding of animals, with good taxonomic resolution and a large reference database. However, when used for DNA metabarcoding, estimation of taxa abundances and species detection are limited due to primer bias caused by highly variable primer binding sites across the COI gene. Therefore, we explored the ability of the 16S ribosomal DNA gene as an alternative metabarcoding marker for species level assessments. Ten bulk samples, each containing equal amounts of tissue from 52 freshwater invertebrate taxa, were sequenced with the Illumina NextSeq 500 system. In comparison to COI, the 16S marker amplified more insect species and amplified more equally, probably due to decreased primer bias. Rough estimation of biomass might thus be less biased with 16S than with COI. According to these results, the marker choice depends on the scientific question. If the goal is to obtain a taxonomic identification at the species level, then COI is more appropriate due to established reference databases and known taxonomic resolution of this marker, knowing that a greater proportion of species will be missed using COI Folmer primers. If the goal is to obtain a more comprehensive survey in a context where it is possible to build a local reference database, the 16S marker could be more appropriate.', u'The intensification of western boundary currents in the global ocean will potentially influence meso-scale eddy generation, and redistribute microbes and their associated ecological and biogeochemical functions. To understand eddy-induced changes in microbial community composition as well as how they control growth, we targeted the East Australian Current (EAC) region to sample microbes in a cyclonic (cold-core) eddy (CCE) and the adjacent EAC. Phototrophic and diazotrophic microbes were more diverse (2 to 10 times greater Shannon index) in the CCE relative to the EAC, and the cell size distribution in the CCE was dominated (67%) by larger micro-plankton (\u2265 20 \xb5m), as opposed to pico- and nano-sized cells in the EAC. Nutrient addition experiments determined that nitrogen was the principal nutrient limiting growth in the EAC, while iron was a secondary limiting nutrient in the CCE. Among the diazotrophic community, heterotrophic NifH gene sequences dominated in the EAC and were attributable to members of the gamma-, beta-, and delta-proteobacteria, while the CCE contained both phototrophic and heterotrophic diazotrophs, including Trichodesmium, UCYN-A and gamma-proteobacteria. Daily sampling of incubation bottles following nutrient amendment captured a cascade of effects at the cellular, population and community level, indicating taxon-specific differences in the speed of response of microbes to nutrient supply. Nitrogen addition to the CCE community increased picoeukaryote chlorophyll a quotas within 24 h, suggesting that nutrient uplift by eddies causes a \u2018greening\u2019 effect as well as an increase in phytoplankton biomass. After three days in both the EAC and CCE, diatoms increased in abundance with macronutrient (N, P, Si) and iron amendment , whereas haptophytes and phototrophic dinoflagellates declined. Our results indicate that cyclonic eddies increase delivery of nitrogen to the upper ocean to potentially mitigate the negative consequences of increased stratification due to ocean warming, but also increase the biological demand for iron that is necessary to sustain the growth of large-celled phototrophs and potentially support the diversity of diazotrophs over longer time-scales.', u"Aim: The etiology of pregnancy denial remains poorly understood. Neither necessary nor sufficient conditions can be synthesized from the risk factors identified from psychological analyses. In accordance with clinical observations, we aim to explain denial of pregnancy from an evolutionary conflict perspective.\nMethods: Authors investigate evolutionary biology aspects and emphasize on the transition from solitary animal species to social species. The possibility of conflicts between primitive species-perpetuation forces and subjective social-identity forces are explored.\nResults: As members of a social species, human beings have a dual, contradictory character of independent organisms but interdependent people. This results in evolutionary inherited conflicts that, with respect to women's reproduction, distinguish between primitive and social-identity issues: i) to transmit genes by giving birth and ii) to become mother. Authors explain denial of pregnancy as a standby-in-tension response to a conflicting attempt to transmit genes without becoming mother. It may thus be considered as temporarily adaptive response by postponing conflict resolution. This model, based on subjective internal appraisals, is compatible with a huge diversity of causative events as expected from the specificity of each woman's life course.\nConclusions: The proposed etiology is consistent with clinical observations and brings prior models into agreement. From a clinical practice perspective, the ability to explain denial of pregnancy rationally may favor understanding and acceptation by concerned women. Health professionals' information may also be facilitated and psychotherapeutic follow up may gain in efficiency with reduced recidivism.\nMore generally, this evolutionary conflict approach provides a supplementary perspective to explore psychosomatic dysfunctions.", u'Many major human infectious diseases are transmitted via bodily products such as feces, blood, semen, and saliva. Such contaminants are also known disgust elicitors among humans. From an evolutionary perspective, revulsion in humans is hypothesized to have evolved to protect us from the risk of contracting disease; sensu the Parasite Avoidance Theory of Disgust. To investigate whether chimpanzees are sensitive to these potential sources of infection, we conducted feeding-related experiments to elicit avoidance behaviors in captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes troglodytes, N=20-42; sex ratio=1; 27\xb19 years-old) at the Centre International de Recherches M\xe9dicales de Franceville, Gabon. In the first set of experiments, we tested for feces-avoidance behaviors by presenting target individuals with food rewards in conjunction with visual, olfactory and tactile cues of chimpanzee feces. In a second experiment, the same individuals were presented with olfactory stimuli of blood, semen, and rotten meat. In all experiments, chimpanzees expressed some degree of behavioral avoidance, manifest as refusals to feed, increased latencies to feeding, or maintenance of greater distances from contaminants relative to control substrates. We are now in the process of testing whether behavioral tendencies observed toward these contaminants coincide with individual health markers, including current levels as well as historical records of infection with bacterial, protozoan and helminth parasites. We predict that individuals with greater tendencies toward avoidance of such contaminants, possibly representative of revulsion, to be characterized by better general health than less sensitive individuals.', u'Bycatch of protected species in commercial fishing operations is a primary concern to fishery managers because it threatens the conservation, protection, and recovery of fragile species, such as the Atlantic sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus oxyrinchus). One potential solution to reduce the risk associated with commercial fishing operations is to design commercial fishing gear that is more selective in terms of interactions between Atlantic sturgeon and commercial fisheries. Given the need to reduce commercial fishery interactions, the overarching goal was to reduce Atlantic sturgeon fishery interactions and maintain southern flounder (Paralichthys lethostigma) catch in North Carolina. The specific objectives of this study were to design and evaluate the effectiveness of a modified gillnet. Overall, the results proved that lowering the profile and amount of webbing had a beneficial impact at reducing Atlantic sturgeon encounters and bycatch. The modified gillnet reduced bycatch and Atlantic sturgeon encounters by 49.4% and 60.9%, respectively. We also found the modified gear entangled 51.6% less southern flounder, which corresponded to a 32% reduction in total weight; the experimental sections entangled slightly larger individuals than the control sections. Our findings showed the number of Atlantic sturgeon encounters was positively associated with mean water depth, with more Atlantic sturgeon encountered in deeper than shallower waters; 75% were encountered at depths between 4.6 and 6.1 m. In addition, we found that 41% of the Atlantic sturgeon encountered were in warmer (26\u201230\xb0C) than colder water.', u'Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men and often has no early symptoms. The major treatment options that include surgical or medical castration cause ablation of the production of testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and related androgens by the testes. These procedures do not affect adrenal, prostate and other tissues androgen production, therefore they are combined with androgen receptor antagonists to block their action. Recent studies have established that in castration-resistant prostate cancer many androgen-regulated genes become re-expressed and tissue androgen levels increase despite low serum levels. Abiraterone acetate inhibits the key enzyme cytochrome P450 17\u03b1-hydroxy/17,20-lyase (CYP17) which catalyzes the biosynthesis of androgens and provides the effective treatment of prostate cancer patients. The aim of this work was abiraterone acetate polymorph diagnostics and physcicochemical characteristics of polymorphs. Polymorphism is the ability of a compound in the solid state to exist in different crystalline forms. Molecules, having the same chemical composition, exhibit different spatial arrangements and/or exist in different conformations. Substances that exist in a non-crystalline solid state are said to be amorphous. The term pseudopolymorphism is used to describe solvates (including hydrates). Different polymorphs of a solid compound exhibit distinct physical properties such as, e.g.: hygroscopicity, solubility, dissolution rate, melting point and stability. All of which play a very important role in the pharmaceutical industry. The undesirable polymorphic form with lower solubility and consequently with a lower absorption rate decreases the concentration of active substance in the blood. The Biopharmaceutics Classification System classifies drugs taking into account their solubility. Because a change in a polymorphic form may influence on a drug product affectivity and its toxic properties the regulations required by the ICH Q6A guideline according to the decision tree no 4 demand the control of solid state behavior. Therefore, the polymorphic behavior of abiraterone acetate has to be carefully investigated and all found polymorphs have to be fully characterized. Abiraterone acetate was characterized by following methods: X-ray powder diffraction, infrared and Raman spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry. Polymorph screening was performed and single crystals were obtained by a vapour diffusion crystallisation. The structure of abiraterone acetate was solved by the single crystal X-ray diffraction. Additionally the structure was confirmed by the direct sample injection method (DI).', u'The spatial organization of a set of individuals may reflect the underlying relationships between them. This study investigated whether inter-individual distance, or the proximity between a pair of individuals, predicts the patterns of grooming interactions. The subjects were twelve chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes; M = 2, F = 10; age: mean = 34.8, range = 25-45) and six bonobos (Pan paniscus; M = 2, F = 4; age: mean = 27.3, range = 13-44) studied since September 2015 and living at Kumamoto Sanctuary (Japan). Proximity, time in contact, and time at less than one meter of all group members were recorded using focal animal sampling. The full temporal organization of grooming patterns was analyzed after ad libitum video records of the interactions. A pair of individuals that spends more time in close proximity was predicted to (i) show a shorter latency to approach before the onset of grooming, (ii) groom sensitive body parts (e.g. face and genitals) more often, and (iii) take turns in grooming more frequently than two individuals that stay far from each other. The results may suggest species-specific or relationship-dependent social tolerance, reflected in both inter-individual distance and patterns of grooming.', u'Background: Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a grade IV brain tumor that arises from star-shaped glial cells supporting neural cells called astrocytes. The survival of GBM patients remains poor despite many specific molecular targets that have been developed and used for therapy. Tousled-like kinase 1 (TLK1), a serine-threonine kinase, was identified to be overexpressed in cancers such as GBM. TLK1 plays an important role in controlling chromosomal aggregation, cell survival and proliferation. In vitro studies suggested that TLK1 is a potential target for some cancers; hence, the identification of suitable molecular inhibitors for TLK1 is warranted as a new therapeutic agents in GBM. To date, there is no structure available for TLK1. In this study, we aimed to create a homology model of TLK1 and to identify suitable molecular inhibitors or compounds that are likely to bind and inhibit TLK1 activity via in silico high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS) protein-ligand docking. Methods: 3D homology models of TLK1 were derived from various servers including HOmology ModellER, i-Tasser, Psipred and Swiss Model. All models were evaluated using Swiss Model Q-Mean server. Only one model was selected for further analysis. Further validation was performed using PDBsum, 3d2go, ProSA, Procheck analysis and ERRAT. Energy minimization was performed using YASARA energy minimization server. Subsequently, HTVS was performed using Molegro Virtual Docker 6.0 and candidate ligands from ligand.info database. Ligand-docking procedures were analyzed at the putative catalytic site of TLK1. Drug-like molecules were filtered using FAF-Drugs3, which is an ADME-Tox filtering program. Results and conclusion: High quality homology models were obtained from the Aurora B kinase (PDB ID:4B8M) derived from Xenopus levias structure that share 33% sequence identity to TLK1. From the HTVS ligand-docking, two compounds were identified to be the potential inhibitors as it did not violate the Lipinski rule of five and the CNS-based filter as a potential drug-like molecule for GBM.', u'The conservation of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) faces complex and dynamic threats, deriving mostly from anthropogenic factors such as high density and poverty in local human populations. One specific threat is poaching, which contributes to both permanent physical disabilities in chimpanzees and cross-species disease transmission. In the Sonso chimpanzee community, Budongo forest, Uganda, over 20% chimpanzees are permanently disabled by indiscriminate poachers\u2019 snare-trap. While severe injuries can sometimes result in death, little is known about the long-term health impacts of poaching to chimpanzees or possible effective mitigation measures. To combat and monitor the complexities of conservation threats, a holistic transdisciplinary approach is required and as a result, the Budongo Conservation Field Station (BCFS) has implemented a comprehensive strategy. Instead of focusing solely on chimpanzee health, our multi-faced tit-for-tat approach also incorporates education and action measures for local communities living adjacent to the forest. To reduce poaching, we provide alternative livelihood sources, veterinary services and education while concurrently employing their local indigenous knowledge of poaching practices to more effectively locate snares/traps in the forest. To mitigate disease transmission across species, beneficiaries in incentive programs must have functional sanitation facilities. To consistently monitor threats and conservation impacts, we routinely collect data on snare recovery and infectious disease prevalence in chimpanzees, humans and livestock. Our preliminary results, since the programs\u2019 inception, show a reduction in respiratory and gastrointestinal infections coupled with an increase in snare recovery from the forest. These findings suggest that our holistic approach is effective in mitigating the threats to chimpanzees in Budongo forest.', u'Bone research has been re-directed in the 1990s by three revolutions: firstly the recognition that bones respond to changes in their mechanical environment in a dose-dependent way; secondly by the idea that these changes in bone size can be understood as self-adaptation to variant forces by a servo-control mechanism (mechanostat theory); and thirdly by the proposition that muscles \u2018enslave\u2019 bone\u2019s mechan-adaptation. It has been an inherent assumption in most of these bone studies that bone deformations mostly result from bending and compression, and little to no attention was paid to torsional loading. Notably, axial strains dominate in axial loading, whilst torsional loading is associated with relatively large shear strains. To better understand the mechanical interplay between regional muscle contractions and bone deformations, my team performed the MUST-study: bone pins were inserted into the human tibia, and non-collinear retro-reflective marker clusters were affixed to these pins in order to assess translational and rotational tibia deformations. Results from that study revealed that torsion is a prevailing deformation type within the human tibia, and that tibia torsion is causally linked to calf muscle contractions. Simultaneously, a series of  in-silico experiments in our lab with a mechanostat model were undertaken. They revealed that torsion (i) is the most effective mode of bone deformation, and (ii) that it can explain the so-called flexure neutralization of miss-aligned fractures, which is inexplicable on grounds of compression and bending alone. Moreover, recent data also suggest that torsion, rather than impact may the bone-effective agent in the side-differences encountered in tennis players and baseball pitchers. Thus, I am currently following the idea of torsion as an effective deformation mode to elicit bone-anabolic responses. This is in contradiction to the main stream in bone research, which still regards impact loading as the most efficient way. Understanding and settling this question will be important in order to provide optimized exercise prescriptions that will maximize the benefits for bone, and minimize adverse events, such as joint sprains, cartilage damage, and tendon problems.', u'According to the World Health Organization, one of the criteria for the standardized assessment of case causality in adverse drug reactions is the temporal relationship between the intake of a drug and the occurrence of a reaction or a laboratory test abnormality. This article presents and describes an algorithm for the detection of a reasonable temporal correlation between the administration of a drug and the alteration of a laboratory value course. The algorithm is designed to process normalized lab values and is therefore universally applicable. It has a sensitivity of 0.932 for the detection of lab value courses that show changes in temporal correlation with the administration of a drug and it has a specificity of 0.967 for the detection of lab value courses that show no changes. Therefore the algorithm is appropriate to screen the data of electronic health records and to support human experts in revealing adverse drug reactions. A reference implementation in Python programming language is available.', u'Many animals, including humans and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), eat insects, although frequencies vary greatly between populations. Insects are traditionally either seen as desired nourishment or a fallback fare compensating a shortage of preferred foods. We test these explanations against long-term data on chimpanzees at Gashaka, Nigeria. Here, chimpanzees harvest army ants much more frequently than elsewhere, while termite eating is completely absent. We report a pattern of strict seasonality in terms of rainfall and pronounced peaks in the abundance of fruit, the chimpanzees\u2019 preferred staple food. Even so, evidence based on recovered ant-dipping wands and chimpanzee faecal samples indicates that myrmecophagy does not decrease when fruit becomes more abundant. Instead, ant-eating is virtually constant year round and chimpanzees eat them every other day or so. This contradicts the fallback hypothesis and supports the hypothesis of ants as preferred food. Army ants may thus serve as a supplement or complement in terms of macro - or micronutrients to the chimpanzees. Nevertheless, it remains puzzling why termites are not eaten at Gashaka, despite apparent availability and technological skills to extract insects. We therefore propose that dietary choices are also likely to contain a social element. The non-consumption of a perfectly edible food-item may reflect a "taboo" that comes at some cost. Similarly, army ant gathering is associated with painful bites, and self-experiments suggest that the highly chitinous insects do not taste well, compared to smaller arboreal ants and termites. We speculate that, in this way, mental concepts of identity versus otherness may develop that strengthen group cohesion. We do not have sufficient data for Nigeria, but speculations about social identity based on community-dependent behavioural uniformity are open to empirical testing. The principal method would be to document natural instances of \u201cacculturation\u201d, when female chimpanzees transfer from their natal into a neighbouring community.', u'Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) termite fishing has been studied for decades. However, we still know little about how raw material for the extraction of tools is obtained. This is particularly true for potential selection criteria and what these imply for underlying cognitive mechanisms, such as forward planning. We employed traditional archaeological methods while studying termite fishing in two ecologically distinct habitats in western Tanzania: the Kasekela community, with approximately 55 habituated individuals who reside in the forests and woodlands of Gombe; and the Issa community of around 67 members, in process of habituation, who live in the more open, drier woodland-savannah of the Issa Valley. Results suggest that chimpanzees select particular species as tool sources, many of which are also food plants. Chimpanzees at both sites chose three identical species, perhaps for their especially suitable physical properties, like bark that is easy to peel off. At both sites, chimpanzees used plants close to termite mounds, but also from further away (up to 35 m), indicating a mixed strategy of opportunism and forward thinking. The populations also differed, in that Issa chimpanzees clearly preferred bark as raw material, while Gombe chimpanzees also used twigs and grass. Moreover, a quarter of sourced plants at Issa were not visible from the mound, and, compared to Gombe, on average 5 m further away. These disparities are likely caused by environmental differences, in that the more open and drier habitat at Issa might necessitate a higher degree of planning.', u'Wildlife monitoring data provide an objective basis for evaluating conservation efforts and refining conservation strategies. Central chimpanzee nest censuses were conducted in La Belgique Research Site, south-east Cameroon, in 2001 (reference year) and 2014 using the Standing Crop Nest Count methodology. In both study years, 10 6-km transects traversing all habitat types were opened at a constant bearing of 45\xb0 to collect nest data. Analyses were performed in Distance 6.2. Chimpanzee nest density values (nests/km\xb2) were 112 and 69 in 2001 and 2014, respectively. These results suggest that chimpanzee numbers in the research site have dropped by 38.4% in 13 years. This is probably due to a strong commercial hunting pressure, especially since 2009, whereby gun hunting has become the de facto method for harvesting wildlife in the region. From the reference year till 2014, the study site had not been subject to devastating disease epidemics or major habitat disturbance from logging and agricultural activities. In the study site\u2212where the presence of conservation scientists and the constant sensitization within the rural communities raise awareness of the need for ape protection\u2212chimpanzees are not particularly targeted by hunters, and it is quite plausible that a number of individuals fled to adjacent forest patches where disturbance shooting is minimal. However, despite observed range shifts, chimpanzees persist in the region. In contexts where laws are not enforced rigorously enough, conservation research presence or other activities aiming at reinforcing the value of living great apes are crucial for the survival of these critically-endangered species.', u"Indoles represent a structural element in a myriad of natural products and biologically active molecules. Of special importance are 2,3-disubstituted indoles. Thus, a number of methods for their synthesis have been described. However, these are often hampered by a number of limitations: they often offer poor regioselectivity and suboptimal functional group tolerance. Also, they can normally be adapted to the procurement of a small subclass of indoles only. We have developed an approach to 2,3-disubstituted indoles overcoming these obstacles. By selectively activating the amide carbonyl in isatin-derived oxindoles, we obtained a number of the title compounds in a regiospecific and functional group-tolerant manner. The methodology is normally characterized by excellent yields. The reaction proceeds by chemoselective partial reduction of the amide moiety to an iminium salt and a subsequent nucleophilic addition followed by dehydration, which furnishes the target indole. A number of nucleophiles, including C- and S-nucleophiles, have been examined. The obtained compounds were studied towards acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity, as the indole skeleton is often seen in the struc-ture of enzyme inhibitors. Cholinesterase inhibitors are used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, increasing available acetylcholine by decreasing the AChE activity. For the tested agents, properties like logP, logBBB (Blood-Brain Barier penetration) and Caco2 permeabilities were also calculated. Based on the predicted values, only two of them are able to penetrate into the CNS (central nervous system). Molecular docking was performed on the whole set of the syntesized indole derivatives, resulting in a wide range of AChE inhibitory activity. Molecular docking binding interactions reported the lowest energy conformations of the syntesized compounds and the key amino acid residues at the active binding site of AChE. The current synergy between computations and experiments provided the identification of the indole derivatives exhibiting the highest inhibitory activity. The presented results will provide theoretical guidance for further modification and optimization of the indole derivatives.", u'Human food security requires the production of sufficient quantities of both high-quality protein and dietary energy. In a series of case-studies from New Zealand, we show that while production of food ingredients from crops on arable land can meet human dietary energy requirements effectively, requirements for high-quality protein are met more efficiently by animal production from such land. We present a model that can be used to assess dietary energy and quality-corrected protein production from various crop and crop/animal production systems, and demonstrate its utility. We extend our analysis with an accompanying economic analysis of commercially-available, pre-prepared or simply-cooked foods that can be produced from our case-study crop and animal products. We calculate the per-person, per-day cost of both quality-corrected protein and dietary energy as provided in the processed foods. We conclude that mixed dairy/cropping systems provide the greatest quantity of high-quality protein per unit price to the consumer, have the highest food energy production and can support the dietary requirements of the highest number of people, when assessed as all-year-round production systems. Global food and nutritional security will largely be an outcome of national or regional agro-economies addressing their own food needs. We hope that our model will be used for similar analyses of food production systems in other countries, agro-ecological zones and economies.', u'The core tasks of the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (Bundesinstitut f\xfcr Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte [BfArM]) with respect to medical device safety include evaluating risks arising from the use or application of medical devices (based on incident reports), assessing and coordinating the counter-measures to be taken (i.e. corrective actions), and authorizing clinical trials of medical devices and evaluating the corresponding serious adverse events. Additionally, the BfArM also conducts research on medical device safety, specifically on the possibilities and challenges of data-driven approaches to detect and evaluate risk and on the contribution of human factors to device safety \u2013 i.e. factors that may have an impact on how users interact with a device. The present talk focuses on this latter issue. The significance of addressing human factors relating to the use of medical devices results from the contribution of human error to adverse events. For instance, an involvement of human error could be identified in a good 10% of the reports of suspected device-related incidents evaluated by the BfArM between 2005 and 2014. For several reasons, it may be assumed that the true value of device-related incidents involving human error is even larger and that the potential for human error is likely to increase in the future. To effectively reduce the risk for human error \u2013 or block its negative outcome - it is imperative to not only identify human error as a significant cause of adverse events, but rather understand the causation of the error, including the conditions under which errors are likely to occur. This requires the analysis of the perceptual, cognitive (e.g. attention, working memory, long term memory), motor or motivational processes involved and the identification of relevant factors at the various levels of the socio-technical system. In our research, we currently pursue two selected human factors issues, selected based on the incident-data collected at the BfArM and on the current literature: Insufficient device knowledge and the multi-faceted issue of device alarms, the latter including both the users\u2019 interactions with alarming devices and their perceptual, cognitive, or motor responses to the devices\u2019 alarms.', u'Single-cell RNA-Sequencing (scRNA-Seq) is a cutting edge technology that enables the understanding of biological processes at an unprecedentedly high resolution. However, well suited bioinformatics tools to analyze the data generated from this new technology are still lacking. Here we have investigated the performance of non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) method to analyze a wide variety of scRNA-Seq data sets, ranging from mouse hematopoietic stem cells to human glioblastoma data. In comparison to other unsupervised clustering methods including K-means and hierarchical clustering, NMF has higher accuracy even when the clustering results of K-means and hierarchical clustering are enhanced by t-SNE. Moreover, NMF successfully detect the subpopulations, such as those in a single glioblastoma patient. Furthermore, in conjugation with the modularity detection method FEM, it reveals unique modules that are indicative of clinical subtypes. In summary, we propose that NMF is a desirable method to analyze heterogeneous single-cell RNA-Seq data, and the NMFEM pipeline is suitable for modularity detection among single-cell RNA-Seq data.', u'The development of methods for the preparation of biologically relevant compounds in an enantiomerically enriched form constitutes one of the most significant tasks in the contemporary organic chemistry. In particular, enantioselective reactions where prochiral substrates are converted into enantiomerically enriched products in the presence of chiral catalyst are of great importance. Recently, asymmetric organocatalysis, where simple organic molecules are used as catalysts of various enantiodifferentiating reactions, has become a highly useful synthetic tool enabling for the efficient asymmetric induction based on diverse activation modes. Herein, we report our studies on organocatalytic, enantioselective strategies for the synthesis of biologically relevant molecules such as: quaternary \u03b1-amino acids and their isoelectronic analogs \u03b1-aminophosphonates, benzo[1,5]oxazocines, \u03b1-methylidene-\u03b4-lactones, \u03b1-alkylidene-ketones, furfural derivatives, and benzothiophenes. The devised approaches utilize readily available chiral organocatalysts to control stereo-chemical reaction outcomes. Operational simplicity, efficiency and high enantio- and diastereoselectivities are the main benefits of the developed strategies.', u'Sleep presents a third of human life and a healthy and restorative sleep is indispensable for a good performance during daytime. Human functions follow circadian rhythms and follow the need to relax and recover from daytime stressors. According to human senses and abilities this relaxation and recovery period is concentrated on nighttime. Sleep is shutting off senses and follow a dedicated program for recovery with light sleep, deep sleep and rapid eye movement sleep with different functions linked to these sleep phases and with different consequences for the physical and mental functions. Unfortunately in patients with sleep disorders this recovery program is disturbed. In order to identify reasons and in order to explore physical and mental problems related to this, sleep studies had been developed and are conducted in sleep medicine centers. Sleep medicine centers perform a cardiorespiratory polysomnography. During cardiorespiratory polysomnography brain functions and sleep stages are quantifed through assessing electroencephalography (EEG), electrooculography (EOG), electromyography (EMG) on the head and on the legs, electrocardiography (ECG), respiratory airflow, respiratory effort, oxygen concentration (SaO2), body position, and body movements. Because going to bed to find sleep is a behavioral action as well, we record video and sound in addition. This is done under laboratory conditions in a controlled and supervised setting, called sleep medicine center. Sleep disorders can be identified and are classified into six categories: insomnia, hypersomnia of central origin, sleep related breathing disorders, sleep related movement disorders, sleep-wake rhythm disorders, and parasomnias. In addition secondary sleep disorders due to medical or mental problems or due to substances or drugs are known as well. Due to the high prevalence of sleep disorders and sleep complaints there is an urgent need to develop and introduce simplified tools to identify sleep problems. For some sleep disorders protable recorder systems were developed. This is the case for sleep disordered breathing. For insomnia problems and sleep-wake rhythm disorders actigraphy systems are used. Only based on the recording of movement and motion using statistical analysis it is possible to distinguish sleep and wake with a good accuracy and reliability. This method is used to study sleep duration as well as sleep fragmentation to some extent. A study on sleep duration and impaired sleep in ballet dancers over a period of 60 days prior to a major premiere event is presented.', u'Dutasteride, N-[2,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-oxo-4-aza-5\u03b1-androst-1-ene-17\u03b2-carboxamide, is an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) which inhibits the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. Dutasteride as a 5-reductase inhibitor is useful for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer. Because of a large variety of solvents and reagents used in the synthesis, it was necessary to develop new, sensitive and selective gas chromatography (GC) methods. The optimization of the methods consisted in selecting different types of sample injection and detection as well as optimization of experimental conditions that allowed to meet the appropriate range (10-120% of the specification limit) and suitable detection limits (LOD) of compounds. Significant differences in the volatility of these compounds forced the division into volatile solvents (methanol, acetonitrile, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, heptane and toluene) analyzed with the use of the gas chromatography with headspace (GC-HS) and less volatile compounds (pyridine, dimethylformamide, 1,4-dioxane, acetic acid, ethylene glycol, 4-dimethylaminopyridine) analyzed with the use of gas chromatography with direct injection (GC-FID). Benzene, carbon tetrachloride and 1,2-dichloroethane are potential contaminants of toluene and dichloromethane, thus the control of these solvents was a limit test procedure. Due to the low specification limits for benzene (2 ppm), carbon tetrachloride (4 ppm) and 1,2-dichloroethane (5 ppm) it was neccesery to use gas chromatography with mass spectrometry detection (GC-MS).\nAll three new methods were validated according to the requirements of the ICH (International Conference on Harmonization) validation guideline Q2R1 and the guideline for residual solvents Q3C. Specificity, precision, accuracy, linearity, limits of detection and quantitation and robustness were determined and the results meeting the acceptance criteria were obtained.', u'Erlotinib is a reversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which acts on the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and is used to treat non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), pancreatic cancer and several other types of cancer [1]. It is known that erlotinib forms different salts which can exist in multiple crystalline solid forms. This important property known as a polymorphism may have an impact on physical and chemical stability of the drug substance (API), processability during manufacturing in the final drug product and bioavailability of the drug to the patient. Changes in the crystal structure of API can lead to the undesired changes in properties. Hence, the control of the polymorphic form is essential during the drug substance manufacture and requires a thorough understanding of solid-state changes that may occur in pharmaceutical materials. To achieve a comprehensive understanding of solid-state transformations different analytical techniques are applied. In our studies the variable\u2013temperature powder X-ray diffraction (VT\u2013PXRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetry (TGA), Fourier transformed infrared (FTIR), attenuated total reflectance (ATR) and Raman spectroscopy were used to investigate the correlation between the thermal behavior and structural transformations of polymorphic forms of erlotinib salts. VT-PXRD method has detected the temperature range of the existence of polymorphic transitions, spectroscopy methods have characterized intramolecular vibrations and thermal methods have provided information on the transition and melting temperature and relationships between polymorphic forms.', u'In the context of space physiology, research is being conducted to understand the physiological effects from radiation, hypogravity, spaceflight and planetary environments. The goal is to identify new methods to address the unique challenges in medical treatment, human factors, and behavioral health support on future exploration missions. As crew size is small and time is limited during actual missions, space agencies resort to addressing the effects of space travel in analog environments that have features similar to those of spaceflight. Head-down tilt bed rest (HDBR), for instance, is one of the established terrestrial models used to simulate some of the physiological changes experienced during spaceflight under weightless conditions and is therefore considered a valuable testbed to prepare for future long-duration exploration missions. HDBR studies are performed in extremely-well controlled laboratory settings, offering the possibility to test the effects of \u2013 what is in essence - physical inactivity and fluid shift. However, HDBR studies have a dual purpose, as they are also invaluable for the development, testing and validation of countermeasures aimed at mitigating microgravity-induced changes to the human body. With respect to the latter, the consensus is that short-term bed rest studies (< 14 days) serve foremost as a first screening of potential promising countermeasures, particularly for the cardiovascular system. Screening of preventative procedures and protocols for the muscular system requires at least mid-term (14 -28 days), whereas studies aiming to validate countermeasures for bone require long-term HDBR studies, in the order of 60-90 days. Hitherto the preferred countermeasure during spaceflight has been physical exercise. The presentation will therefore provide a short overview of the current onboard exercise regimen and will, in light of this, outline the scientific background and aims of the ongoing 60-day HDBR study at the :envihab (from the words \u2018Environment\u2019 and \u2018Habitat\u2019), the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine\u2019s state-of-the-art research facility.', u'Intermediate-risk AML is a group of heterogeneous disease, complete and accurate understanding of their molecular pattern are urgent. We downloaded gene expression profile from TCGA, and performed the differential gene expression analysis of 98 intermediate-risk AML patients according to the different clinical outcome. By studying the overlap of differential genes based on OS and EFS classification, we identified 6 distinct genes (SPANXC, ADAMTS15, C8B, FAM183A, FLJ42875 and PXDN). Only FLJ42875 and PXDN were relatively widely expressed in intermediate-risk AML. Moreover, Q1 (0-25%) of PXDN was associated significantly shortened OS and EFS (P=0.0001, P=0.0032, respectively), while OS and EFS of Q2 (25-50%) of FLJ42875 expression group were significantly longer than that of low FLJ42875 expression patients (P=0.0157, P=0.0074, respectively). In the multivariable model of OS, PXDN Q1 group had a shorter OS and EFS (P < 0.001, P =0.009; respectively). While FLJ42875 Q2 group had a tendency of prolonged OS and EFS (P=0.050, P=0.023; respectively). Our results suggest that FLJ42875 and PXDN may play a role in the leukemogenesis of intermediate-risk AML.', u'For many years research has been carried out to form selective drug carriers. Gold nanoparticles (AuNP) are of particular interest. New perspectives of these nanoparticles as drug carries include: the use of drugs which are poorly soluble in water, targeted delivery of drugs, transport by barrier membranes, the possibility of macromolecular drug release, "combined" treatment - two or more drugs, securing faster mechanisms of action and improved efficiency of drugs. Drug-modified gold nanoparticles (R-AuNP) have been synthesized in a single-phase system based on the reduction of hydrogen tetrachloroaurate (III) using the stabilizing ligand. The color change from yellow to deep ruby red indicated the formation of gold nanoparticles. The formation of stabilized gold nanoparticles was confirmed by the observation of the surface plasmon resonance band. Varying drug concentrations and kinds of solvents were used for the reduction of tetrachloroaurate to determine the effect of drug/ligand concentration and solvent type on the formation of AuNPs. The stability of newly synthesized R-AuNPs was characterized using UV-Vis spectroscopy. The conjugated particles (the resulting AuNPs) were characterized by several techniques, including transmission electron microscopy (TEM), UV-Vis spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy (IR), Raman spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR), capillary electrophoresis, electrochemical techniques and zeta potential measurement. In any application of the AuNPs, it is important first to determine their basic physico-chemical characteristics, such as, e.g. size, shape, mono- or polydispersity, UV\u2013Vis spectra, electrokinetic potential as well as other special parameters and analytical methods employed in the characterization of the AuNPs. TEM is a powerful and straightforward method for the determination of size (including size distribution) and shape of the AuNPs. UV\u2013Vis absorption spectrophotometry allows for an in situ direct analysis of colloidal solutions. The position of the observed band maxima (typically in the range 500 \u2013 600 nm) is usually related to particle size. However, the position of the surface-plasmon resonance (SPR) maximum cannot be directly related to the particle size of the NPs and other factors have to be considered. The capillary electrophoresis is the method applied to confirm the formation of nanoparticles as well as to determine the drug residuals in the leachate during the purification of the conjugates. By means of infrared and Raman spectroscopy it is possible to study the molecular species deposited on the AuNPs. The NMR spectroscopy and electrochemical techniques are used to confirm the attached drugs. Complete structural characterization of the organic molecules attached to the AuNPs surface was carried out.', u"Background For patients in health institutions urinary tract infections often have significant negative health consequences. Indwelling urinary catheters and inappropriate practice related to this is a strong risk factor for urinary tract infections. Thus, a national guideline promotes best practice for handling indwelling urinary catheters. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of patients with indwelling urinary catheters in 34 Norwegian nursing homes. Furthermore, we wanted to study whether health professionals followed the national guidelines related to indwelling urinary catheters. If the study reveals room for improvements, it may indicate interventions which can contribute to improvements in the health care institutions. Methods We conducted a quantitative survey in health care professionals who worked in nursing homes in from Sogn og Fjordane county (Norway), and asked them to which extent guidelines related to indwelling urinary catheters were used at their work place. The study also included data on the prevalence of indwelling urinary catheters in 830 patients (565 women and 265 men) in the 34 nursing homes. We also conducted a clinical audit in these nursing homes in order to study the how the guidelines were implemented. An overall assessment was made (satisfactory or not satisfactory) on whether 11 dimensions of the guidelines were followed (Table 2). When \u2265 80% of the nursing homes had a score = yes/usually to the items above it was considered satisfactory. The evaluations from the clinical audits were based on an overall judgment of the finding at the nursing homes. The study was approved by the Western Norway Hospital Trust as part of a quality assessment strategy. An approval from the regional ethical committee was not needed as the study was a quality assessment project and did not include any individual patient data. Results Our findings shows that 92 of 830 patients had a indwelling urinary catheter the day of prevalence assessment, and significantly more men (21.1%) than women (6.7%) had a indwelling urinary catheter (Fisher's exact test; P <0.001. Overall, the survey showed that compliance with the guidelines was unsatisfactory with one exception; the doctor prescribed the posting of indwelling urinary catheters (Table 2 and 3). Conclusions In conclusion, most areas we investigated need improvements. The survey itself may be a key to change the nursing staff`s attitudes and culture and to gain increased competence. In addition, it seems necessary to have good data solutions as well as leadership anchoring in further work on implementing best practice in handling indwelling urinary catheters.", u'DNA cloning is a simple, straightforward process. It has been put into practice as a standard lab procedure for cloning the gene of interest for specific protein expression and other molecular or cellular studies. The present study is the first of its kind to hypothesize the formation of interfering recombinant plasmid during a DNA cloning reaction that is believed to interfere with the protein or gene expression. This might lead to a false conclusion in a cellular study and also may lower the protein expression during the production stage.', u'Based on World Health Organization (WHO) report, it was estimated that one in five people before age 75 will suffer from cancer during their lifetime, and more than 13 million cancers death will happen in 2030. Chemotherapy is a basic approach for the treatment of cancer diseases. However, because of drug resistance and considerable side effects drug-induced toxicity, the discovery of new metal analogs with promising activity and high therapeutic index is an urgent need. The fundamental role of copper and the recognition of its complexes as important bioactive compounds in vitro and in vivo aroused an ever-increasing interest in these agents as potential drugs for therapeutic intervention in various diseases. Schiff bases are a critical class of compounds in medical chemistry that have demonstrated significant chemotherapeutic and antibacterial application. Schiff base Cu(II) complexes revealed great potential for antiproliferative, antibacterial, and gastroprotective activity. Coumarins are a wide class of natural and synthetic compounds that showed diverse pharmacological activities including anticancer activity. Among the wide variety of coumarins, 7-hydroxycoumarin derivatives have been shown to possess desirable antiproliferative activities. In particular, their antibacterial, antifungal and anticancer activities make the compounds attractive for further derivatization and screening as novel therapeutic agents. Taking these compounds as lead, we have designed and synthesized a series of new copper(II) complexes with coumarin-derived Schiff base ligands. Two series of Schiff bases were prepared by condensation of 8-formyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin and 8-acetyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin with p-substituted aniline derivatives. These compounds were used as ligands in the synthesis of copper(II) complexes. The obtained Schiff bases as well as copper complexes are mostly novel molecules. Only the products of condensation 8-formyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin with p-toluidine and 8-acetyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin with p-toluidine and its copper(II) complex were synthesized, but the anticancer activity of these compounds was not determined. The assay of their cytotoxic activity is in progress. Preliminary, we have identified two copper(II) coordination compounds of 7-hydroxy-8-[1-(4-methoxyphenyl imino)ethyl]-4-methyl-2H-chromen-2-one and 7-hydroxy-8-[1-(4-hydroxyphenyloimino)ethyl]-4-methyl-2H- chromen-2-one having dose-dependent antiproliferative activity on HeLa cancer cell line. Additionally, the Schiff bases \u2013 derivatives of substituted salicylaldehydes and 2-hydroxyacetophenones condensed with appropriate anilines were prepared. Such compounds have been reported in scientific papers, their copper complexes have not been assayed yet, and may serve as an useful tool in QSAR investigation.', u'Clawpack is a software package designed to solve nonlinear hyperbolic partial differential equations using high-resolution finite volume methods based on Riemann solvers and limiters. The package includes a number of variants aimed at different applications and user communities. Clawpack has been actively developed as an open source project for over 20 years. The latest major release, Clawpack 5, introduces a number of new features and changes to the code base and a new development model based on GitHub and Git submodules. This article provides a summary of the most significant changes, the rationale behind some of these changes, and a description of our current development model.', u'To statistically evaluate the performance of brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), researchers usually rely on null hypothesis significance testing (NHST), i.e. p-values. However, over-reliance on NHST is often identified as one of the causes of the recent reproducibility crisis in psychology and neuroscience. In this paper we propose Bayesian estimation as an alternative to NHST in the analysis of BCI performance data. For the three most common experimental designs in BCI research - which would usually be analyzed using a t-test, a linear regression, or an ANOVA - we develop hierarchical models and estimate their parameters using Bayesian inference. Furthermore, we show that the described models are special cases of the hierarchical generalized linear model (HGLM), which we propose as a general framework for the analysis of BCI performance. The HGLM framework allows the analysis of complex experimental designs with multiple levels of hierarchy (e.g. multiple sessions, multiple subjects, multiple groups) and can accommodate different types of non-normal data (e.g. classification accuracy), which are often analyzed under inappropriate assumptions with NHST. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed models on three real datasets and show how the results obtained with Bayesian estimation can give a more nuanced insight into BCI performance data, compared to NHST. Therefore we believe that a wider adoption of the Bayesian estimation approach in BCI studies could bring about greater transparency in data analysis, allow accumulation of knowledge across studies, and reduce questionable practices such as "p-hacking". To achieve this goal, we provide all the data and code necessary to reproduce the presented results, allowing BCI researchers to use Bayesian estimation in their own work.', u'Multiple metrics have been developed to detect causality relations between data describing the elements constituting complex systems, all of them considering their evolution through time. Here we propose a metric able to detect causality within static data sets, by analysing how extreme events in one element correspond to the appearance of extreme events in a second one. The metric is able to detect both linear and non-linear causalities; to analyse both cross-sectional and longitudinal data sets; and to discriminate between real causalities and correlations caused by confounding factors. We validate the metric through synthetic data, dynamical and chaotic systems, and data representing the human brain activity in a cognitive task.', u'The evolution of insect male genitalia has received much attention, but there is still a lack of data on the macroevolutionary origin of its extraordinary variation. We used a calibrated molecular phylogeny of 71 of the 150 known species of the beetle genus Limnebius to study the evolution of the size and complexity of the male genitalia in its two subgenera, Bilimneus, with small species with simple genitalia, and Limnebius s.str., with a much larger variation in size and complexity. We reconstructed ancestral values of complexity (perimeter and fractal dimension of the aedeagus) and genital and body size with Bayesian methods. Complexity evolved more in agreement with a Brownian model, although with evidence of weak directional selection to a decrease or increase in complexity in the two subgenera respectively, as measured with an excess of branches with negative or positive change. On the contrary, aedeagus size, the variable with the highest rates of evolution, had a lower phylogenetic signal, without significant differences between the two subgenera in the average change of the individual branches of the tree. Aedeagus size also had a lower correlation with time and no evidence of directional selection. Rather than to directional selection, it thus seems that the higher diversity of the male genitalia in Limnebius s.str. is mostly due to the larger variance of the phenotypic change in the individual branches of the tree for all measured variables.', u'The FDA adaptive trial design guidance (1) is a thoughtful but lengthy document that explains on 50 pages wide-ranging and important topics \u201csuch as ... what aspects of adaptive design trials (i.e., clinical, statistical, regulatory) call for special consideration, ... when to interact with FDA while planning and conducting adaptive design studies, ... what information to include in the adaptive design for FDA review, and ... issues to consider in the evaluation of a completed adaptive design study.\u201d [20-24]. The advice in the guidance is often misinterpreted, misquoted or ignored. This is unfortunate because an appropriate use of adaptive designs could increase the chances of success in drug development programs. Decision makers rely on the advice of regulatory affairs professionals and statisticians to interpret the guidance. Unfortunately, many clinical trial statisticians and regulatory professionals only have a rudimentary understanding of the guidance, presumably because the document is somewhat inscrutable for both audiences, too \u2018regulatory\u2019 for statisticians, too \u2018statistical\u2019 for regulatory people. This digest was therefore written with three goals in mind: 1) Make the content of the guidance more accessible through a question & answer format, 2) shorten the content from 50 to 10 pages by excerpting the most important dictums, and 3) keep fidelity to the original guidance by frequent use of direct quotes with reference to the respective lines in the original FDA guidance where the quote can be found in square brackets.', u'The present work intends to demonstrate why the euglenas (Euglenophyceae) should be treated under the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN, from now on). Most comprehensive treatments for the group have been made under previous versions of the ICN, and Google Scholar provide more hits when botanical terms (as \u201ceuglenophyta, euglenophyceae\u201d) are introduced than when zoological terms (\u201ceuglenid, euglenozoa\u201d) are used. Finally, recent scholars dealing with these algae considered themselves botanists.', u'Human-driven habitat fragmentation is cited as one of the most pressing threats facing many coastal ecosystems today. Many experiments have explored the consequences of fragmentation on fauna in one such foundational habitat, seagrass beds, but have either surveyed along a gradient of existing patchiness, used artificial materials to mimic a natural bed, or sampled over short timescales. Here, we describe faunal responses to constructed fragmented landscapes varying from 4-400 m2 in two transplant garden experiments incorporating live eelgrass (Zostera marina L.). In experiments replicated within two subestuaries of the Chesapeake Bay, USA across multiple seasons and non-consecutive years, we comprehensively censused faunal communities, from mesopredators to epifaunal grazers, using complementary quantitative methods. We found that community properties, including abundance, species richness, Simpson and functional diversity, and composition were generally unaffected by the amount of habitat, the size of the landscape, or the intensity of sampling. Additionally, an index of competition based on species co-occurrences revealed no trends with increasing patch size, contrary to theoretical predictions. We extend conclusions concerning the invariance of animal communities to habitat fragmentation from small-scale observational surveys and artificial experiments to experiments conducted with actual living plants and at realistic scales. Our findings are likely a consequence of the rapid life histories and high mobility of the organisms common to eelgrass beds in this region, and have implications for both conservation and restoration, suggesting that even small patches can rapidly promote abundant and diverse faunal communities.', u'The attractor method and some of its applications are presented. We start with the original research question \u201cHow to diagnose fatigue (fatigability) in MS patients reliably\u201d. So far a decisive method to discriminate between non-fatiguing and marginal fatiguing patients was not available. Traditional kinematic methods looking at step length, width, height, time, cadence, speed etc. and non-linear methods considering the Lyapunov exponent are able to describe groups of fatiguing populations but unable to diagnose fatigue of single individuals reliably. Therefore, this novel method based on attractor attributes was developed (Vieten, Sehle, & Jensen, 2013). The core idea behind the method is the description of a cyclic movement as a state vector described in terms of a limit cycle attractor and the variation of a well-defined magnitude around it. For the experimental setup of the gait analysis we use two three-axial sensors mounted on each foot to acquire acceleration data of subjects walking at a constant speed on a treadmill. Those data constitute a subset of the state vector describing walking, rich in information content and sensitive enough to quantify subtle changes in the movement pattern and in the variability. The low frequency information of the sensor data is used to calculate the attractor and the variation of the state vector around it. We established three parameters: \u03b4M the speed normalized mean distance between two attractors - a measure of movement pattern differences; \u03b4D the measure of variation changes between two measurements; \u03b4F = \u03b4M \xb7 \u03b4D the \u201cFatigue index Kliniken Schmieder (FKS)\u201d, a measure describing fatigability. The accuracy of the method is shown and its ability to quantify subtle differences demonstrated. The presentation ends with some applications.', u'Polymorphism is the ability of a compound in the solid state to exist in different crystalline forms. Molecules, having the same chemical composition, exhibit different spatial arrangements and/or exist in different configurations and conformations. In pseudopolymorphs (solvates) molecules of solvents are incorporated into the crystal lattice. Contrary to the crystalline forms of polymorphs, amorphous forms are characterized by the lack of long-range molecule arrangements. The spatial arrangement of molecules in an active substance determines its physical properties and influences the bioavailability and stability of a drug product. The most frequent phase transitions that can be present in an active substance include: polymorphic transition, hydration, dehydration, amorphisation and crystallization. The knowledge about the phase transitions which can arise during the active substance manufacturing, formulation process and stability studies is very important. Phase transitions may lead to the formation of an undesirable phase of the active substance with different properties than its desirable form. Studies of phase transitions in an active substance contained in a solid dosage form are very complicated, because there are many additional factors to consider, including a small concentration of the active substance, the presence of crystalline and amorphous placebo constituents, as well as the interactions between the active substance and the excipients. There are a number of methods used to characterize crystalline and amorphous forms of the active substance. A definitive evidence of polymorphism or pseudopolymorphism is the demonstration of a nonequivalent structure by single crystal X-ray diffraction. X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) and variable temperature X-ray powder diffraction (VT-XRPD) can also be used to provide an unequivocal proof of polymorphism and pseudopolymorphism. Other methods, including e.g. differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) as well as Raman (RS) and infrared spectroscopes (IR), help to further characterize the crystalline and amorphous forms. In this presentation, a few examples of phase transition studies in the active substances and solid dosage forms will be discussed: structural and physicochemical studies of olopatadine hydrochloride conformational polymorphs, phase transitions of dutasteride performed by the VT-XRPD method, erlotynib polymorphism studies performed by means of RS and the evaluation of analytical methods for the detection of phase transitions in tablets containing aripiprazole and imatinib.', u'Francisella tularensis is a zoonotic bacterial pathogen that causes severe disease in a wide range of host animals, including humans. Well-developed murine models of F. tularensis pathogenesis are available, but they do not meet the needs of all investigators. Instead, researchers are increasingly turning to insect host systems to: (1) allow high-throughput that is cost-prohibitive or ethically-questionable in mammals; (2) enable studies of host-pathogen interactions when mammalian facilities are unavailable; and (3) provide valuable information about environmental persistence and transmission. However, the utility of previously-described insect hosts is limited because of temperature restriction, short lifespans, and concerns about the immunological status of insects mass-produced for other purposes. Here, we present a novel host species, the orange spotted (OS) cockroach (Blaptica dubia), that overcomes these limitations and is readily infected by F. tularensis. Intrahemocoel inoculation was accomplished using standard laboratory equipment and lethality was directly proportional to the number of bacteria injected. Disease progression differed in insects housed at low and high temperatures, a pattern indicative of a switch between virulence and transmission phenotypes. As in mammalian hosts, F. tularensis mutants lacking key virulence components were attenuated in OS cockroaches. Finally, antibiotics were delivered to infected OS cockroaches by systemic injection and controlled feeding; in the latter case, protection correlated with oral bioavailability in mammals. Collectively, these results demonstrate that this new host system should facilitate discovery of factors that control F. tularensis virulence, immune evasion, and transmission while also providing a platform for early stage drug discovery and development.', u'Population outbreaks of the corallivorous crown-of-thorns seastar (COTS), Acanthaster \u2018planci\u2019 L., are among the most important biological disturbances of tropical coral reefs. Over the past 50 years, several devastating outbreaks have been documented around Guam, an island in the western Pacific Ocean. Previous analyses have shown that in the Pacific Ocean, COTS larval dispersal may be geographically restricted to certain regions. Here, we assess the genetic structure of Pacific COTS populations and compared samples from around Guam with a number of distant localities in the Pacific Ocean, and focused on determining the degree of genetic structure among populations previously considered to be isolated. Using microsatellites, we document substantial genetic structure between 14 localities from different geographical regions in the Pacific Ocean. Populations from the 14 locations sampled were found to be structured in three significantly differentiated groups: (1) all locations immediately around Guam, as well as Kingman Reef and Swains Island; (2) Japan, Philippines, GBR and Vanuatu; and (3) Johnston Atoll, which was significantly different from all other localities. The most stark divergence of these groupings from previous studies is the lack of genetic differentiation between Guam and extremely distant populations from Kingman Reef and Swains Island. These findings suggest potential long-range dispersal of COTS in the Pacific, and highlight the importance of ecological determinants in shaping genetic structure.', u'Research on great ape gestural communication has hitherto prioritised the signaller, focusing on the expressed repertoire, the set of gesture types that an individual deploys. In this study of wild bonobos (Pan paniscus), we also examine the understood repertoire, the set of gesture types that a recipient understands: a recipient understands a gesture if they respond to the signaller with an Apparently Satisfactory Outcome (ASO). Combining the understood and expressed repertoires substantially expands an individual\u2019s overall repertoire. Hence, we propose that including the understood repertoire better represents an individual\u2019s actual communicative repertoire, and may for the first time reveal gesture types received exclusively by specific subsets of individuals. Significant differences between expressed and understood repertoires might result from two things: (1) gestures are ritualised between signallers and recipients and may therefore be unidirectional in some cases, or (2) the circumstances of use differ among age-sex groups, limiting the need for an individual to use a certain gesture type. In the latter, we expect consistency in particular age-sex groups whereas unidirectional comprehension as a result of ritualization would predict random distribution among individuals. We further compare our dataset with and without gesture instances occurring in play, as play may be a context in which individuals deploy gestures that they rarely or never use otherwise. Assessing the understood repertoire is a useful tool for animal communication researchers, not only allowing shorter study-periods, but also to discover gesture types specific to subsets of individuals, which may reveal much about a species\u2019 social behaviour.', u'Pan and Ateles converge in many aspects of their social organization. Both are characterized by a high degree of fission-fusion dynamics, in which species exhibit high variation in party size, composition, and spatial cohesion. Within this framework, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and spider monkeys (Ateles sp.) exhibit the most similarity in subgrouping patterns and social relationships. Specifically, significant overlap is found in the context of female social relationships and patterns of male-female aggression. Here, we examine how affiliative behaviors mediate female social relationships in captive spider monkeys, chimpanzees, and bonobos. Focal data were collected from five female Ateles geoffroyi at Brookfield Zoo (mean age=13.2, range: 7-21), five female bonobos at Columbus Zoo (mean age=22.0, range: 7-31), and five chimpanzees at North Carolina Zoo (mean age=20.4, range: 15-43). Female dyads did not differ in their rates of total or directional grooming, but spider monkeys engaged in significantly less mutual grooming (Kruskal-Wallis H= 8.917, N=30, p=0.012). All three species exhibited grooming reciprocity. There were no significant differences in the overall use of tension-reduction behaviors. However, there were significant differences in the types of tension-reduction behaviors, with spider monkeys using embraces (H=14.306, p=0.001), bonobos using socio-sexual behaviors (H=14.269, p=0.001), and chimpanzees using kisses (H=11.50, p=0.003). Furthermore, bonobos used tension-reduction behaviors significantly more often in feeding contexts (ANOVA F=14.357, N=15, p=0.001). We suggest that each species use tension-reduction behaviors that are species-typical, but serve as functional equivalents. However, bonobos may experience increased tension in feeding contexts, which suggests differing social and ecological pressures may necessitate an increase in tension-reduction behaviors.', u'Microsatellite markers remain an important tool for ecological and evolutionary research, but are unavailable for many non-model organisms. One such organism with rare ecological and evolutionary features is the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1758). Chelonibia testudinaria appears to be a host generalist, and has a unusual sexual system, androdioecy. Genetic studies on host specificity and mating behavior are impeded by the lack of fine-scale, highly variable markers. In the present study, we discovered thousands of new microsatellite loci from next-generation sequencing data, and characterized 12 loci thoroughly. We conclude that 11 of these loci will be useful markers in future ecological and evolutionary studies on C. testudinaria.', u'Sex differences in immatures predict behavioral differences in adulthood in many mammal species. Because most studies have focused on sex differences in social interactions, little is known about possible sex differences in \u2018preparation\u2019 for adult life with regards to tool use skills. We investigated sex and age differences in object manipulation in immature apes. Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) use a variety of tools across numerous contexts, whereas bonobos (Pan paniscus) use few tools and none in foraging. In both species, a female bias in adult tool use has been reported. We studied object manipulation in immature chimpanzees at Kalinzu (Uganda) and bonobos at Wamba (Democratic Republic of Congo). We confirmed that chimpanzees showed higher rates and more diverse types of object manipulation than bonobos. Against expectation, male chimpanzees showed higher object manipulation rates than females, whereas in bonobos no sex difference was found. However, object manipulation by male chimpanzees was play-domi nated, whereas manipulation types of female chimpanzees were more diverse. Manipulation by young immatures (<3 years old) of both species was similarly dominated by play, but only in chimpanzees did it become more diverse with age. In chimpanzees, object types became more tool-like (i.e. sticks) with age, further suggesting preparation for tool use in adulthood (i.e. ant-dipping). The male bias in object manipulation in immature chimpanzees, along with the late onset of tool-like object manipulation, indicates that not all (early) object manipulation in immatures prepares for subsistence tool use. Object play may also function in motor skill practice for male-specific behaviors like dominance displays.', u'Evidence for culture in non-human species continues to grow, yet there are few candidate examples of cumulative culture outside of humans\u2019 distinctively complex achievements. Prerequisites for cumulative culture include not only the ability to build on established behaviors but also to relinquish old ones and flexibly switch to more productive or efficient alternatives. Here, we established an inefficient solution to a foraging task in five groups of captive adult chimpanzees (N=19 - 4 male, 15 female; average group size of 8 individuals) living at the Michale E. Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research. Three groups were subsequently seeded with a conspecific model who demonstrated an alternative, more efficient, solution to the same task. When participants could still successfully forage with their previously established behaviors, the majority of individuals did not switch to this more efficient solution; however, when their foraging method eventually became highly inefficient relative to that of the available alternative, nine chimpanzees with socially-acquired information (four of whom were exposed to additional human demonstrations) relinquished their old behaviors in favor of the more efficient one. In contrast, only one individual in a control group that did not witness a knowledgeable model was seen to do this (One-tailed Fisher\u2019s exact test, p<.01). Individuals who switched were later able to combine behavioral components of these two techniques to produce a more efficient solution than their extensively used original extractive method (One-tailed Wilcoxon signed-rank test: Z = -2.410, N = 10, p < .01, r = -0.54). This suggests that the ability to combine independent behaviors to produce a superior compound technique, thought to be a major driving force of cultural evolution in hominin history, may have been inherited from an ancient ancestor shared with chimpanzees.', u'During 2008-2014, 101 pop-up satellite and 31 internal archival electronic tags were deployed in bluefin tuna (12 to 250 kg in weight) in the Western and Central Mediterranean and in the Atlantic coast of Morocco. Time at liberty spanned from 18 to 391 days. In the Western and Central Mediterranean, two behavioral patterns / contingents (highly migratory and resident) were observed to co-occur. Imprinting of early Atlantic migrants is hypothesized to explain the existence of the two contingents. None of the \u201cresident\u201d individuals left the Mediterranean during the whole tracking period. None of the tuna present in the Mediterranean at some point crossed over to the Eastern Mediterranean. The occurrence of potential Mediterranean spawners in North Atlantic waters beyond the 45oW was also observed.', u'Cacao production is one of the most important agro-forestry practice in West Africa. In Togo, cacao production is concentrated in the hilly area in the south-west of the country, close to the political border with Ghana. In this commentary paper, I summarize some of the main issues faced by cacao production value chain in Togo, highlighting its connections with poverty alleviation and ecosystem management and conservation practices. A road map of future needs is also presented and discussed.', u'Background  :  Fetal malformations and other structural abnormalities are relatively frequent findings in the course of routine prenatal ultrasonographic examination. Due to their considerable genetic and clinical heterogeneity, the underlying genetic cause is often elusive and the resulting inability to provide a precise diagnosis precludes proper reproductive and fetal risk assessment. We report the development and first applications of an expanded exome sequencing-based test, coupled to a bioinformatics-driven prioritization algorithm, targeting gene disorders presenting with abnormal prenatal ultrasound findings.  Methods  : We applied the testing strategy to14 euploid fetuses, from 11 on-going pregnancies and 3 products of abortion, all with various abnormalities or malformations detected through prenatal ultrasound examination. Whole exome sequencing (WES) was followed by variant prioritization, utilizing a custom analysis pipeline (Fetalis algorithm), targeting 758 genes associated with genetic disorders which may present with abnormal fetal ultrasound findings.  Results  :A definitive or highly-likely diagnosis was made in 6 of 14 cases (43%), of which 3 were abortuses (Ellis-van Creveld syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Nemaline myopathy 2) and 3 involved on-going pregnancies (Citrullinemia, Noonan syndrome, PROKR2-related Kallmann syndrome). In the remaining 8 on-going pregnancy cases (57%), a ZIC1 variant of unknown clinical significance was detected in one case, while in 7 cases testing did not reveal any pathogenic variant(s). Pregnancies were followed-up to birth, resulting in one neonate harboring the PROKR2 mutation, presenting with isolated minor structural cardiac abnormalities, and in 7 apparently healthy neonates. Discussion : The expanded targeted exome sequencing-based approach described herein (Fetalis), provides strong evidence suggesting a definite and beneficial increase in our diagnostic capabilities in prenatal diagnosis of otherwise chromosomally balanced fetuses with troubling ultrasound abnormalities. Furthermore, the proposed targeted exome sequencing strategy, designed primarily as a diagnostic rather than a research discovery tool, overcomes many of the problems and limitations associated with clinical wide-scale WES testing in a prenatal setting.', u'Demographic studies are fundamental in population ecology, as well as in conservation biology and wildlife management. However, few methods are available to determine the exact age of animals. Mark-recapture is usually the main method to study demography, but this approach is highly time-consuming and needs long-term monitoring. For species for which recapture is not feasible, this method is not valid. However, in vertebrates with indeterminate growth, such as fish, amphibians, and reptiles, skeletochronology is a method that allows age to be estimated from a bone. Nevertheless, studies of skeletochronology frequently involve the death of the animal to obtain the bone. In the present study, we test the reliability of phalanx skeletochronology, comparing the readings from the most commonly used bones in reptile skeletochronology (femur and humerus) with the age estimated from phalanges. Our results show phalanx skeletochronology to be a reliable method for estimating age in lizards without killing them. Cross-section readings from all bones studied presented a high correlation and repeatability, regardless of the phalanx chosen. These findings imply that, to apply skeletochronology, phalanges must be used instead of other bones that mean the death of the animal, and the killing of lizards for skeletochronology studies is no longer justified. This alternative is especially relevant for endangered species, considering that obtaining a representative sample usually requires a considerable number of individuals.', u'Postcopulatory sexual selection may favour mechanisms to reduce sperm competition, like physical sperm removal by males. To investigate the origin of sperm removal, I studied the reproductive behaviour and mechanisms of sperm competition in the only living member of the oldest damselfly family, Hemiphlebia mirabilis, one species that was considered extinct in the 1980s. This species displays scramble competition behaviour, whose males search for females with short flights and both sexes exhibit a conspicuous \u201cabdominal flicking\u201d. This behaviour is used by males during an elaborate precopulatory courtship, unique among the Odonata. Females use a similar display to reject male attempts to form tandem, but eventually signal receptivity by a particular body position. Males immobilise females during courtship using their legs, which, contrarily to other damselflies, never autotomize. Copulation is short (range 4.1-18.7 min), and has two stages. In the first stage, males remove part of the stored sperm, and inseminate during the second stage, at the end of mating. The examination of genitalia indicates that males have two horns covered by back-oriented spines, which match the size and form of female genitalia. The volume of sperm in females after copulation was 2.8 times larger than the volume stored in females whose copulation was interrupted at the end of stage I, indicative of a significant sperm removal. These results point out that sperm removal is an old character in the evolution of odonates, probably dating back to the Permian.', u'Sexual selection favours traits that increase mating and, thus, reproductive success. Some scholars have suggested that intrasexual selection driven by contest competition has shaped human male aggression. If this is the case, one testable hypothesis is that beliefs and behaviour related to male aggression should be more prevalent in societies where the intensity and strength of sexual selection is higher, as measured by factors such as the presence and scope of polygyny, the number of same-sex competitors relative to potential mates, and male contribution to subsistence. Using data from a global sample of 78 societies, we found strong support for this hypothesis. We discuss potential alternative explanations for the relationships, ruling out some using multivariate methods to control for confounding variables such as political complexity, warfare and geographic clustering.', u'A variety of pharmaceutical preparations, which are applied in the management of non-infectious diseases, have shown in vitro some antimicrobial activity. These drugs are called \u201cnon-antibiotics\u201d. So far, a lot of attention has been focused on phenothiazines, thioxanthenes and other agents with affinities to cellular transport systems or agents showing other inhibition mechanism. Several authors confirmed that some non-antibiotics are \u201chelper compounds\u201d, which enhance the in vitro activity of certain antibiotics against specific bacteria (ex. omeprazole and nizatidine enhance the effect of metronidazole on Helicobacter pylori). The aim of this study was to detect and characterise the antimicrobial activity of non-antibiotic drugs, selected from the pharmaceutical products analysed during the state control performed in National Medicines Institute in Warsaw. Over 100 pharmaceutical preparations were randomly chosen from different groups of drugs. The surveillance study was performed on standard ATCC microbial strains used for drug control: Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans and Aspergillus brasiliensis. It was shown that the drugs listed below inhibited growth of at least one of the examined strains: Cyclaid 100 mg cap. (ciclosporine), Heminevrin 300 mg cap. (clomethiazole edisylate), Hydroxycarbamid Teva 500 mg caps. (hydroxycarbamide), Ibandronat Apotex 150 mg tab., Ossica 150 mg tab. (ibandronic acid), Lazivir 150 mg + 300 mg tab. (lamivudyne, zydovudine), No-Spa Max 80 mg tab. (drotaverine HCl) and Rupafin 10 mg tab. (rupatadine). The MIC values of active substances of above drugs were evaluated. The broad spectrum of activity was found in case of clomethiazole which inhibited growth of all tested strains ( MIC: 1.6 \u2013 3.2 mg/ml ). All tested bacterial strains were inhibited by hydroxycarbamide (MIC: 0.8 - 1.6 mg/ml). The high activity against Gram-positive strains was found for drotaverine and rupatadine (MIC: 0.4 mg/ml). Mould strain A. brasiliensis was inhibited by ibandronic acid (MIC 3.2 mg/ml), clomethiazole (MIC 1.6 mg/ml) and cyclosporine (MIC 0.8 mg/ml). Moreover ibandronic acid was active against P. aeruginosa in relatively low concentration (MIC: 0.2 mg/ml). In case of antiviral tablets Lazivir (two active substance: lamivudine and zidovudine) only zidovudine inhibited growth of E. coli in very low concentration 0.00125 mg/ml whereas lamivudine to concentration 1.6 mg/ml did not show any inhibition towards tested strains. The antimicrobial activity of the drugs emphasize a necessity of neutralization of their activity during microbial purity assays of pharmaceutical products.', u'Social learning theories predict biased transmission dictating what and whom is copied. We presented a novel tool-use task to six groups of captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) to investigate a model proficiency bias. The study included six groups totalling 54 chimpanzees (24 males) housed in six social groups at the KCCMR, University of Texas, U.S.A. Subjects were aged 12- to 43-years-old (M = 24.5 years, SD = 7). In each of four groups (N = 33, Males = 18), two models were trained to use one of two visually and functionally different \u2018hook\u2019 and \u2018spoon\u2019 tools to obtain baskets containing food that were otherwise out-of-reach. Once trained, the models demonstrated their tool-use in the presence of the group. The two models differed in their novel-task-solving proficiency as ascertained by prior interactions with novel tasks (also observed by group members) and caregiver ratings of each chimpanzee\u2019s general proficiency. Two groups of \u2018control\u2019 chimpanzees (N = 21) had no prior information regarding the task and saw no conspecific demonstrations. Within the experimental groups, significantly more chimpanzees touched the tool used by the \u2018high proficiency\u2019 model than the one used by the \u2018low proficiency\u2019 model (p < 0.001), demonstrating some degree of model-based social learning bias. The tool used in observing chimpanzees\u2019 first attempts and first successes, however, did not differ as a function of which model used the tool. This was likely because the task could be easily learned asocially. We propose that the chimpanzees\u2019 tool-use behaviour was guided by biased stimulus enhancement alongside asocial learning. As with humans, chimpanzees demonstrate an ability to discern the most proficient model but also show the flexibility to asocially acquire multiple successful methods. Thus, chimpanzees and humans both demonstrate adaptive social learning strategies dictating when and whom they copy.', u'Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) compete aggressively for territory with their neighbors. Results from playback experiments and observations of naturally occurring intergroup interactions indicate that success in territorial competition depends mainly on the number of adult males on each side. Communities with more males are therefore expected to win more intergroup contests and, as a result, expand their range. Demography is thus expected to play a decisive role in intergroup competition. Testing this hypothesis, however, has proven difficult. Most studies have focused on a single community, so that the actual number of males is known for only one side. Additionally, because chimpanzees reproduce and grow slowly, many years of data are needed to test the effects of demographic change on territorial behavior. Here we report on 20 years of data from two habituated neighboring communities. We found that numerical advantage plays an important role in territorial competition. During the first part of the study period, the Mitumba community suffered a demographic decline. As a result, males from the larger Kasekela community won the majority of intergroup interactions and expanded their range deep into areas previously used by Mitumba. However, during the last five years, the Mitumba community increased in size, and subsequently recovered a substantial portion of their range from the Kasekela chimpanzees. This study highlights the importance of long-term studies for understanding territorial dynamics.', u'Chimpanzees must be able to coordinate with others even when conflicts of interest are present. The \u201cSnowdrift-Game\u201d provides a model to understand how organisms coordinate and make decisions under conflict situations. By investigating whether and how chimpanzees solve this dilemma we can gain insight into the mechanisms of cooperation. Moreover, by comparing chimpanzees with their closest relatives, bonobos and humans, we can understand the evolutionary context of decision making in this situation. We presented pairs of captive chimpanzees (N=10; Mage= 20.5 years) and bonobos (N=6, Mage=13.7 years) housed at the Leipzig Zoo in Germany as well as 20 children dyads from the same city, with an adapted version of the Snowdrift games. In our task, subjects were faced with an unequal reward distribution. In the critical condition the higher reward was acquired by letting a partner act, with the risk that if neither partner acted the rewards would be lost after a period of thirty seconds. Both chimpanzees and children were highly successful at coordinating their actions to solve the dilemma (bonobo data is currently under collection). They almost never lost the rewards because at least one partner was willing to pay the cost of getting the decreased reward, to avoid coordination failure (no reward). Both species behaved strategically as they waited longer for their partner to act when this would lead to a higher reward. However, evidence from their resource distributions, their action latencies and their communicative acts suggests that children behaved more strategic than chimpanzees. Our results demonstrate that both species can successfully coordinate their actions in conflict situations although they differ in the way they achieve coordination.', u'Exponentially growing bacteria are rarely found in nature. Instead, bacteria spend most of their lifetime in a slow- or non-proliferating state, a state that is occasionally interrupted by an increase in accessible nutrients. To successfully compete for pulses of nutrients, copiotrophic marine bacteria have adaptations that allow them to change their metabolism to support exponential growth in response to nutrients and to return to stationary phase when nutrients return to normal scarcity. The molecular details of these adaptations can be observed through proteome profiles, i.e. relative abundances of proteins in cells, and how they change between different conditions. We developed proteome profiles during exponential and stationary phase conditions for three model organisms representing major marine bacterioplankton lineages. 22500-3000 proteins per isolate were detected, representing large proportions of each proteome (67-87%). A shift from protein synthesis and other processes typically associated with active growth, to proteins essential for nutrient scavenging, was observed during transition into stationary phase. The three isolates differed in magnitude of their responses and in how enzymes of different metabolisms responded. Some of the differences can be seen as differences in implementation of a shared strategy, such as an increase in enzymes involved in carbon storage, while other differences are best described as differences in strategy. We thus observed the proteome reflection of \u201csignature metabolisms\u201d in the three isolates \u2013 distinct metabolic adaptations to environmental circumstances. These findings have direct implications for the interpretation of proteomic and genetic data from microbes in natural environments.', u'A spawning habitat envelope has been created for bluefin tuna in its traditional spawning ground in the Mediterranean Sea by combining environmental variables and species behavior. We used logistic regressions through a generalized linear model (GLM) approach to determine whether reproduction was affected by spawning habitat characteristics and individual behavior. Results from the implementation of the model predicted a high probability of occurrence of reproductive events associated with 17 tagged tuna. Some of them matched the already well known spawning grounds in the Mediterranean Sea (the area around the Balearic Islands, the Tyrrhenian Sea and the Gulf of Sirte). The model also proposed some other areas seldom or not at all mentioned in the bibliography in both, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean, such as the Alboran Sea, the Catalan Sea, the Gulf of Lions and the Bay of Biscay. This model provides an objective methodology to predict and adapt spawning areas, and to identify other potential but unknown, or even new, spawning areas and periods for the species. Moreover, the application of the present methodology could help the implementation of an adaptive management approach for Atlantic bluefin tuna by predicting areas suitable for spawning and identifying changes in spawning areas and season in the currently highly changing ocean and climate conditions.', u'Viruses could have originated from the frantic competition to survive among the primitive life forms of the old ages. This is the result of this new hypothesis which proposes that viruses could have originated as remnants of primitive microorganisms disintegration. The destruction can have resulted from an attack of other cells for the purpose of nutrition or imposing control on the nutritional sources. This view is conclusive and can replace old hypotheses and additionally, it is flexible and explains virus diversity.', u'Klotho (KL), originally discovered as an aging suppressor, was a membrane protein that shared sequence similarity with the \u03b2-glucosidase enzymes. Recent reports showed Klotho might have a role in adipocyte maturation and systemic glucose metabolism. However, little is known about the transcription factors involved in regulating the expression of porcine KL gene. Deletion fragment analysis identified KL-D2 (-418 bp to -3 bp) as the porcine KL core promoter. MARC0022311 in KL intron 1 appeared a polymorphism (A or G) in Landrace \xd7 DIV pigs, and relative luciferase activity of pGL3-D2-G was significantly higher than pGL3-D2-A. This was possibly the result of a change in KL binding ability with transcription factor organic cation transporter 1 (OCT-1), which was confirmed using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Moreover, OCT-1 regulated endogenous KL expression by RNA interference. Our study indicates SNP MARC0022311 affects porcine KL expression by regulating its promoter activity via OCT-1.', u'The increasing development of aquaculture activity in the coast of Sagres, area included in the Parque Natural do Sudoeste Alentejano e Costa Vicentina (PNSACV) SW Portugal, has to comply with regional and national regulations. The development also has to comply with EU directives including: Quality of Shellfish Waters Directive 2006/113/EC (QSWD); Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC (WFD); Marine Strategy Framework Directive 2008/56/EC (MSFD); Maritime Spatial Planning 2014/89/EU, (MSP). During 2014/2015, a monitoring routine was established to assess the potential impact of aquaculture in the region, as required by the Ag\xeancia Portuguesa do Ambiente (APA). This involved a weekly sampling routine of water parameters at surface and bottom, including temperature (SST), salinity (Sal), Secchi depth, chlorophyll (Chl), suspended particulate matter (SPM), pH, oxygen (O2) and nutrients. Additional water samples were collected for phytoplankton counts to provide information on the species contributing to Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs). Associated with the routine sampling, innovative approaches to understanding the impact of aquaculture have been undertaken including: use of remote sensing products to provide spatial and temporal data for SST, Sal, Chl, and SPM validated with in situ radiometric data (Satlantic and WISP-3); genomics for HABs and flow cytometry for nanoplankton; a survey of impact on the benthos; determination of nutrient condition in the region through nutrient stoichiometry; automisation of data collection with an oceanographic buoy. Preliminary data from both routine and innovative studies will be presented in relation to aquaculture management and to the requirements of the WFD and the MSFD.', u'Sleeping exposes lizards to predation. Therefore, sleeping strategies must be directed towards avoiding predation and might vary among syntopic species. We studied sleeping site characteristics of two syntopic, congeneric lizards - the Bay Island forest lizard, Coryphophylax subcristatus and the short-tailed Bay Island lizard, C. brevicaudus and evaluated inter-specific differences. We measured structural, microclimatic and potential predator avoidance at the sleeping perches of 386 C. subcristatus and 185 C. brevicaudus. Contrary to our expectation, we found similar perch use in both species. The lizards appeared to use narrow girth perch plants and accessed perches by moving both vertically and horizontally. Most lizards slept on leaves, with their heads directed towards the potential path of a predator approaching from the plant base. There was no inter-specific competition in the choices of sleeping perches. These choices indicate an anti-predator strategy involving both tactile and visual cues. This study provides insight into a rarely studied behaviour in reptiles and its adaptive significance.', u'North Americans spend the majority of their time indoors where they are exposed to the microbiome of the built environment (BE) they inhabit. Despite the ubiquity of microbes in BEs, and their potential impacts on health and building materials, basic questions about the microbiology of these environments remain unanswered. We present a study on the impacts of geography, material type, human interaction, location in a room, seasonal variation, and indoor and microenvironmental parameters on bacterial communities in offices. Our data elucidates several important features of microbial communities in BEs. First, under normal office environmental conditions, bacterial communities do not differ based on surface material (e.g., ceiling tile or carpet), but do differ based on the location in a room (e.g., ceiling or floor), two features which are often conflated, but which we are able to separate here. We suspect that previous work showing differences in bacterial composition with surface material were likely detecting differences based on different usage patterns. Next, we find that offices have city-specific bacterial communities, such that we can accurately predict which city an office microbiome sample is derived from, but office-specific bacterial communities are less apparent. This differs from previous work which has suggested office-specific compositions of bacterial communities. We again suspect that the difference from prior work arises from different usage patterns. As has been previously shown, we observe that human skin contributes heavily to the composition of BE surfaces.\nOur study highlights several points that should impact the design of future studies of the microbiology of the BEs. First, projects tracking changes to BE bacterial communities should focus sampling effort on surveying different locations in offices and in different cities, but not necessarily different materials or different offices in the same city. Next, disturbance due to repeat sampling, though detectable, is small compared to other variables, opening up a range of longitudinal study designs in the built environment. Next, studies requiring more samples than can be sequenced on a single sequencing run (which is increasingly common) must control for run effects by including some of the same samples on all sequencing runs as technical replicates. Finally, detailed tracking of indoor and material environment covariates is likely not essential for BE microbiome studies, as the normal range of indoor environmental conditions is likely not large enough to impact bacterial communities.', u"Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, yet the etiology of themajority of its cases remains unknown. In here, relevant published evidence is interpreted and integrated into a comprehensive hypothesis on the nature, origin and inter-cellular mode of propagation of sporadic PD. We propose to characterize sporadic PD as a pathological deviation in the global gene expression program of a cell: the PD expression-state, or PD-state for short.A universal cell-generic state, the PD-state deviation would be particularly damaging in a neuronal context, ultimately leading to neuron death and the ensuing observed clinical signs. We review why age accumulated damage caused by oxidative stress in mitochondria could be the trigger for a primordial cell to shift to the PD-state. We put forward hematopoietic cells could be the first to acquire the PD-state, at hematopoiesis, from the disruption in reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis that arises with age in the hematopoietic stem-cell niche. We argue why, nonetheless, a cell ageing process is unlikely to explain the shift to the PD-state of all the subsequently affected cells in a patient, thus indicating the existence of a distinct mechanism of cellular propagation of the PD-state. We highlight recent findings on the intercellular exchange of mitochondrial DNA and the ability of mitochondrial DNA to modulate the cellular global gene expression state and propose this could form the basis for the intercellular propagation of the PD-state.", u"A strongly embodied view of language holds that, to understand a word, you must simulate associated sensory input (e.g. simulate perception of brightness to understand 'lamp'), and prepare associated actions (e.g. prepare finger movements to understand 'typing'). To test this, we measured pupillary responses to single words that conveyed a sense of brightness (e.g. 'day') or darkness (e.g. 'night'), or were luminance-neutral (e.g. 'house'). Crucially, we found that the pupil was largest for darkness-conveying words, intermediate for neutral words, and smallest for brightness-conveying words; however, this semantic pupillary response peaked long after participants had already understood and responded to the words. These findings suggest that word comprehension activates sensory representations, and even triggers physiological (pupillary) responses, but that this occurs too late to be a necessary part of the comprehension process itself. Instead, we suggest that pupillary responses to darkness- and brightness-conveying words--and perhaps embodied language in general--may reflect preparation for the immediate future: When you read the word 'lamp', you automatically prepare to look at a lamp, and prepare to read more brightness-related words; this may cause your pupils to constrict in anticipation.", u'Indigenous beers (chicha) are part of the indigenous culture in Ecuador. The fermentation process of these beers relay probably on microorganisms from: fermenting substrates, environment and human microbiota. We analyzed the microbiota of artisanal beers (including a type of beer produced after chewing boiled cassava) using bacterial culture and 16S-based tag-encoded FLX amplicon pyrosequencing (bTEFAP). Surprisingly, we found that Streptococcus salivarius and Streptococcus mutans (part of the human oral microbiota) where among the most abundant bacteria in chewed cassava and in non-chewed cassava beers. We also demonstrated that S. salivarius and S. mutans (isolated from these beers) could proliferate in cassava mush. Lactobacillus sp. was predominantly present in most types of Ecuadorian chicha.', u'The deployment of Artificial Holdfast Units (AHU) has been demonstrated as an effective tool for creating holdfast and sheltering conditions for Hippocampus guttulatus in the Ria Formosa (South Portugal). Preliminary results obtained with a pilot-scale AHU showed a high settlement rate, with recorded densities of up to 13.1 individuals.m-2. With the present study, we aim to understand weather the AHU\u2019s contributed to attract new H. guttulatus recruits or concentrate those previously existing in these areas. Prior to the deployment of the AHU\u2019s in a total of four focal sites, a sample of the skin filaments was collected from each H. guttulatus (n= 70) sighted in those locations. The same sampling protocol was later carried out on the recruits (n=14) sighted in one pilot-scale AHU since its deployment. Upon DNA extraction the variation of 13 highly polymorphic microsatellite loci isolated for H. guttulatus (or obtained by cross-amplification in H. hippocampus) has been analyzed. PCR reactions with labeled primers were performed using standard procedures and amplified products were run on an ABI PRISM 3130 XL Genetic Analyser\xa9. Based on the genetic data, ONCOR software package was used to estimate the population of origin of recruits. Preliminary results indicate that more than 90% of the recruits at the AHU were assigned to the sites located up to 500 meter apart. No assignment has been demonstrated for the other sampled locations, situated further away from the AHU.', u'Captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) often suffer from obesity-related health issues including arthritis, diabetes, and heart disease. It is becoming increasingly common to house captive chimpanzees in large social groups, which may increase aggression due to the competition over limited food resources. In order to improve the health of sanctuary chimpanzees at Chimp Haven, Inc, USA. we recently made some modifications to the chimpanzee\u2019s diet. Diet formulations were created by our veterinarian using recommendations from Association of Zoos and Aquariums Nutrition Advisory Groups and National Research Council guidelines on daily nonhuman primate caloric needs. The current study examined behavioral changes in the chimpanzees when diet modifications included a reduction in the overall amount of produce given. As dietary changes were being implemented, animal care staff voiced concerns over the possibility of increased competition, abnormal behavior and aggression with the reduction in the amount of produce provided. We observed six groups of chimpanzees (N = 85; M = 34 F = 51, age: range 3-55, mean = 27.8) when produce was provided in the morning and afternoon for seven weeks before and three weeks after the dietary changes were made. We completed two 30 minute scans with six minute intervals per week on each group for a total of 820 scans. Groups ranged in size from 11-23 members (mean = 14.33). Although we found no significant changes in aggressive behavior after the dietary changes (t = .007, p = .99), there was a non-significant tendency towards an increase in abnormal behavior (t = 2.30, p = .06).', u'The Pan African Programme: The cultured chimpanzee (PanAf) is a large-scale research project across the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) range which aims to better understand and model the socioecological and demographic drivers of chimpanzee diversity. As part of the PanAf, over 350,000 1-minute camera trap videos have been recorded. To annotate this large data set and ascertain individual chimpanzee identifications from 39 different temporary and collaborative chimpanzee research sites, we developed the web-based citizen science platform Chimp&See (www.chimpandsee.org) in collaboration with the Zooniverse. Chimp&See allows members of the general public to view the PanAf videos online and annotate which species are present and the behaviours they exhibit in each video. These citizen scientists also watch and discuss videos to determine unique chimpanzee individuals and match them from different video clips. Each video is viewed by up to 15 unique users, allowing us to obtain a confidence score based on the number of consensus matches for each identification. In this poster, we compare the accuracy and efficiency achieved by the general public on this platform to automated facial detection software and expert scientific annotators. We also evaluate whether citizen science and video camera trapping is a way forward for assessing chimpanzee age/sex structure, density and community size in a cost and time effective manner. Finally, we discuss the balance between maintaining user engagement and obtaining detailed and accurate scientific data from citizen scientists.', u'Comparative studies in relation to language origins have mainly focused on our closest living relatives, bonobos (Pan paniscus) and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Direct comparisons however are still lacking and/or concerned individuals living in captive environments only. Here, we carried out a systematic, quantitative comparison of communicative abilities of bonobos and chimpanzees living in four different communities in the wild with a special focus on within- and between-species variability. The analyses focused on communicative exchanges between mother-infant dyads to initiate joint travel. The communicative behavior of twelve bonobo (LuiKotale, Wamba; DRC) and thirteen chimpanzee mother-infant dyads (Ta\xef South, C\xf4te d\u2019Ivoire; Kanyawara, Uganda) was filmed during a total of 1033 (bonobos) and 1189 (chimpanzees) hours of observation. We analyzed \u2018signal-response\u2019 structures (e.g. response waiting, gestural sequences, temporal relationships) in 316 bonobo and 415 chimpanzee carry initiations, while taking into account dyadic role, infant age and site. Differences in behavior could not be attributed to within-species variability. Bonobos solicited carries more frequently from shorter distances and via coordinated responses. Chimpanzees used a higher frequency of response waiting and sequences, showing overall more persistence. Our findings suggest that interactional intelligence paved the way to language with communication styles being influenced by social matrices.', u'Robust multi-array average (RMA) is a highly successful method for processing raw data from Affymetrix expression microarrays. However, most of the work on microarray data processing predates the widespread use of Python in scientific computing. Here, I describe pyAffy, an efficient implementation of the RMA method in Python/Cython. Using data from the MAQC project, I show that this implementation produces virtually identical results compared to the RMA reference implementation in the affy R package, while running more than five times faster and consuming significantly less memory. I also show how individual steps of the RMA method affect the final expression estimates. The source code for pyAffy is available from PyPI and GitHub (https://github.com/flo-compbio/pyaffy) under an OSI-approved license. I intend to periodically revise this article to ensure that it accurately reflects the functionalities available in the pyAffy Python package.', u'The tropical earthworm Pontoscolex corethrurus presents a broad distribution (56 countries from four continents) with climates that resemble the one in its native area of distribution. In invasive earthworms, it is generally assumed that temperature appears to limit the success of tropical exotic species in temperate climates. With the global climate change, the edge of the distribution range of this species could advance towards higher elevations (with lower temperatures) where no tropical species currently occur. The aim of this study was to evaluate the soil and climatic variables that could be closely associated with the distribution of P. corethrurus in four sites along an altitudinal gradient in central Veracruz, Mexico. We tested the hypothesis that the global migration of P. corethrurus appears to be limited only by temperature. Five sampling points (monoliths) were established at each of four sites along an altitudinal gradient: Laguna Verde (LV), Ingenio La Concepci\xf3n (IC), Naolinco (NA) and Acatl\xe1n (AC) at 20, 982, 1542 y 1751 masl, respectively. Our results showed that the climate along the altitudinal gradient ranged from tropical to temperate. Ten earthworm species were found along the gradient, belonging to three families (Rhinodrilidae, Megascolecide and Lumbricidae). Soil properties are associated with the abundance of the earthworm community along the altitudinal gradient. P. corethrurus was recorded at three sites (LV, IC and NA) along the altitudinal gradient. Our results reveal that the premise that low temperature limits the distribution of P. corethrurus in not supported; that is, this species may survive and reproduce at the site NA with an average annual temperature of 17 \xbaC. These results suggested that P. corethrurus might be colonizing temperate environments.', u'Children show a bias toward information about shape when categorizing unfamiliar objects or learning new labels for objects. We presented two adult zoo-housed chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and 3- to 5-year old children with a relational matching task in which samples and comparison stimuli matched on either shape or color. Whereas children at all ages performed above chance on the task, chimpanzees performed at close to chance levels overall. However, closer examination of their performance revealed that, whereas children performed better on shape (86%) versus color trials (78.5%), chimpanzees showed the opposite pattern, performing at chance on shape trials (49%) and above chance on color trials (72%). I propose that the shape bias arises because of cultural effects, whereas color may be a more salient natural cue that differentiates, for instance, between ripe and non-ripe fruit. Interestingly, earlier work with orangutans and one gorilla, however, showed that the apes initially performed best on shape trials, but learned quickly to match more effectively by color. In a second order relational task, preferences were less clear. Further work is needed to determine the evolutionary history of the shape bias in human children.', u'We used 116-years of floral and faunal records from Mandarte Island, British Columbia, Canada, to estimate the indirect effects of humans on plant communities via their effects on the population size of a surface-nesting, colonial seabird, the Glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens). Comparing current to historical records revealed 18 extirpations of native plant species (32% of species historically present), 31 exotic species introductions, and one case of exotic introduction followed by extirpation. Contemporary surveys indicated that native species cover declined dramatically from 1986 to 2006, coincident with the extirpation of \u2018old-growth\u2019 conifers. Because vegetation change co-occurred with an increasing gull population locally and regionally, we also tested predictions from the hypothesis that the presence and activities of seabirds help to explain those changes. Specifically, we predicted we would observe high nutrient loading and exotic plant species richness and cover on nearby islands with versus without gull colonies as a consequence of competitive dominance in species adapted to high soil nitrogen and trampling. As predicted, we found that native plant species cover and richness were lower, and exotic species cover and richness higher, on islands with versus without gull colonies. In addition, we found that soil carbon and nitrogen on islands with nesting gulls were positively related to soil depth and exotic species richness and cover across plots and islands. Our results suggest that gulls have the potential to drive rapid change in insular plant communities by increasing nutrients and disturbing vegetation. Because human activities have contributed to long-term change in gull populations, our results further suggest compelling, indirect links between human management decisions and plant community composition on islands of the Georgia Basin.', u'Animals exhibit seasonal cycles in a variety of physiological and behavioral traits. Studies of these cycles can potentially offer new insights into the evolution of individual differences. For natural selection to act, a trait must be both distinctive within individuals and variable among individuals. The extent to which the amplitude and phase of seasonal cycles fulfill these requirements is not well documented. As a preliminary analysis, we investigated seasonal cycles in the body mass of pigeons, which we weighed quarterly over a period of six years. [Our work with these animals complied with all applicable institutional regulations (University of Groningen Animal Experimentation Committee, license no. 5095) and Dutch and European laws.] We employed several of statistical techniques aimed at 1) quantifying the repeatability of seasonality and 2) comparing within- and among-individual variation in seasonality. Our goal is to take what we have learned from our analyses of mass and apply it to other seasonally variable physiological traits, including variables related to immune function.', u'We have conducted a qualitative investigation on test-driven development (TDD) with focus groups in order to develop insights on the opinions of developers using TDD regarding the unintuitive process involved, its claimed effects, as well as the context factors that can facilitate (or hinder) its application. In particular, we conducted two focus group sessions: one with professional developers and another with Master students in Computer Science at the University of Basilicata. We used thematic analysis template (TAT) method for iden- tifying patterns, themes, and interpretations in the gathered data. The application of this qualitative method allowed us to obtain a number of results that can provide directions for future research. Our main results can be summarized as follows: (i) applying TDD without knowing advanced unit testing techniques can be difficult; (ii) refactoring (one of the phases of TDD) is not done as often as the process re- quires; (iii) there is a need for live feedback to let developers understand if TDD is being applied correctly; and (iv) the usefulness of TDD hinges on task and domain to which it is applied to.', u'The True\xb4s beaked whale (Mesoplodon mirus, True 1913) is a poorly studied member of the speciose Ziphiidae family. Its distribution in the North Hemisphere is thought to be restricted to the temperate or warm temperate waters of the North Atlantic, while a small number of stranding records from the Southern Hemisphere suggest a wider distribution, extending from the Atlantic coast of Brazil to South Africa, Australia and the Tasman Sea coast of New Zealand. Here we i) report the first molecular confirmation of the occurrence of True\xb4s beaked whales around the Azores and Canary Islands (Macaronesian ecoregion), the species\u2019 southern limit in the northeast Atlantic; ii) describe a new colouration for this species; and iii) contribute to the sparse worldwide database of live sightings, including the first underwater video, of this species. In November 2012, a 390 cm male True\u2019s beaked whale stranded in El Hierro, Canary Islands. In July 2004, a subadult male True\u2019s beaked whale was found floating dead near Faial, Azores. Species identification was confirmed in both cases using mitochondrial DNA control region and cytochrome b gene markers. The whale that stranded in the Canary Islands had a clearly delimited white area on its head, extending posteriorly from the tip of the beak to cover the blowhole dorsally and the gular grooves ventrally. This colouration contrasts with previous descriptions for the species and it may be rare, but it demonstrates that True\xb4s beaked whales show variable colourations in the North Atlantic. This is confirmed by sightings data. Given the presence of this species around the Azores and the Canary Islands, it would be expected that True\xb4s beaked whales also occur in the area between these archipelagos, including the islands of Madeira.', u'This study combines experimental and modeling approaches in order to investigate the temporal dynamics of the human brain at rest. The dynamics of the neuronal activity is modeled with FitzHugh-Nagumo oscillators and the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) time series is inferred via the Balloon-Windkessel hemodynamic model. The simulations are based on structural connections that are derived from diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging measurements yielding anatomical probabilities between the considered brain regions of interest. In addition, the length of the fiber tracks allows for inference of coupling delays due to finite signal propagation velocities. We aim (i) to investigate the network topology of our neuroimaging data and (ii) how randomization of structural connections influence dynamics on top of it. The network characteristics of the structural connectivity data are compared to density-matched Erd\u0151s-R\xe9nyi random graphs. Furthermore, the neuronal and BOLD activity are modeled on both real and random (Erd\u0151s-R\xe9nyi type) graphs. The simulated temporal dynamics on both graphs are compared statistically to capture whether the spatial organization of these network affects the modeled time series. Results supported that key topological network properties such as small-worldness of our neuroimaging data are distinguishable from random networks. Moreover, the simulated BOLD activity on real and random graphs are observed to be dissimilar. The difference of the modeled temporal dynamics on the brain and random graphs suggests that anatomical connections in the human brain together with dynamical self-organization are crucial for the temporal evolution of the resting-state activity.', u'In this work, we studied the main characteristics of flowering, reproductive system and diversity of pollinators for the biofuel plant Jatropha curcas (L.) in a site of tropical southeastern Mexico, within its center of origin. The plants were monoecious with inflorescences of unisexual flowers. The male flowers produced from 3062 to 5016 pollen grains (266-647 per anther). The plants produced fruits with both geitonogamy and xenogamy, although insect pollination significantly increased the number and quality of fruits. A high diversity of flower visiting insects (36 species) was found, of which nine were classified as efficient pollinators. The native stingless bees Scaptotrigona mexicana (Gu\xe9rin-Meneville) and Trigona (Tetragonisca) angustula (Latreille) were the most frequent visitors and their presence coincided with the hours when the stigma was receptive. It is noteworthy that the female flowers open before the male flowers, favoring xenogamy, which may explain the high genetic variability reported in J. curcas for this region of the world.', u'Habitat structure influences the diversity and distribution of organisms, potentially affecting their response to disturbances by either affecting their \u2018susceptibility\u2019 or through the provision of resources that can mitigate impacts of disturbances. Chemical disturbances due to contamination are associated with decreases in diversity and functioning of systems and are also likely to increase due to coastal urbanisation. Understanding how habitat structure interacts with contaminants is essential to predict and therefore manage such effects, minimising their consequences to marine systems. Here, we manipulated two structurally different habitats and exposed them to different types of contaminants. Effects of contamination and habitat structure interacted, affecting species richness. More complex experimental habitats were colonized by a greater diversity of organisms than the less complex habitats. These differences disappeared, however, when habitats were exposed to contaminants, suggesting that contaminants can override effects of habitats structure at small spatial scales. These results provide insight into the complex ways that habitat structure and contamination interact and the need to incorporate evidence of biotic responses from individual disturbances to multiple stressors. Such effects need to be taken into account when designing and planning management and conservation strategies to natural systems.', u'Neonatal eye loss leads to an expansion of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in rodents. In blind rats, S1 expansion results from the predisplacement of S1 formation during the first three days of life, a process modulated by epigenetic factors. Some of these factors might be local and some others may come from extra-S1 sources such as the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Thus, we evaluated the concentration of glutamate, GABA and serotonin in the CSF and S1 of control and birth-enucleated rat pups. These neurotransmitters modulate through epigenetic mechanisms several aspects of brain development and also regulate S1 formation. Our results show, first, that axon segregation during barrel formation is discreetly predisplaced in birth-enucleated rats. Second, S1 glutamate, GABA and serotonin concentrations were similar in control and birth-enucleated rats during S1 formation. Lastly, CSF glutamate concentration decreased in birth-enucleated rats during S1 formation. Overall, our results open the possibility that neurochemical shifts in the CSF might modulate S1 expansion in enucleated rats. Further studies are needed to establish causal links.', u'Zika virus is a newly emergent mosquito-borne flavivirus. Once almost ignored epidemiologically, recent major outbreaks and links to neurological birth defects have focused attention on this neglected pathogen. We review the discovery, biology and symptomatology of Zika virus, what is known and not known about the mosquitoes that transmit the virus, conspiracy theories currently hampering control efforts, and potential avenues of Zika control. It is likely that Zika virus is here to stay in the Americas, so a thorough understanding of the complete epidemiological transmission cycle and potential effects on the human population will be critical for managing this new disease in the coming years.', u'OncoLnc is a tool for interactively exploring survival correlations, and for downloading clinical data coupled to expression data for mRNAs, miRNAs, or lncRNAs. OncoLnc contains survival data for 8,647 patients from 21 cancer studies performed by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), along with RNA-SEQ expression for mRNAs and miRNAs from TCGA, and lncRNA expression from MiTranscriptome beta. Storing this data gives users the ability to separate patients by gene expression, and then create publication-quality Kaplan-Meier plots or download the data for further analyses. OncoLnc also stores precomputed survival analyses, allowing users to quickly explore survival correlations for up to 21 cancers in a single click. This resource allows researchers studying a specific gene to quickly investigate if it may have a role in cancer, and the supporting data allows researchers studying a specific cancer to identify the mRNAs, miRNAs, and lncRNAs most correlated with survival, and researchers looking for a novel lncRNA involved with cancer lists of potential candidates. OncoLnc is available at http://www.oncolnc.org', u'Horse racing is a multi-billion-dollar industry that has raised welfare concerns due to disabled and euthanized animals. Whilst the cause of musculoskeletal injuries that lead to horse morbidity and mortality is multifactorial, pre-existing pathologies, increased speeds and substrate of the racecourse are likely contributors to foot disease. The hooves of horses have the ability to naturally deform during locomotion and dissipate locomotor stresses, yet farriery approaches are utilised to increase performance and protect hooves from wear. Previous studies have assessed the effect of different shoe designs on locomotor performance; however, no biomechanical study has hitherto measured the effect of horseshoes on the stresses of the foot skeleton in vivo. As there is a need to reduce musculoskeletal injuries in racing and training horses, it is crucial to understand the natural function of the feet of horses and how this is influenced by shoe design. This preliminary study introduces a novel combination of three-dimensional data from biplanar radiography, inverse dynamics, and finite element analysis (FEA) to evaluate the effect of a stainless steel shoe on the function of a Thoroughbred horse\u2019s front foot during walking. Our results show that the stainless steel shoe increases craniocaudal, mediolateral and vertical GRFs at mid-stance. We document a similar pattern of flexion-extension in the PIP (pastern) and DIP (coffin) joint between the unshod and shod conditions, yet variation in the degrees of rotations are encountered throughout the stance phase. In particular, in both the shod and unshod conditions, the PIP joint extends between the 10-40% of the stance phase and flexes before mid-stance and until the end of the stance phase. Similarly the DIP joint extends until the 40% of stance and then flexes until the end of the stance phase. Overall at mid-stance the PIP joint extends more at the shod (-2.9o) than the unshod (-1.5o) horse, whilst the DIP joint extends more at the unshod (-3.6o), than the shod (-2.8o) condition. We also document that the DIP joint flexes more than the PIP after mid-stance and until the end of the stance in both conditions. Our FEA results show increased von Mises stresses on the fore foot phalanges in the shod condition at mid-stance, indicating that the steel shoe increases mechanical loading. Our preliminary study illustrates how the shoe may influence the dynamics and mechanics of a Thoroughbred horse\u2019s forefoot during slow walking, but more research is needed to quantify the effect of the shoe on the equine forefoot during the whole stance phase, at faster speeds/gaits and with more individuals as well as with a similar focus on the hind feet. We anticipate that our preliminary analysis using advanced methodological approaches will pave the way for new directions in research on the form/function relationship of the equine foot, with the ultimate goal to minimise foot injuries and improve animal health and welfare.', u'Bladder Cancer is one of the most frequent human cancer which develops on two tracks, papillary and non-papillary that correspond to clinically different forms of the disease. Most bladder cancers are chemically induced with tobacco smoking being the leading risk factor. Recent advances of bladder cancer research for which our laboratory has significantly contributed have enhanced the understanding of the origin of bladder cancer from urothelial progenitor cells via field effects along papillary/luminal non-papillary/basal pathways. Here we present the contribution to the development of novel, both diagnostic and therapeutic, biomarkers using genomic high throughput technologies.\nThe analysis of hits associated with growth advantage of preneoplastic lesions allowed us to identify six chromosomal regions mapping 3q22, 5q22.2-5q23.3, 9q22.12, 10q26.1, 13q14 and 17p13 that may be critical for the development of bladder cancer and contain a distinct class of genes referred to us forerunner (FR) genes involved in the clonal expansion of precursor conditions. We concentrated our efforts on one of these regions; which contain a model tumor suppressor RB1. We used high-resolution whole-organ mapping with SNPs, which facilitated the identification of five positional candidate FR genes (ITM2B, LPAR6, MLNR, CAB39L, and ARL11) mapping contiguously to RB1. We hypothesized that identification of novel forerunner genes and the investigation in early occult phases of human bladder preneoplasia may not only provide important mechanistic clues to the development of human cancer but also identify a novel class of early detection markers capable of detecting the clinically and microscopically occult phases of human cancer development.\nWe used the whole-organ histologic and genetic mapping strategy coupled with next generation whole exome sequencing using complemented with genotyping using Illumina HumanOmni2.5_8 chips and whole genome methylation analyses to define the molecular alterations that were associated with the progression of muscle-invasive bladder cancer in one surgical specimen.\nWe identified a total of 18 structurally significant mutations, three of which appeared to be clear "driver" mutations that had been annotated previously. Alterations in chromatin hyper- and hypomethylation predominated in all of the regions that contained normal-appearing urothelium or low-grade dysplasia. In total, 31 genes were hypermethylated and 26 genes were hypomethylated. Copy number alterations were numerous (n=242) in areas that contained high-grade dysplasia suggesting that genomic instability proceeded the emergence of driver mutations in what ultimately emerged as the dominant tumor subclone. Chromosomal gains (n=216) vastly outnumbered losses (n=26).', u'Animals are exposed, in the natural environment, to a range of human activity related dissolved chemicals that are potentially impacting on their fitness. The animals responses to such stress determines its fitness, physiology and in case of chemical signals also its behaviour. If physical or chemical changes in the ecosystem make the detection of such a chemical impossible, then it can be reasonably assumed that vital behaviours of the animal will be significantly altered. Plastics are lighter, more durable, stronger and cheaper than other materials used for the same purposes, making them most suitable for producing a very broad range of goods and products. However, these same properties also make them serious environmental hazards i.e. they are easily carried and dispersed by water over long distances, and stopped by barriers and settle in the form of sediments that can persist for centuries. Phthalate esters are widely used as additives to offer flexibility to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) resins (Graham, 1973). DEHP and DMP are the most frequently used plasticizer in PVC formulas in consumer products (Metcalf et al. 1973; Carnevali et al. 2010). In general phthalate esters harmful environmental and human health effects are well documented and a range of studies documented harmful effects on both land and aquatic organisms (Metcalf et al. 1973; Lithner, et al. 2009). Neanthes (Nereis, Hediste) diversicolor is a bio-indicator species to monitor levels of pollution in a particular environment i.e. to by quantify levels of contaminant presents in the worms. Measuring these in N. diversicolor makes it possible to estimate and monitor levels of contamination in marine environments. The worms are easy to keep in laboratory conditions and can be collected in large numbers in the field and used as model species since the 1950s (Scaps, 2002). The main aim of this study is to investigate and determine the fate of phthalates in a Nereis culture system and to assess the impact of phthalates upon fitness such as feeding behaviours. For this worms are exposed to different concentration of DEHP (0.05, 2, and 10 ug/mL) over short term (days) and long term (3 months / lifespan). The aim of short term of exposure was to determine the fate of phthalates in a Nereis culture system to examine if phthalate degradation takes place. GC-MS is used to measure the phthalates. Liquid: liquid extraction was used to extract phthalates from water and worm tissue whereas accelerated solvent extraction was used to extract phthalates from sediment. The aim of long term of exposure was to investigate and assess the impact of phthalates on animals\u2019 functional traits (feeding response).', u'Sapodilla has many uses from medicinal to dietary utilization. In recent years emphasis is focused on product diversification by development of value added sapodilla products to enhance its economic value. This study was carried out to investigate the effect of sugar concentration on the physiochemical properties like pH, moisture, ash, total acidity, viscosity, soluble solids, ascorbic acid and consumer acceptability of the product through sensory evaluation. Four samples S1, S2, S3 and S4 were formulated containing 550g, 600g, 650g and 700g sugar respectively. There was no significant difference observed in physiochemical properties of all sample due to sugar concentration. But among all samples S2 and S3 scored highest for color (7.7 and 7.9), flavor (7.6 and 7.7), taste (7.6 and 7.8), texture (7.2 and 7.9) and overall acceptance (7.5 and 7.7) which shows that jam with 550g and 600g sugar is best jam with good sensory attributes.', u'Predator exclusion cages are commonly used to enclose settlement tiles to distinguish between pre- and post-recruitment processes. Biofouling of experimental cages and other field apparatuses can be problematic, and has traditionally been addressed using frequent manual removal (e.g., scrubbing twice per week). However, such intense efforts can be both labor intensive and costly, especially with apparatuses in remote locations, and may also have unintended effects on study results. Recent environmental restrictions and legislative changes have driven the development of less hazardous antifouling products, making antifouling paint a potential alternative option to manual removal. The viability of using these newly developed products as a replacement for the manual cleaning of exclusion cages was experimentally investigated. Six treatment levels were tested, three with and three without antifouling paints. The three antifouling treatments consisted of two reduced-copper paints (21% Cu2O and 40% Cu2O) and one copper-free, Econea\xae-based paint (considered \u201cecofriendly\u201d). Antifouling paints were assessed for performance on the cages and whether they elicited local effects on settlement tiles contained within them. The community compositions, biomass, and percent cover of tiles inside cages treated with the copper-based paints were indistinguishable from those inside manually scrubbed cages, while the \u201cecofriendly\u201d paint resulted in reduced local settlement. The results of this study suggest that the reduced-copper paints tested have the potential to serve as a viable replacement for manual maintenance.', u'Birds frequently signal different qualities by plumage colouration, mainly during mating. However, plumage colouration is determined during the moult, and therefore it would indicate the quality of individual birds during the moult, not its current quality. Recent studies, however, suggest that birds could modify plumage colouration by using cosmetic preen oil. In this study, I show that bib colouration is related to uropygial gland size and body condition in male house sparrows (Passer domesticus). Moreover, I conducted an experiment in which a group of sparrows were inoculated with an antigen, mimicking an illness. In control birds, short-term changes in bib colouration were related to both body condition and change in uropygial gland size. Therefore, birds that spent more preen oil (thus, reducing uropygial gland size), showed a greater colouration change. However, bib colouration did not change with use of preen oil in experimental birds inoculated with the antigen. That is, the simulated illness cancelled the effect of preen oil on bib colouration. Given that the experiment did not affect preen oil production, this finding suggests that the immune challenge provoked a change in the composition of preen oil, affecting its cosmetic properties. In short, the results of this study suggest that (1) male house sparrows produce cosmetic preen oil that alters the colouration of their bibs; (2) the more effort in preening, the more change in bib colouration; and (3) in this way, bib colouration has the potential to signal current health status, since less healthy birds showed less capacity to change bib colouration.', u'Background. The age of an insect strongly influences many aspects of behavior and reproduction. This interaction is epitomized in the temporal polyethism of honey bees in which young adult bees perform nurse and maintenance duties within the colony, while older bees forage for nectar and pollen. Task transition is dynamic and is driven by colony needs. However, an abundance of precocious foragers or overage nurses may have detrimental effects on the colony. Additionally, honey bee age affects insecticide sensitivity. Therefore, determining the age of an individual honey bee would be important to provide a measurement of colony health. Pteridines are purine-based pigment molecules found in many insect body parts. Pteridine levels correlate well with age, and wild caught insects may be accurately aged by measuring pteridine levels. The relationship between pteridines and age varies with a number of internal and external factors among many species. Thus far, no studies have investigated the relationship of pteridines with age in honey bees. Methods. We established single-cohort colonies to obtain age-matched nurse and forager bees. Nurses and foragers were collected every 3-5 days for up to 42 days. Heads were removed and weighed before pteridines were purified and analyzed using previously established fluorometric methods. Results. Our analysis showed that pteridine levels were higher in foragers than nurses of the same age, and pteridine levels significantly increased with age in a linear manner. Head weight significantly varied with age increasing until approximately 28 days of age, then declining thereafter for both nurse and forager bees. Discussion. Although the relationship between pteridine levels and age was significant, a large amount of variation in the data yielded an 8-day window in age estimation. This allows an unambiguous method to determine whether a bee may be a young nurse or old forager. Pteridine levels in bees do not correlate with age as well as in other insects. However, most studies used insects reared under tightly controlled laboratory conditions, while we used free-living bees. The dynamics of head weight change with age is likely to be due to growth and atrophy of the hypopharyngeal glands. Taken together, these methods represent a useful tool for assessing colony demography after a colony experiences a stress event. Future studies utilizing these methods will provide a more holistic view of colony health.', u'There is no doubt that people find flowers beautiful. Surprisingly, we know very little about the actual properties which make flowers so appealing to humans. Although the evolutionary aesthetics provides some theories concerning generally preferred flower traits, empirical evidence is largely missing. In this study, we used an online survey in which residents of the Czech Republic (n = 2006) rated the perceived beauty of 52 flower stimuli of diverse shapes and colors. Colored flowers were preferred over their uncolored versions. When controlling for flower shape, we found an unequal preference for different flower colors, blue being the most and yellow the least preferred. In the overall assessment of beauty, shape was more important than color. Prototypical flowers, i.e., radially symmetrical flowers with low complexity, were rated as the most beautiful. We also found a positive effect of sharp flower contours and blue color on the overall rating of flower beauty. The results may serve as a basis for further studies in some areas of the people-plant interaction research.', u'Developers summarize their changes to code in commit messages. When a message seems \u201cunusual,\u201d however, this puts doubt into the quality of the code contained in the commit. We trained \\(n\\)-gram language models and used cross-entropy as an indicator of commit message \u201cunusualness\u201d of over 120 000 commits from open source projects. Build statuses collected from Travis-CI were used as a proxy for code quality. We then compared the distributions of failed and successful commits with regards to the \u201cunusualness\u201d of their commit message. Our analysis yielded significant results when correlating cross-entropy with build status.', u'Background. Emerging researches revealed the essential role of mitochondria in regulating stem/progenitor cell differentiation of neural progenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells and other stem cells through reactive oxygen species (ROS), Notch or other signaling pathway. And inhibition of mitochondrial synthesis protein resulted in extension of hair loss upon injury. However, alteration of mitochondrial morphology and metabolic function during hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) differentiation and how it affects hair regeneration has not been elaborated. Methods. We compared the difference between telogen bulge cells and anagen matrix cells in mitochondrial morphology and activity. Expression levels of mitochondrial ROS and superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) were measured for evaluating redox balance. Besides, pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) were detected to present the change in energetic metabolism during differentiation. To explore the effect of the mitochondrial metabolism on regulating hair regeneration, hair growth was observed after application of a mitochondrial respiratory inhibitor upon hair plucking. Results. During HFSCs differentiation, mitochondria became elongated with more abundant organized cristae and showed higher activity in differentiated cells. SOD2 was enhanced for redox balance with relatively poised ROS expression levels in differentiated cells. PDK increased in HFSCs while differentiated cells showed enhanced PDH, indicating that respiration converted from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation during differentiation. Inhibiting mitochondrial respiration in differentiated hair follicle cells upon hair plucking held back hair regeneration in vivo. Conclusions. Upon HFSCs differentiation, mitochondria was elongated with more abundant cristae and showed higher activity, accompanied with activated aerobic respiration in differentiated cells for higher energy supply. And dysfunction of mitochondrial respiration delays hair regeneration upon injury.', u'Background. Ruminants are successful herbivorous mammals, in part due to their specialized forestomachs, the rumen complex, which facilitates the conversion of feed to soluble nutrients by micro-organisms. Is the rumen complex a modified stomach expressing new epithelial (cornification) and metabolic programs, or a specialised stratified epithelium that has acquired new metabolic activities, potentially similar to those of the colon? How has the presence of the rumen affected other sections of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of ruminants compared to non-ruminants? Methods. Transcriptome data from 11 tissues covering the sheep GIT, two stratified epithelial and two control tissues, was analysed using principal components to cluster tissues based on gene expression profile similarity. Expression profiles of genes along the sheep GIT were used to generate a network to identify genes enriched for expression in different compartments of the GIT. The data from sheep was compared to similar data sets from two non-ruminants, pigs (closely related) and humans (more distantly related). Results. The rumen transcriptome clustered with the skin and tonsil, but not the GIT transcriptomes, driven by genes from the epidermal differentiation complex, and genes encoding stratified epithelium keratins and innate immunity proteins. By analysing all of the gene expression profiles across tissues together 16 major clusters were identified. The strongest of these, and consistent with the high turnover rate of the GIT, showed a marked enrichment of cell cycle process genes (P=1.4E-46), across the whole GIT, relative to liver and muscle, with highest expression in the caecum followed by colon and rumen. The expression patterns of several membrane transporters (chloride, zinc, nucleosides, amino acids, fatty acids, cholesterol and bile acids) along the GIT was very similar in sheep, pig and humans. In contrast, short chain fatty acid uptake and metabolism appeared to be different between the species and different between the rumen and colon in sheep. The importance of nitrogen and iodine recycling in sheep was highlighted by the highly preferential expression of SLC14A1-urea (rumen), RHBG-ammonia (intestines) and SLC5A5-iodine (abomasum). The gene encoding a poorly characterized member of the maltase-glucoamylase family (MGAM2), predicted to play a role in the degradation of starch or glycogen, was highly expressed in the small and large intestines. Discussion. The rumen appears to be a specialised stratified cornified epithelium, probably derived from the oesophagus, which has gained some liver-like and other specialized metabolic functions, but probably not by expression of pre-existing colon metabolic programs. Changes in gene transcription downstream of the rumen also appear have occurred as a consequence of the evolution of the rumen and its effect on nutrient composition flowing down the GIT.', u'Background: Schotia brachypetala Sond. (Fabaceae) is an endemic tree of Southern Africa whose phytochemistry and pharmacology were slightly studied.The present work aimed at profiling the major phenolics compounds present in the hydro-alcoholic extract from S. brachypetala leaves (SBE) using LC/HRESI/MS/MS and NMR and prove their antioxidant capabilities using novel methods. Methods: In vitro assays; DPPH, TEAC persulfate decolorizing kinetic and FRAP assays, and in vivo assays: Caenorhabditis elegans strains maintenance, Intracellular ROS in C. elegans, Survival assay, GFP expression and Subcellular DAF-16 localization were employed to evaluate the antioxidant activity. Results: More than forty polyphenols ,including flavonoid glycosides, galloylated flavonoid glycosides, isoflavones, dihydrochalcones, procyanidins, anthocyanins, hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives, hydrolysable tannins, and traces of methylated and acetylated flavonoid derivatives were identified. Three compounds were isolated and identified from the genus Schotia for the first time, namely gallic acid, myricetin-3-O-\u03b1-L-1C4-rhamnoside and quercetin-3-O-L-1C4-rhamnoside.The tested extract was able to protect the worms against juglone induced oxidative stress and attenuate the reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation. SBE was also able to attenuate the levels of heat shock protein (HSP) expression. Discussion: A pronounced antioxidant activity in vivo, which can be attributed to its ability to promote the nuclear translocation of DAF-16/FOXO, the main transcription factor regulating the expression of stress response genes. The remarkable antioxidant activity in vitro and in vivo correlates to SBE rich phenolic profile.', u'Large uncertainties still remain when using existing biomass equations to estimate total tree and forest stand scale. In this paper, we develop individual-tree biomass models for Chinese fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata \uff08Lamb.\uff09Hook.) stands in Fujian Province, southeast of China. For this, we used 74 previously established models that are most commonly used to estimate tree biomass, and selected the best fit models and modified it. The results showed the published model with ln(B) (biomass), ln(D) (diameter at breast height), (ln(H)) 2, (total height) (ln(H))3 and ln(WD) (wood density) to be the best fitting model for estimating the tree biomass of Chinese fir. Furthermore, we observed that variables D, H (height), WD significantly correlated with the total tree biomass estimation model, as a result of it portraying the natural logarithm structure to be the best tree biomass structure. Finally, when a multi-step improvement on tree biomass model was performed, the analytic model with TV (tree volume), WD and BECF (biomass wood density conversion factor), achieved the highest accuracy simulation. Therefore, when combined with TV, WD and BECF to tree biomass volume coefficient bi for Chinese fir, the optimal model is the forest stand biomass (SB) estimation model, model with variables of stand volume (SV) and coefficient bi.', u'Better predictions of the success of species\u2019 introductions require careful evaluation of the relative importance of at least three kinds of factors: species characteristics, characteristics of the site of introduction, and event-level factors such as propagule pressure. Historical records of bird introductions provide a unique method for addressing the relative importance of these factors. We compiled a list of introductions of 17 Phasianid species released in the USA during the Foreign Game Investigation Program (FGIP). These records indicate that releases for some Phasianid species in the USA continued long after establishment. For many of the 13 species that always failed, even numerous releases and large numbers of individuals per release were not enough for successful establishment, yet several of these species were successfully introduced elsewhere. Only four species were successful in at least one state. Yet, all four were unsuccessful either in other states, or in other regions of states where they were not already successfully established, or both. These results support the notion that the number of individuals released and the number of releases are less important than characteristics of the location where the introductions occurred.', u'Background. Imaging biomarkers hold tremendous promise in the precision medicine clinical applications. Development of such biomarkers relies heavily on image post-processing tools for automated image quantitation. Their deployment in the context of clinical research necessitates interoperability with the clinical systems. Comparison with the established outcomes and evaluation motivate integration of the clinical and imaging data, and the use of standardized approaches to sharing analysis results and semantics. We develop the methodology and supporting tools to perform these tasks in Positron Emission Tomography and Computed Tomography (PET/CT) quantitative imaging (QI) biomarker development applied to head and neck cancer (HNC) treatment response assessment, using the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM\xae) international standard and free open source software tools.\nMethods. Quantitative analysis of PET/CT imaging data collected on patients undergoing treatment for HNC was conducted. Processing steps included Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) normalization of the images, segmentation of the tumor and reference regions of interest using manual and semi-automatic approaches, and extraction of the volumetric segmentation-based measurements. Suitable components of the DICOM standard were identified to model the various types of data produced by the analysis. A developer toolkit of conversion routines and an Application Programming Interface (API) were contributed and applied to create a standards-based representation of the data.\nResults. DICOM Real World Value Mapping, Segmentation and Structured Reporting objects were utilized for standards-compliant representation of the PET/CT QI analysis results. A number of correction proposals to the standard were developed. The open source DICOM toolkit (DCMTK) was improved to simplify the task of encoding via new API abstractions. Conversion and visualization tools utilizing this toolkit were developed. The encoded objects were validated for consistency and interoperability. The resulting dataset was deposited to the QIN-HEADNECK collection of The Cancer Imaging Archive. Supporting tools for data analysis and DICOM conversion were made available as free open source software.\nDiscussion. We presented a detailed investigation of the development and application of the DICOM model, as well as the supporting open source tools and toolkits, to accommodate representation of the research data in QI biomarker development. We demonstrated that DICOM standard can be used to represent various types of the analysis results and encode their complex relationships. The resulting annotated objects are amenable for data mining applications, and are interoperable with a variety of systems that adopt the DICOM standard.', u'The climate of Majuro Atoll is stable, and the soil is coral sand which has low levels of organic matter and nutrients and high percolation rates. This relatively stress-free climate and simple soil environment provides ideal conditions for the study of organic material application methods. In this study, I examined the efficiency of organic material application methods in five experiments using sweet corn crops. I obtained the following results: 1) Biomass output was correlated with residue input; however, input/output ratios converged to 0.5 at 15 Mg ha-1 a year (3 Mg ha-1 per crop). 2) The most efficient residue application rate was 2\u20133 Mg dry matter ha-1 crop-1. 3) In terms of organic material application methods, scattering was the most effective, followed by incorporation. Cutting, short-term fermenting, mulching, and crop bed were not effective because of the areas humid climate and low levels of soil organic matter.', u'The mitochondrial genome of three Moroccan canids has been analysed. Two of them complete and one partial. The sequences are included in GenBank with the accession number KT378605 (16721 bp), KT378606 (16734bp) and KT378607 (27809bp) Theses results have been compared with the results currently available in GenBank. In the phylogenetic analysis of the of cytochrome b regions and control region the three are grouped together with Canis lupus lupaster and the Senegalese golden jackal Canis aureus and separate from the wolf Canis lupus and the Eurasian golden jackal Canis aureus. The comparison of the complete mitochondrial genomes with Canis lupus confirms the distance between the two groups. We conclude that they belong to a different species to the wolf Canis lupus and the Eurasian golden jackal. We propose in agreement with (Koepfli et al., 2015) that it\xb4s scientific name be Canis anthus by merit of being the name by which it was classified and published for the first time as a different species by Cuvier in 1824.\nThe preprint is a translation of a Spanish document published in Altorero journal on the 15th August 2015.', u'Nowadays molecular approaches are being used in population estimation of terrestrial nematode communities offering a more efficient and faster alternative over microscopy-based methods. A molecular profiling tool was developed using directed Terminal-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (dT-RFLP) to characterize soil nematode assemblages by relative abundance of feeding guilds, and validated by comparison with traditional morphological method. Combining morphological and molecular analysis of benthic nematodes assemblages, the main aim of this study was to develop and validate the dT-RFLP tool for benthic nematodes. Estimation of population size was derived using real time PCR (qPCR). A molecular phylogenetic analysis of benthic nematodes was created based on a database of 18S rDNA sequences related to individuals identified to species level. dT-RFLP results showed that the digest strategy developed for soil nematodes was not suitable for benthic nematodes. A new dT-RFLP strategy for benthic assemblages was designed by using the sequence database coupled with cloning and sequencing the whole assemblage from five samples. Several solutions were identified by the DRAT software and tested empirically to select the optimum solution that separates the assemblages. qPCR results showed differences in gene copy number between two sampling sites, which is consistently with the results of nematode density obtained by traditional methods. The application of these high-throughput molecular approaches for benthic nematodes will improve sample throughput and their implementation more efficient and faster as an indicator of marine ecosystem health.', u'We have collected computed barrier heights and reaction energies (and associated model structures) for five enzymes from studies published by Himo and co-workers. Using this data, obtained at the B3LYP/6- 311+G(2d,2p)[LANL2DZ]//B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level of theory, we then benchmark PM6, PM7, PM7-TS, and DFTB3 and discuss the influence of system size, bulk solvation, and geometry re-optimization on the error. The mean absolute differences (MADs) observed for these five enzyme model systems are similar to those observed for PM6 and PM7 for smaller systems (10-15 kcal/mol), while DFTB results in a MAD that is significantly lower (6 kcal/mol). The MADs for PMx and DFTB3 are each dominated by large errors for a single system and if the system is disregarded the MADs fall to 4-5 kcal/mol. Overall, results for the condensed phase are neither more or less accurate relative to B3LYP than those in the gas phase. With the exception of PM7-TS, the MAD for small and large structural models are very similar, with a maximum deviation of 3 kcal/mol for PM6. Geometry optimization with PM6 shows that for one system this method predicts a different mechanism compared to B3LYP/6-31G(d,p). For the remaining systems geometry optimization of the large structural model increases the MAD relative to single points, by 2.5 and 1.8 kcal/mol for barriers and reaction energies. For the small structural model the corresponding MADs decrease by 0.4 and 1.2 kcal/mol, respectively. However, despite these small changes, significant changes in the structures are observed for some systems, such as proton transfer and hydrogen bonding rearrangements. The paper represents the first step in the process of creating a benchmark set of barriers computed for systems that are relatively large and representative of enzymatic reactions, a considerable challenge for any one research group but possible through a concerted effort by the community. We end by outlining steps needed to expand and improve the data set and how other researchers can contribute to the process.', u'The fight against the emergence of mutant influenza strains has led to the screening of an increasing number of compounds for inhibitory activity against influenza neuraminidase. This study explores the chemical space of neuraminidase inhibitors (NAIs), which provides an opportunity to obtain further molecular insights regarding the underlying basis of their bioactivity. In particular, a large set of 347 and 175 NAIs against influenza A and B, respectively, was compiled from the literature. Molecular and quantum chemical descriptors were obtained from low-energy conformational structures geometrically optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G(d) level. The bioactivities of NAIs were classified as active or inactive according to their half maximum inhibitory concentration (IC50) value in which IC50 < 1 \u03bcM and > 10 \u03bcM were defined as active and inactive compounds, respectively. Interpretable decision rules were derived from a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) model established using a set of 13 descriptors via decision tree analysis. Good predictive performance was achieved as deduced from 10-fold cross-validation, in which an accuracy and MCC of 82.46% and 0.649, respectively, were obtained for influenza A NAIs while values of 80.00% and 0.553 were obtained for influenza B NAIs. Both univariate and multivariate analyses revealed the importance of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital, number of hydrogen bond donors and number of hydrogen bond acceptors in the predictive model of NAIs against influenza A while the number of hydrogen bond acceptors, molecular energy and the energy gap between the highest occupied and lowest unoccupied molecular orbitals were important in the predictive model for influenza B NAIs. Molecular scaffold analysis was performed on both data sets for discriminating important structural features among active and inactive NAIs. Furthermore, molecular docking was employed to investigate the binding modes and their moiety preferences of active NAIs against both influenza A and B neuraminidase. Moreover, novel NAIs with robust binding fitness towards influenza A and B neuraminidase were generated via combinatorial library enumeration and their binding fitness was on par or better than FDA-approved drugs. The results from this study are anticipated to be beneficial for guiding the rational drug design of novel NAIs for treating influenza infections.', u'Aim: A woman in denial of pregnancy is pregnant but remains unaware of her gravid state. In the case of a false pregnancy; the woman is not pregnant but believes she is and presents signs and symptoms of pregnancy. These syndromes correspond to opposite contradictions that were mainly explored separately. Our aim is to explain them by a common and consistent etiology.\nMethod: We explore internal conflicts inherited from the evolutionary transition from solitary animals to social species.\nResults: The solitary and social characters are contradictory. They induce internal conflicts intrinsic to the human condition. At the reproduction level, those conflicts oppose primitive interests (genes transmission) to social identity ones (to become a parent). Both syndromes are described by powerful identity interests in contradiction with the actual physiological state: i) actual pregnancy but unacceptable motherhood (denial), and ii) imperative motherhood in a non-pregnant woman (false pregnancy). The physiological symptoms results from a temporarily adaptive artifice hiding the internal tension and fulfilling simultaneously (but superficially) the incompatible demands.\nConclusion: The proposed model explains clinical observations satisfactorily. It complies with a huge diversity of causative events for the identity tensions involved as reported in literature. The model also elucidates the temporary adaptive character of those psychosomatic dysfunctions. To explain those syndromes in a rational and understandable way will facilitate health professional information, thus favoring the detection and follow-up of cases. The acceptation of their condition by concerned women will also be made easier.', u'Publication and archival of scientific results is still commonly considered the responsability of classical publishing companies. Classical forms of publishing, however, which center around printed narrative articles, no longer seem well-suited in the digital age. In particular, there exist currently no efficient, reliable, and agreed-upon methods for publishing scientific datasets, which have become increasingly important for science. In this article, we propose to design scientific data publishing as a Web-based bottom-up process, without top-down control of central authorities such as publishing companies. Based on a novel combination of existing concepts and technologies, we present a server network to decentrally store and archive data in the form of nanopublications, an RDF-based format to represent scientific data. We show how this approach allows researchers to publish, retrieve, verify, and recombine datasets of nanopublications in a reliable and trustworthy manner, and we argue that this architecture could be used as a low-level data publication layer to serve the Semantic Web in general. Our evaluation of the current network shows that this system is efficient and reliable.', u'Onabotulinumtoxin A (onabotA) is gaining wide medical use in children. However, little is known about its potential testicular effects. The present study was planned to investigate the influence of its injection on the maturing testicular structures in rats. Immature rats were injected in the peritesticular area by onabotA with three doses of (10, 20 and 40 U/kg) three times in a two-week interval. The effect of these injections on fertility indices (sperm parameters, semen quality and testosterone levels) was examined. In addition, levels of antisperm antibodies and several apoptosis parameters were investigated. DNA content in form of ploidy was compared to control group via flow cytometric analysis. Histopathological examination was carried out to confirm the findings. OnabotA-injected groups showed decreased sperm count and semen quality, while sperm vitality, morphology and testosterone levels were not significantly affected. Furthermore, DNA flow cytometric analysis confirmed delayed sperm maturation. Apoptosis markers were significantly increased by the injections. In conclusion, onabotA use in growing rats adversely affected sperm count and maturation. However, it had no significant effects on sperm morphology or vitality. OnabotA testicular effects are mediated, at least partly, by apoptosis.', u"Over the past 10 years, microbial ecologists have largely abandoned sequencing 16S rRNA genes by the Sanger sequencing method and have instead adopted highly parallelized sequencing platforms. These new platforms, such as 454 and Illumina's MiSeq, have allowed researchers to obtain millions of high quality, but short sequences. The result of the added sequencing depth has been significant improvements in experimental design. The tradeoff has been the decline in the number of full-length reference sequences that are deposited into databases. To overcome this problem, we tested the ability of the PacBio Single Molecule, Real-Time (SMRT) DNA sequencing platform to generate sequence reads from the 16S rRNA gene. We generated sequencing data from the V4, V3-V5, V1-V3, V1-V5, V1-V6, and V1-V9 variable regions from within the 16S rRNA gene using DNA from a synthetic mock community and natural samples collected from human feces, mouse feces, and soil. The mock community allowed us to assess the actual sequencing error rate and how that error rate changed when different curation methods were applied. We developed a simple method based on sequence characteristics and quality scores to reduce the observed error rate for the V1-V9 region from 0.69 to 0.027%. This error rate is comparable to what has been observed for the shorter reads generated by 454 and Illumina's MiSeq sequencing platforms. Although the per base sequencing cost is still significantly more than that of MiSeq, the prospect of supplementing reference databases with full-length sequences from organisms below the limit of detection from the Sanger approach is exciting.", u'Exact pattern matching aims to locate all occurrences of a pattern in a text. Many algorithms have been proposed, but two algorithms, the Knuth-Morris-Pratt (KMP) and the Boyer-Moore (BM), are most widespread. It is the basis of some approximate string matching algorithms like BLAST, and in many cases it is desirable to locate an exact rather than approximate matches. Although several studies included measures with small alphabets, none of them specifically designed an algorithm to target nucleotide sequences. Since there are also no application programming interfaces available for pattern matching in nucleotide sequences, these two issues were aimed to be resolved. A portion of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii genome (30 mega bases) was searched with queries ranging from 10 to 2000 nucleotides and an alternating number of matches between one and 25000. The results indicate that the use of two of the algorithms developed in this study is sufficient to efficiently cover the complete search space as presented in the experiment conducted here. Thus the aim of implementing an algorithm specifically targeting pattern matching in nucleotide sequences and making it available to the general public as an advanced programming interface was achieved. All algorithms are freely available at: http://bioinformatics.iyte.edu.tr/supplements/peerj/.', u'Current web browser offer a history feature. Interestingly, this feature can still be refined. In this paper such a refinement is presented: the history of the seen. With this refinement not only clicked links are considered for the history but also links which only have been displayed to user. This is under the assumption that a link not followed will be less interesting in the future. By making the presentation of such links more inconspicuous, the cognitive burden on the users is reduced. A prototype implementation is shown for news sites, where not following a link the first time usually means that the link will not be followed in the future as well.', u'The peer review process is central to the scientific method, the advancement and spread of research as well as crucial for individual careers. However, the single blind review process currently used in most Software Engineering (SE) venues is susceptible towards apparent and hidden biases, since reviewers know the identity of authors. In this paper, we perform a study on the benefits and costs that are associated with introducing double-blind reviews in SE venues. We surveyed the SE community\u2019s opinion, interviewed experts on double-blind reviewing, and estimated the likelihood of reviewers being able to guess the authors. Our results indicate that double-blind reviewing could be introduced in large SE conferences at lower-than-generally believed costs and that the majority of the SE community is in favor of introducing it.', u'Automated test generation tools have been widely investigated with the goal of reducing the cost of testing activities. However, generated tests have been shown not to help developers in detecting and finding more bugs even though they reach higher structural coverage compared to manual testing. The main reason is that generated tests are difficult to understand and maintain. Our paper proposes an approach, coined TestScribe, which automatically generates test case summaries of the portion of code exercised by each individual test, thereby improving understandability. We argue that this approach can complement the current techniques around automated unit test generation or search-based techniques designed to generate a possibly minimal set of test cases. In evaluating our approach we found that (1) developers find twice as many bugs, and (2) test case summaries significantly improve the comprehensibility of test cases, which is considered particularly useful by developers.', u'Bayesian statistics, in contrast to classical statistics, uses probability to represent uncertainty about the state of knowledge. Bayesian statistics has often been associated with the idea that knowledge is subjective and that a probability distribution represents a personal degree of belief. Dr. Daniel Goodman considered this viewpoint problematic for issues of public policy. He sought to ground his Bayesian approach in data, and advocated the construction of a prior as an empirical histogram of \u201csimilar\u201d cases. In this way, the posterior distribution that results from a Bayesian analysis combined comparable previous data with case-specific current data, using Bayes\u2019 formula. Goodman championed such a data-based approach, but he acknowledged that it was difficult in practice. If based on a true representation of our knowledge and uncertainty, Goodman argued that risk assessment and decision-making could be an exact science, despite the uncertainties. In his view, Bayesian statistics is a critical component of this science because a Bayesian analysis produces the probabilities of future outcomes. Indeed, Goodman maintained that the Bayesian machinery, following the rules of conditional probability, offered the best legitimate inference from available data. We give an example of an informative prior in a recent study of Steller sea lion spatial use patterns in Alaska.', u'Introduction Age is the primary risk factor for major human chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disorders, cancer, type 2 diabetes, and neurodegenerative diseases. Chronic, low-grade, systemic inflammation is associated with aging and the progression of immunosenescence. Immunosenescence may play an important role in the development of age-related chronic disease and the widely observed phenomenon of increased production of inflammatory mediators that accompany this process, referred to as \u201cinflammaging\u201d. While it has been demonstrated that the gut microbiome and immune system interact, the relationship between the gut microbiome and age remains to be clearly defined, particularly in the context of inflammation. The aim of the study was to clarify the associations between age, the gut microbiome, and pro-inflammatory marker serum MCP-1 in a C57BL/6 murine model. Results We used 16S rRNA gene sequencing to profile the composition of fecal microbiota associated with young and aged mice. Our analysis identified an association between microbiome structure and mouse age, and revealed specific groups of taxa whose abundances stratify young and aged mice. This includes the Ruminococcaceae, Clostridiaceae, and Enterobacteriaceae. We also profiled pro-inflammatory serum MCP-1 levels of each mouse and found that aged mice exhibited elevated serum MCP-1, a phenotype consistent with inflammaging. Robust correlation tests identified several taxa whose abundance in the microbiome associates with serum MCP-1 status, indicating that they may interact with the mouse immune system. We find that taxonomically similar organisms can exhibit differing, even opposite, patterns of association with the host immune system. We also find that many of the OTUs that associate with serum MCP-1 also stratify individuals by age. Discussion Our results demonstrate that gut microbiome composition is associated with age and the pro-inflammatory marker, serum MCP-1. The correlation between age, relative abundance of specific taxa in the gut microbiome, and serum MCP-1 status in mice indicates that the gut microbiome may play a modulating role in age-related inflammatory processes. These findings warrant further investigation of taxa associated with the inflammaging phenotype and the role of gut microbiome in the health status and immune function of aged individuals.', u'Larval production and recruitment underpin the maintenance of coral populations, but these early life history stages are vulnerable to extreme variation in physical conditions. Environmental managers aim to minimise human impacts during significant periods of larval production and recruitment on reefs, but doing so requires knowledge of the modes and timing of coral reproduction. Most corals are hermaphroditic or gonochoric, with a brooding or broadcast spawning mode of reproduction. Brooding corals are a significant component of some reefs and produce larvae over consecutive months. Broadcast spawning corals are more common and display considerable variation in their patterns of spawning among reefs. Highly synchronous spawning can occur on reefs around Australia, particularly on the Great Barrier Reef. On Australia\u2019s remote north-west coast there have been fewer studies of coral reproduction. The recent industrial expansion into these regions has facilitated research, but the associated data are often contained within confidential reports. Here we combine information in this grey-literature with that available publicly to update our knowledge of coral reproduction in WA, for tens of thousands of corals and hundreds of species from over a dozen reefs spanning 20 degrees of latitude. We identified broad patterns in coral reproduction, but more detailed insights were hindered by biased sampling; most studies focused on species of Acropora sampled over a few months at several reefs. Within the existing data, there was a latitudinal gradient in spawning activity among seasons, with mass spawning during autumn occurring on all reefs (but the temperate south-west). Participation in a smaller, multi-specific spawning during spring decreased from approximately one quarter of corals on the Kimberley Oceanic reefs to little participation at Ningaloo. Within these seasons, spawning was concentrated in March and/or April, and October and/or November, depending on the timing of the full moon. The timing of the full moon determined whether spawning was split over two months, which was common on tropical reefs. There were few data available for non-Acropora corals, which may have different patterns of reproduction. For example, the massive Porites seemed to spawn through spring to autumn on Kimberley Oceanic reefs and during summer in the Pilbara region, where other common corals (e.g. Turbinaria & Pavona) also displayed different patterns of reproduction to the Acropora. The brooding corals (Isopora & Seriatopora) on Kimberley Oceanic reefs appeared to planulate during many months, possibly with peaks from spring to autumn; a similar pattern is likely on other WA reefs. Gaps in knowledge were also due to the difficulty in identifying species and issues with methodology. We briefly discuss some of these issues and suggest an approach to quantifying variation in reproductive output throughout a year.', u'Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) is used for research in gene expression, and it is vital to choose appropriate housekeeping genes (HKGs) as reference genes to obtain correct result. The purpose of this study is to determine stably expressed HKGs in blood of beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) that can be the appropriate reference genes in relative quantification in gene expression research. Sixty blood samples were taken from 4 beluga whales. Thirteen candidate HKGs (ACTB, B2M, GAPDH, HPRT1, LDHB, PGK1, RPL4, RPL8, RPL18, RPS9, RPS18, TFRC, YWHAZ) were tested using RT-qPCR. The stability values of the HKGs were determined by four different algorithms. Comprehensive analysis of the results revealed that RPL4, PGK1 and ACTB are strongly recommended for use in future RT-qPCR studies in beluga blood samples. This research provides recommendation of reference gene selection, which may contribute to further mRNA relative quantification research in the peripheral blood leukocytes in captive cetaceans. The gene expression assessment of the immune components in blood have potential to serve as important approach to evaluating cetacean health influenced by environmental insults.', u'Forest communities are mosaic systems composed of patches classified into four different developmental patch types: gap patch (G), building patch (B), mature patch (M) and degenerate patch (D). To study the mechanisms maintaining diversity in subalpine coniferous forests, species presence frequency and diversity in the four distinct patch types (G, B, M and D) of Larix chinensis conifer forests at three altitudinal gradients in the Qinling Mountains were analyzed. Our results were as follows: (1) Different species (or functional groups) had distinct presence frequencie s in the four different patch types along the altitudinal gradient. (2) Some species or functional groups (species groups sharing similar traits and response to environment) only occurred in some specific patches. For seed dispersal, species using wind mainly occurred in G and D, while species using small animals mainly occurred in B and M. (3) Species composition of adjacent patch types was more similar than non-adjacent patch types, based on the lower \u03b2 diversity index of the former. (4) The maximum numbers of species and two diversity indices (D\u2032 and H\u2032) were found in the middle altitudes. Various gap-forming processes and dispersal limitation may be the two major mechanisms determining species diversity in Larix chinensis coniferous forests at the patch scale.', u'Background. Diverse flower communities are more stable in floral resource production along the flowering season, but the question about how the diversity and stability of resources affect pollinator reproduction remains open. High plant diversity could favor short foraging trips, which in turn would enhance bee fitness. In addition to plant diversity, greater temporal stability of floral resources in diverse communities could favor pollinator fitness because such communities are likely to occupy the phenological space more broadly, increasing floral availability for pollinators throughout the season. In addition, this potential effect of flower diversity on bee reproduction could be stronger for generalist pollinators because they can use a broader floral spectrum. Based on above arguments we predicted that pollinator reproduction would be positively correlated to flower diversity, and to temporal stability in flower production, and that this relationship would be stronger for the most generalized pollinator species. Materials & Methods. Using structural equation models, we evaluated the effect of these variables and other ecological factors on three estimates of bee reproduction, and whether such effects were modulated by bee generalization on floral resources. Results. Contrary to our expectations, flower diversity had no effect on bee reproduction, stability in flower production had a weakly negative effect on one of the bee reproductive variables, and the strength of the fitness-diversity relationship was unrelated to bee generalization. In contrast, elevation had a weak, non significant negative effect on bee reproduction, despite the narrow elevation range encompassed by our sites. Discussion. Flower diversity did not affect the reproduction of the solitary bees studied here. Although high temporal stability in flower production is expected to enhance pollinator reproduction, in our study it had a weakly negative---instead of positive---effect on the average number of brood cells per nest. Other environmental factors that vary with elevation could influence bee reproduction. Our study focused on a small group of closely-related bee species, which cautions against generalization of our findings to other groups of pollinators. More studies are clearly needed to assess the extent to which pollinator demography is influenced by the diversity of floral resources.', u'Eradicating introduced rodents from islands restores these communities, but operations must mitigate bait uptake by non-target species to ensure adequate bait coverage, and minimize mortality of non-target species. Ingestion of toxic bait is a recognised risk for scavenging birds, but is also a concern for generalist feeders. Gough Island, Tristan da Cunha, in the South Atlantic Ocean, has introduced house mice (Mus musculus) that negatively affect the island ecosystem. It is also home to the endemic globally threatened Gough bunting (Rowettia goughensis), a generalist that may be affected by primary poisoning. We presented 26 wild individuals with non-toxic bait pellets and observed their reactions for up to 30 min, or until they flew away. While 23% of Gough buntings did not react to bait pellets, 77% showed some level of interest. Generalist feeders, such as Gough bunting, may also be at risk of primary poisoning during rodent eradication operations.', u'The replication of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is dependent on the virus-encoded 3C protease (3Cpro). As in other picornaviruses, 3Cpro performs most of the proteolytic processing of the polyprotein expressed from the single open reading frame in the RNA genome of the virus. Previous work revealed that the 3Cpro from serotype A \u2013one of the seven serotypes of FMDV \u2013 adopts a trypsin-like fold. Phylogenetically the FMDV serotypes are grouped into two clusters, with O, A, C, and Asia 1 in one, and the three South African Territories serotypes, (SAT-1, SAT-2 and SAT-3) in another. We report here the cloning, expression and purification of 3C proteases from four SAT serotype viruses (SAT2/GHA/8/91, SAT1/NIG/5/81, SAT1/UGA/1/97, and SAT2/ZIM/7/83) and the crystal structure at 3.2\xc5 resolution of 3Cpro from SAT2/GHA/8/91).', u'In recent years the increasingly frequent use of the Web service, the advent of the cloud computing, the exponential growing of mobile devices with the introduction of pervasive and ubiquitous computing and the emergence of extreme distributed systems have brought to light the problem of the no longer adequate distribution of data packets over Internet and the related IP protocol issues. This paper promotes flat labels as a real alternative to IP addresses for a future Internet architecture and proposes FLIP as first network layer protocol for flat labels. Among several features absolutely not existing in IP protocol, FLIP has a native support for crypto-currencies.', u'Background. Recent epigenomic studies have shown that the length of a DNA region covered by an epigenetic mark is not just a byproduct of the assaying technologies and has functional implications for that locus. For example, expanded regions of DNA sequences that are marked by enhancer-specific histone modifications, such as acetylation of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27ac) domains coincide with cell-specific enhancers, known as super or stretch enhancers. Similarly, promoters of genes critical for cell-specific functions are marked by expanded H3K4me3 domains in the cognate cell type, and these can span DNA regions from 4-5kb up to 40-50kb in length. These expanded H3K4me3 domains are known as buffer domains or super promoters. Methods. To ask what correlates with\u2014and potentially regulates\u2014the length of loci marked with these two important histone marks, H3K4me3 and H3K27ac, we built Random Forest regression models. With these models we computationally identified genomic and epigenomic patterns that are predictive for the length of these marks in seven ENCODE cell lines. Results. We found that certain epigenetic marks and transcription factors explain the variability of the length of H3K4me3 and H3K27ac marks across different cell types, which implies that the lengths of these two epigenetic marks are tightly regulated in a given cell type. Our source code for the regression models and data can be found at our GitHub page: https://github.com/zubekj/broad_peaks Discussion. Our Random Forest based regression models enabled us to estimate the individual contribution of different epigenetic marks and protein binding patterns to the length of H3K4me3 and H3K27ac deposition patterns; therefore potentially revealing genomic signatures at cell specific regulatory elements.', u'Reasons for performing the study. Equine cheek teeth periodontal disease is a common, often painful dental condition that may lead to premature tooth loss if left untreated. All cases of periodontal disease in this study were associated with diastemata, with the majority of cases being secondary or senile diastemata. At present limited objective information is available comparing different treatment methods for the condition to assist clinicians in making evidence-based treatment decisions.  Objectives. To compare the effectiveness of four commonly used treatments for equine periodontal disease (additional to routine dental treatment and equilibration) to assess their merit in reducing periodontal pocket depth.  Study design. Retrospective case series.  Methods. Four commonly used equine periodontal treatments were compared: Removing feed material and lavaging the periodontal pocket with dilute chlorhexidine and rinsing the mouth with chlorhexidine based mouthwash (\u2018Hexarinse\u2019), \u2018clean and antiseptic lavage\u2019 (CL); CL plus the addition of metronidazole antibiotics into the periodontal pockets (M); M plus the addition of a polyvinyl siloxane temporary filling over the diastema (PVS); and diastema widening to open the diastema and increase the interdental space between adjacent teeth, then PVS (DW). Periodontal pocket depth measurements were compared before and after treatment at treatment intervals between two and six months. Results. Treatment groups CL, M and PVS showed statistically significant reductions in pocket depth following treatment. Mean pocket depth reduction was greatest in the DW group (and this was the only group with no cases involving an increase in pocket depth), but this was based on a small sample size and was not statistically significant. Additional analysis to compare effectiveness revealed a strong confounding effect of initial pocket depth. After taking this into account, there was some evidence that DW was associated with smaller improvements than the other treatments, however this result was also based on a small sample size, and influenced by a small number of cases with particularly large improvements. Among the other treatments, no statistically significant differences in effectiveness were found.  Conclusion. This study has shown that treatment methods CL, M and PVS are associated with statistically significant reductions in pocket depth. Due to the confounding effect of initial pocket depth, no clear differences in effectiveness were found between treatment methods.', u'Background. Knowledge of the variance in physiological performance measures between repeated trials can inform whether familiarization sessions are necessary prior to intervention studies. The purpose of this study was to assess the reliability of cardiorespiratory and exercise performance measures during both steady state hypoxic exercise and a preloaded 16.1 km hypoxic time trial. Methods. Eighteen male participants (age, 22 \xb1 4 years; height, 1.77 \xb1 0.04 meters; body mass, 76.8 kg; estimated body fat and VO2peak = 3.50 \xb1 0.60 L.min-1) were divided into three groups. Reliability of responses (HR, SPO2 , VO2 , VCO2 , VE and respiratory exchange ratio; RER) to the HST (FIO2 0.14; 15 minutes rest, 60 minutes cycling at 50% normoxic VO2peak) was assessed across 3 repeat trials (HST 1, 2 and 3, n = 6). Reliability of the preloaded time trial (pTT; 15 min rest, 40 minutes cycling at 50% normoxic VO2peak, 16.1km time trial) was assessed across 3 repeat normoxic (N; FIO2 \u2248 0.21; n=6) and 3 repeat hypoxic (FIO2 \u2248 0.14; n = 6) trials. All exercise trials were undertaken at the same time of day, following exercise and dietary controls, 7 days apart. Results. Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC\u2019s) for mean and peak HR, SpO2 , VE , VO2 , VCO2 and blood lactate within each trial were improved from HST1 to HST2 (mean data: 0.99, 0.95, 0.75, 0.62, 0.70, 0.90; peak data: 0.98, 0.96, 0.64, 0.69, 0.74, 0.75) to HST2 and HST3 (ICC = 0.99, 0.97, 0.82, 0.85, 0.87 and 0.96 respectively). The reliability for time to pTT completion was improved following one trial, and the CV (test 2 vs. 3) was similar under normoxic (CV = 0.62) and hypoxic conditions (CV = 0.63). Conclusion. Cardiorespiratory responses to the HST were reproducible and the pTT performance time reliable in both normoxia and hypoxia. Since the reproducibility of the measurements in HST trials and reliability of pTT improved between the second and third trials, two familiarization visit are recommended prior to employing these protocols in future studies.', u'The Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus is a valuable European decapod, particularly when sold live, although along the supply chain lobsters experience a range of extreme stressors during and immediately after capture, and onward transportation. To improve quality and quantity of live product, laboratory experiments and transport simulations have investigated the effect of stress, particularly emersion and temperature, on physiology and the immune system, typically via blood (haemolymph) assays. This study investigated a relatively neglected stressor, physical trauma during transport (i.e. prolonged vibrations) via a simulated transport experiment, following anecdotal evidence that additional cushioning reduced post-transport mortality of N. norvegicus by up to ca. 20%. Baseline (BS) lobsters were sampled shortly after creel capture, and subsamples emersed for 1h, with additional experimental shaking (ES) or as immobile controls (EM). Both emersed treatments showed increased THC and serum glucose, lactate and ammonium, although serum protein and refractive index did not change significantly. Compared to the EM treatment, ES lobsters had significant increases in serum ammonium and glucose. In addition to emersion stress, physical trauma during transport is confirmed as an additional stressor that needs to be considered in transport simulations, whilst straightforward and cheap mitigation of physical trauma (e.g. road vibrations) could improve welfare, survival and recovery.', u'Inherent difficulties of tracking and observing organisms in the field often leave researchers with no choice but to conduct behavioral experiments under laboratory settings. However, results of laboratory experiments do not always translate accurately to natural conditions. A fundamental challenge in ecology is therefore to scale up from small area and short-duration laboratory experiments to large areas and long-durations over which ecological processes generally operate. In this study, we propose that stable isotope analysis may be a tool that can link laboratory behavioral observations to past field interactions or function of individual organisms. We conducted laboratory behavioral assays to measure dominance of invasive rusty crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, and used stable isotope analysis to hindcast trophic positions of these crayfish under preceding natural conditions. We hypothesized that more dominant crayfish in our assays would have higher trophic positions if dominance were related to competitive ability or willingness to pursue high-risk, high-reward prey. We did not find a relationship between crayfish dominance and trophic position, and therefore infer that laboratory dominance of crayfish may not necessarily relate to their ecology in the field. However, this is to our knowledge the first attempt to directly relate laboratory behavior to field performance via stable isotope analysis. We encourage future studies to continue to explore a possible link between laboratory and field behavior via stable isotope analysis, and propose several avenues to do so.', u'Continental slopes support highly diverse ecosystems strongly influenced by habitat heterogeneity and increasing anthropogenic disturbance, of which bottom trawling fisheries are considered of major importance. Recent studies showed that megafauna assemblages are particularly sensitive to trawling disturbance in hard substrate habitats (e.g. seamounts) but impacts on soft sediments are mostly unknown. Video surveys obtained by Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) were used to investigate megafaunal structural and functional diversity in areas subjected to different degrees of disturbance (no, low, medium and high trawl intensity) covering different soft sediment habitats (muddy-sand and sandy bottoms) along the SW Portuguese continental slope. In total, 17 km of video transects were analysed within a bathymetric range of 200m and 700m water depths. All disturbed areas displayed frequent and recent trawl marks (up to 3 marks per 100m), with general flattened seafloor topography and low bioturbation. Additional scattered litter presence was observed. Megafauna abundances were highly variable among habitats, revealing more than 80 morphospecies, belonging to 17 classes. Overall, communities from muddy-sand habitats presented higher species richness in undisturbed locations, where sessile groups such as sponges (Porifera) and soft corals (e.g. Pennatulacea) were predominantly found. In contrast, sandy locations subjected to disturbance showed lower diversity and high abundances of the dominant polychaete Hyalinoecia tubicula. The use of several biological traits (e.g. mobility, living habit, feeding type) will be discussed in relation to the community composition and structural diversity among the different habitats and disturbance pressures to better understand on the vulnerability of the continental slope benthic habitats.', u'We consider the problem of detecting and quantifying the periodic component of a function given noise-corrupted observations of a limited number of input/output tuples. Our approach is based on Gaussian process regression which provides a flexible non-parametric framework for modelling periodic data. We introduce a novel decomposition of the covariance function as the sum of periodic and aperiodic kernels. This decomposition allows for the creation of sub-models which capture the periodic nature of the signal and its complement. To quantify the periodicity of the signal, we derive a periodicity ratio which reflects the uncertainty in the fitted sub-models. Although the method can be applied to many kernels, we give a special emphasis to the Mat\xe9rn family, from the expression of the reproducing kernel Hilbert space inner product to the implementation of the associated periodic kernels in a Gaussian process toolkit. The proposed method is illustrated by considering the detection of periodically expressed genes in the arabidopsis genome.', u'Background. Ruminants are successful herbivorous mammals, in part due to their specialized forestomachs, the rumen complex, which facilitates the conversion of feed to soluble nutrients by micro-organisms. Is the rumen complex a modified stomach expressing new epithelial (cornification) and metabolic programs, or a specialised stratified epithelium that has acquired new metabolic activities, potentially similar to those of the colon? How has the presence of the rumen affected other sections of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of ruminants compared to non-ruminants? Methods. Transcriptome data from 11 tissues covering the sheep GIT, two stratified epithelial and two control tissues, was analysed using principal components to cluster tissues based on gene expression profile similarity. Expression profiles of genes along the sheep GIT were used to generate a network to identify genes enriched for expression in different compartments of the GIT. The data from sheep was compared to similar data sets from two non-ruminants, pigs (closely related) and humans (more distantly related). Results. The rumen transcriptome clustered with the skin and tonsil, but not the GIT transcriptomes, driven by genes from the epidermal differentiation complex, and genes encoding stratified epithelium keratins and innate immunity proteins. By analysing all of the gene expression profiles across tissues together 16 major clusters were identified. The strongest of these, and consistent with the high turnover rate of the GIT, showed a marked enrichment of cell cycle process genes (P=1.4E-46), across the whole GIT, relative to liver and muscle, with highest expression in the caecum followed by colon and rumen. The expression patterns of several membrane transporters (chloride, zinc, nucleosides, amino acids, fatty acids, cholesterol and bile acids) along the GIT was very similar in sheep, pig and humans. In contrast, short chain fatty acid uptake and metabolism appeared to be different between the species and different between the rumen and colon in sheep. The importance of nitrogen and iodine recycling in sheep was highlighted by the highly preferential expression of SLC14A1-urea (rumen), RHBG-ammonia (intestines) and SLC5A5-iodine (abomasum). The gene encoding a poorly characterized member of the maltase-glucoamylase family (MGAM2), predicted to play a role in the degradation of starch or glycogen, was highly expressed in the small and large intestines. Discussion. The rumen appears to be a specialised stratified cornified epithelium, probably derived from the oesophagus, which has gained some liver-like and other specialized metabolic functions, but probably not by expression of pre-existing colon metabolic programs. Changes in gene transcription downstream of the rumen also appear have occurred as a consequence of the evolution of the rumen and its effect on nutrient composition flowing down the GIT.', u'Data is the cornerstone of the modern academic industry, like a constant production line of consumable goods packaged with a veneer of statistical techniques. Biomedical and psychological sciences invert the traditional logic of the physical sciences where hypotheses were tested against data rather than data against hypotheses. This is likely to reflect the immaturity of the new paradigms that barely cope with the data output of a precocious enterprise. However, the current state leads to distortions of the practice of science and entrenchment of its dysfunctional politics reflected in the science itself. With the debate now on the reproduction of data and statistical sleights of hand accompanying many if not most studies, what is lost in the debate is the preeminent role of good theoretical discovery. This is partly as a result of the structure of funding, the nature of reporting in biomedical fields based on the symbiotic relationship of high ranking institutions and journals. Open access could fill a gap in traditional publishing literature which has entrenched a culture of highly restrictive practices at a time when revolutionary science is required. OA is not in danger of lowering the standards of science as its critics claim as the studies on non replication show that they do not discriminate against OA papers specifically. Because it is \u2018open\u2019 to new and radical ideas that would never see the light of day otherwise, it may well provide a rejuvenating energy. OA is a self-regulatory response to the consequences of the distorted and inhibitory contemporary practice of science as the popularity of OA journals testify to.', u"PhilDB is an open-source time series database that supports storage of time series datasets that are dynamic, that is it records updates to existing values in a log as they occur. PhilDB eases loading of data for the user by utilising an intelligent data write method. It preserves existing values during updates and abstracts the update complexity required to achieve logging of data value changes. It implements fast reads to make it practical to select data for analysis. Recent open-source systems have been developed to indefinitely store long-period high-resolution time series data without change logging. Unfortunately such systems generally require a large initial installation investment before use because they are designed to operate over a cluster of servers to achieve high-performance writing of static data in real time. In essence, they have a 'big data' approach to storage and access. Other open-source projects for handling time series data that avoid the 'big data' approach are also relatively new and are complex or incomplete. None of these systems gracefully handle revision of existing data while tracking values that changed. Unlike 'big data' solutions, PhilDB has been designed for single machine deployment on commodity hardware, reducing the barrier to deployment. PhilDB takes a unique approach to meta-data tracking; optional attribute attachment. This facilitates scaling the complexities of storing a wide variety of data. That is, it allows time series data to be loaded as time series instances with minimal initial meta-data, yet additional attributes can be created and attached to differentiate the time series instances when a wider variety of data is needed. PhilDB was written in Python, leveraging existing libraries. While some existing systems come close to meeting the needs PhilDB addresses, none cover all the needs at once. PhilDB was written to fill this gap in existing solutions. This paper explores existing time series database solutions, discusses the motivation for PhilDB, describes the architecture and philosophy of the PhilDB software, and performs a simple evaluation between InfluxDB, PhilDB, and SciDB.", u'The COBRA protein is found only in higher plants and algae, and has been implicated in cellulose synthesis, but its specific function remains unknown. To shed light on COBRA function we tested the ability of putative Arabidopsis COBRA orthologs to complement mutations in the COBRA gene. We expanded the previously published phylogenetic analysis and found that COBRA genes can be grouped into five clades. Representative COBRA genes from the different clades were expressed in a cobra mutant background. Surprisingly, none of the COBRA-LIKE genes was able to complement cobra, including the closest homolog which we found to bind cellulose with the same avidity as COBRA. We hypothesize that the lack of ability of the COBRA-LIKE genes to complement the cobra mutant is due to an unidentified binding interaction that is sensitive to the structure of the COBRA-LIKE proteins. However, membrane-based yeast two hybrid assays failed to identify positive interactors for COBRA.', u'Sanctuaries are crucial to the survival and welfare of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes).  They also play an important role in educating the public about chimpanzee behavior and conservation. However, as many sanctuaries lack the capacity to collect long-term data, there is no standardized protocol for evaluating these aims. To address this, the Lincoln Park Zoo, USA, has partnered with Chimp Haven, Inc., USA. Chimp Haven houses nearly 200 chimpanzees in several enclosure types including traditional indoor-outdoor runs (~20m2 in area), open-top corrals (~300m2), and large forested habitats (up to 24,000m2). By leveraging the expertise from both institutions we will evaluate the aims of the sanctuary considering both the behavior and welfare of the chimpanzees and the impact of the sanctuary\u2019s public education program. To address the first aim, we will use non-invasive focal observations to evaluate whether and how different housing types affect the chimpanzees\u2019 activity budgets, enclosure usage, and social interactions. To inquire about the success of the second aim, we will evaluate education programs at Chimp Haven during which the public can view the chimpanzees. We will investigate whether public viewing opportunities affect the chimpanzees\u2019 behavior through the use of observational data collected on the chimpanzees. Simultaneously, we will evaluate the learning outcomes and attitudes of visitors at Chimp Haven, using questionnaires and observations of visitor behavior. Findings from this research will inform decisions about the care and management of captive chimpanzees. This research will also provide information about how sanctuaries can best engage and educate the public.', u'Heavy losses incited yearly by Alternaria brassicicola on the vegetable Brassicaceae \u2013 have prompted our search for sources of genetic resistance against the pathogen and the resultant disease, dark leaf spot. We optimized several parameters to test the performance of the plants under controlled conditions to this disease, including leaf age and position, inoculum concentration, and incubation temperature. Using these optimized conditions, we screened a collection of 38 Brassicaceae cultigens with two methods (detached leaf and seedlings). Our results show, that either method can be used for the A. brassicicola resistance breeding, while the plant\u2019s genotype was crucial in determining its response to the pathogen. The laboartory bio-assays for A. brassicicola resistance were run under more stringent conditions than the field tests, and resulted in identification of two interspecific hybrids that might be used in breeding programs. Confocal microscopy analyses of the leaf samples provided data into the pathogen mode of infection: Direct epidermal infection or stomatal attack were related to plants\u2019 resistance against A. brassicicola among the cultigens tested. Further, the actin network of the host cells reorganized around the papillas deposited under the pathogen\u2019s appressorium.', u'Scleractinian corals play a critical role in tropical marine ecosystems by providing essential structure and food for coral reef inhabitants. However, recent investigations have found an alarming increase in coral losses from a variety of stressors, which threatens the general health and resilience of tropical coastal ecosystems. The effect of oxygen deprivation on the health of Hawaiian corals based on local drivers is of particular concern. On Hawaiian reefs, the fast-growing, invasive algae Gracilaria salicornia overgrows coral heads, restricting water flow and light, thereby smothering corals. Field data shows hypoxic conditions (dissolved oxygen (DO2) < 2 mg/L) occurring underneath algal mats at night, and concurrent bleaching and partial tissue loss of shaded corals. This study evaluates changes in coral health and metabolism through the replication of hypoxic conditions in a laboratory setting in order to limit the contribution of additional environmental variables to health shifts. Analyses of metabolic stress were accomplished through the quantification of lactate dehydrogenase and opine dehydrogenase activities. Through experimentation, treatment corals were observed to exhibit significant increases in alanopine and strombine dehydrogenase activities (ADH and SDH, respectively), but little to no lactate or octopine dehydrogenase activity. These findings indicate that not only is hypoxia a major source of increased coral stress, which occurs in response to invasive algae mat smothering, but provide novel insight into coral metabolic shifts in extremely low-oxygen environments and point to ADH and SDH as possible tools for hypoxia mitigation.', u'Microgeographic variation in fitness-relevant traits may be more common than previously appreciated. The fitness of many vertebrates is directly related to their locomotor capacity, a whole-organism trait integrating behavior, morphology, and physiology. Because locomotion is inextricably related to context, I hypothesized that it might vary with habitat structure in a wide-ranging lizard, Podarcis erhardii, found in the Greek Cyclade Islands. I compared lizard populations living on human-built rock walls, a novel habitat with complex vertical structure, with nearby lizard populations that are naive to human-built infrastructure and live in flat, loose-substrate habitat. I tested for differences in morphology, behavior, and performance. Lizards from built sites were larger and had significantly (and relatively) longer forelimbs and hindlimbs. The differences in hindlimb morphology were especially pronounced for distal components \u2013 the foot and longest toe. These morphologies facilitated a significant behavioral shift in jumping propensity across a rocky experimental substrate. I found no difference in maximum velocity between these populations, however females originating from wall sites potentially accelerated faster over the rocky experimental substrate. The variation between these closely neighboring populations suggests that the lizards inhabiting walls have experienced a suite of trait changes enabling them to take advantage of the novel habitat structure created by humans.', u'Here we question the generality of the conventional definition of a native conformation \u2013as the 3-dimensional conformation of an entire globular polypeptide molecule. Although considered common knowledge, and thus not explicitly stated in modern writings, this definition of native conformations has a history as old as the protein folding problem. We attempt a more applicable definition that better correlates with functional activity and thus may be a more suitable substitute for the current convention.', u'Aggregation during dispersal from source to settlement sites can allow persistence of weak competitors, by creating conditions where stronger competitors are more likely to interact with conspecifics than with less competitive heterospecifics. However, different aggregation mechanisms across scales can lead to very different patterns of settlement. Little is known about what ecological conditions are required for this mechanism to work effectively. We derive a metacommunity approximation of aggregated dispersal that shows how three different scales interact to determine competitive outcomes: the spatial scale of aggregation, the spatial scale of interactions between individuals, and the time-scale of arrival rates of aggregations. We use stochastic simulations and a novel metacommunity approximation to show that an inferior competitor can invade only when the superior competitor is aggregated over short spatial scales, and aggregations of new settlers are small and rare.', u"Biases against women in the workplace have been documented in a variety of studies. This paper presents the largest study to date on gender bias, where we compare acceptance rates of contributions from men versus women in an open source software community. Surprisingly, our results show that women's contributions tend to be accepted more often than men's. However, when a woman's gender is identifiable, they are rejected more often. Our results suggest that although women on GitHub may be more competent overall, bias against them exists nonetheless.", u'Background.  The need for timely, ethical, and high-quality reporting of clinical trial results has seen a rise in demand for publication professionals. These publication experts, who are not ghostwriters, work with leading medical researchers and funders around the world to plan and prepare thousands of publications each year. Despite the involvement of publication professionals in an increasing number of peer-reviewed publications, especially those that affect patient care, there is limited evidence-based guidance in the peer-reviewed literature on their publication practices. Similar to the push for editors and the peer-review community to conduct and publish research on publication ethics and the peer-review process, the International Society for Medical Publication Professionals (ISMPP) has encouraged members to conduct and publish research on publication planning and practices. Our primary objective was to investigate the publication rate of research presented at ISMPP Annual Meetings. Methods.  ISMPP Annual Meeting abstract lists (April 2009 to April 2014) were searched in November 2014 and data were extracted into a pilot-tested spreadsheet. MEDLINE was searched in December 2014 to determine the publication rate (calculated as the % of presented abstracts published as full papers in peer-reviewed journals). Data were analyzed using the Cochran-Armitage trend test (significance: P <.05) by an independent academic statistician. Results.  From 2009 to 2014, there were 220 abstracts submitted, 185 accepted, and 164 presented. There were only four corresponding publications (publication rate 2.4%). Over time, ISMPP\u2019s abstract acceptance rate (overall: 84.1%) did not change, but the number of abstracts presented increased significantly (P = .02). Most abstracts were presented as posters (81.1%) and most research was observational (72.6%). Most researchers came from the US (78.0%), followed by Europe (17.7%), and the Asia-Pacific region (11.2%). Discussion.  Research presented at ISMPP Annual Meetings has rarely been published in peer-reviewed journals. The high-rate of non publication by publication professionals has now been quantified and is of concern. Publication professionals should do more to contribute to evidence\u2011based publication practices, including, and especially, their own. Unless the barriers to publication are identified and addressed, the practices of publication professionals, which affect thousands of peer-reviewed publications each year, will remain hidden and unproven.', u'Background. Increased interest in luxury products and Traditional Chinese Medicine, associated with economic growth in China, has been linked to depletion of both terrestrial and marine wildlife. Among the most rapidly emerging concerns with respect to these markets is the relatively new demand for gill plates, or Peng Yu Sai (\u201cFish Gills\u201d), from devil and manta rays (subfamily Mobulinae). The high value of gill plates drives international trade supplied by largely unmonitored and unregulated bycatch and target fisheries around the world. Devil and manta rays are especially sensitive to overexploitation because of their exceptionally low productivity (maximum intrinsic rate of population increase). Scientific research, conservation campaigns, as well as international and national protections that restrict fishing or trade have increased in recent years. Many key protections, however, apply only to manta rays. Methods. We review the state of the development of scientific knowledge and capacity for these species, and summarise the geographic ranges, fisheries and national and international protections for these species. We use a conservation planning approach to develop the Global Devil and Manta Ray Conservation Strategy, specifying a vision, goals, objectives, and actions to advance the conservation of both devil and manta rays. Results and Discussion. Generally, there is greater scientific attention and conservation focused on Manta compared to Devil Rays. We discuss how the successes in manta ray conservation can be expanded to benefit devil rays. We also examine solutions for the two leading threats to both devil and manta rays \u2013 bycatch and target fisheries. First, we examine how can the impact of bycatch fisheries can be reduced through international measures and best-practice handling techniques. Second, we examine the role that responsible trade and demand can play in reducing target fisheries for gill plates. Our paper suggests that given similarities in sensitivity and appearance, particularly of the dried gill plate product, conservation measures may need to be harmonised particularly for the larger species in this subfamily.', u'Ishikawa endometrial epithelial cells are capable of differentiation from monolayer cells into fluid-enclosing hemispheres through a surprisingly complex series of structural changes as discussed in this and in two accompanying papers (Fleming, 2016a; Fleming 2016b). The process starts with the dissolution of cell membranes in defined regions throughout a monolayer that has been stimulated to differentiate (Fleming, 1995). Aggregated nuclei become wrapped in membranes containing mitochondrial carboxylases, and apparently generated by contiguous mitochondria. These mitonucleons are involved in vacuole formation that elevates the syncytium into a predome (Fleming, 2015a). The mitonucleons begin to fall apart several hours after formation as the enveloping membranes are breached and the pyknotic chromatin undergoes profound changes (Fleming, 2015b). Chromatin deconstruction, with attendant disappearance of the typical ovoid nuclear structure, results in chromatin fibers that fill the envelope formed by the apical and basal membranes of the syncytium, now stretching over a cavity filling with fluid. In the next several hours, hematoxylin staining, greatly diminished when nuclei were fragmented, reappears in an irregular mass of chromatin out of which nuclei form amitotically and increase in numbers until they fill the envelope. Subsequently cell membranes form around the nuclei. Domes can enlarge and even extend into tubules by becoming vacuolized and undergoing the same amitotic process that created the dome initially.', u'Pyknosis, karyorrhexis and karyolysis, harbingers of programmed cell death in many systems, appear to be driving forces that transform Ishikawa monolayer epithelial cells into differentiated dome cells. The heterochromatin affected by these process is contained in multiple nuclei aggregated in the syncytia that form when Ishikawa monolayers are stimulated to differentiate (Fleming, 2016a). The nuclear aggregates are enveloped in a double membrane staining for the endogenous biotin in mitochondrial carboxylases. The structure called a mitonucleon becomes vacuolated, along with the heterochromatin it envelops, and this structure elevates with the apical membrane of the syncytium 6 to 8 hours into the 20 hour differentiation, becoming increasingly pyknotic. This phase of the differentiation comes to an end when the mitonucleon membranes are breached and nuclei emerging from the aggregated state can be seen to fragment explosively. Fragmented DNA associates with an array of microtubules, filling the large central clearing of the predome. Some chromatin remains unfragmented and can be seen of the edges of the predome clearing. Cell death does not occur. Instead, the fragmented DNA coalesces into an irregular mass within the apical and basal membranes of the predome under which fluid has been accumulating. From the chromatin sheet, nuclei emerge amitotically as described in Part 3 of this series (Fleming, 2016c).', u'In 1998, we published a paper (Fleming et.al, 1998) describing some aspects of Ishikawa endometrial epithelial cell differentiation from monolayer cells into cells forming fluid-filled hemispheres called domes. The process begins with the dissolution of membranes within discrete regions of the monolayer. Nuclei from fused cells aggregate and endogenous biotin in particulate structures assumed to be mitochondria increase throughout the resulting syncytium. Endogenous biotin is also the distinguishing feature of a membrane that surrounds aggregates of multiple nuclei in a structure called a mitonucleon. The current paper includes additional observations on structural changes accompanying Ishikawa differentiation. Vacuoles form in the heterochromatin of the mitonucleon and within the biotin-containing double membrane surrounding heterochromatin. With the formation of vacuoles, the mitonucleon can be seen to rise along with the apical membrane of the syncytium in which it formed. The small vacuoles that form within the heterochromatin result in structures similar to \u201ccells with optically clear nuclei\u201d found in some cancers. The second larger vacuole that forms within the membrane surrounding the heterochromatin transforms the cell profile to one that resembles \u201csignet ring\u201d cells also observed in some cancers. Eventually the membrane surrounding the massed heterochromatin, generated three to four hours earlier, is breached and previously aggregated nuclei disaggregate. During this process heterochromatin in the mitonucleons undergoes changes usually ascribed to cells undergoing programmed cell death such as pyknosis and DNA fragmentation (Fleming, 2016b). The cells do not die, instead chromatin filaments appear to coalesce into a chromatin mass that gives rise to dome-filling nuclei by amitosis during the final three to four hours of the 20 hour differentiation (Fleming, 2016c).', u'Background: HIV-positive parents are challenged with disclosure to their children. Some do not disclose at all, others disclose to some children, and many take years to fully disclose to all their children. Methods: This qualitative phenomenological study was conducted in Kenya to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process. Sixteen HIV-positive parents were engaged in in-depth, semi-structured interviews. Interview data were analyzed using the modified Van Kaam method. Results: Parents had a total of 37 living children; 15 HIV-positive, 11 HIV-negative, and 11 of unknown HIV status. Parents went through four phases (secrecy, exploratory, readiness, full disclosure) of disclosure; most admitted needing healthcare professionals\u2019 help to move their children through the three child stages (no, partial, full) of disclosure . Most parents were in between the exploratory and full disclosure phases but had taken years to navigate these phases. Twelve children (HIV-negative and unknown status) had full disclosure of their parents\u2019 illnesses, nine HIV-positive children had full disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses, and 10 children (five HIV-positive, four unknown status, and one HIV-negative) had partial disclosure of their own and/or their parents\u2019 illnesses. Parents had indefinite plans to disclose to the six children with no disclosure. Conclusion: Despite being challenged with disclosure, parents progressively navigated the disclosure phases and fully disclosed to the majority of their children. However, the creation of HIV disclosure guidelines, services, and programs would help hasten the time it takes for them to fully disclose to all their children.', u'Background: Many HIV-affected families have both parent(s) and child(ren) infected. HIV disclosure to children continues to be a great global challenge for HIV-positive parents and healthcare professionals (HCPs); parents and HCPs differ on how and when to disclose to children. Methods: Six HCPs including a physician, clinical officer, psychologist, registered nurse, social worker, and a peer educator participated in a larger qualitative phenomenological study conducted to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. Each HCP underwent an in-depth, semi-structured interview; transcribed data were analyzed using the modified Van Kaam method in NVivo8. Results: Despite HCPs providing parents with regular advice on the benefits of HIV disclosure, fear of stigma, discrimination, and disclosure consequences caused parents to delay disclosure of a parent\u2019s and/or a child\u2019s illness to their HIV-negative and positive children respectively for lengthy periods. While awaiting parental consent for full disclosure, HCPs were forced to provide age-appropriate disease-related information to children. HCPs preference however, was to fully disclose to children in their parents\u2019 presence at the clinic, when children started asking questions and/or displayed maturity and understanding of the illness. Conclusion: Parents are known to prefer disclosing to their children at a time and place of their choosing. Conversely, it appears that HCPs may prefer to disclose to children when they judge the time as being right. For favorable disclosure outcomes, further studies are needed to reconcile the most suitable timing, setting, and person to disclose to HIV-positive and negative children.', u'The subfamily Lamioideae (Lamiaceae) comprises ten tribes, of which only Stachydeae and Synandreae include New World members. Previous studies have investigated the phylogenetic relationships among the members of Synandreae based on plastid and nuclear ribosomal DNA loci. In an effort to re-examine the phylogenetic relationships within Synandreae, the current study incorporates data from four low-copy nuclear loci, PHOT1, PHOT2, COR, and PPR. Our results confirm previous studies based on chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal markers in supporting monophyly of tribe Synandreae, as well as sister relationships between Brazoria and Warnockia, and between that pair of genera and a monophyletic Physostegia. However, we observe incongruence in the relationships of Macbridea and Synandra. The placement of Synandreae within Lamioideae is poorly resolved and incongruent among different analyses, and the sister group of Synandreae remains enigmatic. Comparison of the colonization and migration patterns corroborates a single colonization of the New World by Synandreae during the mid-Miocene. This is in contrast to the only other lamioid tribe that includes New World members, Stachydeae, which colonized the New World at least twice\u2014during the mid-Miocene and Pliocene. Edaphic conditions and intolerance of soil acidity may be factors that restricted the distribution of most genera of Synandreae to southeastern and south-central North America, whereas polyploidy could have increased the colonizing capability of the more wide-ranging genus, Physostegia.', u'Cleaning interactions between the short fin devil ray, Mobula kuhlii, and the blue streaked cleaner wrasse, Labroides dimidiatus, were observed at two sites on a single reef in southern Mozambique. Cleaning interactions were filmed and described, with the number and location of interactions recorded and subsequently binned into six distinct body patches. Cleaners preferentially foraged within certain ray body patches, and this was found to vary between the two sites, possibly signifying that variations in a habitats composition can influence cleaning. Mobula kuhlii were not found to clean sympatrically with their close relatives in the Manta genus, implying their cleaning requires a distinct habitat or that niche partitioning is required to stem competition for host cleaner fishes attention. In total, 15 individuals were observed interacting with cleaners, and they never arrived alone, suggesting they may travel to cleaning areas in an aggregative manner.', u'Background. Today, redundancy in source code, so-called \u201cclones\u201d, caused by copy&paste can be found reliably using clone detection tools. Redundancy can arise also independently, however, caused not by copy&paste. At present, it is not clear how only functionally similar clones (FSC) differ from clones created by copy&paste. Our aim is to understand and categorise the syntactic differences in FSCs that distinguish them from copy&paste clones in a way that helps clone detection research. Methods. We conducted an experiment using known functionally similar programs in Java and C from coding contests. We analysed syntactic similarity with traditional detection tools and explored whether concolic clone detection can go beyond syntax. We ran all tools on 2,800 programs and manually categorised the differences in a random sample of 70 program pairs. Results. We found no FSCs where complete files were syntactically similar. We could detect a syntactic similarity in a part of the files in < 16 % of the program pairs. Concolic detection found 1 of the FSCs. The differences between program pairs were in the categories algorithm, data structure, OO design, I/O and libraries. We selected 58 pairs for an openly accessible benchmark representing these categories. Discussion. The majority of differences between functionally similar clones are beyond the capabilities of current clone detection approaches. Yet, our benchmark can help to drive further clone detection research.', u'The genome\u2013wide study of epigenetic states requires the integrative analysis of histone modification ChIP\u2013seq data. Here, we introduce an easy\u2013to\u2013use analytic framework to compare profiles of enrichment in histone modifications around classes of genomic elements, e.g. transcription start sites (TSS). Our framework is available via the user\u2013friendly R/Bioconductor package DChIPRep. DChIPRep uses biological replicate information as well as chromatin Input data to allow for a rigorous assessment of differential enrichment. DChIPRep is available for download through the Bioconductor project at http://bioconductor.org/packages/DChIPRep.  Contact DChIPRep@gmail.com', u'Purpose: To verify the reliability and validity of the Assessment of Positive Occupation 15 (APO-15) in individuals with mental disabilities living in communities or admitted in hospitals. Methods: A sample of 408 individuals with mental disabilities completed APO-15, the Japanese version of the Recovery Assessment Scale (RAS), the Japanese version of the Self-identified Stage of Recovery Part-B (SISR-B), and the General Health Questionnaire 12 (GHQ-12). We analyzed the psychometric properties of APO-15, including confirmatory factor analysis, entropy, polyserial correlation coefficient, average variance extracted, Cronbach\u2019s \u03b1 coefficient, Pearson\u2019s product\u2013moment correlation coefficient, item response theory, and cut-off point. Results:  This study indicated the validity and reliability of APO-15 in a group of individuals with mental disabilities. The result of this study supported a four-factor model constructing of 15 items; includes a positive relationship, achievement, meaning, and engagement. Validity was supported by various results, i.e. the polyserial correlation and entropy were good, confirmatory factor analysis was a good estimate of the model fit, hypothesis testing was good convergent and discriminant validity, and concurrent validity also good. In addition, reliability was established by various analyses, i.e. the internal consistency reliability was good, and all items of APO-15 demonstrated satisfactory item response. The cut-off point became a 42-point sensitivity (0.770) and demonstrated good results with 1-specificity (0.441). That is, APO-15 can be used to appropriately measure the participation in occupation to promote the well-being of clients. Conclusion: APO-15 demonstrated good psychometric properties in measuring positive occupation in individuals with mental disabilities. APO-15 is an important tool to enable participation in activities that increase well-being in daily living.', u'Geographical Information Systems (GIS) are considered to be applications-led technology. Consequently, geographic information scientists commonly find themselves as guest in host disciplines in order to best exploit spatial analysis tools and methods, appropriately guided by experts in the field. An example is population genetics in evolutionary biology. Genetic information being linked to living organisms can be partially characterized by geographic coordinates. A research field named landscape genetics emerged at the intersection of genetics, environmental and geographic information science. Geocomputation and programming efforts carried out with the help of open sources technologies and dedicated to the analysis of genetic data gather together a key scientific community whose goal is to extract new knowledge from the present data tsunami caused by the advent of high throughput molecular data and of new sources of high resolution environmental data. While the level of sophistication of the population genetics functions included in the analytical frameworks developed until now are cutting-edge, advanced geo-competences are also required to reinforce the spatial side of this discipline. They will be particularly useful in conservation programmes for wildlife preservation, but also in farm animal genetic resources conservation.', u'The natural sciences, such as ecology and earth science, study complex interactions between biotic and abiotic systems in order to infer understanding and make predictions. Machine-learning-based methods have an advantage over traditional statistical methods in studying these systems because the former do not impose unrealistic assumptions (such as linearity), are capable of inferring missing data, and can reduce long-term expert annotation burden. Thus, a wider adoption of machine learning methods in ecology and earth science has the potential to greatly accelerate the pace and quality of science. Despite these advantages, machine learning techniques have not had wide spread adoption in ecology and earth science. This is largely due to 1) a lack of communication and collaboration between the machine learning research community and natural scientists, 2) a lack of easily accessible tools and services, and 3) the requirement for a robust training and test data set. These impediments can be overcome through financial support for collaborative work and the development of tools and services facilitating ML use. Natural scientists who have not yet used machine learning methods can be introduced to these techniques through Random Forest, a method that is easy to implement and performs well. This manuscript will 1) briefly describe several popular ML methods and their application to ecology and earth science, 2) discuss why ML methods are underutilized in natural science, and 3) propose solutions for barriers preventing wider ML adoption.', u'Bone Morphogenic Protein 2 (BMP2) is a multipurpose cytokine, important in the development of bone and cartilage, and with a role in tumour initiation and progression. Because of BMP2\u2019s osteogenic properties, a recombinant human version (rhBMP2) has found utility as an adjuvant therapy during surgery for spinal fusions. However, the results of large-scale meta-analysis has highlighted the potential of rhBMP2 to promote new tumour formation, leading to an FDA black box warning. BMP2 signal transduction is dependent on two distinct classes of serine/threonine kinase known as the type I and type II receptors. Although the type I receptors (BMPR1A and BMPR1B) are largely thought to have overlapping functions, we find tissue and cellular compartment specific patterns of expression, suggesting potential for distinct BMP2 signalling outcomes dependent on tissue type. Herein, we utilise large publicly available datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Protein Atlas to define a novel role for BMPR1A-biased BMP2 signalling in soft tissue sarcomas. Using disease free survival as our primary endpoint, we find this BMPR1A-biased BMP2 signalling confers poor overall prognosis compared both to patients with BMPR1B-biased and to the sarcoma dataset as a whole. Through further annotation of the TCGA sarcoma dataset, we localise this effect to dedifferentiated liposarcomas but find overall BMP2/BMP receptor expression is equal across subsets. Finally, through gene set enrichment analysis we link this effect to increased transcriptional activity of the matrisome and general extracellular matrix remodelling. Our study highlights the importance of continued research into the tumorigenic properties of BMP2, the need for extensive patient follow-up and the potential disadvantages of rhBMP2 use. For the first time, we identify BMPR1A-biased BMP2 signalling as a biomarker of disease relapse in dedifferentiated liposarcomas.', u'Zebrafish (Danio rerio) have emerged as a popular model for studying the pharmacology and behavior of anxiety. While there have been numerous studies documenting the anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of common drugs in zebrafish, many do not report or test for behavioral differences between the sexes. Previous studies have indicated that males and females differ in their baseline level of anxiety. In this study, we test for a sex interaction with fluoxetine and nicotine. We exposed fish to system water (control), 10 mg/L fluoxetine, or 1 mg/L nicotine for three minutes prior to being subjected to four minutes in an open-field drop test. Video recordings were tracked using ProAnalyst. Fish from both drug treatments reduced swimming speed, increased vertical position, and increased use of the top half of the open field when compared with the control, though fluoxetine had a larger effect on depth related behaviors while nicotine mostly affected swimming speed. a significant sex effect was observed where females swam at a slower and more constant speed than males, however neither drug produced a sex-dependent response.', u'Monolaurin (also known as glycerol monolaurate) is a natural compound found in coconut oil and is known for its protective biological activities as an antimicrobial agent. The nature of oral candidiasis and the increased antifungal resistance, culminate the need for investigating novel antifungal therapeutic agents. In this study, we examine the antifungal activity of monolaurin against Candida albicans biofilms (strain ATCC: SC5314/MYA2876) in vitro and how monolaurin may alter specific host inflammatory markers, such as gene expression of inflammatory cytokines IL-1\u03b1 and IL-1\u03b2, as illustrated in co-culture models. The results from three groups were compared: 1- monolaurin (in the range of 3.9-2500 \u03bcM), positive control fluconazole (322 \u03bcM), and vehicle control group 1% Ethanol (v/v) The MIC and MFC of monolaurin were in the range 62.5-125 \xb5M and 125-250 \xb5M, respectively. The results show significant reduction in Log (CFU/ ml) of biofilms treated with 1250 and 2500 \xb5M of 1- monolaurin when compared to the control groups. There was also a significant down-regulation of IL-1\u03b1 and IL-1\u03b2 in the biofilms treated with monolaurin. It can be concluded that monolaurin has a potential antifungal activity against C. albicans and can modulate the host\u2019s pro-inflammatory response.', u'Twenty-five samples of Bulimulus species are studied, partly from localities within their known distribution range, partly based on interceptions where the material originates from localities where the species seem to be recently introduced and non-native. Molecular study of cytochrome oxidase 1 (CO1) reveals the origin of some of these introductions, but is less conclusive for others. Four different methods for species delimitation were applied, which did not result in unambiguous species hypotheses. For a rapid identification of morphologically indistinct species, a more comprehensive database of sequences is needed.', u'Recent studies have shown that International medical graduates (IMG) comprise a substantial and increasingly larger share of the medical workforce, internationally. IMGs wishing to work in English-speaking countries face many challenges. And overcoming such challenges plays an important role in ensuring a more comfortable transition and improved outcomes for patients. This study addresses one such area of concern: the efficient acquisition of advanced language competence for use in the medical workplace. This research also addresses the needs of medical students and practitioners in other countries, where English is not the primary language. Medical terminology and phrasing is based on a tradition spanning more than 2500 years\u2014a tradition that cuts across typical linguistic and cultural boundaries. Indeed, as is commonly understood, the language required by doctors and other medical professionals varies substantially from the norm. In the present study, this dynamic is exploited to identify and characterize the language and patterns of usage specific to medical English, as it is used in practice and reporting. Overall, constructions comprised of preposition-dependent nouns, verbs and adjectives were found to be most prevalent (38%), followed by prepositional phrases (33%). The former includes constructions such as \u201cpresent with\u201d, \u201cpresent to\u201d, and \u201cpresent in\u201d; while constructions such as \u201cof \u2026 patient\u201d, \u201cin \u2026 group\u201d, and \u201cwith \u2026 disease\u201d comprise the latter. Preposition-independent noun and verb-based constructions were far less prevalent overall (18% and 5%, respectively). Up to now, medical language reference and learning material has focused on relatively uncommon, but essential, Greek and Latin terminology. This research challenges this convention, by demonstrating that medical language fluency would be acquired more efficiently by focusing on prepositional phrases or preposition-dependent verbs, nouns, and adjectives in context. This work should be of high interest to anyone interested in improved communication competence within the English-speaking medical workplace and beyond.\nWhat is already known on this subject :\n* International medical graduates make up a substantial portion of the medical workforce\n* Imperfect medical English creates challenges for international medical graduates\n* Subideal language impacts credibility and has been associated with increased risk to patients\nWhat this paper adds :\n* Preposition-dependent terms, following Germanic usage patterns, dominate medical English\n* Complex terms derived from Greek and Latin are far less prevalent than assumed\n* Medical English learning expected to be expedited by focus on preposition-dependent terms', u"Formal argument suggests that command, communication and control systems can remain stable in the sense of the Data Rate Theorem that mandates the minimum rate of control information required to stabilize inherently unstable 'plants', but may nonetheless, under fog-of-war demands, collapse into dysfunctional modes at variance with their fundamental mission. We apply the theory to autonomous ground vehicles under intelligent traffic control in which swarms of interacting, self-driving devices are inherently unstable as a consequence of the basic irregularity of the road network. It appears that such 'V2V/V2I' systems will experience large-scale failures analogous to the vast propagating fronts of power network blackouts, and possibly less benign, but more subtle patterns of `psychopathology' at various scales.", u'Identifying patterns and associations in data is fundamental to discovery in science. This work investigates a very simple instance of the problem, where each data point consists of a vector of binary attributes, and attributes are treated equally. For example, each data point may correspond to a person and the attributes may be their sex, whether they smoke cigarettes, whether they have been diagnosed with lung cancer, etc. Measuring similarity of attributes in the data is equivalent to measuring similarity of sets - an attribute can be mapped to the set of data points which have the attribute. Furthermore, there is one identified base set (or attribute) and only similarity to that set is considered - the other sets are just ranked according to how similar they are to the base set. For example, if the base set is lung cancer sufferers, the set of smokers may well be high in the ranking. Identifying set similarity or correlation has many uses and is often the first step in determining causality. Set similarity is also the basis for comparing binary classifiers such as diagnostic tests for any data set. More than a hundred set similarity measures have been proposed in the literature is but there is very little understanding of how best to choose a similarity measure for a given domain. This work discusses numerous properties that similarity measures can have, weakening some previously proposed definitions so they are no longer incompatible, and identifying important forms of symmetry which have not previously been considered. It defines ordering relations over similarity measures and shows how some properties of a domain can be used to help choose a similarity measure which will perform well for that domain.', u'Tethering a fly for stationary flight allows for exquisite control of its sensory input, such as visual or olfactory stimuli or a punishing infrared laser beam. A torque meter measures the the turning attempts of the tethered fly around its vertical body axis. By punishing, say, left turning attempts (in a homogeneous environment), one can train a fly to restrict its behaviour to right turning attempts. It was recently discovered that this form of operant conditioning (called operant self-learning), may constitute a form of motor learning in Drosophila. Previous work had shown that Protein Kinase C (PKC) and the transcription factor dFoxP were specifically involved in self-learning, but not in other forms of learning. These molecules are specifically involved in various forms of motor learning in other animals, such as compulsive biting in Aplysia, song-learning in birds, procedural learning in mice or language acquisition in humans. Here we describe our efforts to decipher which PKC gene is involved in self-learning in Drosophila. We also provide evidence that motorneurons may be one part of the neuronal network modified during self-learning experiments. The collected evidence is reminiscent of one of the simplest, clinically relevant forms of motor learning in humans, operant reflex conditioning, which also relies on motorneuron plasticity', u"We explore environmentally-induced tumors in the context of the ongoing conflict between long-evolved cancer control mechanisms and the central flaw of multicellularity, using a number of convergent necessary conditions statistical models based on the Data Rate Theorem linking control and information theories. Multicellular cancer suppression is an inherently unstable dynamic process that can fail through sufficient environmental insult, in particular for humans, involving the synergism of chemical exposures with the chronic inflammation of 'social' exposures that may be seen as accelerated aging.", u'Background. The shells of molluscs survive well in most sedimentary contexts and yield information about the diet of prehistoric humans. They also yield evidence of symbolic behaviours, through their use as beads for body adornments. Researchers often analyse the location of perforations in shells to make judgements about their use as symbolic objects (i.e., beads), the assumption being, that holes attributable to deliberate human behaviour are more likely to exhibit low variability in their anatomical locations, while holes attributable to natural processes yield more random perforations. However, there are non-anthropogenic factors that can cause perforations in shells and these may not be random. The aim of the study is to look at the association between variation of holes in shell beads from archaeological sites and shells pierced by natural (non-human) processes. Methods. Two hundred and sixty scientific papers retrieved from online databases by using keywords, (e.g., \u2018shell beads\u2019; \u2018pierced shells\u2019); 77 of these publications enabled us to conduct a systematic review and assess the location of the hole in the shell beads in the published articles. Results. Almost all archaeological sites described shells beads with holes in a variety of anatomical locations. High variation of hole-placement was also found within the same species from the same site, as well as among sites. In contrast, predators were more specific in where they attacked molluscs; birds often select the thinnest part of the shell, while molluscs and cephalopods target thicker parts. Discussion. These results indicate that variation in hole-location on shells pierced by humans is greater than variation in the placement of holes created by natural processes. Consequently, these patterns are opposite to those expected. We also found that Gastropod and Bivalve predators choose similar hole locations to humans. Research into human shell-beads recovered from archaeological contexts should take into account non-anthropogenic factors, which can lead to more realistic scenarios of the cultural behaviours of prehistoric people.', u'Philodendron is the second most diverse genus of the Araceae, a tropical monocot family with significant morphological diversity along its wide geographic distribution in the Neotropics. Although evolutionary studies of Philodendron were conducted in recent years, the phylogenetic relationship among its species remains unclear. Additionally, analyses conducted to date suggested the inclusion of all American representatives of a closely related genus, Homalomena, within the Philodendron clade. A thorough evaluation of the phylogeny and timescale of these lineages is thus necessary to elucidate the tempo and mode of evolution of this large Neotropical genus and to unveil the biogeographic history of Philodendron evolution along the Amazonian and Atlantic Rain Forests, as well as open dry forests of South America. To this end, we have estimated the molecular phylogeny for 68 Philodendron species, which consists of the largest sampling assembled to date aiming the study of the evolutionary affinities. We have also performed ancestral reconstruction of species distribution along biomes. Finally, we contrasted these results with the inferred timescale of Philodendron and Homalomena lineage diversification. Our estimates indicate that American Homalomena is the sister clade to Philodendron. The early diversification of Philodendron took place in the Amazon Forest from Early to Middle Miocene, followed by colonization of the Atlantic Forest and the savanna-like landscapes, respectively. Based on the age of the last common ancestor of Philodendron, the species of this genus diversified by rapid radiations, leading to its wide extant distribution in the Neotropical region.', u'Phalaenopsis orchid is an important potted flower with high economic value around the world. We report the 3.1 Gb draft genome assembly of an important winter flowering Phalaenopsis \u2018KHM190\u2019 cultivar. We generated 89.5 Gb RNA-seq and 113 million sRNA-seq reads to use these data to identify 41,153 protein-coding genes and 188 miRNA families. We also generated a draft genome for Phalaenopsis pulcherrima \u2018B8802\u2019, a summer flowering species, via resequencing. Comparison of genome data between the two Phalaenopsis cultivars allowed the identification of 691,532 single-nucleotide polymorphisms. In this study, we reveal the key role of PhAGL6b in the regulation of flower organ development involves alternative splicing. We also show gibberellin pathways that regulate the expression of genes control flowering time during the stage in reproductive phase change induced by cool temperature. Our work should contribute a valuable resource for the flowering control, flower architecture development, and breeding of the Phalaenopsis orchids.', u'Biodiversity analysis of metagenomic and metatranscriptomic data acquired from next-generation sequencing (NGS) requires following multiple analytic steps, often independent from each other with exception of passing output files of previous step as input for the following. If parameterization of steps following one after another is independent from one another, they may be pipelined. There are three most popular pipelines used for NGS analyses: QIIME, mothur and MetAMOS. In this work we describe our extensions to the latter. One is supplementing MetAMOS\u2019 default modes with taxonomic and metabolic biodiversity using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics data and the other provides a web-based interface to run predefined analyses that is easy to integrate with laboratory information management systems.', u'Organizations like Mozilla, Microsoft, and Apple are flooded with thousands of automated crash reports per day. Although crash reports contain valuable information for debugging, there are often too many for developers to examine individually. Therefore, in industry, crash reports are often automatically grouped together in buckets. Ubuntu\u2019s repository contains crashes from hundreds of software systems available with Ubuntu. A variety of crash report bucketing methods are evaluated using data collected by Ubuntu\u2019s Apport automated crash reporting system. The trade-off between precision and recall of numerous scalable crash 7 deduplication techniques is explored. A set of criteria that a crash deduplication method must meet is presented and several methods that meet these criteria are evaluated on a new dataset. The evaluations presented in this paper show that using off-the-shelf information retrieval techniques, that were not designed to be used with crash reports, outperform other techniques which are specifically designed for the task of crash bucketing at realistic industrial scales. This research indicates that automated crash bucketing still has a lot of room for improvement, especially in terms of identifier tokenization.', u'Sex-role reversal, in which males care for offspring, can occur when mate competition is stronger between females than males. Secondary sex traits and mate attracting displays in sex-role-reversed species are usually more pronounced in females than in males. The red phalarope is a textbook example of a sex-role-reversed species. It is generally agreed that males are responsible for all incubation and parental care duties, whereas females typically desert males after having completed a clutch and may pair with new males to lay additional clutches. Breeding plumage of female red phalaropes is usually more brightly colored than male plumage, a reversed sexual dichromatism usually associated with sex-role reversal. Here, we confirm with PCR-based sexing that male red phalaropes can exhibit both the red body plumage typical of a female and the incubation behaviour typical of a male in this sex-role-reversed species. Our result, combined with previous observations of brightly coloured red phalaropes incubating nests at the same arctic location (Igloolik Island, Nunavut, Canada), suggests that plumage dichromatism alone may not be sufficient to distinguish males from females in this breeding population of red phalaropes. This stresses the need for more systematic genetic sexing combined with standardized description of intersexual differences in red phalarope plumages. Determining whether such female-like plumage on males is a result of phenotypic plasticity or genetic variation could contribute to further understanding sex-role reversal strategies in the short Arctic summer.', u'Abattoir surveillance for bovine tuberculosis, which consists of identifying and submitting granulomas for histopathology and mycobacterial culture was the primary means for detecting new cases in the United States. Mycobacterial culture is expensive, labor intensive and identifies cases weeks after slaughter, hampering trace back efforts. To address this inefficiency, the United States Department of Agriculture replaced culture with real-time PCR for screening granulomas. The objectives of this paper were to describe the development and validation of this PCR as well as the performance of the assay during the first year of implementation. Using archived culture and histologically positive tissue, the sensitivity was 0.96 (95% CI: 0.89, 0.99) for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex primer-probe set and 0.89 (95% CI: 0.80, 0.95) for the Mycobacterium bovis specific primer-probe set. Specificity, estimated during by side by side testing was 0.998 (95% CI: 0.994, 1.000). After implementation, 6124 samples over 54 weeks were tested and all 36 histopathology positive samples were detected including 2 additional cases initially misclassified by histopathology. It appeared that specificity may have declined during post validation testing with 47/6086 signaling positive but not confirmed by either histopathology or culture. While PCR implementation has significantly improved the efficiency of the US slaughter surveillance program, careful attention must be paid to prevent and address cross contamination in the laboratory.', u'A variety of reasons have been advanced to explain the loss of fur in humans and why they differ in this way from all other primates. None of these reasons has become generally accepted as the explanation for the absence of functionally effective thermally insulating fur. The hypotheses previously advanced have not satisfactorily explained why humans are the unique naked ape. This paper proposes a new hypothesis; that Homo sapiens ancestors use of fire created the initial selection pressure leading to fur loss in humans.', u'An experiment was conducted to test for the presence of prejudice towards obesity and whether weight controllability beliefs information reduces this prejudice and impacts on a person\u2019s own healthy eating self-efficacy. The experiment randomly allocated 346 participants (49 males) into one of three conditions: controllable contributors toward obesity condition (e.g., information about personal control about diet and exercise); uncontrollable contributors toward obesity condition (e.g., information about genes, factors in society); and a control condition with no information given. Prejudice was present in 81% of the sample. High prejudice was predicted by low self-efficacy for exercise and weight. Weight controllability beliefs information had no significant effect on prejudice levels or exercise or healthy eating self-efficacy levels. Increasing self-efficacy for exercise and weight my help reduce prejudice towards obese individuals.', u'An object-oriented computational framework for the transformation of colour data and colour metric tensors is presented. The main idea of the design is to represent the transforms between spaces as compositions of objects from a class hierarchy providing the methods for both the transforms themselves and the corresponding Jacobian matrices. In this way, new colour spaces can be implemented on the fly by transforming from any existing colour space, and colour data in various formats as well as colour metric tensors and colour difference data can easily be transformed between the colour spaces. This reduces what normally requires several days of coding to a few lines of code without introducing a significant computational overhead. The framework is implemented in the Python programming language.', u'High throughput sequencing has changed many aspects of population genetics, molecular ecology, and related fields, affecting both experimental design and data analysis. The software package ANGSD allows users to perform a number of population genetic analyses on high-throughput sequencing data. ANGSD uses probabilistic approaches to calculate genome-wide descriptive statistics. The package makes use of genotype likelihood estimates rather than SNP calls and is specifically designed to produce more accurate results for samples with low sequencing depth. ANGSD makes use of full genome data while handling a wide array of sampling and experimental designs. Here we present ANGSD-wrapper, a set of wrapper scripts that provide a user-friendly interface for running ANGSD and visualizing results. ANGSD-wrapper supports multiple types of analyses including esti- mates of nucleotide sequence diversity and performing neutrality tests, principal component analysis, estimation of admixture proportions for individuals samples, and calculation of statistics that quantify recent introgression. ANGSD-wrapper also provides interactive graphing of ANGSD results to enhance data exploration. We demonstrate the usefulness of ANGSD-wrapper by analyzing resequencing data from populations of wild and domesticated Zea. ANGSD-wrapper is freely available from https://github.com/mojaveazure/angsd-wrapper.', u'Biological medicinal products are one of most innovative and promising methods of pharmacotherapy. During the last 20 years several original biological medicinal products have been registered and marketed. Their safety and efficacy have been investigated thoroughly at the level of pre-clinical and clinical studies. These are large, complex protein structures obtained through methods used in genetic engineering, or they are isolated from biological sources. Basically there are two types of biological products: 1) Those naturally present in the body like: Insulin, human growth factor, Factor VIII, erythropoietin; 2) Substances influencing certain mechanisms being the cause of the disease: anti-TNF; anti-IL 17; Anti-CD-20. These biological medicinal products can be divided into Blood and blood components, Vaccines, Allergen extracts, Proteins, Human tissues, Cell and gene therapy, Monoclonal antibodies. The size of biological products may vary between 4 500 D (enoxaparin) and 150 000 (monoclonal antibody) and more, while aspirin size is only 150 D. While biological products are attractive, most patients cannot afford their high cost (roughly estimated 550 US$ a day). However, biosimilar products are much cheaper while offering a good therapeutical alternative with the same safety and efficacy features as the former. Currently, 200 companies worldwide have about 700 of biosimilars under the development. Consequently biosimilar products are having more success in the market and thus are more accessible to patients.', u'Background: Dengue is one of the most important vector-borne diseases, nearly 400000 reported cases in South East Asia and more than 2000 fatalities annually. The first of dengue vaccine called Dengvaxia by the French company, Sanofi Pasteur, was recently approved in Mexico, Brazil and the Philippines to be used for persons who are 9-45 years of age. Objective: The objective of this study was to estimate the effective of a vaccine to dengue transmission and the cost-effectiveness of the vaccine in South East Asia (SEA). Methods: The simulation and analysis was carried out using a mathematical model for dengue transmission. The vaccine was given to a certain part of population in the community and the number of dengue infections and incidences was then calculated. The cost effective price of the vaccine was measured as disability adjusted life years (DALYs) averted, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the vaccination was expressed in 2015 US dollars per DALY averted for the countries in SEA. Results: The herd immunity was observed in the model simulation. The number of dengue incidences was declined with increased vaccine coverage in the community. If a vaccination program would be implemented the highly cost effective of vaccine per person should be 25-28 US dollars in SEA country on the average. Conclusions: Our results describe effects of the dengue vaccination to infections and incidences. The price of the vaccine has been calculated and and it is different in each SEA country due to several factors such as the number of incidences, the GDP per capita, the hospital costs and the DALYs.', u'In this research, some physical (leaf area, leaf width, stalk width, plant mass, moisture) and mechanical properties (tear resistance, puncture resistance), color parameters (L*, a*, b*, YI) of Mibuna (Brassica rapavar. Nipposinica) and Mizuna (Brassica rapa var. Japonica) plants that are Far East Origin vegetables were determined and compared. Also respiratory rate and dry matter loss values just after harvesting and 1 week later harvesting were calculated and compared using measured CO2 concentration values. It was determined that the differences between mean values of physical properties of leaf and stalk parts of mizuna and mibuna plants were found to be statistically significant (P<0.05). CO2 measurements which were made just after harvesting and 1 week later harvesting showed that respiration rate and dry matter loss for mizuna was found faster than those values for mibuna plant. Also it was found that respiration rate and dry matter loss values determined just after harvesting was found higher than those values determined 1 week later harvesting.', u'Omics approaches are widely applied to investigate physiological processes and pathological conditions. Many public data repositories make it possible to extract data for their analyses, comparisons and integrations, provided the availability of suitable tools. Our interest is oriented to the integration of data from different experimental approaches and fields of investigation, covering transcriptomics, proteomics, interactomics, variation data, and drug discovery, in order to highlight hiddens information and to mine new knowledge from available experimental data. Therefore, we look at specific gene and protein functions, for which specific interest has been evidenced, and search for a complete view of their relationships in physiological processes. Moreover, focusing on specific pathologies, we extract from public databases the largest amount of experimental results and analyze them with meta-analysis approaches, to find novel insights on molecular aspects, useful for defining diagnostics or therapy. In this work, our attention is focused on integrative-functional analysis of molecular pathways that involve AHR (Aryl hydrocarbon receptor), a cytosolic transcription factor consisting of several protein domains with distinct functions, including hydrocarbon binding as well as DNA-protein and protein-protein interactions. Previous studies from our lab on this protein give us some specific interest and knowledge about its involvement in many pathologies. Therefore, we investigate it from the physiological point of view, as well as for its role in specific pathologies, also in the view of the molecular network that includes other proteins of interest for the pathology. The functional analysis is executed by means of different open-source bioinformatics platforms, including GeneCards, DSYSMAP, and in particular, Cytoscape platform for realizing and visualizing molecular networks at different levels, in order to improve the knowledge of molecular mechanisms. Furthermore, as an example on a specific pathology, we use the BioGPS platform to extrapolate by Gene Atlas the gene expression profile of our biological targets involved in melanoma, and MelGene DB (a database for melanoma genetic studies and for analysis some important melanoma biomarkers). The poster presents the molecular networks and discusses the potential roles of specifc nodes evidenced by the analysis, also in consideration of the role of disease-related mutations.', u'Invasive plants escape from some natural enemies as predictions of Enemy Release Hypothesis (ERH). However, in fact they still have to face the pressure of generalist herbivores in introduced ranges resulting in the maintenance or enhancing of resistance ability to generalist herbivores. In this study, we carried out a general feeding bioassay in a laboratory with leaves of Senecio vulgaris to test the difference in resistance between ranges. White jade land snails (WJLD, Achatina fulica) were fed with the leaves of Pakchoi (Brassica chinensis), Lettuce (Lactuca sativa), native and invasive plants of S. vulgaris. The feeding experiment with S. vulgaris leaves was carried out in two waves. We found that both native and invasive S. vulgaris plant were resistant again to WJLD compared to Pakchoi and Lettuce. However, there were no significant differences between native and invasive plants of S. vulgaris in relation to the resistance against WJLD. The results prove the maintenance of chemical defense against generalist herbivores in invasive plants in introduced range. The success of S. vulgaris to invader China could not be explained by releasing from natural enemies but possessing of defense ability against herbivores before it introduced to China.', u'High-throughput sequencing provides a fast and cost effective mean to recover genomes of organisms from all domains of life. However, adequate curation of the assembly results against potential contamination of non-target organisms requires advanced bioinformatics approaches and practices. Here, we re-analyzed the sequencing data generated for the tardigrade Hypsibius dujardini using approaches routinely employed by microbial ecologists who reconstruct bacterial and archaeal genomes from metagenomic data. We created a holistic display of the eukaryotic genome assembly using DNA data originating from two groups and eleven sequencing libraries. By using bacterial single-copy genes, k-mer frequencies, and coverage values of scaffolds we could identify and characterize multiple near-complete bacterial genomes, and curate a 182 Mbp draft genome for H. dujardini supported by RNA-Seq data. Our results indicate that most contaminant scaffolds were assembled from Moleculo long-read libraries, and most of these contaminants have differed between library preparations. Our re-analysis shows that visualization and curation of eukaryotic genome assemblies can benefit from tools designed to address the needs of today\u2019s microbiologists, who are constantly challenged by the difficulties associated with the identification of distinct microbial genomes in complex environmental metagenomes.', u'Cluster analysis is one of the most commonly used methods in palaeoecological studies, particularly in studies investigating biogeographic patterns. Although a number of different clustering methods are widely used, the approach and underlying assumptions of many of these methods are quite different. For example, methods may be hierarchical or non-hierarchical in their approaches, and may use Euclidean distance or non-Euclidean indices to cluster the data. In order to assess the effectiveness of the different clustering methods as compared to one another, a simulation was designed that could assess each method over a range of both cluster distinctiveness and sampling intensity. Additionally, a non-hierarchical, non-Euclidean, iterative clustering method implemented in the R Statistical Language is described. This method, Non-Euclidean Relational Clustering (NERC), creates distinct clusters by dividing the data set in order to maximize the average similarity within each cluster, identifying clusters in which each data point is on average more similar to those within its own group than to those in any other group. While all the methods performed well with clearly differentiated and well-sampled datasets, when data are less than ideal the linkage methods perform poorly compared to non-Euclidean based k-means and the NERC method. Based on this analysis, Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean and neighbor joining methods are less reliable with incomplete datasets like those found in palaeobiological analyses, and the k-means and NERC methods should be used in their place.', u'Invasive plants colonize new environments, become pests and cause biodiversity loss, economic loss and health damage. Senecio vulgaris (Common groundsel, Asteraceae), a cosmopolitan weed wildly distributes in the temperate area, is reported with large populations in the north\u2013eastern and south\u2013western parts, but not in southern, central, northern or north-western part of China. We studied the germination behavior of S. vulgaris to explain the distribution and the biological invasion of this species in China. We used seeds originated from 12 populations in native and invasive range (six populations in each range) to conduct germination experiments in a climate chamber and ambient condition. When incubated in climate chamber (15\xb0C) seeds from the majority of population showed >90% germination percentage (GP) and the GP was equal for both ranges. The mean germination time (MGT) was significant different among the populations. Under ambient conditions, significant effect of range, storage conditions (stored at 4 or 27\xb0C) and seasons (in summer or autumn) were observed on the GP while the MGT was only affected by the season. In autumn, the GP was higher (38.6%) and the MGT was slightly longer than that in summer (4.5%). In autumn, seeds stored at 4\xb0C showed higher GP than those stored at 27\xb0C, and seeds from invasive population revealed higher GP than those from native populations. High GP and short time for seed emergence demonstrated that in S. vulgaris seeds checked in this study were from Senecio vulgaris ssp vulgaris, the non \u2013 dormancy subspecies. The results also implied that the high temperature exceeds the threshold for S. vulgaris to germinate and storage at high temperature cause S. vulgaris seeds lost the viability greatly. This demonstrates the reason why in Wuhan S.vulgaris can\u2019t establish natural and viable populations, and also explain why S.vulgaris is scattered in China.', u'Species that transform habitats or create new ones are known as Ecosystem Engineers. It has been posited that ecosystem engineers benefit other species by ameliorating conditions at the stressful end of environmental gradients, but that this beneficial impact diminishes as conditions along the gradient become more benign. We tested this hypothesis along a canopy-cover gradient in Brazil\u2019s Cerrado with a widespread engineer of Neotropical ecosystems \u2013 the leaf-cutter ant Atta laevigata. We tested for changes in environmental conditions influencing seedling establishment, seedling abundance, and seedling diversity at different distances from ant nests. Local environmental conditions are influenced by both canopy cover and proximity to nests. Furthermore, the negative effect of Atta on seedlings overwhelms that of the gradient, but these impacts restricted to the area covered by nest mounds. The results demonstrate that some engineers amplify rather than reduce stress along environmental gradients, but that these impacts can be context-dependent and spatially-complex.', u'Nutraceuticals are food or their parts, present in conventional or non-conventional form, with verified safety and health benefits, beyond their nutritional value. In this work, we describe a novel pipeline for nutraceutical compounds research in the field of pharmacophore screening, providing a new idea for drug discovery. In the first step, to identify novel nutraceuticals potentially active as inhibitors of a given enzyme, a pharmacophore model is generated, with its key chemical features, starting from the experimental structure of the complex with known protein inhibitors, with pharmacophores ranking based on statistical values of sensitivity and specificity. After the validation step, this pharmacophore model is used for 3D structural screening and mapping against a subset of known nutraceutical compounds, generated through DrugBank or against special subsets from ZINC (ZINC Drug Database - Zdd and ZINC In Man - Zim). Moreover, molecular docking is performed to verify binding affinity of compounds. The hits with a good binding energy are then investigated in more details, compared with their pharmacophore features and analysed for their interacting residues. Then, to have an in silico interpretation of the potential activity of the compounds, an integrated investigation is performed, by mining literature reports about the effects of the specific compound (or food containing it) against human diseases, extracting expression data from omics repositories, in the view of integrating these information with molecular pathways and networks. Output of our pipeline are candidates for in vitro and in vivo experiments, to test the hypothesis and verify if they could become novel potential drugs.', u'Time-of-day effects in human psychological functioning have been known of since the 1800s. However, outside of those specifically focused on the quantification of circadian rhythms, they have largely been neglected. Moves toward online data collection now mean that psychological investigations take place around the clock, which affords researchers the ability to easily study time-of-day effects. Recent analyses have shown, for instance, that implicit attitudes have time-of-day effects. The plausibility that these effects indicate circadian rhythms rather than selection effects is considered in the current study. There was little evidence that the time-of-day effects in implicit attitudes shifted appropriately with factors known to influence circadian rhythms, and even variables that cannot logically show circadian rhythms demonstrated stronger time-of-day effects than did implicit attitudes. Taken together, these results suggest that time-of-day effects in implicit attitudes are more likely to represent selection effects rather than circadian rhythms, but do not rule out the latter possibility.', u'Sharks and rays are among the most important of marine megafauna as they are ecologically vital predators. However, most species are threatened and over exploited. Identifying core-habitats and movement patterns within aggregation areas is critical for conservation and management efforts. White sharks are threatened globally and considered at risk of extinction. South Africa hosts the largest known concentration of the species with several documented coastal aggregations. This digital object details the various types of biotelemetry used to collect movement data from sharks as well as deployment methods and data analysis, with specific emphasis on active acoustic transmitters and manual tracking of individual sharks in Gansbaai, Western Cape (as in Jewell et al., 2014).', u'Bacteria are essential for many ecosystem services but our understanding of factors controlling their functioning is incomplete. While biodiversity has been identified as an important driver of ecosystem processes in macrobiotic communities, we know much less about bacterial communities. Due to the high diversity of bacterial communities, high functional redundancy is commonly proposed as an explanation for a lack of clear effects of diversity. The generality of this claim has, however, been questioned. We present the results of an outdoor dilution-to-extinction experiment with four lake bacterial communities. We found no general effects of bacterial diversity in terms of effective number of species, phylogenetic diversity or functional diversity on (i) bacterial abundance, (ii) temporal stability of abundance, (iii) nitrogen concentration, or (iv) multifunctionality. A literature review of 21 peer-reviewed studies that used dilution-to-extinction to manipulate bacterial diversity corroborated our findings: only about 25% found positive relationships. Combined, these results suggest that bacterial communities are able to uphold multifunctional ecosystems even at extensive reductions in diversity.', u'Background. Child undernutrition and flooding are highly prevalent public health issues in many developing countries. Yet we have little understanding of preventive strategies for effective coping in these circumstances. Education has been recently highlighted as key to reduce the societal impacts of extreme weather events under climate change, but there is a lack of studies assessing to what extent parental education may prevent post-flood child undernutrition. Methods and materials. One year after large floods in 2008, we conducted a two-stage cluster population-based survey of 6\u201359 months children inhabiting flooded and non-flooded communities of Jagatsinghpur district, Odisha (India), and collected anthropometric measurements on children along with child, parental and household level variables through face-to-face interviews. Using multivariate logistic regression models, we examined separately the effect of maternal and paternal education and other risk factors (mainly income, socio-demographic, and child and mother variables) on stunting and wasting in children from households inhabiting recurrently flooded communities (2006 and 2008; n = 299). As a comparison, separate analyses on children in non-flooded communities were carried out (n = 385). All analyses were adjusted by income as additional robustness check. Results. Overall, fathers with at least completed middle education (up to 14 years of age and compulsory in India) had an advantage in protecting their children from child wasting and stunting. For child stunting, the clearest result was a 100 to 200% lower prevalence associated with at least paternal secondary schooling (compared to no schooling) in flooded-areas. Again, only in flooded communities, an increase in per capita annual household income of 1,000 rupees was associated to a 4.7\u20134.9% lower prevalence of child stunting. For child wasting and only in flooded areas, delayed motherhood was associated to better nutritional outcomes (3.4% lower prevalence per year). In flooded communities, households dedicated to activities other than agriculture, a 50 to 51% lower prevalence of child wasting was estimated, suggesting farmers and fishermen as the most vulnerable livelihoods under flooding. In flooded areas, lower rank castes were at higher odds of both child wasting and stunting. Conclusions. In the short-term, protracted nutritional response in the aftermath of floods should be urgently implemented and target agricultural livelihoods and low-rank castes. Education promotion and schooling up to 14 years should have positive impacts on improving children nutritional health in the long run, especially under flooding. Policies effectively helping sustainable livelihood economic development and delayed motherhood are also recommended.', u'Probabilistic Programming allows for automatic Bayesian inference on user-defined probabilistic models. Recent advances in Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling allow inference on increasingly complex models. This class of MCMC, known as Hamliltonian Monte Carlo, requires gradient information which is often not readily available. PyMC3 is a new open source Probabilistic Programming framework written in Python that uses Theano to compute gradients via automatic differentiation as well as compile probabilistic programs on-the-fly to C for increased speed. Contrary to other Probabilistic Programming languages, PyMC3 allows model specification directly in Python code. The lack of a domain specific language allows for great flexibility and direct interaction with the model. This paper is a tutorial-style introduction to this software package.', u'Vegetated habitats provide numerous benefits to nekton, including structural refuge from predators and food sources. However, the sensory mechanisms by which fishes locate these habitats remain unclear for many species, especially when environmental conditions (such as increased turbidity) are unfavorable for visual identification of habitats. Here, a series of laboratory experiments test whether three species of adult fish (golden topminnow Fundulus chrysotus G\xfcnther 1866, sailfin molly Poecilia latipinna Lesueur 1821, and western mosquitofish Gambusia affinis Baird and Girard 1853) use plant chemical cues to orient to one of two habitats (hydrilla Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle or water hyacinth Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms). First, experiments in aquaria were conducted offering fish a choice of the two habitats to determine preference patterns. Next, a two-channel flume, with each side containing flow originating in one of the two habitats, was used to determine if preferences were still exhibited when fish could only detect habitats through olfactory means. While patterns among the three fish species tested here were variable, results did indicate consistent habitat preferences despite the lack of cues other than olfactory, suggesting that these organisms are capable of discriminating habitats via chemical exudates from plants. As such, olfactory mechanisms likely provide vital information about the surrounding environment and future work should be directed at determining how anthropogenic inputs such as eutrophication and sediment runoff affect the physiology of these sensory capabilities.', u'Background. Knowledge of species-specific vocalization characteristics and their associated active communication space, the effective range over which a communication signal can be detected by a conspecific, is critical for understanding the impacts of underwater acoustic pollution, as well as other threats. Methods. We used a two-dimensional cross-shaped hydrophone array system to record the whistles of free-ranging Indo-Pacific humpback dolphins (Sousa chinensis) in shallow-water environments of the Pearl River Estuary (PRE) and Beibu Gulf (BG), China. Using hyperbolic position fixing, which exploits time differences of arrival of a signal between pairs of hydrophone receivers, we obtained source location estimates for whistles with good signal-to-noise ratio (SNR\u226510 dB) and not polluted by other sounds and back-calculated their apparent source levels. Combining with the masking levels (including simultaneous noise levels, masking tonal threshold, and the Sousa auditory threshold) and the custom made site-specific sound propagation models, we further estimated their active communication space (ACS). Results. Humpback dolphins produced whistles with average root-mean-square apparent source levels (ASL) of 138.5 \xb1 6.8 (mean \xb1 standard deviation) and 137.2 \xb1 7.0 dB re 1\u03bcPa in PRE (N=33) and BG (N=209), respectively. We found statistically significant differences in ASLs among different whistle contour types. The mean and maximum ACS of whistles were estimated to be 14.7 \xb1 2.6 (median \xb1 quartiledeviation) and 17.1\xb1 3.5 m in PRE, and 34.2 \xb1 9.5 and 43.5 \xb1 12.2 m in BG. Using just the auditory threshold as the masking level produced the mean and maximum ACSat of 24.3 \xb1 4.8 and 35.7\xb1 4.6 m for PRE, and 60.7 \xb1 18.1 and 74.3 \xb1 25.3 m for BG. The small ACSs were due to the high ambient noise level. Significant differences in ACSs were also observed among different whistle contour types. Discussion. Besides shedding some light for evaluating appropriate noise exposure levels and information for the regulation of underwater acoustic pollution, these baseline data can also be used for aiding the passive acoustic monitoring of dolphin populations, defining the boundaries of separate groups in a more biologically meaningful way during field surveys, and guiding the appropriate approach distance for local dolphin-watching boats and research boat during focal group following.', u'Background: Pollination has a great effect on the yield of fruit trees. Blowflies are considered as an effective pollinator compared to hand pollination in fruit orchards. Therefore, this study was designed to evaluate the effect of different pollination methods in mango orchards. Methodology: The impact of pollination on quantity and quality of mango yield by blowflies was estimated by using three treatments, i.e., open pollinated trees, trees were covered by a net in the presence of blowflies for pollination, and trees were covered with a net but without insects. Results: The maximum number of flowers was recorded in irregular type of inflorescence, i.e., 434.80flowers/inflorescence. Fruit setting (bud) was higher in open pollinated mango tree (i.e. 37.00/inflorescence) than enclosed pollination by blowflies (i.e. 22.34/inflorescence). The size of the mango fruit was the highest (5.06mm) in open pollinated tree than the pollinated by blowflies (3.93mm) and followed by without any pollinator (3.18mm) at marble stage. We found maximum weight of mango fruit (201.19g) in open pollinated trees. Discussion: The results demonstrated that blowflies can be used as effective mango pollinators along with other bees. The blowflies have shown a positive impact on the quality and quantity of mango. This study will be helpful in future and also applicable at farm level to use blow flies as pollinators that are cheap and easy to rear.', u'Three-dimensional (3D) data of many kinds is produced at an increasing rate throughout all scientific disciplines. The Portable Document Format (PDF) is the de-facto standard for the exchange of electronic documents and allows for embedding three-dimensional models. Therefore, it is a well suited medium for the visualization and the publication of this kind of data. The generation of the appropriate files has been cumbersome so far. This article presents the first release of a software toolbox which integrates the complete workflow for generating 3D model files and ready-to-publish 3D PDF documents for scholarly publications in a consolidated working environment. It can be used out-of-the-box as a simple working tool or as a basis for specifically tailored solutions. A comprehensive documentation, an example project and a project wizard facilitate the customization. It is available royalty-free and for Windows, MacOS and Linux.', u'Background: Plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance (PMQR) has received considerable attention recently. Data analysis in JIPMER revealed 75% of the Enterobacteriaceae isolates to be ciprofloxacin-resistant in 2012. Few reports regarding the prevalence of PMQR are available from India. Hence, the present study was carried out to ascertain the prevalence of PMQR genes among clinical isolates of ciprofloxacin-resistant Enterobacteriaceae in JIPMER. Methods: The study included 642 ciprofloxacin-resistant clinical Enterobacteriaceae isolates. JIPMER hospital\u2019s annual consumption data for fluoroquinolones were retrieved from the Department of Pharmacy. The test isolates were screened for the presence of qnr A, B, D, S and aac(6\u2019)-Ib-cr genes. PMQR-positive isolates alone were tested for the presence of class I (intI1) and class II (intI2) integrons. Randomly selected PCR amplicons were sequenced and analysed using MEGA software. A total of 30 PMQR strains chosen at random were assessed for the transferability of the PMQR genes. Results: Majority of the strains exhibited high MIC values with 106 strains exhibiting MIC value \u02c3256\xb5g/mL. The aac(6\u2019)-Ib-cr gene had the highest prevalence at 64% (414) while, qnrB and qnrS genes were present in 15% (97) and 10% (64) of the isolates respectively. None of the strains were positive for qnrA and qnrD. All PMQR-positive isolates were screened for class I (intI1) and class II (intI2) integrons. Class I integron was found to be predominant among the test isolates with a few of them carrying both the classes of integrons. Transferability of PMQR genes to transconjugants was identified. Discussion: PMQR genes were found to exhibit an increasing trend of prevalence among the clinical isolates in this study. Thus, the need for rational usage of fluoroquinolones and reconsideration of their clinical breakpoints has arisen.', u'Many studies predict that climate change will cause species movement and turnover, but few studies have considered the effect of climate change on range fragmentation for current species and/or populations. We used MaxEnt to predict suitable habitat, fragmentation and turnover for 134 amphibian species in China under 40 future climate change scenarios spanning four pathways (RCP2.6, RCP4.5, RCP6 and RCP8.5) and two time periods (the 2050s and 2070s). Our results show that climate change will cause a major shift in the spatial patterns of amphibian diversity. Suitable habitats for over 90% of species will be located in the north of the current range, for over 95% of species in higher altitudes, and for over 75% of species in the west of the current range. The distributions of species predicted to move westwards, southwards and to higher altitudes will contract, while the ranges of the species not showing these trends will expand. Amphibians will lose 20% of their original ranges on average; the distribution outside current ranges will increase by 15%. Climate change will likely modify the spatial configuration of climatically suitable areas. Changes in area and fragmentation of climatically suitable patches are related, which means that species may be simultaneously affected by different stressors as a consequence of climate change.', u'Samples of workers of honeybee were collected from 41 colonies in nine localities in Nigeria and analysed using classical morphometry. Measurements of 35 morphological characters of body size, colour and pilosity were taken from 10 workers per colony and the data subjected to one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and principal component analysis. Although ANOVA revealed a considerable variation of morphological characters between the sampled localities, principal component analysis indicated that this variation was not sufficient to group the colonies under investigation into geographically separable groups. Based on the agreement between the results of this study and those of previous studies, it is concluded that the honeybees of this area are morphometrically pure populations of sub-Saharan A. mellifera.', u'The term biclustering stands for simultaneous clustering of both genes and conditions. This task has generated considerable interest over the past few decades, particularly related to the analysis of high-dimensional gene expression data in information retrieval, knowledge discovery, and data mining [1]. Since the problem has been shown to be NP-complete, we have recently designed and implemented a GRASP metaheuristic [2,3,4]. The greedy criterion used in the construction phase uses the Euclidean distance to build spanning trees of the graph representing the input data matrix. Once obtained a complete solution, the local search procedure tries to both enlarge the current solution and to improve its H-score exchanging rows and columns. The proposed approach has been tested on 5 synthetic datasets [5]: 1) constant biclusters; 2) constant, upregulated biclusters; 3) shift-scale biclusters; 4) shift biclusters, and 5) scale biclusters. Compared with state-of-the-art competitors, its behaviour is excellent on shift datasets and is very good on all other datasets except for scaled ones. In order to improve its behaviour on scaled data as well and to reduce running times, we have designed and preliminarily tested a variant of the existing GRASP, whose local search phase returns an approximate local optimal solution. The resulting algorithm promises to be a more efficient, general, and robust method for the biclustering of all kinds of possible biological data.', u'Plotosus canius (Hamilton, 1822) is a significant marine species in Malaysia from nutritional and commercial perspectives. Despite numerous fundamental researches on biological characteristics of P.canius, there are various concerns on the level of population differentiation, genomic structure, and the level of genetic variability among their populations due to deficiency of genetic-based studies. Deficiency on basic contexts such as stock identification, phylogenetic relationship and population genetic structure would negatively impact their sustainable conservation. Hence, this study was conducted to characterize the genetic structure of P.canius for the first time through the application of mitochondrial Cytochrome Oxidase I (COI) gene, cross amplification of Tandanus tandanus microsatellites, and a total of 117 collected specimens across five selected populations of Malaysia. The experimental results of the mitochondrial analysis revealed that the haplotype diversity and nucleotide diversity varied from 0.395 to 0.771 and 0.033 to 0.65 respectively. Moreover, the statistical analysis of microsatellites addressed a considerable heterozygote insufficiency in all populations, with average observed heterozygosity (H0) value of 0.2168, which was lower than the standard heterozygosity in marine populations (H0= 0.79). This alongside the high Fis values estimation, high pairwise differentiation among populations and low within population variations are supposed to be associated with small sample size, and inbreeding system. Besides, the significant finding of this study was the sharing of common haplotype KR086940 at which reflects a historical genetic connectivity between Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo populations due to the geological history of Southeast Asia during Pleistocene era. To put it briefly, the current study has managed to provide an initial genomic database toward understanding of the genetic characterization, phylogenetic, molecular diversification and population structure in P.canius, and should be necessary highlighted for appropriate management and conservation of species. Though, further studies must be carried out involving more geographical and sampling sites, larger population size per site, and utilization of more COI genes and nuclear hypervariable markers.', u'Background: The p-curve is a plot of the distribution of p-values reported in a set of scientific studies. Comparisons between ranges of p-values have been used to evaluate fields of research in terms of the extent to which studies have genuine evidential value, and the extent to which they suffer from bias in the selection of variables and analyses for publication, p-hacking. Methods: P-hacking can take various forms. Here we used R code to simulate the use of ghost variables, where an experimenter gathers data on several dependent variables but reports only those with statistically significant effects. We also examined a text-mined dataset used by Head et al. (2015) and assessed its suitability for investigating p-hacking. Results: We first show that when there is ghost p-hacking, the shape of the p-curve depends on whether dependent variables are intercorrelated. For uncorrelated variables, simulated p-hacked data do not give the "p-hacking bump" just below .05 that is regarded as evidence of p-hacking, though there is a negative skew when simulated variables are inter-correlated. The way p-curves vary according to features of underlying data poses problems when automated text mining is used to detect p-values in heterogeneous sets of published papers. Conclusions: The absence of a bump in the p-curve is not indicative of lack of p-hacking. Furthermore, while studies with evidential value will usually generate a right-skewed p-curve, we cannot treat a right-skewed p-curve as an indicator of the extent of evidential value, unless we have a model specific to the type of p-values entered into the analysis. We conclude that it is not feasible to use the p-curve to estimate the extent of p-hacking and evidential value unless there is considerable control over the type of data entered into the analysis. In particular, p-hacking with ghost variables is likely to be missed.', u'Background. Understanding patterns of biodiversity is a longstanding challenge in ecology. Similar to other biotic groups, arthropod community structure can be shaped by deterministic and stochastic processes, with limited understanding of what moderates the relative influence of these processes. Disturbances have been noted to alter the relative influence of deterministic and stochastic processes on community assembly in various study systems, implicating ecological disturbances as a potential moderator of these forces. Methods. Using a disturbance gradient along a 5-year chronosequence of insect-induced tree mortality in a subalpine forest of the southern Rocky Mountains, Colorado, USA, we examined changes in community structure and relative influences of deterministic and stochastic processes in the assembly of aboveground (surface and litter-active species) and belowground (species active in organic and mineral soil layers) arthropod communities. Arthropods were sampled for all years of the chronosequence via pitfall traps (aboveground community) and modified Winkler funnels (belowground community) and sorted to morphospecies. Community structure of both communities were assessed via comparisons of morphospecies diversity and assemblages. Assembly processes were inferred from a mixture of linear models and matrix correlations testing for community associations with environmental properties, and from null-deviation models calculated from observed vs. expected levels of species turnover (Beta diversity) among samples. Results. Tree mortality altered community structure in both aboveground and belowground arthropod communities, but null models suggested that aboveground communities experienced greater relative influences of deterministic processes, while the relative influence of stochastic processes increased for belowground communities. Additionally, Mantel tests and linear regression models revealed significant associations between the aboveground arthropod communities and vegetation and soil properties, but no significant association among belowground arthropod communities and environmental factors. Discussion. Our results suggest context-dependent influences of stochastic and deterministic community assembly processes across different fractions of a ground-dwelling arthropod community following a disturbance. This variation in assembly may be linked to contrasting ecological strategies and dispersal rates within above- and below-ground communities. Our findings add to a growing body of evidence indicating concurrent influences of different processes in community assembly, and highlight the need to consider potential variation across different fractions of biotic communities when testing community ecology theory.', u'Language Impairment (LI) is a developmental disorder that mainly manifests impaired language learning and processing. Evidence, largely from English-speaking population studies, has shown that children with LI compared to typically developing (TD) children have low scores in sequential learning tasks but similar performance in declarative learning tasks. According to the declarative/procedural model, LI children compensate for their deficiency in syntactic skills (i.e., deficits in the procedural memory system) by using the declarative memory system (indispensable for vocabulary acquisition). Although there are specific deficits in children with LI depending on the language they speak, it is assumed that this model can explain the shortcomings of such pathology regardless of the language spoken. In the current study, we compared the performance of fifteen school-aged Mexican Spanish-speaking children with LI and twenty TD children during sequential and declarative learning tasks and then analyzed the relationship between their performance in these tasks and their abilities in syntax and semantics. Children with LI displayed lower scores than normal children in the sequential learning task, but no differences were found in declarative learning performance with verbal or visual stimuli. No significant correlations were observed in children with LI between their performance in sequential learning and their abilities in semantics and no significant correlations were observed in TD children between their performance in sequential learning and their abilities in syntax. In contrast, for children with LI, a significant correlation between their performance in declarative learning and their abilities in semantics was observed and for the group of TD children a significant correlation between their performance in declarative learning and their abilities in syntax was observed. This study shows that Spanish-speaking children with LI display a pattern of learning impairment that supports the declarative/procedural model hypothesis. However, they display poor verbal declarative learning skills, probably due to low verbal working memory capacity.', u'Ebola is just one example of the many emerging and re-emerging diseases that continue to affect mainly the developing world. We argue that the unprecedented high level of infections and deaths in the 2013-2016 West African Ebola epidemic, together with the more general impact of Ebola and other emerging diseases on societies, is reflective of the unpreparedness of affected countries prior to an outbreak. Typically, the healthcare systems of most low-income countries are inadequately prepared to be able to deal with such large and unexpected outbreaks. In this paper, we attempt to analyse the emergence and spread of the West African Ebola epidemic, reviewing the situation in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone prior to the 2013-2016 outbreak. We also highlight some of the additional societal burdens that the outbreak has placed on these countries. By drawing lessons from this epidemic, as well as case studies of other (re-)emerging epidemic infections through a combination of literature searches and news reports, combined with the views of 10 international experts, we develop eight actions that might help potentially susceptible countries and the international community to prevent, contain or better respond to possible future outbreaks.', u'Background. Diurnal rhythms of protein synthesis controlled by the biological clock underlie rhythmic physiology in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Self-sustained autonomous circadian oscillations were documented all over the organs of the fly. In this study, we conducted a proteome-wide investigation of rhythmic protein accumulation in D. melanogaster. Materials and Methods. We have used the whole fly for the proteomic study as performed in typical proteotypic peptide (PTP) studies and followed the same protocol with trypsin digestion. Total protein collected from fly samples harvested at 4h intervals over the 24-h period were subjected to two dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis, trypsin digestion and MS/MS analysis. Protein spots/clusters were identified with MASCOT search engine and Swiss-Prot database. Expression of proteins was documented as percentage of volume contribution using the Image Master 2D Platinum software. Results. A total of 124 protein spots/clusters were identified using MS/MS analysis. A significant variation in the expression of 88 proteins over the 24-h period was observed. Our present results suggested that the synthesis/regulation of numerous proteins is regulated by the biological clock in D. melanogaster. Relatively higher number of proteins was upregulated during nighttime as compared to daytime. Conclusion. As these rhythmically varying proteins/enzymes involve in metabolism, muscle activities, ion channels, protein synthesis, redox homeostasis and apoptosis our results indicate that these cellular processes could be regulated at the level of temporal expression of protein profile.', u'Background. Powered flight is implicated as a major driver for the success of birds. Here we examine the effectiveness of three hypothesized pathways for the evolution of the flight stroke, the forelimb motion that powers aerial locomotion, in a terrestrial setting across a range of stem and basal avians: flap running, Wing Assisted Incline Running (WAIR), and wing-assisted leaping. Methods. Using biomechanical mathematical models based on known aerodynamic principals and in vivo experiments and ground trothed using extant avians we seek to test if an incipient flight stroke may have contributed sufficient force to permit flap running, WAIR, or leaping takeoff along the phylogenetic lineage from Coelurosauria to birds. Results. None of these behaviours were found to meet the biomechancial threshold requirements before Paraves. Neither was there a continuous trend of refinement for any of these biomechanical performances across phylogeny nor a signal of universal applicability near the origin of birds. None of these flap-based locomotory models appear to have been a major influence on pre-flight character acquisition such as pennaceous feathers, suggesting non-locomotory behaviours, and less stringent locomotory behaviours such as balancing and braking, played a role in the evolution of the maniraptoran wing and nascent flight stroke. We find no support for widespread prevalence of WAIR in non-avian theropods, but can\u2019t reject its presence in large winged, small-bodied taxa like Microraptor and Archaeopteryx. Discussion. Using our first principles approach we find that \u201cnear flight\u201d locomotor behaviors are most sensitive to wing area, and that non-locomotory related selection regimes likely expanded wing area well before WAIR and other such behaviors were possible in derived avians. These results suggest that investigations of the drivers for wing expansion and feather elongation in theropods need not be intrinsically linked to locomotory adaptations, and this separation is critical for our understanding of the origin of powered flight and avian evolution.', u'Sentieon DNAseq Software is a suite of tools for running DNA sequencing secondary analyses. The Sentieon DNAseq Software produces identical results to the Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) Best Practice Workflow using HaplotypeCaller, with more than a 20-fold increase in processing speed on the same hardware.\nThis paper presents a benchmark analysis of the GATK and Sentieon DNAseq software packages using publically available datasets from the 1000 genomes database, and includes speed comparisons and output concordance analyses.', u'A trait-based approach focuses on attributes of taxa that influence the structure and function of communities. Biofilm production is a trait that is common among microorganisms in a wide range of environmental, engineered, and host-associated ecosystems. In this study, we present experimental evidence linking biofilm production to moisture availability, which is one of the greatest challenges for microorganisms living in the soil environment. Using Pseudomonas aeruginosa as a model system, first, we demonstrate that biofilm production is a response trait that affects bacterial performance under dry conditions. In addition to increasing survivorship, biofilm production affected the desiccation phenotype by shifting the niche space and reducing the minimum water potential needed to sustain a net-positive growth rate (\u03a8*). Although the allocation of resources to biofilms is thought to be costly, we found we no evidence to support a hypothesized trade-off between bacterial fitness and biofilm production along a moisture gradient. Second, we demonstrated that biofilm production is an effect trait. Specifically, biofilm production increased soil water retention in soils that were exposed to a series of drying and rewetting cycles. Although this form of niche construction via the release of public goods should affect species interactions, we found no evidence that biofilm production modified the performance of another soil bacterium. Together, our results support the view that biofilm production is an important functional trait that may contribute to the distribution, abundance, and functioning of microorganisms in soil environments.', u'The general morphological shape of plant-resembling fish and plant parts were compared using a geometric morphometrics approach. Lobotes surinamensis (Lobotidae), Platax orbicularis (Ephippidae) and Canthidermis maculata (Balistidae), three plant-mimetic fish species, were compared during their early developmental stages with accompanying plant parts (i.e. leaves of several taxa) in the coastal subtropical waters of Kuchierabu-jima Island, closely facing the Kuroshio Current. The degree of similarity shared between the plant parts and co-occurring fish species was quantified, however fish remained morphologically distinct from their plant models. Such similarities were corroborated by a linear model, in which relative body areas of fish and plant models were strongly interdependent. Our results strengthen the paradigm that morphological clues can lead to ecological evidence to allow predictions of behavioural and habitat choice by mimetic fish, according to the degree of similarity shared with their respective models. The resemblance to plant parts detected in the three fish species may provide fitness advantages via convergent evolutionary effects.', u'Geosmithia morbida is a filamentous ascomycete that causes Thousand Cankers Disease in the eastern black walnut tree. This pathogen is commonly found in the western U.S.; however, recently the disease was also detected in several eastern states where the black walnut lumber industry is concentrated. G. morbida is one of two known phytopathogens within the genus Geosmithia, and it is vectored into the host tree via the walnut twig beetle. We present the first de novo draft genome of G. morbida. It is 26.5 Mbp in length and contains less than 1% repetitive elements. The genome possesses an estimated 6,273 genes, 277 of which are predicted to encode proteins with unknown functions. Approximately 31.5% of the proteins in G. morbida are homologous to proteins involved in pathogenicity, and 5.6% of the proteins contain signal peptides that indicate these proteins are secreted. Several studies have investigated the evolution of pathogenicity in pathogens of agricultural crops; forest fungal pathogens are often neglected because research efforts are focused on food crops. G. morbida is one of the few tree phytopathogens to be sequenced, assembled and annotated. The first draft genome of G. morbida serves as a valuable tool for comprehending the underlying molecular and evolutionary mechanisms behind pathogenesis within the Geosmithia genus.\nKeywords: de novo genome assembly, pathogenesis, forest pathogen, black walnut, walnut twig beetle.', u'Bioinformatics software often requires human-generated tabular text files as input and have specific requirements for how those data are formatted. Users frequently manage these data in spreadsheet programs, which is convenient for researchers who are compiling the requisite information because the spreadsheet programs can easily be used on different platforms including laptops and tablets, and because they provide a familiar interface. It is increasingly common for many different researchers to be involved in compiling these data, including study coordinators, clinicians, lab technicians, and bioinformaticians. As a result, many research groups are shifting toward using cloud-based spreadsheet programs, such as Google Sheets, which support concurrent editing of a single spreadsheet by different users working on different platforms. Often most of the researchers who are entering data will not be familiar with the formatting requirements of the bioinformatics programs that will be used, so validating and correcting file formats is often a bottleneck prior to beginning bioinformatics analysis. We present Keemei, a Google Sheets Add-on for validating tabular files used in bioinformatics analyses. Keemei is available free of charge from Google\u2019s Chrome Web Store. Keemei can be installed and run on any web browser supported by Google Sheets. Keemei currently supports validation of two widely used tabular bioinformatics formats, the QIIME sample metadata mapping file format, and the Spatially Referenced Genetic Data (SRGD) format, but is designed to easily support the addition of others. Keemei will save researchers time and frustration by providing a convenient interface for tabular bioinformatics file format validation. By allowing everyone involved with data entry for a project to easily validate their data, it will reduce the validation and formatting bottlenecks that are commonly encountered when human-generated data files are first used with a bioinformatics system. Simplifying the validation of essential tabular data files, such as sample metadata, will reduce common errors and thereby improve the quality and reliability of research outcomes.', u'In the search for novel antineoplastic compounds we have found that four-membered, linear 5,11-dimethyl -5H- indolo[2,3-b]quinoline (DIMIQ) reveals cytostatic activity in vitro and moderate antitumor activity in vivo in mice melanoma B16 as well as leukemias L1210 and P388. Preliminary studies showed that DIMIQ stabilizes DNA-topoisomerase II complex. Some years later indolo[2,3-b]quinoline was found as an alkaloid neocryptolepine in the West African shrub Cryptolepis sanguinolenta. Unfortunately, DIMIQ\u2019s high toxicity, lack of selectivity and very low solubility in aqueous media seriously limit the practical use of this compound as an anticancer drug. Extensive research on the structure-activity relationships of different indolo[2,3-b]quinoline derivatives showed that the position and type of the substituent is conclusive both to the antitumor activity and general toxicity of the compound. These studies led us to discover derivatives of DIMIQ which exhibit very low toxicity against normal cells and are highly toxic against selected human tumors. These derivatives are soluble in water and some of them are able to overcome multidrug resistance in human tumors cells.', u'Soil salinity is one of the most serious impediments to global agricultural productivity. Although most terrestrial plants are glycophytes which cannot tolerate high salt concentrations, a small fraction of species are halophytes. Exactly what allows these extremophile plants to survive in saline conditions is not yet well understood. Several studies have established the Salt Overly Sensitive (SOS) pathway as the canonical model for the mechanism responsible for salt tolerance. The SOS pathway involves interplay among Na+-H+ antiporters for transporting sodium, and the activation of the kinase that phosphorylates the transporter. Among them, SOS1, a plasma membrane Na+-H+ antiporter, has been shown to be a critical component for maintaining salt homeostasis by pumping sodium out of cells upon activation. Therefore, it is of great interest to evaluate any differences of SOS1 in halophytes as compared to glycophytes. Here we report a computational analysis of the primary and secondary structures of eight halophytes and seven glycophytes. ClustalW alignment of the protein sequences as a whole reveals no regions conserved specifically in only halophytes or in only glycophytes. In addition, the key regulatory residues at the C-terminus of SOS1, S1136 and S1138, which were shown to be the phosphorylation sites by the kinase SOS2, were completely conserved in all 15 halophytes and glycophytes. The four amino acids, G136, R365, G777, and G784, in which alterations affect the function of SOS1, are mostly conserved in the 15 species. The 14-3-3 binding site in the C-terminus which is important in the phosphorylation step of SOS1 in the SOS signal transduction cascade is also well conserved. Furthermore, the number of transmembrane helices for each species is between 9 and 12 and there is no significant difference between halophytes and glycophytes. If halophytes present any special feature of SOS1, it likely involves the presence (halophytes) or absence (glycophytes) of a SOS1-interacting component.', u'Computer Science often seems distant from its natural science cousins, especially software engineering which feels closer to sociology and psychology than to physics. Physical measurements are often rare in software engineering, except in a few niches. One such important niche is that of software energy consumption, green mining, green IT, and sustainable computing, which all fall under the umbrella of green software engineering. With the physical measurement of energy consumption comes all of the limitations of measurement and experimentation that exist in the natural sciences and engineering. Issues abound, from attribution of energy use, isolation of components, to replicable experiments. These get further complicated by cloud computing whereby systems are virtualized and attribution of resource usage is a serious issue. Thus in this work we discuss the current state of software energy consumption, and where will it go.', u'In the present study, we isolated and characterized the complete mitochondrial genome sequence of Brama japonica by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and primer-walking sequencing. The complete DNA was 17,009 bp in length and contained a typical set of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and a long putative control region. The gene organization and nucleotide composition of complete mitogenome were identical to those of other Bramidae fishes. In contrast, the 12S rRNA gene contained a big poly C structure which was larger than those from other Bramidae species. Of 37 genes, twenty-eight were encoded by heavy strand, while nine were encoded by light strand. Among the 13 protein-coding genes, twelve employed ATG as start codon, while only COI utilized GTG as start codon. In the control region, the terminal associated sequence (TAS), the central and conserved sequence block (CSB-E and CSB-D) and a variable domain (CSB-1, CSB-2 and CSB-3) were identified, while the typical central conserved CSB-F could not be detected in B. japonica. The putative OL region can fold into a conserved secondary structure and the conserved motif (5\u2019-GCCGG-3\u2019) was found at the base of the stem in tRNACys. The overall nucleotide composition of this genome was 26.43% for A, 16.71% for G, 31.35% for C, and 25.50% for T, with a high A+T content of 51.93%. From the NJ phylogenetic tree, we can find that B. japonica was together with other five Bramidae species formed a monophyletic group among 24 species. This work provided a set of useful data for studying on population genetic diversity and molecular evolution in Bramidae and related fish species.', u'Background. Many amphibian species are negatively affected by anthropogenic habitat change. Populations distributed over modified landscapes may be subject to local extinction or may be relegated to remaining, likely isolated and possibly degraded, patches of available habitat. Isolation without gene flow can lead to variability in phenotypic traits due to differences in local selective pressures, such as environmental structure, microclimate or site-specific species assemblages. Methods. Here we tested this microevolution hypothesis by evaluating the acoustic parameters of 349 advertisement calls from 15 males representing six populations of the endangered species Proceratophrys moratoi. In addition, we analyzed the genetic distance between populations and the genetic diversity by haplotype network. We carried out a cluster analysis by Bray-Curtis index of similarity using acoustic data by UPGMA method. We correlated acoustic dissimilarities (calculated by Euclidean distance) with geographic and genetic distances among populations. Results. Spectral traits of the advertisement call of P. moratoi presented lower coefficients of variation than did temporal traits both within and among males. Cluster analyses placed individuals without population and geographical distance congruence, but recovered the species topology in relation to sister species. The genetic distance was low among populations: it did not exceed 0.4% for the most distant populations, and was not correlated with acoustic distance. Discussion. Both acoustic features and genetic sequences are highly conserved, suggesting that populations may be connected by recent migrations or that they are subject to stabilizing selective forces. Although future studies are needed, these findings contribute to a growing body of literature suggesting that this species would be a good candidate for a reintroduction program without negative effects on communication or even genetic heritage.', u'A meta-analysis approach was used to extract the frequency of avian seropositivity to West Nile Virus (WNV) (fS) and mortality from WNV (fM) from the literature published between the years 2001-2010. The indices, fS and fM, were used to represent states of resistance (seropositivity with no or limited mortality) and susceptibility in birds (detection of WNV with mortality), respectively. The indices fS and fM were calculated for each species across publications into different taxonomic strata, year, combined time intervals, and geographic location. The data were analyzed by logistic regression to assess the status of WNV infection amongst different avian taxonomic strata and infer changes of WNV infection status over time. Using level of peak viremia as a proxy for host competence among the avian species, the value of the phylogenetic signal was tested by Blomberg\xb4s K after transformation of the branch lengths. Sixty-three publications were used for the final dataset representing studies performed from 1999 to 2008 and published between 2001-2010. Analysis of both fS and fM demonstrated variability in avian responses to WNV across order, family, and species. When the data were analyzed for fS, the families and species of the orders Ciconiiformes, Galliformes, and Columbiformes had significantly higher fS than that of the Passeriformes (P < 0.0001). Within the Passeriformes, the Corvidae and Cardinalidae families had higher fS than any other family. When the data were analyzed for fM, dead Corvidae and Paridae were most likely to test positive for virus. Temporally, a positive trend of increasing fS was detected in several avian species while the American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) was the only species with a significant negative trend in fM (P = 0.042). Little to no interaction of geographic location with time was detected within species of birds. A weak but significant phylogenetic signal corresponded to host range, suggesting that the rate of spread of WNV through the avian community was partially dependent of the relatedness of hosts. The meta-data predicted that species within families, and even order, were heterogeneous in their disease susceptibility traits to WNV. The Passeriformes contributed most to this variation. Several trends in various families and orders of birds were observed from which new studies could be pursued. The pooling of data was key in detecting areas where data was lacking and identified aspects of avian responses to WNV could be expanded.', u"Counteracting the worldwide trend of coral reef degeneration is a major challenge for the scientific community. A crucial management approach to minimizing stress effects on healthy reefs and helping the recovery of disturbed reefs is reef protection. However, the current rapid decline of the world's reefs suggests that protection might be insufficient as a viable stand-alone management approach for some reefs. We thus suggest that the ecological restoration of coral reefs (CRR) should be considered as a valid component of coral reef management, in addition to protection, if the applied method is economically applicable and scalable. This theoretical study examines the potential applicability and outcomes of restocking grazers as a restoration tool for coral reef recovery \u2013 a tool that has not been applied so far in reef restoration projects. We studied the effect of restocking grazing fish as a restoration method using a mathematical model of degrading reefs, and analyzed the financial outcomes of the restocking intervention. The results suggest that applying this restoration method, in addition to protection, can facilitate reef recovery. Moreover, our analysis suggests that the restocking approach almost always becomes profitable within several years. Considering the relatively low cost of this restoration approach and the feasibility of mass production of herbivorous fish, we suggest that this approach should be considered and examined as an additional viable restoration tool for coral reefs.", u'Length of hospital stay (LOS) is of primary importance in health services research because it is directly related to health care management and cost of health care. In some epidemiological settings the actual length of stay is not directly observed but it is known to have happened in a particular interval or for simple epidemiological interpretation time is categorized into ordered categorical responses. In this paper, we focus our attention on cumulative regression models for ordinal responses to analyze length of hospital stay for children admitted to a paediatric ward for malaria. Such models exploit the ordered scale of the outcomes. We approach our analysis using a Bayesian probit model. Our model incorporated random effects for hospital specific heterogeneity, while simultaneously investigating nonlinear effects in covariates within the general framework of semi-parametric regression models. Findings indicate children who died had relatively shorter LOS, which suggest worse prognosis at admission. Calendar time effects indicated changing seasonal effects with high peaks in wet season and low peak in dry season, largely explained by malaria transmission patterns. Age showed deviation from linearity, and early discharge was associated with much older children than infants.', u'Genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) are of great interest to molecular ecologists due to their role in the immune response and the complex evolutionary mechanisms affecting their abundance and distribution. Next generation sequencing (NGS) offers the best potential for characterizing such genes by overcoming the low throughput constraints associated with traditional cloning and Sanger sequencing. However, available bioinformatics methods to effectively filter MHC data acquired through NGS are complex and have not been widely applied. Here we present a method to sequence MHC II DRB of the little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) using semi-conductor sequencing on the Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine (PGM) and subsequently analyze the data using a modified UPARSE clustering algorithm. As proof of concept, preliminary characterization of the MHC II DRB alleles of 15 little brown bats was accomplished through PGM sequencing. Analysis identified 24 MHC II DRB alleles overall and a high number of alleles per individual (average 6.8 \xb1 3.5, range 1 \u2013 12), indicating little brown bats may have among the highest number of MHC DRB loci documented in mammals. Our method provides a framework for studying MHC II DRB diversity in little brown bats, which are experiencing significant population declines in North America due to the recent emergence of white-nose syndrome (WNS).', u'Mediterranean biomes are biodiversity hotspots and also have been historically related to wine production. During the last decades, land occupied by vineyards has increased considerably threatening these Mediterranean ecosystems. Land use change and agricultural management affect soil biodiversity, changing physical and chemical properties of soil. These changes may have consequences on wine production, especially because soil is a key component of wine identity or terroir. Here, we characterized the taxonomic and functional diversity of bacterial and fungal communities present in soil from vineyards in Central Chile. To accomplish this goal we collected soil samples from organic vineyards from Central Chile and employed a shotgun metagenomic approach. Additionally, we also studied the surrounding native forest as a picture of the soil conditions prior to the establishment of the vineyard. Our metagenomic analyses revealed that both habitats shared most of the soil microbial species. In general, bacteria were more abundant than fungi in both types of habitats, including soil-living genera such as Candidatus Solibacter, Bradyrhizobium and Gibberella. Interestingly, we found presence of lactic bacteria and fermenting yeasts in soil, which are key during wine production. However, their abundances were extremely low, suggesting unlikeness of soil as a potential reservoir in Chilean vineyards. Regarding functional diversity, we found that genes for metabolism of amino acids, fatty acids, nucleotides and secondary metabolism were enriched in forest soils, whereas genes for metabolism of potassium, proteins and miscellaneous functions were more abundant in vineyard soils. Our results suggest that organic vineyards have similar soil community composition than forest habitats. Additionally, we suggest that native forests surrounding vineyards may be acting as microbial reservoir buffering the land conversion. We conclude that the implementation of environmentally friendly practices by the wine industry may help to maintain the microbial diversity and ecosystem functions related to natural habitats.', u'Recently, selenium (Se) enriched mushrooms have been exploited as diary Se supplements, but our knowledge of the metabolism process during the Se enrichment process is far from complete. In this study, the uptake, toxicity and reduction of selenite in a widely cultivated mushroom, Flammulina velutipes, was investigated. The results showed that pH variation (from 5.5 to 7.5), metabolic inhibitor (0.1 mM 2,4-DNP) and P or S starvation led to 11%-26% decreases in the selenite uptake rate of F. velutipes. This indicates that a minor portion of the selenite uptake was metabolism dependent, whereas a carrier-facilitated passive transport may be crucial. Growth inhibition of F. velutipes initiated at 0.1 mM selenite (11% decrease in the growth rate) and complete growth inhibition occurred at 3 mM selenite. A selenite concentration of 0.03-0.1 mM was recommended to maintain the balance between mycelium production and Se enrichment. F. velutipes was capable of reducing selenite to Se(0) nanoparticles, possibly as a detoxification mechanism. This process depended on both selenite concentration and metabolism activity. Overall, the data obtained provided some basic information for the cultivation of the selenized F. velutipes, and highlighted the opportunity of using mushrooms for the production of Se(0) nanoparticles.', u'Background: Virtual patient authoring tools provide a simple means of creating rich and complex online cases for health professional students to explore. However, the responses available to the learner are usually predefined, which limits the utility of virtual patients, both in terms of replayability and adaptability. Using artificial intelligence or natural language processing is expensive and hard to design. This project description lays out an alternative approach to making virtual patients more adaptable and interactive. Methods: Using OpenLabyrinth, an open-source educational research platform, we modified the interface and functionality to provide a human-computer hybrid interface, where a human facilitator can interact with learners from within the online case scenario. Using a design-based research approach, we have iteratively improved our case designs, workflows and scripts and interface designs. The next step is to robustly test this new functionality in action. This report describes the piloting and background as well as the rationale, objectives, software development implications, learning designs, and educational intervention designs for the planned study. Results: The costs and time required to modify the software were much lower than anticipated. Facilitators have been able to handle text input from multiple concurrent learners. Learners were not discouraged waiting for the facilitator to respond. Discussion: The implementation and use of this new technique seems very promising and there are a great many ways in which it might be used for training and assessment purposes. This report also explores the provisional implications arising from the study so far.', u'Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, with nearly 1.4 million new cases diagnosed in 2012. CRC results from the accumulation of multiple genetic and epigenetic aberrations. Tumor localization in the large intestine tract determines different surgical approaches and treatment options. Considering the heterogeneous nature of these tumors we hypothesized that different patterns of molecular alterations could be associated with a specific anatomical location. To identify distinct genomic alterations (e.g, copy number variations and mutations) associated to different CRC anatomical sites we sequenced 32 CRCs samples from different location (right-sided, left-sided etc.) using the Ion AmpliSeq\u2122 Comprehensive Cancer Panel that covered the whole coding sequence of 409 tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes frequently altered in cancer. Interestingly left-sided tumors were generally more altered respect to right-sided ones. Cluster analysis of all samples allowed the identification of 21-gene core that were significantly mutated in all sample groups. As expected, KRAS and APC mutations were frequently in the tumors resected from different anatomical localizations. Unsupervised analysis of copy number variations reveals a core of 160-gene significantly altered. In addition to the expected SRC, MYC and CEBPA, we found interestingly genes in validation status. Despite missing a significant number of cases, gene panel provides a solid alternative approach to WES in order to characterize a signature of alterations correlated with CRC tumor and the identification of novel biomarkers in colorectal carcinoma that could be used as potential clinical target.', u'Nest construction is a common form of parental care in soil organisms. However, it is unknown whether the tropical earthworm Pontoscolex corethrurus selects sites for nest construction when the nutritional quality of the soil is irregular. Here we studied the reproductive behaviour and nest site selection of P. corethrurus. In tridimensional terrariums we evaluated the combined effect of the food quality (soil only = S, soil+grass = G, soil+legume = L) and soil depth (0-9 cm = Shallow, 10-18 cm = Intermediate, 19-27 cm = Deep) in a factorial 32 design. The number and biomass of cocoons, progeny and the production of internal and external excreta were evaluated. The nutritional quality and depth of soil and their interaction had a significant effect on nest site construction and the deposition of internal excreta. P. corethrurus built a higher amount of nests in the S-Intermediate and G-Intermediate treatments while more internal excreta were found in the L-Intermediate treatment. Offspring biomass was positively associated with internal excreta in the S (soil only) and G (soil + grass) treatments. We conclude that P. corethrurus shows parental care when selecting sites for its offspring in the form of nest construction and excreta deposition. Further research is needed on the ecological conditions that favour the evolution of parental care in earthworms according to their ecological category (anecic, endogeic and anecic).', u'Background: Fish sound production is widespread throughout many families. Agonistic and courtship behaviors are the most common reasons for fish sound production. Yet, there is still some debate on how sound production and spawning are correlated in many soniferous fish species. In the present study, our aim was to determine if a quantitative relationship exists between calling and egg deposition in captive spotted seatrout (Cynoscion nebulosus). This type of data is essential if scientists and managers plan to use acoustic metrics to identify spawning aggregations over large spatial scales and monitor reproductive activity over annual and decadal timeframes.Methods: Wild caught spotted seatrout were held in three laboratory tanks equipped with long-term acoustic loggers (i.e., DSG-Oceans) to record underwater sound throughout an entire, simulated reproductive season. Acoustic monitoring occurred from April 13 to December 19, 2012 for Tank 1 and from April 13 to November 21, 2012 for Tanks 2 and 3. DSG-Oceans were scheduled to record sound for 2 min every 20 min. We enumerated the number of calls, calculated the received sound pressure level (SPL in dB re 1 \xb5Pa; between 50 and 2000 Hz) of each 2 min \u2018wav file\u2019, and counted the number of eggs every morning in each tank.Results: Spotted seatrout produced three distinct call types characterized as \u201cdrums\u201d, \u201cgrunts\u201d, and \u201cstaccatos\u201d. Spotted seatrout calling increased as the light cycle shifted from 13.5 to 14.5 h of light, and the temperature increased to 27.7oC. Calling began to decrease once the temperature fell below 27.7 oC, and the light cycle shifted to 12 h of light. These captive settings are similar to the amount of daylight and water temperatures observed during the summer, which is the primary spawning period of spotted seatrout. Spotted seatrout exhibited daily patterns of calling. Sound production began once the lights turned off, and calling reached maximum activity approximately 3 h later. Spawning occurred only on evenings in which spotted seatrout were calling. Significantly more calling and higher mean SPLs occurred on evenings in which spawning occurred as compared to evenings in which spawning did not occur. Spawning was more productive when spotted seatrout produced more calls. For all tanks, more calling and higher SPLs were associated with more eggs released by females.Discussion: The fact that more calling and higher SPLs were associated with spawns that were more productive indicates that acoustic metrics can provide quantitative information on spotted seatrout spawning in the wild. These findings will help us to identify spawning aggregations over large spatial scales and monitor the effects of noise pollution, water quality, and climatic changes on reproductive activity using acoustic technology.', u'Background: While significant attention has been paid to the potential risk of pathogenic microbes aboard crewed spacecraft, much less has focused on the non-pathogenic microbes in these habitats. Preliminary work has demonstrated that the interior of the International Space Station (ISS) has a microbial community resembling those of built environments on earth. Here we report results of sending 48 bacterial strains, collected from built environments on earth, for a growth experiment on the ISS. This project was a component of Project MERCCURI (Microbial Ecology Research Combining Citizen and University Researchers on ISS). Results: Of the 48 strains sent to the ISS, 45 of them showed similar growth in space and on earth. The vast majority of species tested in this experiment have also been found in culture-independent surveys of the ISS. Only one bacterial strain that avoided contamination showed significantly different growth in space. Bacillus safensis JPL-MERTA-8-2 grew 60% better in space than on earth. Conclusions: The majority of bacteria tested were not affected by conditions aboard the ISS in this experiment (e.g., microgravity, cosmic radiation). Further work on Bacillus safensis could lead to interesting insights on why this bacteria grew so much better in space.', u'Synthetic analogs of 1alpha,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [1alpha,25-(OH)2D3] and 1alpha,25-dihydroxyergocalciferol [1alpha,25-(OH)2D2] have long been considered as key regulators of calcium and phosphate homeostasis. These analogs have been recently investigated as potential therapeutics against a number of pathological states, including metabolic, dermatological, immune and hyperproliferative diseases. Analogues of 1alpha,25-(OH)2D3 and 1alpha,25-(OH)2D2, modified in the cyclohexane A-ring and in the aliphatic side-chain, potentiated the efficiency of cytostatics and/or cooperated efficiently with polyphenol in human myeloid leukemia cells (HL60, U937 and MOLM-13) and in several animal models of leukemias and solid tumours. The therapeutic effect resulted from the thorough combination of several key factors, including the selection of vitamin D-sensitive cancer model, type of cytostatic, the right scheme and route of administration of both therapeutics, correlation with vitamin D receptor level and managing of the hypercalcemic side effect of vitamin D. In this work our synthesis and biological evaluation is outlined of a novel generation of vitamin D analogs as well as our investigation of their anticancer profile in vitro and in vivo. Our convergent synthesis started from vitamin D-like advanced intermediates and separately prepared side-chain fragments. This way, in an over twenty-step syntheses, a series of analogs were obtained containing, compared to the parent vitamin D hormones, 1alpha,25-(OH)2D3 and 1alpha,25-(OH)2D2, an additional chiral center or conjugated diene system in the side-chain and/or modified 5,6-trans or 19-nor A-ring. Some of the new analogs, pre-selected in a number of in vitro models, showed, in the combined treatment with cytostatics, the beneficial activity profile in both, murine colon cancer MC38 and in human colon cancer HT-29 cells. Our analogues also modulated expression of genes related to stem-like phenotype in vitamin D receptor (VDR) positive colon cancer cells, HT-29 and HCT-116, at different differentiation states, undergoing renewal after the treatment with 5-FU. The analogs induced differentiation of VDR positive A375 and VDR negative SK-MEL 188b human melanoma cells. Some of our analogs also displayed moderate cytotoxic and pro-apoptotic activity in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and concentration and time-dependent antiproliferative action upon stimulated B-cells from healthy donors. Data available from the protein data bank were used for the rational design of the next generation of analogs by minimizing the electrostatic interaction energies, after the reconstruction of a charge densities using pseudoatom databank. Due to a low calcemic activity and anticancer profile in vivo, selected new analogues might be considered as promising candidates for further preclinical evaluation as potential anticancer agents.', u'Hypoxia is associated with the increased malignancy of a broad range of solid tumours; however, whilst very severe hypoxia has been widely shown to induce cell cycle arrest, the impact of pathophysiological hypoxia on tumour cell proliferation is poorly understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of different oxygen levels on glioblastoma (GBM) cell proliferation and survival. GBM is an extremely aggressive brain tumour with a heterogeneous oxygenation pattern. The effect of a range of oxygen tensions on GBM cell lines and primary cells were assessed using flow cytometry. Results indicate that cell cycle distribution and viability are unaffected by long term exposure (up to 4 days) to pathophysiological levels of oxygen (1-8% O 2). Both transient cell cycle arrest and small amounts of cell death could only be detected when cells were exposed to severe hypoxia (0.1% O2). No significant changes in p21 protein expression levels were detected. These findings reinforce the importance of using physiologically relevant oxygen tensions when investigating tumour hypoxia, and help to explain how solid tumours can be both hypoxic and highly proliferative, as is the case with GBM.', u'Although the co-occurrence of nonnative vertebrates is a ubiquitous global phenomenon, the study of interactions between invaders is poorly represented in the literature. Limited understanding of the interactions between co-occurring vertebrates can be problematic for predicting how the removal of only one invasive\u2014a common management scenario\u2014will affect native communities. We suggest a trophic food web framework for predicting the effects of single-species management on native biodiversity. We used a literature search and meta-analysis to assess current understanding of how the removal of one invasive vertebrate affects native biodiversity relative to when two invasives are present. The majority of studies focused on the removal of carnivores, mainly within aquatic systems, which highlights a critical knowledge gap in our understanding of co-occurring invasive vertebrates. We found that removal of one invasive vertebrate caused a significant negative effect on native species compared to when two invasive vertebrates were present. These unexpected results could arise because of the positioning and hierarchy of the co-occurring invasives in food web (e.g. carnivore-carnivore or carnivore-herbivore). We consider that there are important knowledge gaps to determinate the effects of multiple co-existing invaders on native ecosystems, and this information could be precious for management.', u"Background. In recent years, artificial intelligence (AI) has become an important issue, in which, how to make computers understand the thinking of human being is one of critical topics. If computer could perceive and respond to person's non-verbal language such as emotions, the communication between human beings and computers will be more friendly and naturally. So, more and more researchers are paying attention to realize human daily emotion recognition based on wearable sensor' signals, which could be applied in many applications of health care and Human-Computer-Interaction (HCI). Methods. In this paper, we propose an emotion recognition method, which is based on customized smart bracelet with built-in accelerometer. Those bracelets can be worn on people's ankle and wrist. Firstly, the acceleration data of ankle and wrist are obtained when person is walking naturally. Considering the original acceleration data is noisy and variable, the Moving Average Filter is used to eliminate noise. Besides, walking can be regarded as the repetitive movement of legs and arms, so the collected acceleration data may be redundant. Through analysis, we design a sliding window to divide the whole data into several data slices of the same size, and let the neighboring slices be partially overlapped. In the subsequent operations, each data slice would be taken as one sample. This process can not only avoid high computational requirement caused by redundancy data, and can also expand the number of samples. For each data slice, 114 relevant features for emotion recognition are extracted. Then, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is applied to select effective attributes. Finally, we built the emotion recognition classifier based on Weka software platform. Taking the same attributes as input, we compared the performance of emotion recognition among some classical classifiers, including Support Vector Machine (SVM), Decision Tree, Random Tree and Random Forest. Results. The classification accuracy is used to evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed emotion recognition method. Overall, SVM outperforms the other classifiers. The two-category classification accuracies of neutral-anger, neutral-happiness and happiness-anger are 91.3%, 88.5% and 88.5% respectively. The accuracy of multi-category classification among neutral, happiness and anger is 81.2%. Discussion. In the comparative experiments, the recognition rates of different emotion states are all above 81%. It is concluded that gait is capable to reveal affective state of minds.", u'Both classical taxonomy and DNA barcoding are engaged in the task of digitising the living world. Much of the taxonomic literature remains undigitised. The rise of open access publishing this century, and the freeing of older literature from the shackles of copyright has greatly increased the online availability of taxonomic descriptions, but much of the literature of the mid- to late twentieth century remains o\ufb04ine ("dark texts"). DNA barcoding is generating a wealth of computable data that in many ways is much easier to work with than classical taxonomic descriptions, but many of the sequences are not identi\ufb01ed to species level. These "dark taxa" hamper the classical method of integrating biodiversity data using shared taxonomic names. Voucher specimens are a potential common currency of both the taxonomic literature and sequence databases, and could be used to help link names, literature, and sequences. An obstacle to this approach is the lack of stable, resolvable specimen identi\ufb01ers. The paper concludes with an appeal for a global "digital dashboard" to assess the extent to which biodiversity data is available online.', u"Solving an environmental problem requires stakeholder understanding and agreement. What appears to be simple problems to define become complex when data determine outcomes. This paper will describe the seven step decision logic developed for and used by US EPA to determine the problem and the decision rule for establishing compliance and acceptable uncertainty in the data used in informed decision making. Advances made in Kriging and Bayesian statistical inference tools to quantify estimates of data distributions and associated uncertainty will be described. But, making informed decisions pivot on tradeoff between cost of obtaining more information and cost of action. Raifa's foundational work on statistical decision theory is the basis for creating quantitative cost driven methodology directly applicable to cost-risk-benefit environmental decision making and actions. The paper presents various real world applications of these tools.", u'The heritability of schizophrenia and most personality traits has been well established, but the role of personality in susceptibility to schizophrenia remains uncertain. The aim of this study was to test for an association between personality traits and Neurological Soft Signs (NSS), a well-known biological marker of schizophrenia, in non-psychotic relatives of patients with schizophrenia. For this purpose, we evaluated the NSS scale and personality measured by the Temperament and Character inventory (TCI-R) in three groups of subjects: 29 patients with schizophrenia, 24 unaffected relatives and 37 controls. The results showed that patients with schizophrenia were more asocial (higher harm avoidance and lower reward dependence), more perseverative (higher persistence), and more schizotypal (lower self-directedness and cooperativeness, higher self-transcendence). The unaffected relatives showed higher harm avoidance, lower self-directedness and cooperativeness than the healthy controls. Higher NSS scores and sub-scores were found in patients and non-psychotic relatives compared with the controls. Among all the patients, total NSS scores were positively correlated with harm avoidance but negatively correlated with novelty seeking and persistence. Total NSS were also correlated with low scores on self-directedness and cooperativeness, which are indicators of personality disorder. Our results show that susceptibility to NSS and to schizophrenia are both related to individual differences in the temperament and character features in non-psychotic relatives of patients with schizophrenia. High harm avoidance, low persistence, low self-directedness and low cooperativeness contribute to both the risk of NSS and schizophrenia. These findings highlight the value of using both assessments to study high risk populations.', u'Among the potential indicators of biodiversity, those based on the functional traits of species are interesting because they measure the aspects of diversity that potentially affect community assembly and function. However, trait-based approaches are still rarely considered and little is known about the degree to which taxonomic diversity (TD) and functional diversity (FD) are correlated. Yet, this relationship is thought to depend on the extent of ecological redundancy within the assemblage, i.e. the number of taxonomically distinct species that exhibit similar ecological functions. In this study, we characterized taxonomic and functional diversity within and between two marine habitats (rocky shore vs mudflats) under human-induced disturbances. Models were also used to test whether the relationship between TD and FD differed according to the indices used to characterize them. We found little effect of human disturbance on the shape of the TD-FD relationship, whereas communities of the mudflat appeared to be less redundant than those of rocky shore. This could be explained by the assembly rules of ecosystems: biotic filtering (competition and resource partitioning) reduces redundancy by selecting for functionally dissimilar species, whereas abiotic filtering increases redundancy by selecting for similar species sharing adaptations to a particular environment. The rocky shore environment is characterized by heterogeneity that allows the formation of distinct ecological niches that can be colonized by similar species: the abiotic filtering does not limit the redundancy permitted by habitat. Conversely, in the more homogeneous environment of mudflat, the biotic filter mitigates redundancy. Trait-mediated abiotic filtering appears to play an important role in community assembly in complex habitats, whereas the relative importance of competitive exclusion appears to be greater in homogeneous habitats.', u"In recent years, a massive plague has killed millions of sea stars, of many different species, along the Pacific coast of North America. This disease, known as 'sea star wasting disease' (SSWD), is thought to be caused by viral infection. In the affected sea star Pisaster ochraceus, previous work had identified that the elongation factor 1-\u03b1 (EF1A) locus harbored an intronic insertion allele that is lethal when homozygous yet appears to be maintained at moderate frequency in populations through increased fitness for heterozygotes. The environmental conditions supporting this increased fitness are unknown, but overdominance is often associated with disease. Here, we evaluate populations of P. ochraceus to identify the relationship between SSWD and EF1A genotype. Our data suggest that there may be significantly decreased infection or mortality rates in individuals that are heterozygous at this locus. These results suggest further studies to understand the functional relationship between diversity at EF1A and survival in P. ochraceus.", u'Galactose is a monosaccharide present in several foods and, once introduced into the body, it is metabolised by a biochemical pathway involving three enzymes: galactokinase (GALK), galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GALT), and UDP-galactose-4\'-epimerase (GALE). Hereditary deficiencies of these three enzymes in humans are related to three different forms of the genetic disease globally called "galactosemia". The impairment of GALK causes Galactosemia Type II, whereas GALT deficiency causes the disease called Classic Galactosemia, and finally GALE deficiency is linked to Galactosemia type III or Galactose Epimerase deficiency. The clinical manifestations of each enzyme deficiency differ markedly: patients with GALK deficiency, for example, have the mildest clinical consequences, while Classic Galactosemia is potentially lethal in infancy, if undiagnosed and/or untreated, and is also associated with long-term, organ-specific complications. The impairment of these enzymes is linked to the presence of mutations in their genes. The most common ones are missense mutations, causing the replacement of a residue on the protein sequence with another one. This kind of mutation can have different effects depending on whether the original residue is replaced with a very similar or very different one, and depending on the place where the original residue is located on the protein structure. It has been shown elsewhere that it is possible to infer the severity of a mutation by using computational approaches that can predict its impact on protein structure and function, provided that the structure is known. This kind of knowledge can be thus of help to correlate the severity of symptoms with the effect at protein level, to better understand and, possibly, to predict, the outcome of a mutation on individuals carrying it. The aim of the proposed web-accessible database is to collect and provide information about the predicted structural and functional effects of missense mutations of the enzymes linked to the different forms of galactosemia, in order to help researchers to reach a deeper comprehension of these genetic diseases. At time of writing, we are working to develop an unique database that includes the variants of GALT enzyme, already described in the GALT protein DB, and the variants of GALK and GALE enzymes, and to allow the users to extract information about structural and functional effects of each variant by several kinds of combinable filters. The perspective of this work is to have a tool suitable for investigating with a similar approach also other proteins subjected to variations.', u'Previous studies provided mixed findings on pecularities in p-value distributions in psychology. This paper examined 258,050 test results across 30,710 articles from eight high impact journals to investigate the existence of a peculiar prevalence of p-values just below .05 in the psychological literature, and a potential increase thereof over time. We indeed found evidence for a bump just below .05 in the distribution of exactly reported p-values in the journals Developmental Psychology, Journal of Applied Psychology, and Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, but the bump did not increase over the years and disappeared when using recalculated p-values. We found clear and direct evidence for the QRP \u201dincorrect rounding of p-value\u201d (John et al., 2012) in all psychology journals. Finally, we also investigated monotonic excess of p-values, an effect of certain QRPs that has been neglected in previous research, and developed two measures to detect this by modeling the distributions of statistically significant p-values. Using simulations and applying the two measures to the retrieved test results, we argue that, although one of the measures suggests the use of QRPs in psychology, it is difficult to draw general conclusions concerning QRPs based on modeling of p-value distributions.', u'One of the major ecological research questions is understanding how biodiversity influences ecosystem functioning. Unravelling interspecific feeding preferences of organisms with overlapping trophic niches will give part of the answer. Subsequently, the present study displays the trophic diversity of a benthic copepod community in a North-Western Corsican Posidonia oceanica seagrass ecosystem. These seagrass meadows are often interrupted by bare sand patches serving as deposition area for loose detritus. The accumulated macrophytodetritus, mainly derived from senescent macrophytes, harbour a diverse community of Harpacticoida (Crustacea, Copepoda). The most abundant copepods (i.e. three harpacticoids and one calanoid, belonging to different eco-morphological types) and their potential food sources (i.e. macrophytodetritus, epiphytic biofilm and suspended organic matter) were analysed for stable isotope ratios (\u03b413C, \u03b415N) and total lipids content. The results revealed a harpacticoid copepod feeding preference towards the epiphytic biofilm, while calanoid copepods preferred suspended organic matter. Additionally, a species-specific composition variation revealed finer partitioning of food resources (e.g. different micro-organisms present in the biofilm like bacteria, diatoms, fungi) over time.In conclusion, results showed species-specific food preferences, resulting in trophic niche and resource partitioning. Every eco-morphological type seems to cope in different ways with temporal fluctuations of food sources to comply with their nutritional needs. This illustrates the high resilience of the copepod community present in macrophytodetritus accumulations. Moreover, our results underlined the importance of multiple biomarker species-specific analysis in trophic ecology studies, especially in complex and dynamic environments offering numerous food items to consumers.', u"The concentration of Green House Gasses and specifically the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is continuously increasing since the industrial revolution and it is the most relevant anthropic cause driving climate changes. Two of the strongest symptoms of those changes are the Global Warming and the Ocean Acidification which are progressively altering marine ecosystems and the populations of living organisms they support. The Mediterranean Sea is widely considered a 'laboratory basin' by suffering dramatic changes in its oceanographic and biogeochemical conditions derived from natural and anthropogenic forces. Calcifying seaweeds are the most important 'bioconstructors', from mesolittoral to circalittoral fringe, providing habitats and ecological niches for other species (i.e. biodiversity promoters) but also are good 'recorders' of the environmental condition they experience (i.e. biondicators). In this study we focused on the reef-forming Ellisolandia elongata from the Gulf of La Spezia (N-W Mediterranean Sea) by comparing the physical properties, growth rate and abundance of associated fauna in natural and experimental conditions (temperature and pH expected for 2050-2100). Four sampling sites were chosen in the intertidal zone. Reef samples were bring in the laboratory and put in experimental conditions for a month. Four aquaria simulated the actual conditions of temperature and pH, other 4 aquaria simulated temperature (+3\xb0C) and pH (7.7) expected for the year near future. E. elongata grown in the natural and experimental conditions withstand mechanical stress in slightly different ways. The study of the effect of temperature and pH variations on growth rate and associated fauna of E. elongata reef is still in progress.", u"Origin and subsequent accumulation of spliceosomal introns are prominent events in the evolution of eukaryotic gene structure. Recently gained introns would be especially useful for the study of the mechanisms of intron gain because randomly accumulated mutations might erase the evolutionary traces. The mechanisms of intron gain remain unclear due to the presence of very few solid cases. A widely cited model of intron gain is tandem genomic duplication, in which the duplication of an AGGT-containing exonic segment provides the GT and AG splicing sites for the new intron. We found that the second intron of the potato RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene PGSC0003DMG402000361 originated mainly from a direct duplication of the 3\u2032 side of the upstream intron. The 5' splicing site of this new intron was recruited from the upstream exonic sequence. In addition to the new intron, a downstream exonic segment of 178 bp also arose from duplication. Most of the splicing signals were inherited directly from the parental intron/exon structure, including a putative branch site, the polypyrimidine tract, the 3\u2032 splicing site, two putative exonic splicing enhancers and the GC contents differentiated between the intron and exon. We propose a new version of the tandem genomic duplication model, termed as the partial duplication of the preexisting intron/exon structure. This new version and the widely cited version are not mutually exclusive.", u'Phenotypic characterization of cellular responses in equine infectious encephalitides has had limited description of both peripheral and resident cell populations in central nervous system (CNS) tissues due to limited species-specific reagents that react with formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded tissue (FFPE). This study identified a set of antibodies for investigating the immunopathology of infectious CNS diseases in horses. Multiple commercially available staining reagents and antibodies derived from antigens of various species for manual immunohistochemistry (IHC) were screened. Several techniques and reagents for heat-induced antigen retrieval, non-specific protein blocking, endogenous peroxidase blocking, and visualization-detection systems were tested during IHC protocol development. Boiling of slides in a low pH, citrate-based buffer solution in a double-boiler system was most consistent for epitope retrieval. Pressure-cooking, microwaving, high pH buffers, and proteinase K solutions often resulted in tissue disruption or no reactivity. Optimal blocking reagents and concentrations of each working antibody were determined. Ultimately, a set of monoclonal (mAb) and polyclonal antibodies (pAb) were identified for CD3+ (pAb A0452, Dako) T-lymphocytes, CD79\u03b1cy+ B-lymphocytes (mAb HM57, Dako), macrophages (mAb MAC387, Leica), NF-H+ neurons (mAb NAP4, EnCor Biotechnology), microglia/macrophage (pAb Iba-1, Wako), and GFAP+ astrocytes (mAb 5C10, EnCor Biotechnology). In paraffin embedded tissues, mAbs and pAbs derived from human and swine antigens were very successful at binding equine tissue targets. Individual, optimized protocols are provided for each positively reactive antibody for analyzing equine neuroinflammatory disease histopathology.', u'Deforestation is a major driver of forest loss and fragmentation, threatening forest biodiversity worldwide. The conservation and restoration of secondary vegetation is thus an important developmental goal. Birch and pine-oak belts have been the two main types of vegetation in the mid-altitude zone of the Qinling Mountains in China but are now mainly covered by secondary growth following large-scale deforestation. Assessing the recovery and sustainability of these forests is essential for their management and restoration. We investigated and compared the tree community assemblages and diversity patterns of secondary forests between birch and pine-oak belts in the Huoditang forest region of the Qinling Mountains after identical natural recoveries. Both the birch and pine-oak belts had richspeciescompositions and similar floristiccomponents but clearly different tree community structures. Niche and neutral processes simultaneously influenced the distribution of species and the community dynamics of the belts. Tree diversity was significantly higher for the birch than the pine-oak belt. Monitoring biodiversity is essential for the recovery and development of forest resources in the Qinling Mountains to safeguard biodiversity, especially tree diversity.', u'Background. UVA is one of the most ubiquitous and penetrating stress factor to human skin and it is crucially involved in various forms of skin damages including the photoaging and cancerogenesis. Mentioned skin damages are connected with redox status imbalance and consequently with cellular metabolic disturbances (changes in phospholipid mediators, including lipid peroxidation products and endocannabinoids). To prevent the redox status changes in skin cells many natural antioxidants which reduce the amount of ROS, resulted from UV in particular, in the cells thereby protecting them from their toxic effects are used. One of them is well known plant-derived polyphenol \u2013 rutin. Therefore, the aim of the study was to exam the effect of rutin on redox balance and lipid mediators after UVA irradiation of skin fibroblasts. Methods. Fibroblasts were subjected to UVA [30 J/cm2] and were treated and pretreated with \u2013 rutin [25\u03bcM]. The redox status was estimated by xanthine and NADPH oxidases activity and ROS generation (ESR/spectrophotometry), enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants (HPLC, spectrophotometry), and lipid mediators: lipid peroxidation products (LCMS; GC/MS) and endocannabinoids (LC/MS) were examined. The cannabinoids receptors, transcriptional factor Nrf2 and its activators/inhibitors, as well as pro-inflammatory, pro- and anti-apoptotic protein levels were also measured (Western blot). Results. Obtained results demonstrate that rutin significantly reduced UVA-induced xanthine and NADPH oxidase activity what was accompanied by changes in ROS generation. Rutin also enhanced antioxidants activity [SOD] and non-enzymatic antioxidant level [GSH, vitamin E and C], which decreased due to UVA exposure. It was shown that UVA-induced Nrf2 activity has been reduced by rutin. Simultaneously, rutin led to increase in Nrf2 inhibitor Bach2 in UVA irradiated cells. It was shown that UVA caused significant decrease in linoleic and arachidonic acids levels and in consequence a strong increase in lipid peroxidation products - MDA and 4-HNE level were observed. Also another lipid mediators \u2013 endocannabinoids level was changed during UV irradiation. The significantly reduced level of cytosolic AEA and 2-AG and accompanied higher expression in the level of their receptors CB1, CB2, VR1 and GPR55 were demonstrated. Rutin given after irradiation prevented the most changes caused by UV irradiation. Rutin also protect cells against inflammatory effect after UV irradiation, and decrease apoptotic fibroblasts activity, confirmed by increase in Bcl-2, and decrease in caspases levels. Discussion. Obtained results show that rutin efficiently prevents oxidative stress and inflammatory response formation as well as changes in phospholipid metabolism including endocannabinoids and lipid peroxidation products level, what may be important point to search the skin protecting method against harmful ultraviolet radiation.', u'Angiosperms diversification was primarily driven by pollinator agents, but non-pollinator agents also promoted floral evolution. Gentiana lutea shows pollinator driven flower color variation in NW Spain. We test whether insect herbivores and livestock, which frequently feed in G.lutea, play a role in G. lutea flower color variation, by answering the following questions: i) Do insect herbivores and grazing livestock show flower color preferences when feeding on G. lutea? ii) Do mutualists (pollinators) and antagonists (seed predators, insect herbivores and livestock) jointly affect G. lutea reproductive success? Insect herbivores fed more often on yellow flowering individuals but they did not affect seed production whereas livestock affected seed production but did not show clear color preferences. Our data indicate that flower color variation of G. lutea is not affected by insect herbivores or grazing livestock.', u'Cucurbita pepo belongs to the Cucurbitaceae, the second-most large horticultural family of economic importance after Solanaceae. One major issue related to zucchini cultivation is the damage caused by aphids such as Aphis gossypii (Homoptera: Aphididae). The aim of this study is the identification of candidate genes involved in zucchini plant response to A. gossypii. In order to monitor the effect of zucchini-aphid interaction at transcriptomic level, zucchini plants (cv \u201cSan Pasquale\u201d) were grown in controlled conditions in presence or absence of A. gossypii. Leaf material was collected at 24, 48 and 96 hours after aphid infestation. RNA extracted was sequenced using the Illumina HiSeq 2500 platform. The sequencing generated ~34 million of paired-end reads of 100 nucleotides in length per sample. High quality reads were de novo assembled into 71,648 transcripts. About 94% of the assembled transcripts contain coding sequences that could be translated into proteins. Over 60% of the transcripts were functionally annotated and assigned to one or more InterPro domains and Gene Ontology terms. A subset of 42,517 sequences of the C. pepo transcriptome was used for read mapping and differentially expressed genes (DEG) identification. Largest number of DEG were observed after 48 hours from aphid infestation. The transcriptome represents a high-quality reference for read alignment and DEG call. The understanding of the molecular response of infested plants will be essential to develop new tools for A. gossypii control.', u'Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide. Although effective therapeutic approaches, based on specific inhibitors of HCV proteins NS3/4A and NS5B, have been recently discovered, their use is limited by the elevated costs of these drugs. Currently, there is neither an effective immune globulin for prophylaxis nor a vaccine for the prevention of hepatitis C. A particularly attracting target is represented by the immunogenic E2 glycoprotein, a key factor for HCV entry in host cells. This protein has been the subject of recent structural studies that have greatly expand our current knowledge of HCV pathogenicity (Khan et al. 2015; Khan et al. 2014; Kong et al. 2013). In this framework, we have recently undertaken studies aimed at evaluating the potential of some regions of the protein as vaccine candidates (Sandomenico et al. 2015, under review). We here investigated the structural/dynamic features of the E2 protein, whose structure has been recently solved by two independent groups in complex with antibodies. Molecular dynamics simulations carried out on the protein core provided interesting information on both global dynamics of the protein and on local features of important regions. Moreover, a combined experimental/computational analysis shows that the epitope I region (residues 412-422) is endowed with an elevated structural versatility. Collectively these findings provide useful information for future studies aimed at designing anti-HCV vaccines.ReferencesKhan AG, Miller MT, and Marcotrigiano J. 2015. HCV glycoprotein structures: what to expect from the unexpected. Current opinion in virology 12:53-58. 10.1016/j.coviro.2015.02.004 Khan AG, Whidby J, Miller MT, Scarborough H, Zatorski AV, Cygan A, Price AA, Yost SA, Bohannon CD, Jacob J, Grakoui A, and Marcotrigiano J. 2014. Structure of the core ectodomain of the hepatitis C virus envelope glycoprotein 2. Nature 509:381-384. 10.1038/nature13117 Kong L, Giang E, Nieusma T, Kadam RU, Cogburn KE, Hua Y, Dai X, Stanfield RL, Burton DR, Ward AB, Wilson IA, and Law M. 2013. Hepatitis C virus E2 envelope glycoprotein core structure. Science 342:10901094. 10.1126/science.1243876', u'The use of unique DNA sequences as a method for taxonomic identification is no longer fundamentally controversial, even though debate continues on the best markers, methods, and technology to use. Although both existing databanks such as GenBank and BOLD, as well as reference taxonomies, are imperfect, in best case scenarios \u201cbarcodes\u201d (whether single or multiple, organelle or nuclear, loci) clearly are an increasingly fast and inexpensive method of identification, especially as compared to manual identification of unknowns by increasingly rare expert taxonomists. Because most species on Earth are undescribed, a complete reference database at the species level is impractical in the near term. The question therefore arises whether unidentified species can, using DNA barcodes, be accurately assigned to more inclusive groups such as genera and families\u2014taxonomic ranks of putatively monophyletic groups for which the global inventory is more complete and stable. We used a carefully chosen test library of CO1 sequences from 49 families, 313 genera, and 816 species of spiders to assess the accuracy of genus and family-level identifications. We used BLAST queries of each sequence against the entire library and got the top ten hits resulting in 8160 hits. The percent sequence identity was reported from these hits (PIdent, range 75-100%). Accurate identification (PIdent above which errors totaled less than 5%) occurred for genera at PIdent values > 95 and families at PIdent values \u2265 91, suggesting these as heuristic thresholds for generic and familial identifications in spiders. Accuracy of identification increases with numbers of species/genus and genera/family in the library; above five genera per family and fifteen species per genus all identifications were correct. We propose that using percent sequence identity between conventional barcode sequences may be a feasible and reasonably accurate method to identify animals to family/genus. However, the quality of the underlying database impacts accuracy of results; many outliers in our dataset could be attributed to taxonomic and/or sequencing errors in BOLD and GenBank. It seems that an accurate and complete reference library of families and genera of life could provide accurate higher level taxonomic identifications cheaply and accessibly, within years rather than decades.', u'Peer review is the traditional method for validating academic work and this process is not without complications. Debates about the way peer reviewing is accomplished, the hazy but sensational world of retractions and the costs of publishing for authors are taking center stage. In no other field do people conceive and build the work, pay for it, inspect it, distribute it and buy it back again for their continued survival. Still after all this investment they can struggle for rights of access. In order to stem the tide of discontent, incentives for peer reviewers were introduced. The authors investigate the many faceted approaches to incentivize the process of peer review and consider what value they add, if any. The authors explore other avenues to benefit the largely anonymous and uncredited work of peer reviewers who remain the sentinels of the world of published evidence.', u'Background. The New Zealand forest industry would greatly benefit from a successful way of controlling insect pests. The entomopathogenic fungus, Beauveria bassiana could hold such potential and has previously been shown to be capable of endophytic colonisation of the Monterey pine Pinus radiata. Nevertheless clarifications on its mode of transmission, persistence and action in this plant are required. In this study we investigated B. bassiana transmission and persitence in P. radiata and whether this fungus is beneficial to P. radiata by testing its effect as a plant endophyte on the fitness performance of above and belowground insect feeders. Methods. Both culturing and molecular approaches were used to detect the occurrence B. bassiana in pines. Transmission electron microscopy of positive germinating seeds was also used to locate the fungus. Bioassays were conducted on root and needle feeding insects using Beauveria positive and endophyte free pine seedlings. Results. Beauveria bassiana was detected in seedlings which had not previously been exposed to the fungus, indicating a vertical mode of transmission. The fungus could colonise all parts of the pines, but did not always persist. We found that the presence of the fungus negatively affects the fitness of the below-ground insect feeding on the plant by reducing their survival by over 10% and their weight by 5%. This study also showed that the mode of action of endophytic B. bassiana in pine is likely to be by feeding deterrence of insects induced locally by fungal metabolites, rather than by direct fungal infection of the insects. Discussion. A vertically transmitted beneficial endophyte of pine could be used as a cost effective approach to control insect pest in these commercially grown trees.', u'A wide variety of soil amendments like manures, compost, humic acid and bio-sorbents have been used to make nutrients available to crops as well as to protect them from toxic elements. Among soil amendments, biochar has been known to improve soil crumping, soil nutrients\u2019 availability to plants and ultimately the yield of crops. A field experiment was conducted by using biochar prepared from Dalbergia sissoo Roxb. wood by brick batch process. Two doses of biochar were applied to soil 0 and 12 t ha-1. Fertilizer rates used in the experiments were 25% recommended doses of fertilizers (RDF), 50% RDF, 75% RDF and 100% RDF alone & with biochar applied under two factorial randomized complete block design in natural field conditions (RDF of NPK fertilizer is 120-60-60 kg ha-1) . Soil physico-chemical properties viz., bulk density, particle density, porosity, pH, electrical conductivity, organic matter, soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, available phosphorus, available potassium, soil organic carbon, soil microbial biomass carbon and soil microbial biomass nitrogen were measured from the soil samples collected from 0-30 cm depth. All these parameters varied significantly among the treatments. A combined treatment of biochar and 50% of the recommended dose of NPK was most effective for soil conditioning. Agronomic parameters were also measured by standard methods. Due to chelation of heavy metal ions and availability of nutrients to the soil, yield of the crop may significantly increase due to cumulative treatment of fertilizer and biochar but upto a certain limit.', u'The present contribution reports direct numerical simulations of pulsatile flow through a 75% eccentric stenosis using the Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM). The stenosis was previously studied by Varghese, Frankel, and Fischer in a benchmark computation, and the goal of this work is to evaluate the LBM and the solver Musubi for transitional flows in anatomically realistic geometries. A part of the study compares the LBM simulation results against the benchmark and evaluates the efficacy of most basic LBM scheme for simulation of such flows. The novelty lies in the computation of Kolmogorov micro-scales by performing simulations that consist of up to \u223c 700 million cells. Recommendations on the choice of spatial and temporal resolutions for simulation of transitional flows in complex geometries naturally arise from the results. The LBM results show an excellent agreement with the previously published results thereby validating the method and the solver Musubi for the simulation of transitional flows. The study suggests that with a prudent calibration of the parameters, the LB method, due to its simplicity and compute efficiency has advantages for the simulation of such flows.', u'Brazilian offshore crude oil exploration has increased after the discovery of new reservoirs in the region known as pr\xe9-sal, in a depth of 7.000 m under the water surface. Oceanic Islands near these areas represent sensitive environments, where changes in microbial communities due to oil contamination could cause the loss of metabolic functions, with catastrophic effects to the soil services provided from these locations. This work aimed to evaluate the effect of petroleum contamination on microbial community shifts (Archaea, Bacteria and Fungi) from Trindade Island coastal soils. Microcosms were assembled and divided into two treatments, control and contaminated (weathered crude oil at the concentration of 30 g kg-1), in triplicate. Soils were incubated for 38 days, with CO2 measurements every four hours. After incubation, the total DNA was extracted, purified and submitted for high-throughput target sequencing of 16S rDNA, for Bacteria and Archaea domains and Fungal ITS1 region, using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Three days after contamination, the CO2 emission rate peaked at more than 20x the control and the emissions remained higher during the whole incubation period. Microbial alpha-diversity was reduced for contaminated-samples. Fungal relative abundance of contaminated samples was reduced to almost 40% of the total observed species. Taxonomy comparisons showed a rise of the Actinobacteria phylum, shifts in several Proteobacteria classes and reduction of the Archaea class Nitrososphaerales in oil contaminated microcosms. This is the first effort in acquiring knowledge concerning the effect of crude oil contamination in soils of a Brazilian oceanic island. This information is important to guide any future bioremediation strategy that may be required.', u'Background: A \u201cbalanced\u201d time perspective has been suggested to have a positive influence on well-being: a sentimental and positive view of the past (high Past Positive), a less pessimistic attitude toward the past (low Past Negative), the desire of experiencing pleasure with slight concern for future consequences (high Present Hedonistic), a less fatalistic and hopeless view of the future (low Present Fatalistic), and the ability to find reward in achieving specific long-term goals (high Future). We used the affective profiles model (i.e., combinations of individuals\u2019 experience of high/low positive/negative affectivity) to investigate differences between individuals in time perspective dimensions and to investigate if the influence of time perspective dimensions on well-being was moderated by the individual\u2019s type of profile. Method: Participants (N = 720) answered to the Positive Affect Negative Affect Schedule, the Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory and two measures of well-being: the Temporal Satisfaction With Life Scale and the Scales of Psychological Well-Being-short version. A Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) was conducted to identify differences in time perspective dimensions and well-being among affective profiles. Four Structural Equation Models (SEM) were used to investigate which time perspective dimensions predicted well-being for each profile. Results: Comparisons between individuals at the extreme of the affective profiles model suggested that individuals with a self-fulfilling profile (high positive/low negative affect) were characterized by a \u201cbalanced\u201d time perspective and higher well-being compared to individuals with a self-destructive profile (low positive/high negative affect). However, a different pattern emerged when individuals who differed in one affect dimension but matched in the other were compared to each other. For instance, decreases in the past negative time perspective dimension lead to high positive affect when negative affect is high (i.e., self-destructive vs. high affective) but to low negative affect when positive affect was high (i.e., high affective vs. self-fulfilling). The moderation analyses showed, for example, that for individuals with a self-destructive profile, psychological well-being was significantly predicted by the past negative, present fatalistic and future time perspectives. Among individuals with a high affective or a self-fulfilling profile, psychological well-being was significantly predicted by the present fatalistic dimension. Conclusions: The interactions found here go beyond the postulation of a \u201cbalanced\u201d time perspective being the only way of promoting well-being. Instead, it presents a more person-centered approach to achieve higher levels of emotional, cognitive, and psychological well-being.', u'Microplastics are an issue of international concern due to the fact that these substances may potentially threaten biota by (i) causing physical harm, (ii) transporting persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic (PBT) substances and, (iii) leaching plastic additives. Within the world\u2019s oceans, areas which experience coastal upwelling are biota rich due to their high levels of primary productivity. The assessment of microplastic presence in areas which experience coastal upwelling is vital as it will indicate whether microplastics are an issue of concern in areas which support key biological resources. The null hypothesis of the present study is that microplastic abundance will be lower in areas where there is upwelling. As such, the present study aims to investigate whether microplastic abundance in upwelled areas in the Atlantic Ocean is significantly different from non-upwelled areas. Based on an opportunistic voyage aboard the RV Polarstern, microplastics will be sampled in sub-surface waters along a diverse latitudinal gradient in the Atlantic Ocean i.e. from Bremerhaven (Germany) to Cape Town (South Africa). Based on the proposed route, it will be possible to determine microplastic levels at two areas of coastal upwelling in the Atlantic Ocean (i) Canary Upwelling Ecosystem (CUE) and (ii) Benguela Upwelling Ecosystem (BUE). The results will then be analysed to determine whether there was a statistically significant difference between \u2018upwelled areas\u2019 and \u2018non-upwelled areas\u2019.', u'Several statistical and quantum chemical investigations performed in the last two decades have unveiled a strong correlation between protein backbone geometry (bond angles, dihedral angles and pyramidalization) and the local conformation (Berkholz et al. 2012 ; Berkholz et al. 2009 ; Esposito et al. 2005 ; Esposito et al. 2000 ; Esposito et al. 2013; Improta et al. 2011 ; Karplus 1996). This finding has important implication for protein structure prediction, determination, refinement and validation. Predictive protein modeling has shown an improved convergence when these effects are considered. Therefore, force fields currently available for modeling and molecular dynamics should be able to reproduce these geometric properties. We have recently shown that quantum mechanics calculations on small peptide systems are able to reproduce the dependence of the bond distances/angles on the conformation and the interplay between the peptide bond distortions from planarity and \u03c8 dihedral angle thus demonstrating that the peptide bond geometry of proteins is essentially ruled by local effects (Improta et al. 2015). We here evaluated the ability of several commonly used force fields to reproduce subtle structural details related to the peptide bond. Our results indicate that these force fields are unable to accurately reproduce the experimental/statistical trends.', u'Sex expression and floral morphology studies are central to understand breeding behavior and to define the productive potential of plant genotypes. In particular, the new bioenergy crop Jatropha curcas L. has been classified as a monoecious species. Nonetheless, there is no information about its reproductive diversity in the Mesoamerican region, which is considered its center of origin and diversification. Thus, we determined sex expression and floral morphology in J. curcas populations from southern Mexico and Guatemala. Our results showed that most of J. curcas specimens had typical inflorescences separate sexes (monoecious), meanwhile the rest were atypical (gynoecious, androecious, andromonoecious, androgynomonoecious). The most important variables to group these populations, based on a discriminant analysis, were: male flower diameter, female petal length and male nectary length. From the southern Mexico "Guerrero" was the most diverse population and in Chiapas "Centro". On the other hand, a cluster analysis showed that the accessions from southern Mexico were grouped without showing any correlation with the geographical origin, while those accessions with atypical sexuality were grouped together. Additionally, a Mantel test showed a significant correlation between the distance matrix generated in this study and the genetic distance matrix (AFLP) previously reported for the same accessions. Our results contribute to design genetic improvement programs by using sexually and morphologically contrasting plants from the center of origin.', u'There are numerous medical disorders without effective treatments. It is possible that many of un-treatable conditions need more than one compound co-operatively for improvement or cure. Approval of drugs in the U.S. is governed by a rigorous review process by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation. A sponsor must demonstrate the drug\u2019s safety and efficacy in well controlled clinical trials in the proper patient population for which it is indicated. Development of a new compound entity (NCE) is a very costly and time-consuming process; it takes roughly 15 years and 1.5 billion dollars on average. The high cost of the process makes the development of a new drug with multiple NCEs almost impossible. There are many compounds or biological agents which pass the safety test, but fail in the efficacy test. Those compounds might be critical for treatment of these medical conditions. The author suggests that compounds or biological agents, which pass the safety test, but the fail in efficacy test, should be allowed to use in clinical setting. The safety of those compounds is comparable with any other drugs approved by FDA. Benefits would heavily outweigh risks for patients treated by those compounds. The same principle should also be applied to biological agents, such as vaccines against HIV infection, cancers, etc.', u'A lab-scale biofilter packed with mixed packing materials was used for degradation of the toluene. Three gas flow rates, i.e. 0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 m3/h, were tested for inlet concentration ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 g/m3. Removal efficiencies ranging from 45.6 to 97.3% and elimination capacities ranging from 4.95 to 61.07 g/(m3 h) were observed depending on the inlet loading rates. Maximum elimination capacity of 35.95 g/(m3 h) occurred at inlet loading rate of 45.87 g/(m3 h). The lowest layer always had highest elimination capacity. Carbon dioxide concentrations and the microbial cell counts for bio-degraders followed toluene elimination capacities. Results of this study indicated that mixed packing materials could be considered as a potential biofilter carrier, with low pressure drop (less than 84.9 Pa/m), for treating air streams containing VOCs.', u'We give an analytic derivation of kernel of dynamic support vector machine (DSVM). We show them for the cases of the data processes with stochastic and deterministic changes. We derive the kernels by solving Bellman equations. For the stochastic case, Gaussian kernel is naturally derived. For the deterministic case, the kernel is derived in the form of traveling wave. We also give comments from physical viewpoints in the context of information geometry. Physical comments include the equivalence principle in information geometric context and the relation to AdS/CFT correspondence.', u'Movement is one of the most important epigenetic factors for normal development of the muscle-skeletal system, particularly during genesis and joint development. Studies regarding alterations to embryonic mobility, performed on anurans, chickens and mammals, report important phenotypical similarities as a result of the reduction or absence of this stimulus. The precise stage of development at which the stimulus modification generates phenotypic modifications however, is yet to be determined. In this work we explore whether the developmental effects of abnormal mobility can appear at any time during development or whether they begin to express themselves in particular phases of tadpole ontogeny. We conducted five experiments that showed that morphological abnormalities are not visible until Stages 40\u201342. Morphology in earlier stages remains normal, probably due to the fact that the bones/muscles/tendons have not yet developed and therefore are not affected by immobilization. These results suggest the existence of a specific period of phenotypical expression in which normal limb movement is necessary for the correct development of the joint tissue framework.', u'Background. Research on sports has revealed that behavioral responses and event-related brain potentials (ERP) are better in expert than in novice athletes for sport-related tasks. Focused attention is essential for optimal athletic performance across different sports but mainly in combat disciplines. During combat, long periods of focused attention (i.e., sustained attention) are required for a good performance. Few investigations have reported effects of expertise on brain electrical activity and its neural generators during sport-unrelated attention tasks. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of expertise (i.e., skilled and novice martial arts athletes) analyzing the ERP during a sustained attention task (Continuous Performance Task; CPT) and the cortical three-dimensional distribution of current density, using the sLORETA technique. Methods. CPT consisted in an oddball-type paradigm presentation of five stimuli (different pointing arrows) where only one of them (an arrow pointing up right) required a motor response (i.e., target). CPT was administered to skilled and novice martial arts athletes while EEG were recorded. Amplitude ERP data from target and non-target stimuli were compared between groups. Subsequently, current source analysis for each ERP component was performed on each subject. sLORETA images were compared by condition and group using Statistical Non-Parametric Mapping analysis. Results. Skilled athletes showed significant amplitude differences between target and non-target conditions in early ERP components (P100 and P200) as opposed to the novice group; however, skilled athletes showed no significant effect of condition in N200 but novices did show a significant effect. Current source analysis showed greater differences in activations in skilled compared with novice athletes between conditions in the frontal (mainly in the Superior Frontal Gyrus and Medial Frontal Gyrus) and limbic (mainly in the Anterior Cingulate Gyrus) lobes. Discussion. These results are supported by previous findings regarding activation of neural structures that underlie sustained attention. Our findings may indicate a better-controlled attention in skilled athletes, which suggests that expertise can improve effectiveness in allocation of attentional resources during the first stages of cognitive processing during combat.', u'Global agricultural productivity may be constrained by the finite and limited supply of phosphorus (P), adding to the challenges in meeting the projected needs of a growing human population in the coming decades. In addition, when P fertilizers are added to soils, they can become bound to soils resulting in low fertilizer efficiency. However, P-mobilizing bacteria could potentially liberate soil-bound P, resulting in a higher plant P uptake and increased yield. Bacteria can mobilize P through several mechanisms, suggesting that consortia of P-bacteria may be more effective than single species. Species diversity can have a synergistic, or non-additive, effect on ecosystem functioning (\u201cthe whole is more than the sum of its parts\u201d) but rarely is the microbial community structure intentionally managed to improve plant nutrient uptake. We investigated whether inoculation of soils with a four-species bacterial community developed to mobilize soil P could increase plant productivity. In wheat and turf trials, we found that Mammoth P was able to deliver yields equivalent to those achieved using conventional fertilizer applications. Herbs and fruits showed that the combination of fertilizer with Mammoth P significantly increased productivity - in some cases productivity doubled. Metabolites produced by the Mammoth P consortium led to increased yields in some cases, suggesting that microbial products (produced in the absence of plants) played a role in enhancing plant productivity. Results from these trials indicate substantial potential of Mammoth P to enhance P supply to plants, improving P fertilizer use-efficiency and increasing agricultural productivity.', u'The red crab (Charybdis feriata) is one of most important fishery resources in China. In the present study, we first measured 17 morphological traits and body weight of C. feriata, characterized these 18 traits, and then estimated the effects of morphological traits on body weight by statistical methods including correlation coefficients, determination coefficients, path coefficients, and regression equation. All correlation coefficients between 17 morphological traits and body weight reached an extremely significant level (P<0.01). Determination and path coefficients analysis revealed the real correlation relationship between the independent variables and the dependent variable. Significant path coefficients were found between three morphological traits (stemum width, X8; meropodite length of pereopod 3, X16; meropodite length of pereopod 4, X17) and body weight that suggested these three traits were the key traits directly influence body weight. Multiple correlation index (R2) between above three morphological traits and body weight was of 0.977, which indicated that the main independent variables influencing body weight has been found. Finally a best-fit linear regression equation was established as Y = 13.078 X8 + 7.048 X16 - 4.902 X17 - 576.635, which provided an ideal model for better understanding the feature of morphological traits and body weight of C. feriata.', u'In this article, we briefly describe various tools and approaches that algebraic geometry has to offer to straighten bent objects. throughout this article we will consider a specific example of a bent or curved piece of paper which in our case acts very much like an elastica curve. We generalize this model to various shapes of paper which are stretched and bent and then finally implement it on a standard 80mg paper and see how the folds on paper can be completely removed using python and sage-math code. We conclude this article with a suggestion to algebraic geometry as a viable and fast performer alternative of neural networks in vision and machine learning.The purpose of this article is not to build a full blown framework but to show evidence or possibility of using algebraic geometry as an alternative to recognizing or extracting features on manifolds.', u'The use of the Family Service Coordinator is still a relative newcomer to the organ procurement/transplantation field. Since no comprehensive training and recognition program exists, Lifesharing, A Donate Life Organization, decided to develop a Certified Family Service Coordinator program. We defined the goals of the program as 1) to improve the care we provide to our families and increase consent for organ donation; 2) to streamline and standardize our best practices; 3) to learn new skills and improve individual understanding and practice; 4) to share our own wealth of experience; and 5) to provide professional certification and recognition. In addition, given the limitations of time and resources that affect most organ procurement organizations, we wanted to see if a comprehensive training program could be developed using resources that were easily and inexpensively acquired on the Internet.', u'Western scrub-jays are known for their highly discriminatory and flexible behaviors in a caching (food storing) context. However, it is unknown whether their cognitive abilities are restricted to a caching context. To explore this question, we tested scrub-jays in a non-caching context using the Aesop\u2019s Fable paradigm, where a partially filled tube of water contains a floating food reward and objects must be inserted to displace the water and bring the food within reach. We found that scrub-jays did not attend to the functional properties of objects or tubes, and were not motivated to participate in these experiments, suggesting that either this paradigm was ecologically irrelevant or perhaps their flexibility is restricted to a caching context.', u'Nucleotide sequences from the plastome are currently the main source for assessing taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships in flowering plants and their historical biogeography at all hierarchical levels. One exception is the large and economically important genus Quercus (oaks). Whereas differentiation patterns of the nuclear genome are in agreement with morphology and the fossil record, diversity patterns in the plastome are at odds with established taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships. However, the extent and evolutionary implications of this incongruence has yet to be fully uncovered. The DNA sequence divergence of four Euro-Mediterranean Group Ilex oak species (Quercus ilex  L., Q. coccifera L., Q. aucheri Jaub. & Spach., Q. alnifolia Poech.) was explored at three chloroplast markers (rbcL, trnK-matK, trnH-psbA). Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed including worldwide members of additional 55 species representing all Quercus subgeneric groups. Family and order sequence data were harvested from gene banks to better frame the observed divergence in larger taxonomic contexts. We found a strong geographic sorting in the focal group and the genus in general that is entirely decoupled from species boundaries. Main plastid haplotypes shared by distinct oak lineages from the same geographic region and high plastid diversity in members of Group Ilex are indicative for a polyphyletic origin of their plastomes. The results suggest that incomplete lineage sorting and repeated phases of unidirectional introgression among ancestral lineages of Group Ilex and two other main Groups of Eurasian oaks (Cyclobalanopsis and Cerris) caused this complex pattern. Comparison with the current phylogenetic synthesis also suggests an initial high- versus mid-latitude biogeographic split within Quercus. High plastome plasticity of Group Ilex reflects geographic area disruptions, possibly linked with high tectonic activity of past and modern distribution ranges, that did not leave imprints in the nuclear genome of modern species and infrageneric lineages.', u'Although it is well known that plants have the capacity to remove indoor air pollutants, there has been little research to investigate how this ability is regulated by the environment and evolutionary processes. In this study, we tested the capacity of 58 common indoor plants to remove three specific air pollutants. We also measured the traits, phylogenetic signals, and cultivated environments of these plants to analyze their relationship with the air pollutant removal capacity using Spearman\u2019s correlation, Blomberg\u2019s K test, and phylogenetic generalized least-squares. While we found trait variation had a significant correlation with removal capacity, we did not, however, detect a phylogenetic signal with removal capacity. Trait variation and environmental factors both contributed to the removal capacity in phylogenetic generalized least-squares, but again, without phylogeny. Our results show that plant trait variation, especially total leaf area, could play an important role in plant\u2019s capacity to remove pollutants from indoor air. Moreover, environmental changes, not the phylogeny, could result in trait modification, improving the tolerance and purification capacities of these plants. The findings outlined here will help to explain how plants living with air pollution can adapt as well as the application of plants for the purpose of indoor air purification.', u'\u200bSibutramine has a mechanism of action similar to that of antidepressants used as analgesics (like duloxetine). Limited data exists regarding the analgesic action of sibutramine. We tested increasing doses of p.o. sibutramine (0.1, 0.5, 1.5, 5.0 mg/kg) in the writhing test in female mice and in the plantar thermal hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan in female rats. The results showed a statistically significant (p<0.001) dose-response antinociceptive effect of sibutramine in these models, with a maximum effect comparable to the effect of a high dose of ASA (200 mg/kg) in mice and amitriptyline (10mg/kg) or indomethacin (10mg/kg) in rats. Rotarod test with sibutramine-treated rats ruled out motor impairment. Sibutramine-induced antinociception was not reverted by reserpine or yohimbine pre-treatment, suggesting that catecholamines and alpha-2-adrenoceptors are not involved in this effect.', u'Valproate, an indirect \u03b3-aminobutiric acid agonist has been successfully used in various painful conditions. Despite its frequent use, limited pre-clinical and clinical data exist about its analgesic effect. We tested valproate p.o. in increasing doses (10, 25, 50, 100 mg/kg) in acute nociception models in mice (writhing test and formalin licking-paw test) and in acute primary thermal hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan in rats, comparing its effects to a non-treated control and morphine (5 mg/kg), amitriptyline (10 mg/kg) or indomethacin (10 mg/kg). Valproate showed a statiscally significant (p<0.001) dose-response effect in these models, both in male and female mice and in female rats. Antihyperalgesic effect of valproate in the plantar model was not reverted by reserpine pre-treatment. Interestingly, the maximum effect of valproate on this model occurred at a dose of 50mg/kg and the higher dose of 100mg/kg showed a minor effect. Additionally, we demonstrated that valproate has anti-inflammatory effect in the carrageenan-induced oedema model in male and female mice. Valproate antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects seem not to be gender-specific in animal models.', u'Predicting potential distribution for alien plants by species distribution model (SDM, or Ecological Niche Model) using occurrence data and habitat environmental variables plays an important role in management of the invasive risk by an alien plant. Common groundsels (Senecio vulgaris, Asteracea), native in Eurasia and North Africa, has been a cosmopolitan weed in temperature and also listed as one of invasive plants in China. We predict the potential distribution of this species in the world and in China particularly in Maxent (maximum entropy) models by using global occurrence records of S. vulgaris and the associated climate variables. The occurrence data were collected from the online databases, Global Biodiversity Information Facility database (GBIF), Chinese Virtual Herbarium database (CVH), and also from field work in China. The climate variables were download from WorldClim (http://www.worldclim.org). The occurrence records showed that S. vulgaris is present in 16 provinces or regions in north \u2013 eastern, south \u2013 western, central and north China, and almost not present in south \u2013 eastern, north \u2013 western China. The mapping of S. vulgaris potential distribution is diagonally across China, including the north \u2013 eastern, south \u2013 western China, and the cool area between the two regions. Analysis of the contribution and importance of climatic factors in the prediction model indicated that S. vulgaris adapts to the climate in humid and cool area in China (annual mean temperature ranges 2.4 ~ 17.5 \u2103, and annual precipitation ranges 550 ~ 1500 mm). It is suggested that special attention should be paid to the plain in NE China and Shandong Peninsula, Yungui Plateau, the cool mountain area around Sichuan basin, in western Hubei, southern Shaanxi, Shanxi and around Beijing in order to manage the invasion risk by S. vulgaris. The better performance of the model built by using occurrence data in China than that by using the global data in relation the predict outcome in China imply that it is might be better to use regional data than the global data when predict potential distribution for an alien plant with long invasive history in study area.', u'Background: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive neuromodulatory technique that has shown encouraging results regarding performance improvement of normal subjects in tests of executive functions. Moreover, when applied repeatedly in daily sessions, tDCS has shown therapeutic potential in various neuropsychiatric disorders. However, there is a need for double-blind, placebo-controlled studies to determine the true therapeutic potential of this portable, low-cost and non-invasive treatment. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) of the amnestic subtype may evolve into Alzheimer\u2019s dementia (AD) and pharmacological approaches have not been successful in ameliorating symptoms or halting progression to AD. Here we propose a protocol for studying a possible role for tDCS on improvement of MCI symptoms in older patients. Methods/Design: This will be a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of anodal tDCS over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of patients with MCI. Patients aged 60-90 years will be randomly assigned to either real tDCS or sham stimulation. Twenty-minute real or sham tDCS sessions, 5 days a week, will be performed over the course of two weeks. The Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test (RBMT), California Verbal Learning Test, Rey Verbal Auditory Learning Test (RVALT) and Digit Span (WAIS-IV) will be assessed at baseline, after the first and second weeks of treatment, as well as one and three months after the last tDCS session. The primary outcome will be change in test scores over time. Secondary outcomes will be self-reported memory improvement and possible side effects of tDCS. Discussion: This study will evaluate possible therapeutic applications of tDCS for treatment of MCI. tDCS is a portable and low-cost neuromodulatory technique that has been found to increase performance of both normal subjects and patients in many cognitive tasks. It will also examine the tolerability, program adherence and possible side effects of this novel technique in this age group. The information obtained in this study should be useful in planning further studies in which tDCS could be combined with other treatment modalities, such as cognitive training.', u'Background: Research addressing distinctions and similarities between people\u2019s malevolent character traits (i.e., the Dark Triad: Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy) has detected mixed and inconsistent linear associations to temperament traits. On this basis, some researchers suggest that the dark traits are best represented as one global construct (i.e., the unification argument) rather than as ternary construct (i.e., the uniqueness argument). Here we put forward the dark cube (cf. Cloninger\u2019s character cube) comprising eight dark profiles that can be used to compare individuals who differ in one dark character trait while holding the other two constant. Our aim was to investigate in which circumstances individuals who are high in each one of the dark character traits differ in Cloninger\u2019s \u201clight\u201d character dimensions: self-directedness, cooperativeness, and self-transcendence. Additionally, we investigated if the people\u2019s dark character profiles were associated to their light character profiles. Method: A total of 997 participants recruited from Amazon\u2019s Mechanical Turk (MTurk) responded to the Short Dark Triad and the Short Character Inventory. Participants were allocated to eight different dark character profiles and eight light character profiles based on their scores in each of the traits and any possible combination of high and low scores. We used three-way interaction regression analyses and t-tests to investigate differences in Cloninger\u2019s character dimensions between individuals with different dark profiles. As a second step, we compared the individuals\u2019 dark profile with her/his character profile using an exact cell-wise analysis conducted in the ROPstat software ( http://www.ropstat.com ). Results: Individuals who expressed high levels of Machiavellianism and those who expressed high levels of psychopathy also expressed low self-directedness and low cooperativeness. Individuals with high levels of narcissism, in contrast, scored high in self-directedness. Moreover, individuals with a profile low in the dark traits were more likely to end up with a profile high in cooperativeness. The opposite was true for those individuals with a profile high in the dark traits. Conclusions: Our study suggests that individuals who are high in Machiavellianism and psychopathy share a unified non-agentic and uncooperative character (i.e., irresponsible, low in self-control, unempathetic, unhelpful, untolerant), while individuals high in narcissism have a more unique character configuration expressed as high in agency and, when the other dark traits are high, highly spiritual but uncooperative. In other words, based on differences in their associations to the light side of character, the Dark Triad seems to be a dyad rather than a triad.', u'A frequent bottleneck in interpreting phylogenomic output is the need to screen often thousands of trees for features of interest, such as robust clades of specific taxa, as evidence of monophyletic relationship and/or reticulated evolution. Here we present PhySortR, a fast, flexible R package for sorting phylogenetic trees. Unlike existing utilities, PhySortR allows for identification of both exclusive and non-exclusive clades uniting the target taxa, with customisable options to assess clades within the context of the whole tree. PhySortR is a command-line tool that is freely available, highly scalable, and easily automatable.', u'The processes involved in the flows of matter and energy of terrestrial ecosystems depends heavily on soil biological activity, the current conventional agricultural managements could alter the biological mechanisms involved in decomposition and nutrient cycling in agroecosystems. The aim of this study was to compare the activity levels and soil microbial biomass between different agricultural pampean soil uses and its relationship to carbon mineralization. 25 years of agricultural use were compared with 25 years of ecological reserve naturalized where each agroecosystem soil were collected at 61 - 125 - 183 - 236 - 302 - 368 - 431 - 488 days for measuring their moisture, organic matter, enzymatic activity, microbial biomass carbon, soil respiration, metabolic quotient, microbial quotient and carbon mineralization rate. The distance between agroecosystems is less than 800 m, thus assuming the same soil and climatic conditions. The data were evaluated by Friedman test finding significant differences in moisture, organic matter, enzymatic activity, soil respiration y microbial quotient (p< 0.01). Difference was also found in the microbial mineralization rate of carbon (p< 0.1).', u'Ctenophores (comb jellies) are emerging as important animals for investigating fundamental questions across numerous branches of biology (e.g., evodevo, neuroscience. and biogeography). Several ctenophore species including, most notably, Mnemiopsis leidyi, are known as invasive species, adding to the importance of studying the ecology of these animals. Despite the growing interest, relatively little is known about ctenophore reproduction. Like most ctenophores, M. leidyi is a simultaneous hermaphrodite capable of self-fertilization. In this study, we assess the influence of light on spawning, the effect of body size on spawning likelihood and reproductive output, and the cost of self-fertilization on egg viability in M. leidyi. Our results suggest that M. leidyi spawning is more strongly influenced by circadian rhythms than specific light clues, and that body size significantly impacts spawning and reproductive output. We also find a lower percentage of viable embryos from M. leidyi that were spawned alone versus those that were spawned in pairs, suggesting that self-fertilization may be costly in these animals. These results provide critical insight into the reproductive ecology of these ctenophores and provide a fundamental resource for researchers working with M. leidyi in the laboratory.', u'Centuries of observation have uncovered a diverse range of organisms capable of overcoming loss of tissue. The act of restoring lost anatomy and function is known as regeneration, and it is broadly represented in both plant and animal kingdoms. Cumulative studies have identified a series of events that take place during regeneration of complex animal structures. First, the organism recognizes damage and undergoes wound healing. Then, programmed cell death in the vicinity of the damaged tissue precedes proliferation and migration of cells that foster the development of replacement tissue. Finally, rearrangement of pre-existing tissue and integration with newly differentiated cells take place to restore the function and proportionality displayed previous to damage . Although the ability to regenerate is believed to be ancestrally common and lost throughout evolution, there is significant heterogeneity of some basic mechanisms displayed during regeneration in different animal species. Perhaps one of the most noticeable differences is the cellular source contributing to formation of the new tissue during regeneration. Organisms such as planarians and Hydra rely on active reservoirs of somatic pluripotent stem cells abundantly distributed throughout their bodies and maintained throughout their life. On the other hand, vertebrates rely mostly on progenitor cell activation and dedifferentiation, to regenerate cells with limited potential to regenerate specific structures. However, not all regenerative events rely on cellular replacement. Leading edge research has begun to uncover mechanisms involved in autonomous repair and functional regeneration of single cells \u2013 be it neurons or ciliated protozoa. The fact that organisms can achieve regeneration through diverse cellular sources is remarkable, but just as remarkable is the possibility that conserved molecular pathways could be activated to achieve regeneration in different species. Analysis of these pathways will contribute to understanding human development and potential avenues for regenerative medicine.', u'While prevailing theories of crop evolution suggest that crop diversity and cultural diversity should be linked, empirical evidence for such a link remains inconclusive. In particular, few studies have investigated such patterns on a local scale. Here, we address this issue by examining the determinants of maize diversity in a local region of high cultural and biological richness in Southern Mexico. We collected maize samples from villages at low and mid elevations in two adjacent municipalities of differing ethnicity: Mixtec or Chatino. Although morphological traits show few patterns of population structure, we see clear genetic differentiation among villages, with municipality explaining a larger proportion of the differentiation than altitude. Consistent with an important role of social origin in patterning seed exchange, metapopulation model-based estimates of differentiation match the genetic data within village and ethnically distinct municipalities, but underestimate differentiation when all four villages are taken together. Our research provides insights about the importance of social origin in structuring maize diversity at the local scale.', u'The dynamics of ecological communities can be described by two contrasting models: the first assumes that the individuals of all species are identical and do not have competitive interactions. The second assumes that species are different, adapted to particular habitat conditions, and have strong interactions. These represent extremes of a continuum: the neutral and the niche models of community organization. Real communities are actually a mixture of both types of dynamics. Here we study the simplest model of neutral-niche communities where niche dynamics is represented as a competitive hierarchy. The competition intensity is defined as a parameter that modulates the transition between these extremes. We use a stochastic cellular automata to show that there is a phase transition between the neutral and niche model with a spanning patch formed by the most abundant species. We measure the diversity as the Shannon index and the richness as the number of species. The transition implies a sharp fall of species diversity but the richness shows a gentle decline with increasing competitive intensity. As this kind of multi-species critical transition have not been described previously, we suggest new early warning signals: the rate of exponential decay in the patch distribution of the non-dominant species. This rate decreases when the community approaches the critical point and increases when the community crosses it. As an example we apply the early warnings to the Barro Colorado Tropical forest, which as expected, appear to be far from a critical transition. The model shows that the critical point occur at a very low value of competitive intensity. Low values of competitive intensity were also reported for different high diversity real communities suggesting the possibility that these kind of communities are located near the critical point. This transition could happen before habitat destruction or degradation affect the community in response to changes in environmental conditions like the ones produced by climate change or exotic species invasions.', u'Background: The dark side of human character has been conceptualized in the Dark Triad Model: Machiavellianism, psychopathy, and narcissism. These three dark traits are often measured using single long instruments for each one of the traits. Nevertheless, there is a necessity of short and valid personality measures in psychological research. As an independent research group, we replicated the factor structure, convergent validity and item response for one of the most recent and widely used short measures to operationalize these malevolent traits, namely, Jonason\u2019s Dark Triad Dirty Dozen. We aimed to expand the understanding of what the Dirty Dozen really captures because the mixed results on construct validity in previous research. Method: We used the largest sample to date to respond to the Dirty Dozen (N = 3,698). We firstly investigated the Dirty Dozen\u2019s factor structure using Confirmatory Factor Analysis. Secondly, using sub-sample (n = 500) and correlation analyses, we investigated the Dirty Dozen dark traits convergent validity to Machiavellianism measured by the Mach-IV, psychopathy measured by Eysenck\u2019s Personality Questionnaire Revised, narcissisms using the Narcissism Personality Inventory, and both neuroticism and extraversion from the Eysenck\u2019s questionnaire. Finally, besides these Classic Test Theory analyses, we analyzed the responses for each Dirty Dozen item using Item Response Theory (IRT). Results: The results confirmed previous findings of a bi-factor model fit: one latent core dark trait, plus the three dark traits. An additional exploratory distribution analysis showed that all three Dirty Dozen traits had a striking bi-modal distribution, which might indicate unconcealed social undesirability with the items. The three Dirty Dozen traits did converge to, although not strongly, with the contiguous single Dark Triad scales (r between .41-.49). The probabilities of filling out steps on the Dirty Dozen narcissism-items were much higher than on the Dirty Dozen items for Machiavellianism and psychopathy. Overall, the Dirty Dozen instrument delivered the most predictive value with persons with average and high Dark Triad traits (Theta > -0.5). Moreover, the Dirty Dozen scale was better conceptualized as measured of a combined Machiavellianism-psychopathy factor, not narcissism, that can be replaced with item 4: \u2018I tend to exploit others towards my own end\u2019. Conclusion: The Dirty Dozen showed a consistent factor structure, a relatively convergent validity similar to that found in earlier studies. Narcissism measured using the Dirty Dozen, however, did not contribute with information to the core constitution of the Dirty Dozen construct. More importantly, the results imply a Single Item Dirty Dark Triad (SIDDT) measure of a manipulative and anti-social core as the content of the Dirty Dozen scale.', u'Human circadian rhythms connect internal biological clock and external environmental through earth\u2019s day and night alternating. The human circadian clocks, present in each organs, are controlled by a main pace-maker situated in SCN (suprachiasmatic nuclei) of hypothalamus which is synchronized to the daily photoperiod. Clock disturbances are involved in many diseases like diabetes, obesity, depression, bipolar disease, and many types of cancers like breast cancer, colon cancer as well as hepatocellular carcinoma which is the third most life claiming cancer around the world. In this work the protein- protein interaction networks were analyzed using Cytoscape software. The human circadian network consists of 2151 nodes and 75821 interactions making it a huge network. It is very centralized with the value of 0.235. The density of the network is 0.033 and heterogeneity of 1.012. The characteristic path length is 2.373 while the average number of neighbors is equal to 70.5. Recently we performed a network analysis on gene expression data obtained in our group from HepG2 cells, a liver cancer cell line that lacks the viral infection, identifying 26 HUB genes [1]. Among these genes, 20 of them resulted present in the human circadian rhythm network. All these 20 genes had high degree values in the circadian network, ranging from 287 to 77 indicating that they control a large number of functional interactions and the information flow through the circadian network. However, by merging the network of genes involved in human circadian rhythms as well HepG2, we found that 83 hub nodes are common. This establishes strong relationships between liver cancer and circadian rhythms.', u'SELK is a single-pass trans-membrane protein that resides in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane (ER) with a C-terminal domain exposed to the cytoplasm that is known to interact with different components of the endoplasmic reticulum associated to the protein degradation (ERAD) pathway. This protein is resulted to be up-expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and in other cancers, therefore there is a need to analyze its structure-function relationships. In this work we performed a detailed analysis of the C-terminal domain sequence of SELK, modeled its three-dimensional structure and analyzed its conformational changes by Molecular Dynamics simulations. Our analysis showed that the C-terminal domain of SELK is a weak polyelectrolyte and specifically, a polycation, which has the characteristic molecular signature of natively disordered segments. Since the search by BLAST has not evidenced possible templates with an acceptable sequence identity percentage with the C-terminal sequence of SELK, its three-dimensional structure was modeled by ab initio modeling. The best model is characterized by one short helix and the most part of residues with no regular secondary structure elements. This model was subjected to MD simulation at neutral pH in water to assess the stability of the modelled structural organization free in solution. To deepen the structural analysis of the C terminal domain, we have also studied the organization of the whole protein inserted into the membrane by a procedure of comparative modeling between fold recognition and folding ab initio. Then, the complete structure of SELK was subjected to MD simulations in the lipid bilayer and a water box. Analyzing the MD trajectories, we found that the C-terminal domain of SELK is still highly mobile during the simulation in water-lipid bilayer by showing a decrease of the structural compactness, a lesser number of H-bonds, as well as a higher value of the total void volume and of the total solvent accessible area compared to the simulation in only water system. However, in both the simulations this region is stabilized mainly by a marked number of H-bonds, and pi-cation and IAC interactions, which suggest a globule organization very different from the classic globular one. Furthermore, water-protein interaction data suggest, as for other IDPs, that the hydration water tends to cluster around the protein facilitating its organization to globule.', u'Introduction: The recent advances in consumer electronics paved the way for new approaches to neurophysiological evaluation at home. More specifically, the computing capabilities of state-of-the-art television sets and media centres facilitate the introduction of computer-assisted evaluation at home. This approach helps to overcome the drawbacks of traditional pen-and-paper evaluations administered in clinical facilities, as they can be performed in a more comfortable environment, the subject\u2019s home, and they are more flexible to elaborate complex environments for the evaluation of neuropsychological constructs that are difficult to evaluate through traditional testing. The objective of this work was to develop a collection of games to be played on the TV to obtain some initial evidence about the convenience of this approach for the cognitive evaluation of senior adults.\nMaterials and methods: We developed a collection of games to be deployed on a smart TV environment. These games were tried by a group of senior adults at their homes. Perception surveys were performed to study their usability and acceptability as a means for cognitive evaluation.\nResults: More than 90% perceive cognitive games on TV as easy or very easy to interact with, and this result correlates with the number of participants perceiving them as usable or very usable.\nLimitations: Although participating users were carefully selected to obtain a representative sample of the Galician population. A larger and more diverse user sample may be needed to obtain significant results for a wider population profile.\nConclusion: The study confirmed the usability and acceptance of games as a means of cognitive evaluation. Nevertheless, more research is needed in order to implement serious games in a way that they are widely accepted by the medical community as a valid, reliable way to perform cognitive evaluation at home.', u'The globally pressing need for increasing agriculture yield while reducing environmental impact has promoted the utilization of sustainable plant protection strategies based on natural biocontrol agents, among which, rhizosphere-competent Plant-Growth-Promoting Fungi (PGPF) have inspired great interest. In this scenario, beneficial strains of Trichoderma have proved to be very effective for crop protection against pathogens. Therefore, \u201comic\u201d data of the plant response to Trichoderma can be effectively exploited in sustainable agriculture and could also be a useful model of the plant-beneficial microorganism interaction through \u201ctranslational research\u201d. Our work investigated the transcriptional response of tomato roots (Solanum lycopersicum) to Trichoderma harzianum strain T22 at early stages of the interaction (24, 48 and 72 h), using a Next Generation Sequencing approach (RNA-seq). This analysis revealed an intense remodelling of the plant transcriptome already after 24 h, involving more than 75% of the detected Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs), while smaller effects on gene expression were observed at 48 and 72 h. Enrichment analysis of the 24 h DEGs based on Gene Ontology (GO) showed involvement of \u201cdefence response\u201d and \u201ccell wall organization\u201d activities as well as of macromolecules \u201cmetabolism\u201d, \u201ctransport\u201d and \u201clocalization\u201d. Data inspection via the MapMan tool assigned 151 DEGs to bin 27 (\u201cRNA\u201d-related), suggesting the activation of the transcriptional machinery in tomato roots responding to the PGPF. Moreover, MapMan annotation highlighted a considerable enrichment of bin 35 (i.e. \u201cnot assigned\u201d) over the three time points, mostly due to the large presence (155) of proteins with unknown functions. Along with plant transcripts, RNA-sequencing of roots also identified 448 Trichoderma genes, which were searched for differential expression over the time course. GO enrichment analysis of the differentially expressed genes revealed that, at 24-48 h, \u2018macromolecules metabolic processes\u2019 were affected; on the other hand, \u201cresponse to stimulus\u201d\u2013related, as well as cellular processes (\u201ccommunication\u201d, \u201camino acid metabolism\u201d) and their regulation, were involved at 48-72 h. Taken together, our data were used to develop a model of the early tomato root response (within 72 h) to stimulation by the beneficial fungus T. harzianum.', u'Background. The monophyly of taxa is an important attribute of a phylogenetic tree, as a lack of it may hint at shortcomings of either the tree or the current taxonomy and can misguide subsequent analyses. While monophyly is conceptually simple, it is manually tedious and time consuming to assess on modern phylogenies of hundreds to thousands of species. Results. The R package MonoPhy allows assessment and exploration of monophyly of taxa in a phylogeny. It can assess the monophyly of genera using the phylogeny only, and with an additional input file, any other desired higher taxa or unranked groups can be checked as well. Conclusion. Summary tables, easily subsettable results and several visualization options allow quick and convenient exploration of monophyly issues, thus making MonoPhy a valuable tool for any researcher working with phylogenies.', u'Mitochondrial genomes in plants are larger and more complex than in other eukaryotes due to their recombinogenic nature as widely demonstrated. The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is usually represented as a single circular map, the so-called master molecule. This molecule includes repeated sequences, some of which are able to recombine, generating sub-genomic molecules in various amounts, depending on the balance between their recombination and replication rates. Recent advances in DNA sequencing technology gave a huge boost to plant mitochondrial genome projects. Conventional approaches to mitochondrial genome sequencing involve extraction and enrichment of mitochondrial DNA, cloning, and sequencing. Large repeats and the dynamic mitochondrial genome organization complicate de novo sequence assembly from short reads. The PacBio RS long-read sequencing platform offers the promise of increased read length and unbiased genome coverage and thus the potential to produce genome sequence data of a finished quality (fewer gaps and longer contigs). However, recently published articles revealed that PacBio sequencing is still not sufficient to address mtDNA assembly-related issues. Here we present a preliminary hybrid assembly of a potato mtDNA based on both PacBio and Illumina reads and debate the strategies and obstacles in assembling genomes containing repeated sequences that are recombinationally active and serve as a constant source of rearrangements.', u'The Parkes Weber syndrome (PWS), first described in 1907, is characterized by triad of arteriovenous fistulas (AVF), varicose veins and bone and soft tissue hypertrophy leading to limb enlargement. The symptoms of PWS are congenital and present at birth. Vascular anomalies usually affect a limb, most commonly a leg, and less often a trunk. Capillary malformations, forming geographic patterns, are typically located on lateral side of the limb, buttocks or trunk. The appearance of varicose veins and dilated superficial veins in older age is triggered by arteriovenous shunt, venous hypertension and insufficiency of the deep venous system. The enlargement of a limb is present at birth, and the axial overgrowth can enlarge in postnatal period. Cases of shortened lower extremity and pelvis malformations have also been described. Arteriovenous leak may also lead to cardiac system failure or to limb ischemia. Not surprisingly, PWS, similarly to other vascular malformations, significantly reduces the quality of life of the affected patients.\nThe treatment of patients with PWS is mainly symptomatic. Compression therapy is used to reduce symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency and lymphatic edema. In selected cases invasive procedures are performed. Surgical treatment is difficult and may require several intravascular proce-dures, such as embolization, sclerotherapy or classic open operations involving arteriovenous fistula ligation. In severe cases of ischemic extremities amputation is the only therapy. Therefore, there is an ever-existing need to develop a safe and effective pharmacological therapy for PWS patients.\nFor the purpose of the study we have established the first animal model reproducing complex manifestations of PWS and applicable for research on etiology, treatment and prevention of the disease. The model mimics major clinical features characteristic for the human PWS: venous hypertension and dilatation, varicose veins formation, and the limb hypertrophy.\nCellular biology tools were applied to examine protective effect of ca. 30 new semi-synthetic compounds derived from the main aglycone of escin saponins, on the vascular endothelium under inflammatory conditions. The in vitro tests evaluated i.a. cell proliferation, migration, endothelial monolayer permeability, and the effect on NF\u03baB signal transduction. One paricular molecule (1), obtained in 5 steps as illustrated on the Scheme below, showing promising biological characteristics and favorable physicochemical properties has been selected for in vivo studies. The obtained results confirmed valuable pharmacological properties of the tested compound as all the animals treated with the selected compound showed signifi-cantly reduced symptoms of PWS as compared to untreated control. Furthermore, we believe that the molecule should be considered as a promising candidate for the prevention and treatment of other, more common vascular disorders.', u'Endemic to Sri Lanka, genus Adenomus contains two torrent-associated toad species whose ecology and natural history in the wild is virtually unknown. Adenomus kelaartii is relatively common, with a wide geographic distribution. Its sister species, A. kandianus, however, is restricted to two isolated populations in fast-disappearing montane and sub-montane forests. Formally declared extinct after not being recorded for over a century, following several years of surveying, a few A. kandianus were found in 2012 and referred to as "the world\'s rarest toad." However, tadpoles of A. kandianus bearing unique ventral suckers were soon discovered, but the rarity of the adult and the profusion of tadpoles were never explained. Here, using ecological methods, niche modeling and DNA-barcoding, we aim to understand the ecology, natural history and distribution of this rare toad. Following a two-year study of occurrence, habits and habitat associations of adults and larvae, we show this to be a secretive species with a patchy distribution. During non-mating periods female toads (N = 23) were found in primary forests habitat up to 650 m away from the breeding streams, and predominantly males in the riparian zone (12 males, 2 females). Following heavy rain they form large (N = 388) but patchy mating congregations in torrential streams (six sites; range 0\u221295 mating pairs; mean = 25, SD = 38.16, CV = 152%). Amplexed pairs swim synchronously, enabling them to traverse fast currents. Egg-laying sites remain unknown, but ability to dive, vocalize underwater, and characteristics of the eggs, suggests that they lay eggs in dark recesses of the stream. Quadrat sampling of tadpoles show microhabitat partitioning (in depth, flow-rate and substrate conditions) within the stream: the greatest diversity of larval developmental stages (25-42) in slow-flowing (depth, 0.75\u22121.5 m) rocky areas; more robust stages (31\u221239) bearing sucker discs utilise rocky-rapids (depth, 0.25\u22120.75 m); metamorphic stages (43-45) use stream margins (depth, <0.25 m); slow flowing silt covered areas of the stream were unoccupied, irrespective of the depth. DNA barcoding of the 16S rRNA gene fragment from the two known localities confirms the identity of the Pedro population also as A. kandianus. The uncorrected pairwise genetic distance of 0.1\u22120.7% suggests historical gene flow between the two populations. Distribution modeling (using MaxEnt), with forest-cover layers added, predicts a very small remaining area of suitable habitats (an area of occupancy of 16 km2 and an extent of occurrence of 128 km2) isolated by habitats that are not conducive to these toads. While the healthy population recorded at one site gives hope for the survival of the species, long-term conservation of this climatically and ecologically restricted species hinges largely on the preservation of cloud and riparian forests and the unpolluted high-flow torrents.', u'We present an application of the naturalness of software to provide multi-token code suggestions in GitHub\u2019s Atom text editor. We extended the results of a simple n-gram prediction model using the "mean surprise" metric\u2014the arithmetic mean of the surprisal of several successive single-token predictions. After an error-fraught evaluation, there is not enough evidence to conclude that Gamboge significantly improves programmer productivity. We conclude by discussing several directions for future research in code suggestion and more using naturalness.', u'The largest data matrix for phylogeny of early limbed vertebrates (Ruta M, Coates MI. 2007. J. Syst. Palaeont. 5:69\u2013122) has supported controversial hypotheses; e.g., it has recovered Seymouriamorpha, Diadectomorpha and (in some trees) Caudata as paraphyletic and found the \u201ctemnospondyl hypothesis\u201d on the origin of Lissamphibia (TH) to be one step more parsimonious than the \u201clepospondyl hypothesis\u201d (LH). Scrutiny of the matrix reveals thousands of suboptimal scores (many clearly due to typographic and similar errors) as well as logically linked (redundant) characters, characters with only one described state, and even cases where taxa were scored after presumed relatives. Moreover, all characters \u2013 even obviously continuous ones \u2013 were unordered, effects of ontogeny were not sufficiently taken into account, and the authors mostly excluded data published after 2001, even their own. Our revised version \u2013 we document and justify all changes \u2013 yields much longer trees with a different topology, e.g. monophyletic Caudata, Diadectomorpha and (sometimes) Seymouriamorpha, Ichthyostega more rootward than Acanthostega, Anthracosauria more rootward than Temnospondyli, and the LH, which is 10 steps more parsimonious than the TH and 15 more than the \u201cpolyphyly hypothesis\u201d (PH). Bootstrap values, though, are low, and few of the topologies are statistically distinguishable. For another set of analyses, we added 48 OTUs to the original 102. This destabilizes parts of the tree, e.g. the relationships of Anthracosauria and Temnospondyli. However, many of the added taxa have a fully resolved position or nearly so; this concerns the well-known Chroniosaurus (sister to a clade containing Solenodonsaurus, Seymouriamorpha, Diadectomorpha, Amniota and Amphibia), but also isolated lower-jaw material from the Devonian and Carboniferous. Despite the addition of Gerobatrachus, Micropholis and Tungussogyrinus and the extremely peramorphic salamander Chelotriton, the difference between LH and TH only shrinks to 9 steps, that between LH and PH to 13 steps. The \u201clepospondyl\u201d Brachydectes is neither found as sister to Lissamphibia nor in the \u201cmicrosaur\u201d grade. Bootstrap values plummet, though, and all three hypotheses become statistically indistinguishable at p = 0.05. We then duplicated all analyses after coding all losses of bones as irreversible. Anthracosauria is then consistently placed more rootward than Temnospondyli; given the original taxon sample, the LH is 12 steps shorter than the \u201ctemnospondyl hypothesis\u201d and 17 steps shorter than the PH, while the expanded taxon sample makes the LH 10 steps shorter than the TH and only 12 steps shorter than the PH. More robust results could likely be obtained by adding the many characters used in other analyses or discussed in the literature. We discuss phylogeny, approaches to coding, and certain character complexes, in particular the supposed middle ear of temnospondyls.', u'Olympia oysters are the only native oyster to the west coast of North America. The population within Puget Sound, WA has been decreasing significantly since the early 1900\u2019s. Current restoration efforts are focused on supplementing local populations with hatchery bred oysters. A recent study by Heare et al. (2015) has shown that there appears to be differences in stress response in oysters from different locations in Puget Sound. However, nothing is known about the underlying mechanisms associated with these observed differences. In this study, expression of genes associated with growth, immune function, and gene regulatory activity in oysters from Oyster Bay, Dabob Bay, and Fidalgo Bay were characterized following temperature and mechanical stress. We found that heat stress and mechanical stress significantly changed expression in molecular regulatory activity and immune response, respectively. We also found that oysters from Oyster Bay had the most dramatic response to stress at the gene expression level. These data provide important baseline information on the physiological response of Ostrea lurida to stress and provide clues to underlying performance differences in the three populations examined.', u'Two main hypotheses have been developed for describing the role and importance of the sea urchin Diadema antillarum on reefs of the Caribbean region in both space and time. The first and most crucial is whether D. antillarum was the most important \u201ckeystone\u201d grazer on Caribbean reefs? The alternate to this hypothesis is that D. antillarum was merely a redundant species, playing a secondary role to herbivorious fishes which only came into dominance after herbivorous fishes had been removed by man through exploitive fishing practices. To resolve this debate, we pose the question: \u201cWhat is the role of Diadema antillarum in altering the composition of the benthic community on Caribbean coral reefs in time and space?\u201d The interpretation presented herein implies that D. antillarum was and is the most important shallow-water herbivore on Caribbean coral reefs. This is contrary to a prevailing model but in substantial agreement with the historical importance of the species. If correct, the continued and future recovery of this sea urchin may be the key ingredient to facilitating coral reef recovery throughout the region. In addition, on coral reefs where the natural recovery of Diadema has been delayed or is absent (e.g. the Florida Reef Tract); measures to actively restore these urchins may be the most efficient and cost-effective tool for conserving and enhancing the ecological function of reefs. This debate also emphasizes the requirement for implementing ecologically-based, not ideologically-based management of natural systems.', u'BBCC represents the meeting point of researchers with a common interest for bioinformatics, in the Italian region Campania. I organize it yearly since 2006, so it reaches now the tenth edition. The birth of this meeting was the consideration of the high number of research institutes in this region, with many teams involved in bioinformatics studies, and many others in biomedical area, as well as in mathematics and informatics, so they may be interested to approach the bioinformatics community. At the end of 2006, I was involved with other colleagues in the organization of the meeting (April 2007, Naples) of the Bioinformatics Italian Society, BITS (www.bioinformatics.it). The Italian national community of bioinformatics has an annual meeting, since 2004 in the form of the society meeting, and also before the foundation of BITS. However, no specific event was regularly organized at regional level, as an opportunity for bioinformaticians in Campania to meet and discuss as an unique community. Therefore, I decided to organize a meeting of bioinformatics for the Campania region researchers, also for stimulating the local community in the view of the approaching annual meeting in Naples. In December 2006, the meeting registered the participation of about 100 researchers and students, an unexpected success and a strong motivation to repeat the meeting as an annual appointment. Since that first edition, the meeting has been held in the last months of the year, having every year about 100 participants. The formula of the meeting is very simple: a single-day event, with speakers on very different topics, open to the participation of colleagues from other regions and countries that introduced other ideas and suggestions for the community. This is the origin and ten years of life of the \u201cBioinformatica e Biologia Computazionale in Campania - BBCC\u201d meeting series. For the tenth annual edition of BBCC meeting, 27 abstracts have been proposed for oral presentations or posters. A Program Committee has been created to evaluate the level of the proposals, and a good average evaluation has been reached.', u'The Pacific cheilostome bryozoan Celleporaria brunnea (Hincks, 1884), a non-indigenous species already known for the Mediterranean Sea, was recorded in 2013-2014 from nine Italian port localities (Genoa, Santa Margherita Ligure, La Spezia, Leghorn, Viareggio, Olbia, Porto Rotondo, Porto Torres and Castelsardo) in the North-western Mediterranean Sea; in 2014 it was also found for the first time in the Adriatic Sea, in the marina \u201cKornati\u201d, Biograd na Moru (Croatia). In Italy, specimens of C. brunnea were found in 44 out of 105 samples (48% from harbour sites ad 52% from marinas). These data confirm and update the distribution of C. brunnea in the Mediterranean Sea, and provide evidence that recreational boating is a vector responsible for the successful spread of this species. Previous literature data have shown the existence of differences in orifice and interzooidal avicularia length and width among different localities of the invaded range of C. brunnea. Therefore, measurements of orifice and avicularia were assessed for respectively 30 zooids and 8 to 30 interzooidal avicularia for both Italian and Croatian localities, and compared with literature data, in order to verify the existence of differences in the populations of C. brunnea that could reflect the geographic pattern of its invasion range. Our data show high variability of orifice measures among and within localities: zooids with broader than long orifice coexisted with others displaying longer than broad orifice, or similar values for both length and width. The morphological variation of C. brunnea in these localities, and above all the large variability of samples within single localities or even within colonies poses questions on the reliability of such morphometric characters for inter and intraspecific evaluations.', u'Most European forests have been converted into forest plantations that are managed for timber production. The main goal of this paper was to determine the difference between mature native sessile oak (Quercus petraea) stands and non-indigenous Norway spruce (Picea abies) plantations with respect to communities of Athous click beetles in approximately 6,500 ha of lowland plantation forest area in the Czech Republic. Athous subfuscus was the most abundant and widespread species, followed by A. zebei and A. haemorrhoidalis, while A. vittatus was considered rare. Spatial analysis of environmental variables inside studied patches showed that the species composition of Athous beetles best responded to a 20 m radius surrounding traps. Species\u2019 responses to the environment showed that A. vittatus and A. haemorrhoidalis preferred oak stands, while A. zebei and A. subfuscus were associated with spruce plantations. In addition, oak stands showed higher diversity of beetle communities. The studied species are important for their ecosystem services (e.g. predation on pests or bioturbation) and seems to tolerate certain degrees of human disturbances, which is beneficial especially for forest plantations managed for timber production.', u'Herman Melville\u2019s novel Moby Dick was inspired by historical instances in which large sperm whales (Physeter macrocephalus L.) sank 19th century whaling ships by ramming them with their foreheads. The immense forehead of sperm whales is possibly the largest, and one of the strangest, anatomical structures in the animal kingdom. It contains two large oil-filled compartments, known as the \u201cspermaceti organ\u201d and \u201cjunk\u201d, that constitute up to one-quarter of body mass and extend one-third of the total length of the whale. Recognized as playing an important role in echolocation, previous studies have also attributed the complex structural configuration of the spermaceti organ and junk to acoustic sexual selection, acoustic prey debilitation, buoyancy control, and aggressive ramming. Of these additional suggested functions, ramming remains the most controversial, and the potential mechanical roles of the structural components of the spermaceti organ and junk in ramming remain untested. Here we explore the aggressive ramming hypothesis using a novel combination of structural engineering principles and probabilistic simulation to determine if the unique structure of the junk significantly reduces stress in the skull during quasi-static impact. Our analyses indicate that the connective tissue partitions within the junk reduce stress across the skull during impact; stress reduction is greatest in the anterior aspect of the skull; and removal of the connective tissue partitions increases stress concentrations on the tip of the skull, possibly making it prone to fracture. Although the unique structure of the junk certainly serves multiple functions, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that the structure also evolved to function as a massive battering ram during male-male competition.', u'For long-term persistence of species, population structure is important. Traits that hold adaptive advantage such as reproductive timing and stress resilience may differ among locales. Knowledge and consideration of these traits should be integrated into conservation efforts. To test for adaptive differences between Olympia oyster populations a reciprocal transplant experiment was carried out monitoring survival, growth, and reproduction using three established populations of Ostrea lurida within Puget Sound, Washington. Performance differed for each population. Ostrea lurida from Dabob Bay had higher survival at all sites but lower reproductive activity and growth. Oysters from Oyster Bay demonstrated greater proportion of brooding females at a majority of sites with moderate growth and survival. Together these data suggest the existence of O. lurida population structure within Puget Sound and provide information on how broodstock should be selected for restoration purposes.', u'This study seeks to identify the hotspots for the secondary spread of non-indigenous species (NIS) resulting for recreational boating travel patterns across the Mediterranean Sea, and investigate the potential for internal spread within each study region. Three Mediterranean regions will be sampled for: 1) NIS richness in the marinas and NIS richness and abundance from recreational vessels; 2) biopollution level of transient recreational boats; 3) geographic range of NIS within each region; 4) hull cleaning and travel history of recreational boats. The results will then be tested with other abiotic factors to determine which factors are significant in contributing to making some marinas more high-risk for the presence and transfer of alien species. Finally, a spatial connectivity network analysis will be presented of the 30 sampled marinas by combining a risk-level for each marina along with recreational boating travel patterns. Marina selection is based on the busiest marinas for recreational boaters in each region in combination with securing permission and feasibility. Samples for Amathia verticillatum will be collected from each region and genetically tested to determine if they share the same initial or secondary source of invasion.', u'In population or landscape genetics studies, an unbiased sampling scheme is essential for generating accurate results, but logistics may lead to deviations from the sample design. Such deviations may come in the form of sampling multiple life stages. Presently, it is largely unknown what effect sampling different life stages can have on population or landscape genetic inference, or how mixing life stages can affect the parameters being measured. In this study, we sampled embryos, larvae, and adult Ambystoma maculatum from five ponds in Missouri, and analyzed them at 15 microsatellite loci. We calculated allelic richness, heterozygosity and effective population sizes for each life stage at each pond and tested for genetic differentiation (FST and DC) and isolation-by-distance (IBD) among ponds. We tested for differences in each of these measures between life stages, and in a pooled population of all life stages. All calculations were done with and without sibling pairs to assess the effect of sibling removal. No statistically significant differences were found among ponds or life stages for any of the population genetic measures, but patterns of IBD differed among life stages. There was significant IBD when using adult samples, but tests using embryos, larvae, or a combination of the three life stages were not significant. Further, we found that increasing the ratio of larval or embryo samples in the analysis of genetic distance weakened the IBD relationship, and when using DC, the IBD was no longer significant when larvae and embryos exceeded 60% of the population sample. Our findings suggest that it may be possible to mix life stages to reach target sample size quotas, but researchers should nonetheless proceed with caution depending upon the goals and objectives of the study.', u"In the present research, I used an open access data set (Medicinal Genomics) consisting of nearly 200'000 genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) typed in 28 cannabis accessions to shed light on the plant's underlying genetic structure. Genome-wide loadings were used to sequentially cull less informative markers. The process involved reducing the number of SNPs to 100K, 10K, 1K, 100 until I identified a set of 42 highly informative SNPs that I present here. The two first principal components, encompass over 3/4 of the genetic variation present in the dataset (PCA1 = 48.6%, PCA2= 26.3%). This set of diagnostic SNPs is then used to identify clusters into which cannabis accession segregate. I identified three clear and consistent clusters; reflective of the ancient domestication trilogy of the genus Cannabis.", u"Dinosaurs are a source of enormous public interest and as such are useful for fostering greater interest in basic science and technology. With the increasing popularity of dinosaur films that claim to portray realistic dinosaur behaviour, one question that is regularly posed for palaeontologists to answer is how we know that our reconstructions are accurate. Dinosaur locomotion is no exception to this line of questioning and one technique for estimating how dinosaurs may have moved is multibody dynamic simulation (MBDA) of high biofidelity musculoskeletal computer models. Such simulations uses Newton's Law's of Motion to calculate how the different parts of the animals body would have moved depending on the internal forces generated by the muscles and the external forces due to gravity and physical contact with the ground. In this project we designed a system that allowed the user to directly control the muscles forces generated using a Kinect for Xbox One sensor attached to a PC using the Kinect Adaptor for Windows. The Kinect output is used to drive the muscles using customised software and models (Tyrannosaurus, Triceratops, Brachiosaurus, Edmontonia, Edmontosaurus, Gorgosaurus) based on our standard GaitSym MBDA system. The initial system was trialled over 7 days at the 2015 Cheltenham Science Festival which showed that the bipedal models were relatively easy to control using human body movements and provided a good vehicle to explain how the physics and physiology behind dinsoaur locomotor reconstruction. The quadrupedal models in their current form are much more difficult to control and further work is needed in this area. The 3D models and software for this project are freely available to download (http://www.animalsimulation.org or DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.2008977) and it is hoped that they will find further uses in areas such as 3D printing for anatomical education and virtual world simulations.", u'The conservation and management of wild populations and ecosystems almost always involves making decisions in the face of uncertainty and risk. The application of science to the ecological decision-making process was something that the late Professor Daniel Goodman thought deeply about. In this paper we outline the three main principles that Dr. Goodman espoused for good practice when conducting analyses for ecological decision-making: 1) the results should be conditioned on all relevant data and information, 2) there must be a full characterization of all uncertainty, and it should be fully propagated into the result, and 3) doing so in the correct way will result in the calculation of an accurate probability distribution (conditioned on our understanding of the state of nature) that should be used directly for ecological decision-making. Dr. Goodman believed that in the context of threatened and endangered species management Population Viability Analysis (PVA), Bayesian statistics, and structured decision-making are the most logical tools to achieve the three principles. To illustrate the application of the principles and tools in a real management setting, we discuss a Bayesian PVA that Dr. Goodman produced for the endangered Steller sea lion. We conclude by discussing the practical and philosophical impediments that may limit the full realization of the three principles and we offer some suggested solutions.', u'Data analysis tools have become essential to the study of biology. Tools available today were constructed with layers of technology developed over decades. Here, we explain how some of the principles used to develop this technology are sub-optimal for the construction of data analysis tools for biologists. In contrast, we applied language workbench technology (LWT) to create a data analysis language, called MetaR, tailored for biologists with no programming experience, as well as expert bioinformaticians and statisticians. A key novelty of this approach is its ability to blend user interface with scripting in such a way that beginners and experts alike can analyze data productively in the same analysis platform. While presenting MetaR, we explain how a judicious use of LWT eliminates problems that have historically contributed to data analysis bottlenecks. These results show that language design with LWT can be a compelling approach for developing intelligent data analysis tools.', u'Ammonium sulfate [(NH4)2SO4] is one of the most widely used nitrogen-based fertilizer in agriculture, and has been produced for over 150 years. However, limited research has been done to investigate the eco-toxic effects of ammonium sulfate, commonly present in surface runoff. This study therefore aimed to investigate the effects of varying ammonium sulfate concentrations on the normal physiology of Daphnia magna through a modified acute toxicity testing. Concentrations of ammonium sulfate solutions at 0M, 0.05M, 0.10M, 0.15M, 0.20M, 0.25M, and 0.30M were prepared and tested on 10 D. magna for each concentration of ammonium sulfate solution. The bioassay test was done by observing the effects of different concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution on the heart rate of D. magna. The percentage increase in average heart rate of D. magna after exposure to the respective concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution were calculated and a relationship between varying concentrations of ammonium sulfate concentration and the heart rate of D. magna was illustrated by plotting a graph using the respective data points obtained. Results indicated that increasing concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution resulted in an increase in the heart rate of D. magna per minute, up till 0.20M concentration. Increasing concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution beyond 0.20M resulted in a decrease in the heart rate of D. magna per minute. It was also discovered that specifically, the ammonium ions present when ammonium sulfate dissociates in water, is responsibility for toxicity, and not the sulfate ions. It is reasonable to conclude that ammonium sulfate poses significant eco-toxic effects as D. magna is a common primary consumer in many freshwater aquatic ecosystems, any change in its population quality or quantity can cause irreparable effects to the populations of other aquatic organisms.', u'In recent years, there is an emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains due to the indiscriminate use of antibiotics, commonly prescribed to treat infectious diseases. The increasing occurrence of antibiotic resistance has undoubtedly made bacterial infections a greater health risk and threat than before. In this project, the use of natural polyphenolic compounds, extracted from green tea (Camellia sinensis) and banana (Musa sp.) leaves, as a novel antimicrobial chemotherapeutic agent was investigated. This study examined their bactericidal effects on Escherichia coli and Micrococcus luteus, and also evaluated the potential synergistic ability of these polyphenol-rich extracts when used alongside the beta-lactam antibiotic ampicillin. For the same dry mass of plant material used (3g), the prepared green tea extract had a higher total polyphenol concentration than that of banana leaves extract (495.1mg/L as compared to 221.6mg/L respectively). Subsequently, bacterial broth of 105 colony forming units/ml was mixed with varying concentrations of the different test compounds before plating 10\xb5l of the mixture and quantifying the compounds\u2019 bactericidal effect by doing a viable count after overnight incubation. The green tea extract showed the greatest bactericidal effect on E. coli and M. luteus as compared to the banana leaves extract and ampicillin. Against E. coli, this difference was confirmed to be significant (p<0.05) using one-way ANOVA and Tukey\u2019s post-hoc analysis. Furthermore, by applying ampicillin in close association with polyphenol-rich extracts of green tea or banana leaves, there was an enhanced bactericidal effect on the tested bacterial strains. This interaction was categorized as synergistic by the fractional bactericidal concentration index calculated (\u22640.5). Ultimately, the plant polyphenols studied in this research could provide a potential adjuvant to currently-produced antibiotics and help to reduce antibiotic application concentrations; as well as prolong the effective lifespan of antibiotics through its synergistic action.', u'The development of species distribution models (SDMs) can help conservation efforts by generating potential distributions and identifying areas of high environmental suitability for protection. Our study presents a rigorously derived distribution and habitat map for lowland tapir in South America. We also describe the potential habitat suitability of various geographical regions and habitat loss, inside and outside of protected areas network. Two different SDM approaches, MAXENT and ENFA, produced relative different Habitat Suitability Maps for the lowland tapir. While MAXENT was efficient at identifying areas as suitable or unsuitable, it was less efficient (when compared to the results by ENFA) at identifying the gradient of habitat suitability. MAXENT is a more multifaceted technique that establishes more complex relationships between dependent and independent variables. Our results demonstrate that for at least one species, the lowland tapir, the use of a simple consensual approach (average of ENFA and MAXENT models outputs) better reflected its current distribution patterns. The Brazilian ecoregions have the highest habitat loss for the tapir. Cerrado and Atlantic Forest account for nearly half (48.19%) of the total area lost. The Amazon region contains the largest area under protection, and the most extensive remaining habitat for the tapir, but also showed high levels of habitat loss outside protected areas, which increases the importance of support for proper management.', u'Water temperature is a primary driver of stream ecosystems and commonly forms the basis of stream classifications. Robust models of stream temperature are critical as the climate changes, but estimating daily stream temperature poses several important challenges. We developed a statistical model that accounts for many challenges that can make stream temperature estimation difficult. Our model identifies the yearly period when air and water temperature are synchronized, accommodates hysteresis, incorporates time lags, deals with missing data and autocorrelation and can include external drivers. In a small stream network, the model performed well (RMSE = 0.59 \xb0C), identified a clear warming trend (0.063 \xb0C \xb7 y-1) and a widening of the synchronized period (2.9 d \xb7 y-1). We also carefully evaluated how missing data influenced predictions. Missing data within a year had a small effect on performance (~ 0.05% average drop in RMSE with 10% fewer days with data). Missing all data for a year decreased performance (~ 0.6 \xb0C jump in RMSE), but this decrease was moderated when data were available from other streams in the network. Straightforward incorporation of external drivers (e.g. land cover, basin size) should allow this modeling framework to be readily applied across multiple sites and at multiple spatial scales.', u'The fan shell P. nobilis (Linnaeus, 1758) is the largest marine bivalve in the Mediterranean Sea which acts as ecosystem engineer, offering an adequate substratum to several associated benthic species. P. nobilis is threatened by the reduction and loss of its natural habitat and by increased anthropogenic inputs into coastal waters. The knowledge on the population of this species are scarce, especially as concerns Sicily and its coasts. This study focused on the density of population, spatial distribution, level of burial and orientation of the population of P. nobilis in the harbour area of Favignana island (western coast of Sicily, Italy). The fan shell surveys were carried out by SCUBA diving using a 50m-transect line perpendicular to the coastline. For each P. nobilis censused, maximum (W) width, minimum width (w) and unburied length (UL) were measured; shell orientation (Or) was determined using an underwater compass and considering the magnitude of the angle formed by the vector and the magnetic north. The specimen status (dead or alive), the depth (by using the electronic depth meter of a diving computer) were recorded. In addition, the geographical coordinates were marked for each individual along the transect by means of a Global Positioning System (GPS). Total shell height (HT) was estimated using a formula considered suitable for the populations of this studied area. The density of P. nobilis was \xb111 ind. 100m2, the total height (HT) and the maximum width (W) of the shells was 33 cm and 13,6 cm respectively. In the aim of the "MPA of Egadi Islands" to confirm the need of a new management to protect the biodiversity of the harbour area, more conservation measures are necessary in order to improve the preservation of this endangered species.', u'Identifying key food resources for critically endangered species is vital in the design of effective conservation strategies, particularly if these resources are also targeted by anthropogenic activities such as logging. The province of Esmeraldas in NW Ecuador is heavily dependent on commercial logging. It also maintains the only healthy population of the critically endangered brown-headed spider monkey (Ateles fusciceps fusciceps). The unprotected forest remnant of Tesoro Escondido, in the buffer zone of the Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve, is home to an estimated 130 individuals of a global population of approximately 250. There is an urgent need for information to develop effective conservation action plans for the species, in particular the impact of logging activity on key feeding resources. We characterised the floristic composition of the habitat of  A. f. fusciceps  and estimated the availability of fruit resources for the annual cycle of 2012-2013 in sixteen 0.1 hectare vegetation plots. We determined feeding preferences for A. f. fusciceps using behavioural observations applying the Chesson \u03b5 index to identify key feeding tree species. We reviewed regional logging permits to identify species targeted for extraction by the timber industry and calculated extraction volumes in primary forest for key feeding tree species to identify potential conflict between logging and primate diet. We identified 65 fruiting tree species from 34 families that formed the diet of A. f. fusciceps. The Chesson \u03b5 index identified twelve species as preferred species with further phenological observations identifying seven species as staple foods and two palms as potential fall back fruits. Additionally, high densities of the lipid rich fruits of Brosimum utile make this an important resource for this primate throughout the year. Of 65 feeding tree species identified for A. f. fusciceps, 35 species are also targeted as sources of timber. Five key feeding species would be depleted under current sustainable management extraction protocols while two other species would be significantly impacted in terms of local abundance.Given the critically endangered status of  A. f. fusciceps, remaining primary forest in NW Ecuador requires urgent protection, including thorough revision of current logging protocols to ensure long term survival of the species.', u'Sex-biased dispersal is expected to homogenize nuclear genetic variation relative to variation in genetic material inherited through the philopatric sex. When site fidelity occurs across a heterogeneous environment, local selective regimes may alter this pattern. We assessed spatial patterns of variation in nuclear-encoded, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and sequences of the mitochondrial control region in bonnethead sharks (Sphyrna tiburo) collected, a species thought to exhibit female philopatry, from summer habitat used for gestation. Geographic patterns of mtDNA haplotypes and putatively neutral SNPs confirmed female philopatry and male-mediated gene flow along the northeastern coast of the Gulf of Mexico. A total of 30 outlier SNP loci were identified; alleles at over half of these loci exhibited signatures of latitude-associated selection. Our results indicate that in species with sex-biased dispersal, philopatry can facilitate sorting of locally adaptive variation, with the dispersing sex facilitating movement of potentially adaptive variation among locations and environments.', u'The calcitic lenses in the eyes of Palaeozoic trilobites are unique in the animal kingdom, although the use of calcite would have conveyed great advantages for vision in aquatic systems. Calcite lenses are transparent, and due to their high refractive index they would facilitate the focusing of light. In some respects, however, calcite lenses bear evident disadvantages. Birefringence would cause double images at different depths, but this is not a problem for trilobites since the difference in the paths of the ordinary and extraordinary rays is less than the diameter of the receptor cells. Another point, not discussed hitherto, is that calcite fluoresces when illuminated with UV-A. Here we show experimentally that calcite lenses fluoresce, and we discuss why fluorescence does not diminish the optical quality of these lenses and the image formed by them. In the environments in which the trilobites lived, UV-A would not have been a relevant factor, and thus fluorescence would not have disturbed or confused their visual system. We also argue that whatever the reason was that calcite was never again used successfully in the visual systems of aquatic arthropods, it was not fluorescence.', u'Today there are no grammar systems, which allow the creation of a fundamentally new word and concept. All existing grammar systems only work by referring to previously chosen terms, on the bases of which all definitions are created. Implementation of operation on grammar systems are introduced for creation of new terms. The main prerequisite of the research was the rejection of finding a universal solution, which is true for any person. Instead of this, all people were divided into groups according MBTI classification. Each group was expected to have uniform perception of new knowledge. Assessment has been conducted to each group. A mathematical model was created as result of the communication. The scheme of dividing words and sentences into components are shown in the first section of the article. The second section shows a notation construction from the components and the notation packing in memory. The third section shows the ability for conscious memory access (self-action and self-image). As a result, the model of human speech was structured, in where it is possible to create new terms from new knowledge independently.', u'Objective: The aim of this study was to evaluate the resin and initial osteoblastic adhesion of zirconia and titanium implant surfaces grit-blasted with four different sands, namely silica-coated alumina, alumina, silicon carbide and boron carbide. Materials and methods: Titanium and sintered zirconia were polished and grit-blasted with one of the following grits: silica-coated alumina, alumina, silicon carbide and boron carbide. Two study groups were prepared. For the first group, a silane coupling agent and a resin was applied on grit-blasted sample surfaces (n=8), and adhesive strengths of the dental resins to these specimens were evaluated under shear mode in three storage conditions: dry, 24h water aging and thermo-cycled for 6000 cycles. The results were analyzed by using two-way ANOVA test with 0.05 significance level. For the second group, the specimens were immersed in a cell line medium (MC3T3-E1) and the attachment was observed under a confocal microscope after 24 hours. The attached cells were fixed and viewed under an SEM to observe the cell morphology. Results: Surface topography and chemical composition of zirconia and titanium were changed after grit-blasting with four different grits. The specimens grit-blasted with silica-coated alumina or alumina exhibited a significantly higher mean resin adhesive strengths (p<0.05) than other two grits. In addition, SEM and confocal microscopy confirmed the specimens grit-blasted with alumina powder showed the maximum osteoblastic attachment, and revealed the cell morphology. Conclusion: With the limitation of the laboratory study, alumina deemed to be the best grit-blasting material to achieve satisfactory osteoblastic cell and resin adhesions for both titanium and zirconia implant materials .', u'Underground storage organs (USOs) serve as a staple source of carbohydrates for many hunter-gatherer societies and they feature prominently in discussions of diets of early modern humans. While the way of life of hunter-gatherers in South Africa\u2019s Cape is no longer in existence, there is extensive ethnographic, historical and archaeological evidence of hunter-gatherers\u2019 use of such plants as foodstuffs. This is to be expected, given that the Cape supports the largest concentration of plants with USOs globally. The southern Cape is the location of several Middle Stone Age sites that are highly significant to research on the origins of behaviourally modern humans, and this provided the context for our research. Here we evaluate the foraging potential of USOs by identifying how abundant edible biomass is in a coastal setting of the southern Cape, how easily it is gathered, and how nutritious it is. We staged a range of foraging events to provide an indication of the potential return rates for selected USOs when a forager is likely to be na\xefve about foraging for them. Nearly all of the sites sampled (83%) contained edible USOs, and the edible biomass can be highly concentrated in space. The edible USO biomass fell within the range of biomass observed in areas supporting extant hunter-gatherer communities. The six USO species we assessed for nutritional content contained between 40-228 calories/100 g. They also grow near the soil surface, mostly in sandy soils, and were gathered with minimal effort. Some 50% of the foraging events conducted yielded enough calories to meet the daily requirements of a hunter-gatherer of small stature within 2 hours. Thus, we demonstrate that USOs are a readily available source of carbohydrates in the southern Cape landscape and that they likely played a critical role in providing food for early humans.', u"Starvation is a complex adaptive response to insufficiency of nutrients that has been known to implicate a number of stress networks, and modulate pathogenicity and antibiotic resistance in bacteria. However, naturally occurring abrupt elimination of nutrients and prolonged periods of their complete absence, e.g. when bacteria are placed in natural or artificial water reservoirs, are qualitatively different from in-culture late stationary phase energy source diminution. Despite the obvious importance of proteomic investigation of bacteria exposed to nutrient deficiency, no comprehensive study on the subject has been published. In order to address the said shortage of knowledge, we decided to quantitatively look into the proteome-level alterations elicited by the complete lack of nutrients that constitute a viable source of carbon, i.e. carbon starvation, in the Escherichia coli HT115-derived SLE1 strain cells using the combination of label-free and SILAC-based proteomics. As a result, we obtained protein ratios for 1,757 and 1,241 protein groups for each technique respectively, 2D-annotated the quantifiable proteins present in both datasets, identified over- and underrepresented Gene Ontology terms, and isolated protein groups \u22652-fold up- and downregulated in response to carbon starvation (44 and 36 protein groups respectively). We observed upregulation of proteins implicated in various stress-related networks, most notably those that constitute the Gene Ontology term 'Biological adhesion', as well as various terms related to stress. Additionally, we identified several uncharacterized proteins, and our report is the first to ascribe them to a stress-induced proteome. Our data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003255 and DOI:10.6019/PXD003255.", u'Objectives: Previous studies have consistently shown increased rates of childhood adversity in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). However, such aetiopathogenic studies of CFS are potentially confounded by co-morbidity and misdiagnosis particularly with depression. We used a modelling approach with existing data and data generated in our examination of the rates of childhood adversity in a sample of CFS patients who had no lifetime history of depression. Methods: The childhood trauma questionnaire (CTQ) was completed by a sample of 52 participants and 19 controls with chronic fatigue syndrome who did not meet criteria for a psychiatric disorder (confirmed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV). Subsequently, Mediation Analysis (Baye\u2019s Rules) was used to establish the risk childhood adversity poses for CFS with and without depression. Results: In a cohort of CFS patients with depression robustly excluded, CTQ scores were markedly lower than in all previous studies and, in contrast to these previous studies, not increased compared with healthy controls. Post-hoc analysis showed that CTQ scores correlated with the number of depressive symptoms during the lifetime worst period of low mood. The probability of developing CFS given a history of childhood trauma was shown to be 4%, a two-fold increased risk compared to the general population. However, much of this risk is mediated by the concomitant development of major depression. Discussion: The data suggests that previous studies showing a relationship between childhood adversity and CFS may be mediated by depression', u'Divergence of treatment responses to chemotherapy exists across patients (often with underlying mechanisms unknown), with some patients exhibiting worsened outcome upon treatment. Genomic approaches (such as microarray profiling and whole-genome sequencing) hold promise for transforming cancer treatment, particularly, in tailoring drug regimen to specific patients. Nevertheless, formulating effective personalized treatment via surveying the mutational landscape remains difficult, due to current deficiencies in predicting drug sensitivity from genotype. Xenografts, both indirect (via cell line) and direct (from primary tumours), are good physiologic models of cancers. Their utility in informing cancer treatment, however, is constrained by high cost of generating and maintaining genetically modified animals, and the paucity of tissue samples from biopsies. Advent of high throughput biomolecular profiling tools finally enables reading out the expansive molecular fingerprints that encode observed phenotypes in xenografts. Using pheochromocytoma (an adrenal medulla cancer) as example, this short essay provides a broad overview of the scientific and clinical possibilities offered by xenograft models for understanding resistance mechanisms to particular chemotherapeutic regimens, and upon identification of the putative mutations, confirms their functional roles as either oncogenes or tumour suppressors. Additionally, workflow involved in generating a predictive platform, based on non-invasive blood biomarkers, for informing drug treatment options is discussed. Known as an integrated genomic classifier, combination of physiological response of direct xenografts to drug treatment and bioinformatics-enabled correlation of blood biomarkers to observed phenotype at cellular and animal levels, provides the biological basis for predicting patients\u2019 prognosis without invasive biopsy of solid tumours. Elucidation of drug resistance mechanisms entails: (i) recapitulating  in vivo  tumour behavior using cell lines derived from primary tumour; (ii) identification of aetiological mutations and longitudinal profiling of phenotypic response; and (iii) validation of mutations and phenotype via both knockout mice and direct allogenic xenografts. Biological models seek to recapitulate human physiology at specific levels of abstraction for answering particular questions, but incongruence in phenotype is inevitable. Nevertheless, xenografts (especially those derived from patients, PDTX), are powerful tools for addressing basic science, clinical and treatment-related questions using close functional replicas of patient physiology in an animal model. Residual incompatibility between model and patient response would require the expertise and clinical experience of oncologists for fine-tuning model suggested drug regimen to particular patients.', u"Dakotaraptor steini is a recently described dromaeosaurid dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Hell Creek Formation of South Dakota. Included within the D. steini hypodigm are three elements originally identified as furculae: one which is part of the holotype specimen and two referred specimens. We show that the elements described as D. steini \u2018furculae\u2019 are not theropod dinosaur furculae, but rather trionychid turtle entoplastra. Given that the holotype 'furcula' is not referable to Dromaeosauridae and that the specimen is a disarticulated individual based on skeletal remains from a multitaxic bonebed, the holotype of Dakotaraptor steini is a chimera.", u'An informal review of the history of new quantitative methods in environmental science, including environmental risk assessment, shows about a 10- to 20-year lag in wide acceptance of such methods by management agencies. To reduce that lag time as innovative methods continue to emerge, environmental scientists will need to work much more intensively with communications specialists on better ways to explain risk analyses and decision-making strategies to non-technical decision makers and the public. Four key uncertainties make such communication difficult: (1) natural variability in both physical and biological processes, (2) imperfect data arising from observation error (i.e., measurement error), (3) incomplete understanding of an environmental system\'s structure and dynamics, and (4) outcome uncertainty (deviations between realized outcomes and management targets). These uncertainties create risks -- risks to natural populations as well as to people who use them. Examples of these four sources of uncertainty are presented here for Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.). One promising framework for explicitly taking such uncertainties into account was initially developed in the early 1990s by scientific advisors to the International Whaling Commission. They built stochastic models, which essentially were comprehensive formal decision analyses, to derive management procedures (i.e., sampling designs for collecting data, methods to analyze those data, and state-dependent harvest-control rules for use by managers) that were robust to all the uncertainties considered. This method of "Management Strategy Evaluation" or "Management Procedure Evaluation" is now considered the "gold standard" for conducting risk assessments and making risk-management decisions in marine fisheries.', u'Natural history museum collections (NHCs) represent a rich and largely untapped source of data on demography and population movements. NHC specimen records can be corrected to a crude measure of collecting effort and reflect relative population densities with a method known as abundance indices. We plot abundance index values from georeferenced NHC data in a 12-month series for the new world migratory passerine Passerina ciris across its molting and wintering range in Mexico and Central America. We illustrate a statistically significant change in abundance index values across regions and months that suggests a quasi-circular movement around its non-breeding range, and use enhanced vegetation index (EVI) analysis of remote sensing plots to demonstrate non-random association of specimen record density with areas of high primary productivity. We demonstrate how abundance indices from NHC specimen records can be applied to infer previously unknown migratory behavior, and be integrated with remote sensing data to allow for a deeper understanding of demography and behavioral ecology across space and time.', u'Female meiosis is a fundamental area of study in reproductive medicine, and the mouse oocyte model of in vitro maturation (IVM) to study female meiosis is the most widely used. To investigate the probable role(s) of an unknown protein in female meiosis, the method traditionally used involves microinjecting a specific antibody into mouse oocytes. Recently, in studies on somatic cells, peptide nanoparticle-mediated antibody transfection has become a popular tool because of its high efficiency, low toxicity, good stability, and strong serum compatibility. However, till now, no researchers have tried using this technique on mouse oocytes because the zona pellucida surrounding the oocyte membrane (vitelline membrane) is usually thought or proved to be a tough barrier to macromolecules, such as antibodies and proteins. Therefore, we attempted to introduce an antibody into mouse oocytes using a peptide nanoparticle. Here we show for the first time that with our optimized method, an antibody can be effectively delivered into mouse oocytes and inhibit its target protein with high specificity. We obtained significant results using small GTPase Arl2 as a test subject protein. We propose peptide nanoparticle-mediated antibody transfection to be a superior alternative to antibody microinjection for preliminary functional studies of unknown proteins in mouse oocytes.', u'Prokaryotes use a wide variety of bioenergetic pathways but the order of emergence of these pathways and their evolutionary relationships are still unresolved issues. In this study we focus on the evolutionary relationships of different families of b-type cytochromes, which form part of a variety of bioenergetic enzymes (the cytochrome b6f complex, ubiquinol and menaquinol reductases, formate dehydrogenase, Ni/Fe-hydrogenase, and succinate dehydrogenase). We use data from 272 species of fully sequenced bacteria and archaea, which represent the full diversity of prokaryotic lineages and multiple bioenergetic modes, to examine the distribution of these cytochromes across lineages, and ask the question of whether sequences from different species cluster by cytochrome-b family, by bioenergetic mode or by taxonomic group. Different cytochrome-b types are found in many lineages of the bacteria and archaea, and form distinct groups in phylogenetic analysis, which indicates an ancient origin for this complex, and diversification of different cytochrome-b types before the diversification of lineages. We find that species do not cluster based on bioenergetic mode. We also re-examine data from previous studies using this expanded sample of organisms spanning the full diversity of prokaryotic lineages. Concerning the b6f complex of photosynthetic organisms, our expanded phylogenies do not show significant bootstrap support for a "green clade" of cytochrome b6; also, the split form of b6 is not monophyletic, indicating that the split form arose independently multiple times. We also present data on the similarities between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cytochrome b561 sequences, in light of the recently reported structure of eukaryotic cytochrome b561.', u'Songbirds, such as zebra finches, contribute to explore behaviors underlying neural activities. Birdsong is controlled by the song system. The robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) is a key nucleus for producing birdsong in the song system. The RA receives dopaminergic \uff08DArgic\uff09 inputs from the midbrain, however, the function of these inputs involved excitatory synaptic transmission is still unclear. Excitatory synaptic transmission is critical in the signal integration activities of the brain. We examined the effects of dopamine (DA) on excitatory synaptic transmission of the projection neurons in the RA of adult male zebra finches, using whole-cell recording technique. We found that DA (100 \u03bcM) decreases the frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs/mEPSCs). In our further study, these effects of DA were reversed by the D1-like dopamine receptor (D1R) antagonist and stimulated by a D1R agonist. However, a D2-like dopamine receptor (D2R) has no influence on the effects of DA. These results demonstrate that DA can inhibit excitatory synaptic transmission mainly via activation of D1R in adult male zebra finches.', u'Estuaries are amongst the most productive habitats in Earth, producing more organic materia than forests, meadows or agricultural lands. In addition, estuaries exhibit high, and precious, biodiversity levels. In this study an environmental DNA analysis of the two most important estuaries in Asturias (Cantabrian Coast, north Iberia) in terms of food production (R\xeda del Eo and R\xeda de Villaviciosa) was carried out. The objective was to monitor aquatic biodiversity and also to detect alien species that can be associated with anthropogenic activities (e.g.: aquaculture). To achieve these objectives, a metabarcoding methodology based in NGS (next generation sequencing) and the mitochondrial COI gene as a DNA Barcode was used. Results showed that this methodology was useful to detect the presence of three different non-native genera (Crepidula, Lymnaea, Macrobrachium) that are probably parasitating species cultured in these estuaries. It is true that Metabarcoding has still unsolved problems such as the lack of 100% universal primers and paucity of referenced sequences for some taxonomic groups in the databases. However, it represents already a powerful tool to manage the resources of these important ecosystems and to guarantee their long-term sustainailibity.', u'Introduction of exotic species may cause serious consequences for marine ecosystems. On the shores of the Cantabrian Sea (North of Spain) there is no routine examinations of seaweeds combining molecular and morphological methods for early detection of exotic species and thereby to assess in early stages their establishment and expansion processes as a result of anthropogenic activities (e.g.: shipping, aquaculture, etc). In this work we conducted molecular barcoding (COI and RbcL genes) of red algae collected in Asturias, Bay of Biscay (Gij\xf3n and Cand\xe1s harbours). The results reveal the presence of the exotic Asian seaweeds (Pachymeniopsis gargiuli, Grateloupia imbricata Holmes and Grateloupia turuturu Yamada). This study constitutes the first report where the presence of these asian algae in this area of the Bay of Biscay is confirmed. The work demonstrates the success in combining morphological and genetic methods in the early detection of exotic algae and proposes that the "molecular barcoding" must be made primarily using the Rbcl gene. The COI Databases are still incomplete and imprecise to obtain successful results in red algae species-level identifications.', u'During the process of ageing there is canalisation of repair resources which tend to flow from the soma towards the germ line. In the early periods of phylogenetic development there was a time when repair of germ line cells became more efficient compared to the repair of somatic cells. The level of somatic repair became just enough to ensure that the organism reached sexual maturity. It was the biological equivalent of the mathematical bifurcation, when the pathway developed preferentially towards the germ line attractor. We are now looking for evidence that this could be changing, that we may be witnessing a phase transition from effective germ line repair to an effective somatic repair. Here I consider mechanisms of fidelity-preservation which may be present in the germ line, and examine the possibility that these may be made to operate upon somatic cells instead. Mechanisms which safeguard the reliability of germ line repair and ensuring robustness/resilience in the germ line may also (or instead) be applicable upon somatic material (cells and molecules, factors) and ensure a continually effective repair of this somatic material. Thus the ability to continually repair and maintain somatic organic material within biological systems is not lost. Continual challenges from the environment ensure that the flow of information remains active and it persistently stimulates the ability to repair the soma. Apart from germ line cells, some unicellular organisms such as bacteria maintain their ability for ongoing repairs, a fact that indicates that, in principle, senescence is not unavoidable.', u'Background. It is widely assumed that the uterine cavity in non-pregnant women is physiologically sterile, also as a premise to the long-held view that human infants develop in a sterile uterine environment, though likely reflecting under-appraisal of the extent of the human bacterial metacommunity. In an exploratory study, we aimed to investigate the putative presence of a uterine microbiome in a selected series of non-pregnant women through deep sequencing of the V1-2 hypervariable region of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene. Methods. Nineteen women with various reproductive conditions, including subfertility, scheduled for hysteroscopy and not showing uterine anomalies were recruited. Subjects were highly diverse with regard to demographic and medical history and included nulliparous and parous women. Endometrial tissue and mucus harvesting was performed by use of a transcervical device designed to obtain endometrial biopsy, while avoiding cervicovaginal contamination. Bacteria were targeted by use of a barcoded Illumina MiSeq paired-end sequencing method targeting the 16S rRNA gene V1-2 region, yielding an average of 41,194 reads per sample after quality filtering. Taxonomic annotation was pursued by comparison with sequences available through the Ribosomal Database Project and the NCBI database. Results. Out of 183 unique 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequences, 15 phylotypes were present in all samples. In some 90% of the women included, community architecture was fairly similar in as much B. xylanisolvens, B. thetaiotaomicron, B. fragilis and an undetermined Pelomonas taxon constituted over one third of the endometrial bacterial community. On the singular phylotype level, six women showed predominance of L. crispatus or L. iners in the presence of the Bacteroides core. Two endometrial communities were highly dissimilar, largely lacking the Bacteroides core, one dominated by L. crispatus and another consisting of a highly diverse community, including Prevotella spp., Atopobium vaginae, and Mobiluncus curtisii. Discussion. Our findings are, albeit not necessarily generalizable, consistent with the presence of a unique microbiota dominated by Bacteroides residing on the endometrium of the human non-pregnant uterus. The transcervical sampling approach may be influenced to an unknown extent by endocervical microbiota, which remain uncharacterised, and therefore warrants further validation. Nonetheless, consistent with our understanding of the human microbiome, the uterine microbiota are likely to have a previously unrecognized role in uterine physiology and human reproduction. Further study is therefore warranted to document community ecology and dynamics of the uterine microbiota, as well as the role of the uterine microbiome in health and disease.', u'Productivity of lentic ecosystems is well studied and it is widely accepted that as nutrient inputs increase, productivity increases and lakes transition from lower trophic state (e.g. oligotrophic) to higher trophic states (e.g. eutrophic). These broad trophic state classifications are good predictors of ecosystem condition, services, and disservices (e.g. recreation, aesthetics, and harmful algal blooms). While the relationship between nutrients and trophic state provides reliable predictions, it requires in situ water quality data in order to parameterize the model. This limits the application of these models to lakes with existing and, more importantly, available water quality data. To address this, we take advantage of the availability of a large national lakes water quality database (i.e. the National Lakes Assessment), land use/land cover data, lake morphometry data, other universally available data, and apply data mining approaches to predict trophic state. Using this data and random forests, we first model chlorophyll a, then classify the resultant predictions into trophic states. The full model estimates chlorophyll a with both in situ and universally available data. The mean squared error and adjusted R2 of this model was 0.09 and 0.8, respectively. The second model uses universally available GIS data only. The mean squared error was 0.22 and the adjusted R2 was 0.48. The accuracy of the trophic state classifications derived from the chlorophyll a predictions were 69% for the full model and 49% for the \u201cGIS only\u201d model. Random forests extend the usefulness of the class predictions by providing prediction probabilities for each lake. This allows us to make trophic state predictions and also indicate the level of uncertainity around those predictions. For the full model, these predicted class probabilites ranged from 0.42 to 1. For the GIS only model, they ranged from 0.33 to 0.96. It is our conclusion that in situ data are required for better predictions, yet GIS and universally available data provide trophic state predictions, with estimated uncertainty, that still have the potential for a broad array of applications. The source code and data for this manuscript are available from https://github.com/USEPA/LakeTrophicModelling.', u'Attempts to infer the ecological drivers of macroevolution have long drawn inspiration from work on extant systems, but long-term evolutionary and geological changes complicate the simple extrapolation of such theory into a deep-time setting. Recent efforts to incorporate a more informed ecology into macroevolution have moved beyond the descriptive to attempts that seek to isolate the generating mechanisms of dynamic signatures to produce testable hypotheses of how species and larger groups usurp or co-exist alongside one another over vast spans of time. The papers of this Theme Issue exemplify this progress, providing a series of case studies of how novel modelling approaches are helping infer the regulators of biodiversity in deep time. In this Introduction, we aim to discuss the challenges associated with this area. We break our Introduction into four main areas. First, we discuss how our choices of biological units for study have implications for the conclusions subsequently drawn. Second, we emphasize the need to embrace the interdependence of biotic and abiotic change, because no living organism ignores its environment. Third, in the light of parts 1 and 2, we discuss the set of dynamic signatures that we might expect to observe in the fossil record. Finally, we ask whether these signatures are the most ecologically informative foci for research efforts aimed at inferring the regulators of biodiversity in deep time. The papers in this Theme Issue contribute in each of these areas.', u'Purpose. Type 2 diabetes is the leading cause of end stage renal disease in the United States. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is commonly observed in diabetic patients and impacts the rate of renal and cardiovascular disease progression. We hypothesized that renal artery stenosis contributes to bilateral renal disease in diabetics. In our original study, we found that leptin-deficient diabetic (db/db) mice subjected to RAS developed severe and bilateral renal disease, with the contralateral (uncuffed) kidney showing features reminiscent of progressive diabetic nephropathy. In non-diabetic mice (WT), the cuffed kidney developed progressive atrophy, but the contralateral kidney showed minimal histopathologic alterations. In doing these studies, we observed increased sudden death in db/db mice with RAS, but not in WT mice with RAS. The objective of this study was to characterize the aortic and cardiac phenotype of db/db mice subjected to RAS. Methods. We developed a murine model of renal artery stenosis by placement of a polytetrafluoroethylene cuff on the right renal artery in db/db mice. We studied 109 WT and 95 db/db mice subjected to Renal artery stenosis (RAS) or sham surgery. Results. The mortality rate of db/db RAS mice was about 23.5%, whereas only 1.5% deaths were observed in WT RAS mice. Interestingly, 60% of mortality in the db/db mice occurred in the first two weeks following RAS surgery. Necropsy showed massive intrathoracic hemorrhage associated with aortic dissection. Aortas from db/db RAS mice showed more smooth muscle dropout, medial disruption, and hemorrhage than aortas from WT mice with RAS. Cardiac tissue from db/db RAS mice had more fibrosis than did cardiac tissue from WT RAS mice. Conclusions. Db/db mice subjected to RAS are prone to develop fatal aortic dissection, which is not observed in WT mice with RAS. The db/db RAS model provides the basis for future studies directed towards defining basic mechanisms underlying the interaction of hypertension and diabetes on the development of aortic lesions.', u"Recent addition to the repertoire of gene expression regulatory mechanisms are polyadenylate (polyA) tracks encoding for poly-lysine runs in protein sequences. Such tracks stall translation apparatus and induce frameshifting independently of the effects of charged nascent poly-lysine sequence on the ribosome exit channel. As such they substantially influence the stability of mRNA and amount of protein produced from a given transcript. Single base changes in these regions are enough to exert a measurable response on both protein and mRNA abundance, and makes each of these sequences potentially interesting case studies for effects of synonymous mutation, gene dosage balance and natural frameshifting. Here we present the PATACSDB, a resource that contain comprehensive list of polyA tracks from over 250 eukaryotic genomes. Our data is based on Ensembl genomic database of coding sequences and filtered with algorithm of 12A-1 which selects sequences of polyA tracks with a minimal length of 12 A's allowing for one mismatched base. The PATACSDB database is accesible at: http://sysbio.ibb.waw.pl/patacsdb. Source code is available for download from GitHub repository at http://github.com/habich/PATACSDB, including the scripts to recreate the database from the scratch on user's own computer.", u'Aromatase, which is a rate-limiting enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of androgen to estrogen, plays an essential role in the development of estrogen-dependent breast cancer. Side effects due to aromatase inhibitors (AIs) necessitate the pursuit of novel inhibitor candidates with high selectivity, lower toxicity and increased potency. Designing a novel therapeutic agent against aromatase could be achieved computationally by means of ligand-based and structure-based methods. For over a decade, we have utilized both approaches to design potential AIs for which quantitative structure-activity relationship and molecular docking were used to explore inhibitory mechanisms of AIs towards aromatase. However, such approaches do not consider the effects that aromatase variants have on different AIs. In this study, proteochemometrics modeling was applied to analyze the interaction space between AIs and aromatase variants as a function of their substructural and amino acid features. Good predictive performance was achieved, as rigorously verified by 10-fold cross-validation, external validation, leave-one-compound-out cross-validation, leave-one-protein-out cross-validation and Y-scrambling tests. The investigations presented herein provide important insights into the mechanisms of aromatase inhibitory activity that could aid in the design of novel potent AIs as breast cancer therapeutic agents.', u'Differential scanning fluorimetry (DSF) is used widely as a thermal shift assay to study protein stability and protein-ligand interactions. The benefit of DSF is that it is simple, cheap and can generate melting curves in 96-well plates providing good throughput. However, data analysis remains a challenge, and requires different methods to optimise and analyse the collected raw data. Here, the program SimpleDSFviewer is introduced to help view and analyse DSF data in an efficient way and with a user-friendly interface. The data analysis, optimisation and view methods provided by the program are described, using sample melting curves of fibroblast growth factors.', u'In July 2014, we observed premature feather loss (PFL) among non-sibling, common tern Sterna hirundo chicks between 2 and 4 weeks of age at Gull Island in northern Lake Ontario, Canada. Rarely observed in wild birds, to our knowledge PFL has not been recorded in terns since 1974, despite the banding of tens of thousands of tern chicks across North America since then. The prevalence (5% of chicks) and extent of feather loss was more extreme than in previous reports but was not accompanied by other aberrant developmental or physical deformities. Complete feather loss from all body areas (wing, tail, head and body) occurred over a period of a few days but all affected chicks appeared vigorous and quickly began to grow replacement feathers. All but one (recovered dead and submitted for post-mortem) most likely fledged 10-20 days after normal fledging age. Secondary covert feather samples were collected from PFL chicks (n=6; including shed feathers and re-growing live feathers) and normal individuals (n=8; plucked live feathers) and were analyzed for corticosterone concentrations. There was striking temporal association between the onset of PFL and persistent strong southwesterly winds that caused extensive mixing of near-shore surface water with cool, deep lake waters. We found no evidence of feather dystrophy, concurrent developmental abnormalities or nutritional shortfall among affected chicks. Thus, the PFL we observed among common terns in 2014 was largely of unknown origin but may have been caused by unidentified pathogens or toxins welling up from these deep waters along the shoreline. PFL was not observed among common terns at Gull Island in 2015, although we did observe similar feather loss in a herring gull Larus argentatus chick in that year. Comparison with sporadic records of PFL in other seabirds suggests that PFL may be a rare, but non-specific response to a range of potential stressors. Its reemergence in penguins, and now gulls and terns, may indicate widespread environmental changes that could lead to health risks for birds and other wildlife.', u"We make a first attempt at distinguishing information-carrying visual signal by comparing visual characteristics of American Sign Language and everyday human motion, to identify what clues might be available in one but not in the other. The comparison indicated significantly higher fractal complexity in sign language across tested frequency bands (0.01-15 Hz), as compared to everyday motion. A comparison of our results with the work also showing high fractal complexity in the speech signal allows us to suggest the underlying properties of linguistic signals which allow babies to 'tune to' a specific channel, or modality, during language acquisition.", u'Age and growth information is essential for accurate stock assessment of fish, and growth model selection may influence the result of stock assessment. Previous descriptions of the age and growth of elasmobranches relied mainly on the von Bertalanffy growth model (VBGM). However, it has been noted that sharks, skates and rays exhibit significant variety in size, shape, and life-history traits. Given this variation, the VBGM may not necessarily provide the best fit for all elasmobranches. This study attempts to improve the accuracy of age estimates by testing four growth models\u2014the VBGM, two-parameter VBGM, Robertson (Logistic) and Gompertz models\u2014to fit observed and simulated length-at-age data for 37 species of elasmobranches. The best growth model was selected based on corrected Akaike\u2019s Information Criterion (AICc), the AICc difference, and the AICc weight. The VBGM and two-parameter VBGM provide the best fit for species with slow growth and extended longevity (L\u221e > 100 cm TL, 0.05 < k < 0.15 yr-1), such as pelagic sharks. For fast-growing small sharks (L\u221e < 100 cm TL, kr or kg > 0.2 yr-1) in deep waters and for small-sized demersal skates/rays, the Robertson and the Gompertz models provide the best fit. The best growth models for small sharks in shallow waters are the two-parameter VBGM and the Robertson model, while all the species best fit by the Gompertz model are skates and rays.', u'The use of notation and concepts from mathematical set theory is investigated as a method for describing species concepts, and potentially higher level taxa. These methods may facilitate the easy databasing of species concepts, allowing the concepts themselves to become citable through the provision of unique identifiers. The increase in unique identifiers (such as Life Science Identifiers or Digital Object Identifiers) for biological specimens in recent years may make this approach more feasible than it would have been previously.', u"Remane\u2019s Artenminimum (\u201cspecies minimum\u201d) concept was developed for the Baltic Sea, the world\u2019s largest semi-enclosed brackish water body with a unique permanent salinity gradient. It argues that taxonomic diversity of macrobenthic organisms is lowest within the horohalinicum, which occurs at salinity 5 to 8, because the number of brackish specialists does not compensate for the decline in marine and freshwater diversity. The aim of the present study was to investigate the sediment bacterial diversity of a transect river-lagoon-open sea, i.e. from freshwater to marine, occurring at Amvrakikos Gulf (Ionian Sea, Western Greece) and to test whether it follows the Remane's concept, both in terms of species composition but also of functionality. DNA was extracted from sediment samples collected in situ from four stations along the aforementioned transect and sequenced for the 16S rRNA gene. In addition, sediment samples were collected for the assessment of benthic macroorganismic diversity. Moreover, several environmental parameters were measured and their correlation with the diversity patterns was explored. The results of the study shed light on the microbial biodiversity of transitional water ecosystems and reveal the effect of salinity on species diversity, both on microorganisms and on macrobenthic organisms.", u'The \u201cPedra de Fogo\u201d Formation dated from the Permian period (approximately 280 million years ago), belongs to the sedimentary Parnaiba Basin, located in the northeastern region of Brazil. It is recognized by their well preserved fossil contents and it is notable for having several fossilized trunks in the growing position. Specimens from different localities were selected in order to perform spectroscopic studies and X-ray diffraction analysis, as well, for the purpose of identifying and characterizing compounds related to the fossilized materials. These different techniques allowed to obtain information from the molecular spectra in organic and inorganic substances, which are present in these above stated fossils and in the atomic elements, as well as the crystalline phases. These aforementioned studies have revealed promising paleoenvironmental interpretations about their depositional strata. Regarding the techniques, these have enabled inferences with respect to the fossil diagenetic events and allowed a better understanding of the fossilized process and the mineralogical characteristics of the living environment, where the plants were buried. This study presents physical and/or chemical properties of the fossilized plants through vibrational spectroscopies, SEM/EDS spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction techniques. Based on the results duly obtained, we were able to identify the presence of silica and confirm that the dominant process of the fossilized specimens investigated has occurred through quartz silicification with the contribution of persistence from amorphous carbon.', u'The growing number of wildlife endocrinology studies have greatly enhanced our understanding of comparative endocrinology, and have also generated extensive longitudinal data for a vast number of species. However, the extensive graphical analysis required for these longitudinal datasets can be time consuming because there is often a need to create tens, if not hundreds, of graphs. Furthermore, routine methods for summarising hormone profiles, such as the iterative baseline approach and area under the curve (AUC), can be tedious and non-reproducible, especially for large number of individuals. We developed an R package, hormLong, which provides the basic functions to perform graphical and numerical analyses routinely used by wildlife endocrinologists. To encourage its use, hormLong has been developed such that no familiarity with R is necessary. Here, we provide a brief overview of the functions currently available and demonstrate their utility with previously published Asian elephant data. We hope that this package will promote reproducibility and encourage standardization of wildlife hormone data analysis.', u'Under models of isolation-by-distance, population structure is determined by the probability of identity-by-descent between pairs of genes according to the geographic distance between them. Well established analytical results indicate that the relationship between geographical and genetic distance depends mostly on the neighborhood size of the population, \\(N_b = 4\\pi\\sigma^2 D_e\\), which represents a standardized measure of gene flow. To test this prediction, we model local dispersal of haploid individuals on a two-dimensional torus using seven dispersal kernels: Rayleigh, Exponential, Half-normal, Triangular, Gamma, Lomax and Pareto. When neighborhood size is held constant, the distributions produce similar patterns of isolation-by-distance, confirming predictions. Considering this, we propose that the triangular distribution is the appropriate null distribution for isolation-by-distance studies. Under the triangular distribution, dispersal is uniform within an area of \\(4\\pi\\sigma^2\\) (i.e. the neighborhood area), which suggests that the common description of neighborhood size as a measure of a local panmictic population is valid for popular families of dispersal distributions. We further show how to draw from the triangular distribution efficiently and argue that it should be utilized in other studies in which computational efficiency is important.', u'A fragment of 680 bp of mitochondrial cytochrome b locus of European anchovies, Engraulis encrasicolus, was sequenced for 138 individuals collected from three Moroccan Atlantic areas and from Moroccan Alboran Sea. These samples were surveyed for diversity and differentiation with a range of summary statistics. The results showed that the most dominant clade in Moroccan anchovy is Clade A with a percentage ranging from 89% in Alboran Sea to 91% - 95 % in the Moroccan Atlantic coast. Overall, there was a significant genetic differentiation among the 4 Moroccan anchovy zones (\u03a6st = 0.01283; p=0.03910). Pairwise \u03a6st among populations and multidimensional scaling revealed a high homogeneity among Atlantic populations but some heterogeneity between Alboran population and Atlantic populations, mainly between the populations from Central Atlantic of Morocco with a significant difference.', u'Studying the effects of experimentally induced anxiety in healthy volunteers may increase our understanding of the mechanisms underpinning anxiety disorders. Prior work has shown that experimentally induced anxiety (via threat of unpredictable shock) improves accuracy at withholding a response on the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART), and in separate studies improves accuracy to classify fearful faces, creating an affective bias. Integrating these findings, in this study participants (N=47) at a public science engagement event were recruited to explore the effects of experimentally induced anxiety on an affective version of the SART. On the basis of previous work, we hypothesised that we would see an increased accuracy at withholding a response to affectively congruent stimuli (i.e. increased accuracy at withholding a response to fearful \u201cno-go\u201d distractors) under threat of shock. Replicating previous findings, threat of shock slowed reaction time. However, contrary to predictions there was no evidence to suggest an interaction between induced anxiety and stimulus valence on accuracy. Indeed Bayesian analysis provided decisive evidence in favour of the null. We suggest that valence effects could emerge after processing durations longer than those allowed by the present task.', u'Olmesartan belongs to a class of drugs called angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs). It works by relaxing blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily and is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Olmesartan medoxomil is an ester prodrug that is hydrolysed during absorption from gastrointestinal tract to the active form olmesartan. Due to rapid metabolism determination of the concentration of the prodrug in plasma is impossible. Previous human pharmacokinetic studies indicated that olmesartan is the only metabolite of olmesartan medoxomil. The aim of the study was to develop a method for the determination of olmesartan in human plasma. The developed LC-MS method is linear within the range of 5.00-2500.00 ng/mL which is suitable for pharmacokinetic studies after administration of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil single oral dose. The sample preparation procedure is fast and allows examination of large numbers of samples in a short time. The method was validated according to European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidelines, in compliance with the principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). All of the validation parameters met acceptance criteria and the method was successfully applied in the pharmacokinetic study in humans.', u'Bosentan is a drug used in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Evaluation of bosentan pharmacokinetics is an important step of the drug development. The aim of our study was to evaluate bioanalytical method reliability by assessing the influence of metabolite on the determination of bosentan in human plasma. In human body, bosentan is converted to three metabolites. Hydroxybosentan is an only pharmacologically active metabolite and its maximum concentration in plasma reaches 5-8% of the bosentan\u2019s maximum concentration. Hydroxybosentan\u2019s elimination half-life was reported to be very similar to that of bosentan (5-6 h) or slightly greater (6-14 h). It was observed that times to reach the maximum concentrations are similar for both compounds. Combination of high-performance liquid chromatography with UV-Vis detection and liquid-liquid extraction enabled to was determine bosentan in human plasma in the range of 50-4000 ng\u2219mL-1. During the method validation, metabolite back-conversion was studied using human plasma samples spkied with hydroxybosentan to obtain concentration of 500 ng\xb7mL-1. Additionally, the influence of metabolite on extraction of bosentan and the internal standard was assessed. We found that there was no influence of metabolite on determination of bosentan in developed bioanalytical method. The method was validated according to European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidelines, in compliance with the principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). All of the validation parameters met acceptance criteria what confirmed method\u2019s reliability.', u'Background. The diagnosis of non-adherence is complex and there are no completely reliable methods that can be used widely in daily practice. The aim of this study was to validate electronic prescriptions as a method of measuring treatment adherence in patients with mild-moderate hypertension.\nMethods. We conducted a prospective, longitudinal, multicenter study in primary care centers. The study involved 120 patients treated for hypertension and included in the electronic prescription program of the centers. Five visits were made: initial, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. Adherence was measured using an electronic monitor [medication event monitoring system (MEMS)] and through the electronic prescription program. We calculated the adherence rate (AR) using the MEMS and the electronic prescriptions, with the Medication Possession Ratio (MPR). Adherent patients were considered to be those whose AR was 80-100%. To validate the electronic prescription, its data were compared to the pill count by MEMS (Method of certainty). Sensitivity, specificity, positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) predictive values, and positive (LR+) and negative (LR-) likelihood ratios were calculated. The Kappa concordance index and the area under the ROC curve were also determined.\nResults. The study was completed by 108 patients (mean age 61.06 years, SD 9.08). Adherence was 77.4% by MEMS (95% CI: 66.8-88%) and 80.4% (95% CI=70.3-90.5) by MPR. At 24 months the sensitivity was 87%, specificity 93.7%, PPV 80%, NPV 96.1%, LR+ 13.8 and LR- 0.1. The K was 0.782 and the AUC was 0.903 (95% CI: 0.817-0.989). Therapeutic complexity was associated with pharmacological non-adherence (OR=1.35, p<0.01).\nDiscussion. The electronic prescription was an excellent method to measure non-adherence in hypertensive patients included in this program for over two years. Therapeutic simplicity improved treatment adherence.', u'Coral microbiomes are known to play important roles in organismal health, response to environmental stress, and resistance to disease. Pathogens invading the coral microbiome encounter diverse assemblages of resident bacteria, ranging from defensive and metabolic symbionts to opportunistic bacteria that may turn harmful in compromised hosts. However, little is known about how these bacterial interactions influence the overall structure, stability, and function of the microbiome during the course of pathogen challenge. We sought to test how coral microbiome dynamics were affected by interactions between two of its members: Vibrio coralliilyticus, a known temperature-dependent coral pathogen, and Halobacteriovorax, a unique bacterial predator of Vibrio and other gram-negative bacteria. We challenged specimens of the important reef-building coral Montastraea cavernosa with Vibrio coralliilyticus pathogens in the presence or absence of Halobacteriovorax predators, and monitored microbial community dynamics with 16S rRNA gene time-series. In addition to its direct effects on corals, pathogen challenge reshaped coral microbiomes in ways that allowed for secondary blooms of opportunistic bacteria. As expected, Vibrio coralliilyticus addition increased the infiltration of Vibrio into coral tissues. This increase of Vibrios in coral tissue was accompanied by increased richness, and reduced stability (increased beta-diversity) of the rest of the microbiome, suggesting strong secondary effects of pathogen invasion on commensal and mutualistic coral bacteria. Moreover, after an initial increase in Vibrios, two opportunistic lineages (Rhodobacterales and Cytophagales) increased in coral tissues, suggesting that this pathogen opens niche space for opportunists. Based on the keystone role of predators in many ecosystems, we hypothesized that Halobacteriovorax predators might help protect corals by consuming gram-negative pathogens. In keeping with a protective role, Halobacteriovorax addition alone had only minor effects on the microbiome, and no infiltration of Halobacteriovorax into coral tissues was detected in amplicon libraries. Simultaneous challenge with both pathogen and predator eliminated detectable V. corallyticus infiltration into coral tissue samples, ameliorated changes to the rest of the coral microbiome, and prevented secondary blooms of opportunistic Rhodobacterales and Cytophagales. Thus, we show that primary infection by a coral pathogen is sufficient to cause increases in opportunists, as seen in correlational studies. These data further provide a proof-of-principle demonstration that, under certain circumstances, host-associated bacterial predators can mitigate the ability of pathogens to infiltrate host tissue, and stabilize the microbiome against complex secondary changes that favor growth of opportunistic lineages.', u'In their article reporting the results of two experiments, Thorstenson, Pazda, & Elliot (2015a) found evidence that perception of colors on the blue-yellow axis was impaired if the participants had watched a sad movie clip, relative to participants who watched clips designed to induce a happy or neutral mood. Subsequently, these authors retracted their article (Thorstenson, Pazda, & Elliot, 2015b), citing a mistake in their statistical analyses and a problem with the data in one of their experiments. Here, we discuss a number of other methodological problems with Thorstenson et al.\u2019s experimental design, and also demonstrate that the problems with the data go beyond what these authors reported. We conclude that repeating, with minor revision, one of the two experiments, as Thorstenson et al. (2015b) proposed, will not be sufficient to address the problems with this work.', u'Background: Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the commonest thyroid malignancy originating from the follicle cells in the thyroid. Despite a good overall prognosis, certain high-risk cases as in those with lymph node metastasis (LNM) have progressive disease and poorer prognosis. MicroRNAs are a class of non-protein-coding, 19-24 nucleotides single-stranded RNAs which regulate gene expression and these molecules have been shown to play a role in LNM. The integrated analysis of miRNAs and gene expression profiles together with transcription factors (TFs) has been shown to improve the identification of functional miRNA-target gene-TF relationships, providing a more complete view of molecular events underlying metastasis process. Objectives: We reanalyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets on PTC to identify differentially expressed miRNAs/genes in PTC patients with LNM-positive (LNM-P) versus lymph node negative (LNN) PTC patients and to investigate the miRNA-gene-TF regulatory circuit that regulate LNM in PTC. Results: PTC patients with LNM (PTC LNM-P) has significantly shorter disease-free survival rate compared to PTC patients without LNM (PTC LNN) (Log-rank Mantel Cox test, p = 0.0049). We identified 181 significantly differentially expressed miRNAs in PTC LNM-P versus PTC LNN; 110 were upregulated and 71 were downregulated. The five topmost deregulated miRNAs were hsa-miR-146b, hsa-miR-375, hsa-miR-31, hsa-miR-7-2 and hsa-miR-204. In addition, 395 miRNAs were differentially expressed between PTC LNM-P and normal thyroid while 400 miRNAs were differentially expressed between PTC LNN and normal thyroid. We found 4 significant enrichment pathways potentially involved in metastasis to the lymph nodes namely oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos), cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), leukocyte transendothelial migration and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. OxPhos was the most significantly perturbed pathway (p = 4.70E-06) involving downregulation of 90 OxPhos-related genes. Significant interaction of hsa-miR-301b with HLF, HIF and REL/NFkB transcription factors were identified exclusively in PTC LNM-P versus PTC LNN. Conclusion: We found evidence of five miRNAs differentially expressed in PTC LNM-P. Alteration in OxPhos pathway could be the central event in metastasis to the lymph node in PTC. We postulate that hsa-miR-301b might be involved in regulating LNM in PTC via interactions with HLF, HIF and REL/NFkB. To the best of our knowledge, the roles of these TFs have been studied in PTC but the precise role of this miRNA with these TFs in LNM in PTC has not been investigated.', u'The problem of designing effective methodology to summarize, and analyze the amount of textual information produced by developers remains particularly challenging especially when the goal is to help developers in making better development/maintenance decisions. Moreover, contrasting results might be obtained depending on the communication channel being mined and the technique adopted for its analysis. In our work we investigate the usage of Natural Language Parsing (NLP) and Textual Analysis (TA) techniques to automatically classify development content. Results of our study highlight the superiority of NLP techniques over the traditional TA techniques when used to analyze the textual data produced in software development. We also show the benefits of NLP when used to enhance software engineering recommenders.', u'It is a well-known fact that some criminals follow perpetual methods of operations, known as modus operandi (MO) which is commonly used to describe the habits in committing something especially in the context of criminal investigations. These modus operandi are then used in relating criminals to other crimes where the suspect has not yet been recognized. This paper presents a method which is focused on identifying the perpetual modus operandi of criminals by analyzing their previous convictions. The method involves in generating a feature matrix for a particular suspect based on the flow of events. Then, based on the feature matrix, two representative modus operandi are generated: complete modus operandi and dynamic modus operandi. These two representative modus operandi will be compared with the flow of events of the crime in order to investigate and relate a particular criminal. This comparison uses several operations to generate two other outputs: completeness probability and deviation probability. These two outcomes are used as inputs to a fuzzy inference system to generate a score value which is used in providing a measurement for the similarity between the suspect and the crime at hand. The method was evaluated using actual crime data and four other open data sets. Then ROC analysis was performed to justify the validity and the generalizability of the proposed method. In addition, comparison with five other classification algorithms showed that the proposed method performs competitively with other related methods.', u"Background. Pharmacogenomic testing has the potential to improve the safety and efficacy of pharmacotherapy, but clinical application of pharmacogenetic knowledge has remained uncommon. Clinical decision support (CDS) systems could help overcome some of the barriers to clinical implementation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the perception and usability of a web- and mobile-enabled CDS system for pharmacogenetics-guided drug therapy \u2013 the Medication Safety Code (MSC) system \u2013 among potential users (i.e., physicians and pharmacists). Furthermore, this study sought to collect data on the practicability and comprehensibility of potential layouts of a proposed personalized pocket card that is intended to not only contain the machine-readable data for use with the MSC system but also human-readable data on the patient\u2019s pharmacogenomic profile. Methods. We deployed an emergent mixed methods design encompassing (1) qualitative interviews with pharmacists and pharmacy students, (2) a survey among pharmacogenomics experts that included both qualitative and quantitative elements and (3) a quantitative survey among physicians and pharmacists. The interviews followed a semi-structured guide including a hypothetical patient scenario that had to be solved by using the MSC system. The survey among pharmacogenomics experts focused on what information should be printed on the card and how this information should be arranged. Furthermore, the MSC system was evaluated based on two hypothetical patient scenarios and four follow-up questions on the perceived usability. The second survey assessed physicians\u2019 and pharmacists\u2019 attitude towards the MSC system. Results. In total, 101 physicians, pharmacists and PGx experts coming from various relevant fields evaluated the MSC system. Overall, the reaction to the MSC system was positive across all investigated parameters and among all user groups. The majority of participants were able to solve the patient scenarios based on the recommendations displayed on the MSC interface. A frequent request among participants was to provide specific listings of alternative drugs and concrete dosage instructions. Negligence of other patient-specific factors for choosing the right treatment such as renal function and co-medication was a common concern related to the MSC system, while data privacy and cost-benefit considerations emerged as the participants\u2019 major concerns regarding pharmacogenetic testing in general. The results of the card layout evaluation indicate that a gene-centered and tabulated presentation of the patient\u2019s pharmacogenomic profile is helpful and well-accepted. Conclusions. We found that the MSC system was well-received among the physicians and pharmacists included in this study. A personalized pocket card that lists a patient's metabolizer status along with critically affected drugs can alert physicians and pharmacists to the availability of essential therapy modifications.", u'Introduction: Despite growing concerns over pathological use of the Internet, studies based on validated psychometric instruments are still lacking in Pakistan. The present study aimed to examine the psychometric properties of Young\u2019s Internet Addiction Test (IAT) in a sample of the Pakistani population. We examined the validity, internal consistency, readability and floor and ceiling effects of IAT scores.Methods: This cross-sectional study was conducted at CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry, Lahore, Pakistan from 1 March 2015 to 30 May 2015. A total of 522 medical and dental students completed the questionnaire, which consisted of three sections: (a) demographics and percentage grades in annual examinations, (b) a categorical question to record the estimated number of hours spent on the Internet per day, and (c) the English version of the IAT. All data were analyzed in SPSS v. 20. Principal axis factor analysis was used to validate the factor structure of the IAT in our study sample. An alpha coefficient > .7 was sought in the reliability analysis. Histograms and the values of skewness and kurtosis were analyzed for floor and ceiling effects. In addition, readability of the IAT was assessed as the Flesch Reading Ease score and Flesch-Kincaid Grade level function. Results: A total of 522 medical and dental students participated in the survey. Most respondents were female medical students enrolled in preclinical years of their degree program. Median age (min-max) of the respondents was 20 years (17-25 years). A single-factor model for IAT score explained 33.71% of the variance, with a high alpha coefficient of .893. In addition, the IAT had good face and convergent validity and no floor and ceiling effects, and was judged easy to read by participants. Conclusion: The English version of the IAT showed good psychometric properties in a sample of Pakistani university students. A single-factor model for assessing internet addiction showed good reliability and was found suitable with our study sample.', u'The manual crime recording and investigation systems in police stations all around the world are generating piles of crime documents which make storage and retrieval of reliable crime information extremely difficult as well as inefficient. Furthermore, investigators of central authorities have to manually search through these documents and communicate between the relevant police stations to obtain required information. Eventually, delays in information flow between investigators of crime incidents cannot be avoided. Sri Lanka Police too have been facing the same set of issues over many years. To get rid of pilling of large number of documents annually in police stations, Sri Lanka Police is allowed to destroy the documents related to solved crimes which are older than five years. This may destroy not only "closed files", but also very valuable information that can be used in future crime investigations.To overcome this problem, this paper proposes a web-based framework with geographical information support which contains a centralized database for crime data storage and retrieval. Geographical capabilities of the framework support not only spatial analysis but also provide an efficient solution to current manual crime map generation. Our highly secured and user friendly framework follows the state of the art layered architecture which provides an optimized data model for fast access and easy analysis of crime data. The solution consists of an affluent set of data mining tools which are essential in any crime investigation process. Security of data is ensured with data encryption for sensitive information and by limiting access to the data through a role based access method. Further the data is only accessible through a virtual private network (VPN) connecting all the police stations and other relevant departments of the Police. The proposed framework was evaluated by conducting an experimental study and the results are promising.', u'Extinctions and threats of extinctions in avifaunas on oceanic islands appear to be influenced by several island characteristics and introduced mammalian predators. These predators may have caused a \u201cfilter effect\u201d; low numbers of threatened avian species on some islands might be due to high rates of past extinctions. Using path analysis, we examined these factors and the influence of human population size (as an indicator of human activity) on the number of species extinctions and threatened bird species on islands. Human population size had substantial influences on the number of extinctions (standardized partial regression coefficient \u03c1 = 0.315, N = 172, P = 0.0005) but not on the number of threatened species on oceanic islands (\u03c1 = -0.061, P = 0.43), independent of the number of introductions of predator species. The number of extinctions on islands produced a significant filter effect (viz., had a negative impact; \u03c1 = -0.186, P = 0.003) on the number of currently threatened species. The activities of human populations, including mammalian predators they introduced, have likely resulted in a greater number of bird extinctions on these islands, and producing a significant filter effect, wherein islands with larger human populations now have fewer threatened species.', u'Marine organisms are a prolific source of drug leads in a variety of therapeutic areas. In the last few years, biomedical, pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries have shown growing interest in novel compounds from marine organisms, including macroalgae. Cystoseira is a genus of Phaeophyceae (Fucales) macroalgae known to contain bioactive compounds. Organic extracts (hexane, diethyl ether, ethyl acetate and methanol extracts) from three Cystoseira species (C. humilis, C. tamariscifolia and C. usneoides) were evaluated for their total phenolic content, radical scavenging activity against DPPH and ABTS radicals, and antiproliferative activity against a human hepatocarcinoma cell line (HepG2 cells). C. tamariscifolia had the highest TPC and RSA. The hexane extract of C. tamariscifolia (CTH) had the highest cytotoxic activity (IC50=2.31 \xb5g/mL), and was further tested in four human tumor (cervical adenocarcinoma HeLa; gastric adenocarcinoma AGS; colorectal adenocarcinoma HCT-15; neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y), and two non-tumor (murine bone marrow stroma S17 and human umbilical vein endothelial HUVEC) cell lines in order to determine its selectivity. CTH strongly reduced viability of all tumor cell lines, especially of HepG2 cells. Cytotoxicity was particularly selective for the latter cells with a selectivity index = 12.6 as compared to non-tumor cells. Incubation with CTH led to a 2-fold decrease of HepG2 cell proliferation as shown by the BrdU incorporation assay. CTH-treated HepG2 cells presented also pro-apoptotic features, such as increased Annexin V/PI binding and dose-dependent morphological alterations in DAPI-stained cells. Moreover, it had a noticeable disaggregating effect on 3D multicellular tumor spheroids. Demethoxy cystoketal chromane, a derivative of the meroditerpenoid cystoketal, was identified as the active compound in CTH and was shown to display selective in vitro cytotoxicity towards HepG2 cells.', u'Decline in the therapeutic potential of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) is often seen with older donors as compared to young. Although hypoxia is known as an approach to improve the therapeutic potential of MSC in term of cell proliferation and differentiation capacity, its effects on MSC from aged donors have not been well studied. To evaluate the influence of hypoxia on different age groups, MSC from young (<30 years) and aged (>60 years) donors were expanded under hypoxic (5% O2) and normal (20% O2) culture conditions. MSC from old donors exhibited a reduction in proliferation rate and differentiation potential together with the accumulation of senescence features compared to that of young donors. However, MSC cultured under hypoxic condition showed enhanced self-renewing and proliferation capacity in both age groups as compared to normal condition. Bioinformatic analysis of the gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway under hypoxic culture condition identified hypoxia-inducible miRNAs that were found to target transcriptional activity leading to enhanced cell proliferation, migration as well as decrease in growth arrest and apoptosis through the activation of multiple signaling pathways. Overall, differentially expressed miRNA provided additional information to describe the biological changes of young and aged MSCs expansion under hypoxic culture condition at the molecular level. Based on our findings, the therapeutic potential hierarchy of MSC according to donor\u2019s age group and culture conditions can be categorized in the following order: young (hypoxia)> young (normoxia) > old aged (hypoxia) > old aged (normoxia).', u'Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) is the key enzyme to assimilate CO2 into the biosphere. The structural and evolutionary relationships among RuBisCOs were discussed at the domain level. The nonredundant sets for three superfamilies of RuBisCO, i.e. large subunit C-terminal domain (LSC), large subunit N-terminal domain (LSN) and small subunit domain (SS) were defined using QR factorization based on the structural alignment of the RuBisCO domains with QH as the similarity measure, respectively. The results suggest: (1) the core structures of LSC, LSN and SS are well conserved and homologies; (2) the LSC could have occurred naturally in both bacteria and Achaean kingdoms, and the carboxyl-terminal structure evolves increasingly complicated in both bacteria and Eukaryotae kingdoms; (3) the structural variations, such as coil structures at 67-82 positions of LSN and the \u03b2A-\u03b2B-loop of SS, could make attribution to the CO2/O2 specificity of RuBisCO from different species. Such findings provide insights on RuBisCO improvement.', u'A list with the names of miscellaneous botanical collections made by the authors in San Dami\xe1n district (Huarochir\xed province, Lima department), in Central Peru, is provided. Most reported species are rosids, and will be thoroughly treated later. We report more than fifty records for the general flora of the place, including asterids, rosids, grasses and lichens. The present work is a support document for the License thesis of the first author, where further explanations and insights are to be provided.', u'Agmatine and other putrescines are known strong inducers of deoxynivalenol (DON) production in Fusarium graminearum. Other important cereal species produce DON and/or other trichothecene type B toxins (3 acetylated DON, 15 Acetylated DON, Fusarenon-X, Nivalenol) such as F. culmorum and F. poae. In order to verify if the mechanism of regulation of trichothecenes type B induction by agmatine is shared by different species of Fusarium, we tested the hypothesis on 19 strains belonging to 3 Fusarium species (F. graminearum, F. culmorum, F. poae) with diverse genetic chemotypes (3ADON, 15ADON, NIV) by measuring trichothecene B toxins such as DON, NIV, Fusarenon-X, 3ADON and 15ADON. Moreover we also tested whether other toxins like zearalenone were also boosted by agmatine. The trichothecene type B boosting effect was observed in the majority of strains used (13 over 19) in all the three species. Representative strains from all the three genetic chemotypes were able to boost toxin production after agmatine treatment. We identified strains not responding to the agmatine stimulus which may contribute to deciphering the regulatory mechanisms that link toxin production to agmatine (and more in general polyamines).', u'Estimating the exposure of honeybees to pesticides on a landscape scale requires models of their spatial foraging behaviour. For this purpose, we developed a mechanistic, energetics-based model for a single day of nectar foraging in complex landscape mosaics. The hive population was assumed to select the resource patch with highest net energetic efficiency in perfect knowledge of its environment. During the day the optimal patch could change, due to resource depletion or related to the characteristics of the resource (i.e., the period flowers were open and provided nectar). By quantifying foraging costs and yield in terms of energy, we accounted for the impact of field distance and size, the occurrence of resource depletion and the characteristics of the resource type (crops and wild flowers), like seasonal and diurnal patterns in availability.From the model we derived simple rules for resource patch selection, e.g., for landscapes with mass-flowering crops, the net energetic efficiency would be proportional to the ratio of the energetic content of the nectar of the crop divided by distance of crop field to the hive. Also, we determined maximum distances at which resources like oilseed rape and clover could still be energetically attractive.We used the model to assess the potential for pesticide exposure dilution in landscapes of different composition and complexity. Dilution implied a lower average concentration in nectar arriving at the hive, resulting from foraging effort being diverted away from treated fields. Applying the model for all possible hive locations in a landscape, landscape-specific distributions of dilution values were obtained.For a case study area for which detailed spatial data were available, we tested three scenarios that were expected to lead to exposure dilution: the presence of i) equally attractive crop fields in the neighbourhood of a treated field, ii) highly attractive flowers strips of different widths at the edges of treated fields (off-crop in-field resources), and iii) highly attractive resources on off-field (semi-natural) habitats. The results indicated significant dilution at landscape scale only from flowers strips of more than 5 m wide and off-field habitats. On an area-base, flowers strips were approximately 10 times as effective as off-field habitats, the main reason being that the flowers strips had an optimal location, always at the edges of treated fields.', u'Product Data Management (PDM) produced desktop and web based systems to maintain the organizational technical and managerial data to increase the quality of products by improving the processes of development, business process flows, change management, product structure management, project tracking and resource planning. Though PDM is heavily benefiting industry but PDM community is facing some serious unresolved issues in PDM System development. i.e., unfriendly graphical user interfaces and unintelligent search. PDM Systems offer different many services and functionalities at a time but the graphical user interfaces of most of the PDM Systems are not designed in a way that a user (especially a new user) can easily learn and use them. Moreover, PDM Systems contain and manage heavy amount of data but the search mechanism of most of the PDM System is not intelligent which can process user\u2019s structured or unstructured natural language based queries to extract desired information. Targeting above discussed two serious PDM based issues a thorough research is conducted in fields of Product Data Management (PDM), Human Machine Interfaces (HMI) and Semantic Web (SW). Concerning PDM, conducted research discusses PDM desktop and web based systems, PDM system development guidelines and some existing PDM Systems. Concerning HMI, conducted research provide information about HMI Designing including Ideologies, Principles, Patterns, Design Guidelines, Basic Design Goals, Problems and Rich Internet Applications (RIA) for Web based HMI Development. Concerning SW, conducted research provides information about Web based information modeling and processing, Ontologies and semantic oriented information modeling based approaches. Using conducted research based information and keeping some existing solutions toward targeted PDM community\u2019s issues in mind a semantic oriented, information processing and intelligent graphical user interface based solution is proposed. i.e., Intelligent Semantic Oriented Agent based Search (I-SOAS). Describing the proposition in detail the main concept, implementation designs and developed prototype of I-SOAS is discussed in this dissertation.', u"One of the main motivations behind social network analysis is the quest for understanding opinion formation and diffusion. Previous models have limitations, as they typically assume opinion interaction mechanisms based on thresholds which are either fixed or evolve according to a random process that is external to the social agent. Indeed, our empirical analysis on large real-world datasets such as Twitter, Meme Tracker, and Yelp, uncovers previously unaccounted for dynamic phenomena at population-level, namely the existence of distinct opinion formation phases and social balancing. We also reveal that a phase transition from an erratic behavior to social balancing can be triggered by network topology and by the ratio of opinion sources. Consequently, in order to build a model that properly accounts for these phenomena, we propose a new (individual-level) opinion interaction model based on tolerance. As opposed to the existing opinion interaction models, the new tolerance model assumes that individual's inner willingness to accept new opinions evolves over time according to basic human traits. Finally, by employing discrete event simulation on diverse social network topologies, we validate our opinion interaction model and show that, although the network size and opinion source ratio are important, the phase transition to social balancing is mainly fostered by the democratic structure of the small-world topology.", u'Background. Fish species may be identified based on their unique otolith shape or contour. Several pattern recognition methods have been proposed to classify fish species through morphological features of the otolith contours. However, there has been no fully-automated species identification model with the accuracy higher than 80%. The purpose of the current study is to develop a fully-automated model, based on the otolith contours, to identify the fish species with the high classification accuracy. Methods. Images of the right sagittal otoliths of 14 fish species from three families namely Sciaenidae, Ariidae, and Engraulidae were used to develop the proposed identification model. Short-time Fourier transform (STFT) was used, for the first time in the area of otolith shape analysis, to extract important features of the otolith contours. Discriminant Analysis (DA), as a classification technique, was used to train and test the model based on the extracted features. Results. Performance of the model was demonstrated using species from three families separately, as well as all species combined. Overall classification accuracy of the model was greater than 90% for all cases. In addition, effects of STFT variables on the performance of the identification model were explored in this study. Conclusions. Short-time Fourier transform could determine important features of the otolith outlines. The fully-automated model proposed in this study (STFT-DA) could predict species of an unknown specimen with acceptable identification accuracy. The current model has flexibility to be used for more species and families in future studies.', u'Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf0-1 is one of the model organisms for biofilm research. Our previous transposon mutagenesis study suggested a requirement for the de novo purine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway for biofilm formation by this organism. This study was performed to verify that observation and investigate the basis for the defects in biofilm formation shown by purine biosynthesis mutants. Constructing deletion mutations in 8 genes in this pathway, we found that they all showed reductions in biofilm formation that could be partly or completely restored by nucleotide supplementation or genetic complementation. We demonstrated that, despite a reduction in biofilm formation, more viable mutant cells were recovered from the surface-attached population than from the planktonic phase under conditions of purine deprivation. Analyses using scanning electron microscopy revealed that the surface-attached mutant cells were 25~30% shorter in length than WT, which partly explains the reduced biomass in the mutant biofilms. The laser diffraction particle analyses confirmed this finding, and further indicated that the WT biofilm cells were smaller than their planktonic counterparts. The defects in biofilm formation and reductions in cell size shown by the mutants were fully recovered upon adenine or hypoxanthine supplementation, indicating that the purine shortages caused reductions in cell size. Our results are consistent with surface attachment serving as a survival strategy during nutrient deprivation, and indicate that changes in the cell size may be a natural response of P. fluorescens to growth on a surface. Finally, cell sizes in WT biofilms became slightly smaller in the presence of exogenous adenine than in its absence. Our findings suggest that purine nucleotides or related metabolites may influence the regulation of cell size in this bacterium.', u'Background. Red Lists have been traditionally used as the instruments to guide conservation strategies to avoid extinctions. There is little objection to the idea that categorizing species according to their risk of extinction is a good way to prioritize and implement conservation actions; however, there is little consensus in the best way to do this categorization, and different countries have developed different methods according to their specific needs. The scope of this paper is to contrast the Mexican Risk of Extinction Assessment Method (MER) and the one used by the IUCN Red List, and test how simple, objective and transparent are them. Methods. In order to compare the we performed a search within IUCN\xb4s data base to find species ranked as critically endangered which have not been assessed by the MER. We picked 5 species from the rodent genus Habromys and performed a literature review to assess them through the MER guidelines; we then compared the outcomes with UICN Red List. Results. The five assessed species of cloud forest rodents yield equivalent results through both the MER and IUCN assessments; however, the information asked for by the MER was scant for all the species, and we argue that the results of the assessments are thus not entirely objectives. Moreover, we found that the MER is not a simple method to use due to ambiguities of the criteria. Discussion. The aim of risk assessments is to clearly define the conservation status of a given species, displayed in a simple, transparent, objective, way, which can be relevant in terms of scope and impact on conservation actions. Unfortunately the MER does not fulfil all these requirements, potentially compromising conservation actions. As a result, we propose that it is time reevaluate the current version of the Mexican Risk of Extinction Assessment Method.', u'A successful software project is the result of a complex process involving, above all, people. Developers are the key factors for the success of a software development process, not merely as executors of tasks, but as protagonists and core of the whole development process. This paper investigates social aspects among developers working on software projects developed with the support of Agile tools. We studied 22 open source software projects developed using the Agile board of the JIRA repository. All comments committed by developers involved in the projects were analyzed and we explored whether the politeness of comments affected the number of developers involved and the time required to fix any given issue. Our results showed that the level of politeness in the communication process among developers does have an effect on the time required to fix issues and, in the majority of the analysed projects, it had a positive correlation with attractiveness of the project to both active and potential developers. The more polite developers were, the less time it took to fix an issue. In the majority of the analysed cases, the more developers wanted to be part of a project, the more they were willing to continue working on the project over time.', u'The aim of this study was to evaluate if low-frequency, low-magnitude vibrations (LFLM) could enhance chondrogenic differentiation potential of human adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells (hASCs) with simultaneous inhibition of their adipogenic properties for biomedical purposes. We developed a prototype device that induces low-magnitude (0.3 g) low-frequency vibrations with the following frequencies: 25, 35 and 45 Hz. Afterwards, we used human adipose derived mesenchymal stem cell (hASCS), to investigate their cellular response to the mechanical signals. We have also evaluated hASCs morphological and proliferative activity changes in response to each frequency. Induction of chondrogenesis in hASCs, under the influence of a 35 Hz signal leads to most effective and stable cartilaginous tissue formation through highest secretion of Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2 (BMP-2), and Collagen type II, with low concentration of Collagen type I. These results correlated well with appropriate gene expression level. Simultaneously, we observed significant up-regulation of \u03b13, \u03b14, \u03b21 and \u03b23 integrins in chondroblast progenitor cells treated with 35Hz vibrations, as well as Sox-9. Interestingly, we noticed that application of 35 Hz frequencies significantly inhibited adipogenesis of hASCs. The obtained results suggest that application of LFLM vibrations together with stem cell therapy might be a promising tool in cartilage regeneration.', u'The clinical utility of microbiome biomarkers depends on the reliable and reproducible nature of comparative results. Underappreciation of the variation associated with common demographic, health, and behavioral factors may confound associations of interest and generate false positives. Here, we present the Midwestern Reference Panel (MWRP), a resource for comparative gut microbiome studies conducted in the Midwestern United States. We analyzed the relationships between demographic and health behavior\u2013related factors and the microbiota in this cohort, and estimated their effect sizes. Most variables investigated were associated with the gut microbiota. Specifically, body mass index (BMI), race, sex, and alcohol use were significantly associated with microbial \u03b2-diversity (P < 0.05, unweighted UniFrac). BMI, race and alcohol use were also significantly associated with microbial \u03b1-diversity (P < 0.05, species richness). Tobacco use showed a trend toward association with the microbiota (P < 0.1, unweighted UniFrac). The effect sizes of the associations, as quantified by adjusted R2 values based on unweighted UniFrac distances, were small (< 1% for all variables), indicating that these factors explain only a small percentage of overall microbiota variability. Nevertheless, the significant associations between these variables and the gut microbiota suggest that they could still be potential confounders in comparative studies and that controlling for these variables in study design, which is the main objective of the MWRP, is important for increasing reproducibility in comparative microbiome studies.', u'Background. 16S rRNA gene sequences are routinely assigned to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that are then used to analyze complex microbial communities. A number of methods have been employed to carry out the assignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences to OTUs leading to confusion over which method is optimal. A recent study suggested that a clustering method should be selected based on its ability to generate stable OTU assignments that do not change as additional sequences are added to the dataset. In contrast, we contend that the quality of the OTU assignments, the ability of the method to properly represent the distances between the sequences, is more important.Methods. Our analysis implemented six de novo clustering algorithms including the single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, abundance-based greedy clustering, distance-based greedy clustering, and Swarm and the open and closed-reference methods. Using two previously published datasets we used the Matthew\u2019s Correlation Coefficient (MCC) to assess the stability and quality of OTU assignments.Results. The stability of OTU assignments did not reflect the quality of the assignments. Depending on the dataset being analyzed, the average linkage and the distance and abundance-based greedy clustering methods generated OTUs that were more likely to represent the actual distances between sequences than the open and closed-reference methods. We also demonstrated that for the greedy algorithms VSEARCH produced assignments that were comparable to those produced by USEARCH making VSEARCH a viable free and open source alternative to USEARCH. Further interrogation of the reference-based methods indicated that when USEARCH or VSEARCH were used to identify the closest reference, the OTU assignments were sensitive to the order of the reference sequences because the reference sequences can be identical over the region being considered. More troubling was the observation that while both USEARCH and VSEARCH have a high level of sensitivity to detect reference sequences, the specificity of those matches was poor relative to the true best match.Discussion. Our analysis calls into question the quality and stability of OTU assignments generated by the open and closed-reference methods as implemented in current version of QIIME. This study demonstrates that de novo methods are the optimal method of assigning sequences into OTUs and that the quality of these assignments needs to be assessed for multiple methods to identify the optimal clustering method for a particular dataset.', u'Tramadol is used in both human and veterinary medicine to treat postoperative pain. The purpose of this study was to evaluate tramadol as a sole postoperative analgesic and to compare drug plasma concentration to clinical pain score. A high or low dose of tramadol was randomly assigned and administered to 14 mixed breed female dogs after ovariohysterectomy. The Short-Form of the Glasgow Composite Measure Pain Scale was used for pain evaluation post-operatively. Plasma was collected for evaluation of tramadol and O-desmethyltramadol concentrations. The effect of weight and dose on pain scores as well as how pain score correlated with plasma concentration of tramadol and O-desmethyltramadol was evaluated. A significant difference in pain score was noted between doses when weight classes were pooled. The plasma concentrations did not correlate with pain score. Based on our results, the use of tramadol as a sole analgesic agent provides inadequate postoperative pain control.', u'Agroecosystems are often complex ecosystems with diverse food webs. Changes in food web complexity may have important context-dependent consequences for pest control strategies. The success of predator introductions to suppress pests may depend on the diversity of pests. For crops with diverse pest assemblages, it is hypothesized that diverse predator communities are needed to suppress diverse pest assemblages below damaging levels. In this study, we compare the ability of ant predator monocultures and polycultures to suppress single- and diverse- (three species) pest assemblages in a coffee foodweb. We use a factorial experiment that compared treatments of predator and pest diversity to understand the impact of pest diversity on multiple predator effects. We show that predator polycultures enhanced pest risk relative to predator monocultures significantly more in the diverse-pest treatment relative to in the single-pest treatments for two of three pest species. Further, we show that pest diversity significantly reduced pest risk in all predator treatments except for the predator polyculture treatment. These results suggest that pest diversity may reduce the efficiency of single predator species at suppressing pest damage, but do not limit multiple predator species. This in turn leads to stronger effects of predator diversity with greater pest diversity. These results highlight the need to consider foodweb complexity, such as pest diversity, when designing and implementing biology control programs.', u'Limited information exists regarding complex interactions between biological invasions, pollution, and climate change. Most studies indicate that pollution tends to favor invasive species. Here, we provide evidence that arsenic (As) pollution may contribute to limit the invasion of the exotic brine shrimp Artemia franciscana. We tested As toxicity in natural populations of Artemia parthenogenetica (native) and A. franciscana from high and low As contaminated environments in southern Spain, under current temperature conditions and as per a future climate scenario (i.e., an increase of 4\xbaC). Acute toxicity was estimated on the basis of the median lethal concentration (at 24h), and chronic toxicity (at 26 days) was evaluated by measuring Artemia survival and growth under sublethal exposures. At 25\xbaC native A. parthenogenetica from the highly polluted Odiel and Tinto estuary was much more resistant to acute As stress (LC50-24h, 24.67 mg L-1) than A. franciscana (15.78 mg L-1) and A. parthenogenetica populations from unpolluted sites (12.04 mg L-1) - suggesting that local adaptation to polluted conditions may occur. At 29\xbaC, resistance of A. parthenogenetica from Odiel decreased significantly, and there were no statistical differences in sensitivity between the three species/populations, suggesting that climate change may enhance the probability of invasion. Resistance increased with developmental stage from nauplii to adults, and was extremely high in cysts which still hatched at As concentrations of up to 6400mg L-1. Under sublethal chronic exposure A. franciscana performed better (survival and growth) than A. parthenogenetica, and both species experienced a faster growth when exposed, compared with unexposed (control) individuals, probably due to the hormesis. We discuss the ecological implications of our results.', u'One of the anthraquinone classes comprises compounds with a carbonyl group. These natural or synthetic anthraquinones find their application as building blocks in the synthesis of the compounds with a biological activity. Recently, 4-substituted anthra-9,10-quinone-1-carboxylic acids (2) have been used as key intermediates in the synthesis of patented compounds (3) with anticancer activity against multidrug resistant cell lines. Although 2,7-dihydro-3H-dibenz[de,h]cinnolin-3,7-diones (3) were successfully synthetized in a small laboratory scale, several problems were observed during the preparation of their acid intermediates (2) in a multi-gram scale. The known methods for the preparation of 2 are based on the oxidation of the methyl group in anthra-9,10-quinones (1). The most common are: the oxidation with the diluted nitric acid under high pressure in a sealed tube at the temperature of 195-220 oC, the oxidation in nitrobenzene by passing chlorine gas through the reaction mixture at the temperature of 160-170 oC or in a presence of the fuming sulphuric acid. The mentioned methods require aggressive reagents and specific reaction conditions including high pressure and temperature. Thus, there was a need to find a new efficient, cost-effective and reproducible synthetic method of preparation of 2. While searching literature it was found that the direct oxidation of alkylarenes mediated by the sodium periodate/lithium bromide combination produces benzyl acetates throughout benzyl bromides in the acetic acid, or benzylic acids in the diluted inorganic acid. Based on these results we examined a variety of reaction conditions with or without the bromine source and the oxidizing anion. As a result, a novel procedure for the preparation of highly pure 4-substituted anthra-9,10-quinone-1-carboxylic acids (HPLC > 99.5%) using oxidizing anion/ brominating reagent system was developed. It enabled 2 isolation by the simple filtration of the reaction mixture and was applied in the scale-up of 2,7-dihydro-3H-dibenz[de,h]cinnolin-3,7-dione derivatives.', u'Accurate landcover maps are fundamental to understanding socio-economic and environmental patterns and processes, but existing datasets contain substantial errors. Crowdsourcing map creation may substantially improve accuracy, particularly for discrete cover types, but the quality and representativeness of crowdsourced data is hard to verify. We present an open-sourced platform, DIYlandcover, that serves representative samples of high resolution imagery to an online job market, where workers delineate individual landcover features of interest. Worker mapping skill is frequently assessed, providing estimates of overall map accuracy and a basis for performance-based payments. A trial of DIYlandcover showed that novice workers delineated South African cropland with 91% accuracy, exceeding the accuracy of current generation global landcover products, while capturing important geometric data. A scaling-up assessment suggests the possibility of developing an Africa-wide vector-based dataset of croplands for $2-3 million within 1.2-3.8 years. DIYlandcover can be readily adapted to map other discrete cover types.', u'We evaluated the seed dispersal of Bursera longipes by birds along a successional gradient of tropical dry forest (TDF) in southwestern Mexico. B. longipes is an endemic tree to the TDF in the Balsas basin. The relative abundance of frugivorous birds, their frequency of visits to B. longipes and the number of removed fruits were recorded at three study sites with different stages of forest succession (early, intermediate and mature) characterized by distinct floristic and structural elements. Flycatchers of the Myiarchus and Tyrannus genera removed the majority of fruits at each site. Overall, visits to B. longipes were less frequent at the early successional site. Birds that function as legitimate dispersers by consuming whole seeds and regurgitating or defecating intact seeds in the process also remove the pseudoaril from seeds, thereby facilitating the germination process. The highest germination percentages were recorded for seeds that passed through the digestive tract of two migratory flycatchers: M. cinerascens and M. nutingii. Perch plants, mainly composed of legumes (e.g., Eysenhardtia polystachya, Acacia cochliacantha, Calliandra eryophylla, Mimosa polyantha), serve also as nurse plants since the number of young individuals recruited from B. longipes was higher under these than expected by chance. This study shows that Myiarchus flycatchers are the most efficient seed dispersers of B. longipes across all successional stages. This suggests a close mutualistic relationship derived from adaptive processes and local specializations throughout the distribution of both taxa, as supported by the geographic mosaic theory of coevolution.', u'The aim of the given paper is a critical analysis of the prospects of further development of the frequency components with negative resistance. The possible and most promising areas of the development of new and improvement of existing frequency components in various technical fields, such as measurement of non-electrical and electrical parameters, the creation of computer systems and components of radio circuits, are shown.The most promising components, the development of which probably has a substantial interest for further improvement of technical and economic parameters of the engineering equipment, is given in a separate group.', u'As nearshore ecosystems are increasingly degraded by human activities, active restoration is a critical strategy in ensuring the continued provision of goods and services by coastal habitats. After being absent for nearly six decades, over 1800 ha of the foundational species eelgrass (Zostera marina L.) has been successfully reestablished in the coastal bays of the mid-western Atlantic, USA, but nothing is known about the recovery of associated animal communities. Here, we determine the patterns and drivers of functional recovery in epifaunal invertebrates associated with the restored eelgrass habitat from 2001-2013. After less than a decade, the invertebrate community in the restored bed was richer, more even, and exhibited greater variation in functional traits than a nearby reference bed. Analysis of a suite of environmental and physical variables using random forests revealed these differences were primarily due to the increasing area and density of eelgrass directly attributable to ongoing restoration efforts. Based on analysis of functional traits, we propose that the rapid life histories of constituent organisms may have played a key role in their successful recovery. We also suggest that the diverse epifaunal communities observed may have positive consequences for continued restoration success through the removal of fouling epiphytes from eelgrass blades. Given that restored eelgrass now make up 32% of total seagrass cover in the mid-Atlantic coastal bays, this restoration may foster regional biodiversity by providing new and pristine habitat, particularly given the general decline of existing eelgrass in this region, and globally.', u'The spiny lobster Panulirus argus supports one of the most economically important commercial fisheries in the Caribbean, yet its sustainable management is problematic due to uncertainty regarding levels of population connectivity among Caribbean nations. We developed two microsatellite multiplex panels for P. argus to assist in future conservation genetics research studies of this important Caribbean species. Significant deviations from Hardy\u2013Weinberg equilibrium were observed at locus Par7 in multiplex 1 and loci Fwc08 and Fwc17 in multiplex 2. No evidence of linkage disequilibrium was observed. All 12 loci were used in both microsatellite multiplexes were polymorphic, with an average of 12 alleles per locus (ranging from 3 to 29 alleles per locus) and HO ranging from 0.368 to 0.921. These two microsatellite multiplexes will be a valuable resource for ongoing and future studies of conservation genetics in the Caribbean spiny lobster, Panulirus argus.', u'About a decade ago, I observed that as the cell growth rate increases, mRNAs coding for ribosomal proteins are transcriptionally induced to varying degrees. This observation puzzled me as it defied my expectation that faster growing cells meet their demands for increased protein synthesis by simply inducing all ribosomal proteins to the same degree to make more ribosomes. These initial data were limited to mRNA levels and thus too indirect to make concrete conclusions about ribosomal structure and function. This commentary outlines my trajectory investigating this puzzle in search of more direct data.', u'Schema validation is an integral part of reliable information exchange on the Web. However, implementing an efficient schema validation tool is not easy. We highlight the use of parsing expression grammars (PEGs), a recognition-based foundation for describing syntax, and apply it to the XML/DTD validation. This paper shows that structural schema constraints in document type definitions (DTDs) can be validated by the converted PEGs with the linear time and constant space consumption. We study the performance of several existing PEG-based tools, and then confirm that the converted PEGs achieve a practical and even competitive level of performance under existing standard XML/DTD validators.', u'Symbiont occurrence is influenced by host occurrence and vice versa, which leads to correlations in host-symbiont distributions at multiple levels. Interactions between co-infecting symbionts within host individuals can cause correlations in the abundance of two symbiont species across individual hosts. Similarly, interactions between symbiont transmission and host population dynamics can drive correlations between symbiont and host abundance across habitat patches. If ignored, these interactions can confound estimated responses of hosts and symbionts to other factors. Here, we present a general hierarchical modeling framework for distributions of hosts and symbionts, estimating correlations in host-symbiont distributions at the among-site, within-site, among-species, and among-individual levels. We present an empirical example from a multi-host multi-parasite system involving amphibians and their micro- and macroparasites. Amphibian hosts and their parasites were correlated at multiple levels of organization. Macroparasites often co-infected individual hosts, but rarely co-infected with the amphibian chytrid fungus. Such correlations may result from interactions among parasites and hosts, joint responses to environmental factors, or sampling bias. Joint host-symbiont models account for environmental constraints and species interactions while partitioning variance and dependence in abundance at multiple levels. This framework can be adapted to a wide variety of study systems and sampling designs.', u'In the early days of the human genome project (HGP), during the late 1980s and early 1990s, there was skepticism that the genome project would produce biologically meaningful information. The reality is that bioinformatics has allowed us to extract far more biology from sequenced genomes than any published predictions in the early 1990s. Thanks to the efforts of many researchers in several subfields of bioinformatics, we can now process a sequenced genome through a series of computations to produce a quantitative metabolic flux model. Thus, surprisingly, bioinformatics has achieved what might have been held up as a holy grail of the field, before the goal was even articulated.', u'Introduction: In the 30 years since its identification in Papua New Guinea the response to HIV and its subsequent spread has waxed and waned and taken new directions as the social and biomedical environment changed. More than 30 years later the surveillance system continues to falter and there has still not been a national survey on which estimates can be based. Absent a functioning surveillance system, PNG \u2018\u2019estimates\u2019\u2019 the size of the epidemic from time to time based on mathematical models of the epidemic. This has resulted in widely varying estimates and confusion about the course of the epidemic. After appearance of the virus PNG struggled to design and implement an effective response. A new government at the end to the 1990s saw a strengthened response and formation of a National AIDS Council (NAC) located, eventually, in the Office of the Prime Minister. Around the same time PNG commenced a process of decentralizing government services to provinces and districts. DOH was expected to continue to provide services even though overall control now was with the NAC and responsibility for services was decentralized.Discussion: PNG is now reliant on mathematical models to estimate the course of the epidemic. Even though the most recent results indicate a fall in incidence since 2005, two recent reviews indicate that programs have not been effective at most levels and that the dual architecture of the government response has failed to adjust to the decentralization of government activities. Thus we now have the situation where models indicate lower prevalence than originally projected even though interventions are apparently ineffective and we have no reliable independent data to indicate why? There are two lessons from the PNG experience. First, the importance of establishing an effective HIV surveillance system. And second, realization that the NAC approach, originally seen as a panacea by donors and agencies, has not worked in PNG. The critical thing now is to return control of the HIV/AIDS program to the DOH on the condition that, except for surveillance and setting standards, it decentralizes the program to provinces and districts.', u"Background: Type-D personality was suggested as a marker of poorer prognosis for patients of cardiovascular disease. It is defined by having a score of 10 or more on both sub-scales of the DS14 questionnaire, Social Inhibition (SI) and Negative Affect (NA). As Type-D was designed to predict risk, its temporal stability is of prime importance. Methods: Participants in the current study were 285 community volunteers, who completed the DS14, and other personality scales, at a mean interval of six years. Results: The prevalence of Type-D did not change. The component traits of Type-D showed rank order stability. Type-D caseness temporal stability was improved by using the total DS14 score. Using the scale's product as a criterion further improved temporal stability. Logistic hierarchical regression predicting Type-D classification from Time1 demonstrated that the best predictors were Time1 scores on NA and SI, with the character trait of Cooperation, and the alexithymia score adding some predictive power. Conclusions: Temporal stability of Type-D caseness may be improved by using a sum or product threshold, rather than the current rule. In any case, as the temporal stability of Type-D is limited, research is required to formulate the optimal timing for Type-D measurement for predictive purposes.", u'Urine is a very good source for biomarker discovery because it accumulates the changes of body. The urinary proteome is influenced by various factors, which is a major challenge in urinary biomarker discovery. To circumvent these problems, simpler systems, such as animal models, should be used to establish associations between physiological or pathological conditions and changes in the urinary proteome. In this study, the urinary proteome of young (2-month-old) and old rats (20-month-old; 9 in each group) were analyzed using LC-MS/MS and quantified using the Progenesis LC-MS software. A total of 371 proteins were identified, 194 of which were shared between young and old rats. Based on the criteria of a fold change \u2265 2, P < 0.05 and being identified in each rat in the high abundance group, 33 proteins were changed (15 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated in old rats). By adding a more stringent standard (protein spectral counts from every rat in the higher group greater than those in the lower group), 8 proteins were changed consistently in all rats of between the groups, 2 of which are also altered in the urinary proteome of aging humans. There are no shared proteins between our results and the previous aging plasma proteome. Twenty of the 33 (60 %) changed proteins have been reported to be disease biomarkers, which implies that aging may share similar urinary changes with some diseases. The 33 proteins corresponded to 28 human orthologs, which are strongly expressed in the kidney, intestine, cerebellum and lung, according to the human protein ATLAS. Therefore, the urinary proteome may reflect aging conditions in these organs.', u'The potato tuberworm, Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), is a worldwide pest of solanaceous crops especially devastating to potatoes. In the present study we investigated the cold hardiness profile of short-term acclimated and non-acclimated immature and adult stages of a field population of P. operculella. Late instars displayed the lowest mean supercooling point, for both short-term acclimated and non-acclimated individuals, however, no significant differences were observed among developmental stages. Unlike supercooling capacity, acclimation at 5 oC for 5 days enhanced the ability to survive at subzero temperatures after a 2 h exposure. Mean lethal temperature (LTemp50) of all developmental stages (egg, late instar, pupa and adult) decreased after short-term acclimation, however only adults displayed a significant difference among acclimated and non-acclimated individuals concerning their LTemp50 (-11.1 and -8.3 oC, respectively). Generally, pupae were the most cold tolerant developmental stage followed in decreasing order by the eggs and adults, while interestingly late instars were the least ones. Non-freezing injury above the supercooling point was well documented for all developmental stages indicating a pre-freeze mortality and suggesting that P. operculella is considered to be chill tolerant rather than freeze intolerant. Nevertheless, given its high degree of cold hardiness, winter mortality of P. operculella due to low temperatures is not likely to occur and potential pest outbreak can take place following a mild winter.', u'Green lacewings (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) are voracious predators of aphids and other small, soft-bodied insects and mites. Earlier, we identified the first lacewing pheromone from field-collected males of the goldeneyed lacewing, Chrysopa oculata Say; (1R,2S,5R,8R)-iridodial is released from thousands of microscopic dermal glands on the abdominal sterna of males, along with comparable amounts of nonanal, nonanol and nonanoic acid. Iridodial-baited traps attract C. oculata and other Chrysopa spp. males into traps, while females come to the vicinity of, but do not usually enter baited traps. Despite their healthy appearance, normal fertility and usual amounts of C9 compounds, laboratory-reared C. oculata males do not produce iridodial. However, we observed that goldeneyed lacewing males caught alive in iridodial-baited traps sometimes try to eat the lure, and in Asia Chrysopa spp. males reportedly eat the native plant, Actinidia polygama (Siebold & Zucc.) Maxim. (Actinidiaceae) to obtain the iridoid, neomatatabiol. These observations prompted us to investigate why laboratory-reared Chrysopa green lacewings do not produce iridodial. Lacewing adult males fed various monoterpenes reduced carbonyls to alcohols and saturated double bonds, but did not convert these compounds to iridodial. Males fed the bicyclic iridoid aphid pheromone component, (4aS,7S,7aR)-nepetalactone, converted ~75% to dihydronepetalactone, but did not produce iridodial; however, wild C. oculata males collected in May often contained traces of dihydronepetalactone. On the other hand, adult males fed the second common aphid pheromone component, (1R,4aS,7S,7aR)-nepetalactol, converted this compound to iridodial. In California the peak late-season attraction of green lacewings to nepetalactol (the lactone is unattractive) occurs at least a month earlier than the peak in aphid oviparae (the pheromone producing morph of aphids), consistent with the hypothesis that Chrysopa males feed on oviparae to obtain nepetalactol as a precursor to iridodial. Adult males from laboratory-reared C. oculata larvae fed nepetalactol failed to produce iridodial, and wild C. oculata males collected early in the spring produce less iridodial than males collected later in the season. Therefore, we further hypothesize that Asian Chrysopa eat A. polygama to obtain iridoid precursors in order to make their pheromone, and that other iridoid-producing plants elsewhere in the world must be similarly usurped by male Chrysopa species to sequester pheromone precursors. Whether or not sequestration of iridodial precursors from oviparae and/or iridoid-containing plants is truly the explanation for lack of pheromone in laboratory-reared Chrysopa awaits further research .', u'Astragalus edulis (Fabaceae) is an endangered annual species from western Mediterranean region that colonized SE Iberian Peninsula, NE and SW Morocco, and the easternmost Macaronesian islands (Lanzarote and Fuerteventura). Although in Spain some conservation measures have been adopted, it is still necessary to develop an appropriate management plan to preserve genetic diversity across the entire distribution area of the species. Our main objective was to use population genetics as well as ecological and phylogeographic data to select Relevant Genetic Units for Conservation (RGUCs) as the first step in designing conservation plans for A. edulis. We identified six RGUCs for in situ conservation, based on estimations of population genetic structure and probabilities of the loss of rare alleles. Additionally, further population parameters, i.e. occupation area, population size, vulnerability, legal status of the population areas, and the historical haplotype distribution, were considered in order to establish which populations deserve conservation priority. Three populations from the Iberian Peninsula, two from Morocco, and one from the Canary Islands represent the total genetic diversity of the species and the rarest allelic variation. Ex situ conservation is recommended to complement the preservation of A. edulis, given that effective in situ population protection is not feasible in all cases. The consideration of complementary phylogeographic and ecological data is useful for management efforts to preserve the evolutionary potential of the species.', u'Background. Ecological communities of interacting species analyzed as complex networks, revealed that species dependence on their counterpart is more complex than expected at random. For ant-plant networks (mediated by extrafloral nectar), links among species are asymmetric (nested), forming a core of generalist species. Proposed factors affecting network organization include encounter probability (species abundances, habitat heterogeneity), behavior, phylogeny and body size. While the importance of underlying factors that influence structure of ant-plant networks have been separately explored, simultaneous contribution of several biological and ecological attributes inherent to the species, guild or habitat level have not been addressed. Methods. For a tropical seasonal site we recorded frequency of pairwise ant-plant interactions mediated by extrafloral nectaries, attributes of interacting species, habitat attributes, cover of plants with EFNs, and studied the resultant network structure. We addressed for the first time the role of mechanistic versus neutral determinants at the \u201cfine-grain\u201d structure (pairwise interactions) of ant-plant networks, studying the simultaneous contribution of several plant, ant, and habitat attributes in prevailing interactions as well as in overall network topology (community). Results. Our studied network was highly-nested, non-modular, with core species in general having high species strengths (higher strength values for ants than plants) and low specialization; plants had higher dependences on their counterparts. The significant factor explaining network and fine-grain structure was habitat heterogeneity in vegetation structure (open vs. shaded habitats), with no evidence of neutral (abundance) effects. Discussion. Core ant species are relevant to most plants species at the network, the latter depending more on the former, core ants showing adaptations to nectar consumption and deterrent behavior, suggestive of potential biotic defense at a community scale. At our study site spatiotemporal heterogeneity is so strong, that emerges at community-level structural properties, depicting influence of abiotic factors in facultative mutualism. Frequent occurrence of morphologically-diverse EFNs at all habitats suggests plasticity in plant strategies for biotic defense provided by ants.', u'Background. Self-regulation tools are not always used optimally, and implementation intention plans often lack quality. Therefore, this study explored participants\u2019 use and feasibility evaluation of self-regulation techniques and their impact on goal attainment.\nMethods. Data were obtained from 452 adults in a proof of concept (POC) intervention of \u2018MyPlan\u2019, an eHealth intervention using self-regulation techniques to promote three healthy behaviours (physical activity(PA), fruit intake, or vegetable intake). Participants applied self-regulation techniques to a self-selected health behaviour, and evaluated the self-regulation techniques. The quality of implementation intentions was rated by the authors as a function of instrumentality (instrumental and non-instrumental) and specificity (non-specific and medium to high specific). Logistic regression analyses were conducted to predict goal attainment.\nResults. Goal attainment was significantly predicted by the motivational value of the personal advice (OR:1.86), by the specificity of the implementation intentions (OR:3.5), by the motivational value of the action plan (OR:1.86), and by making a new action plan at follow-up (OR:4.10). Interaction-effects with behaviour showed that the specificity score of the implementation intention plans (OR:4.59), the motivational value of the personal advice (OR:2.38), selecting hindering factors and solutions(OR:2.00) and making a new action plan at follow-up (OR:7.54) were predictive of goal attainment only for fruit or vegetable intake. Also, when participants in the fruit and vegetable group made more than three plans, they were more likely to attain their goal (OR:1.73), whereas the reverse was the case in the PA group (OR:0.34).\nDiscussion. Feedback on goal feasibility, coping implementation intentions, further research to investigate the optimal number of plans for different behaviours, the optimal frequency and timing of follow-up modules and new ways to incorporate social support in eHealth interventions, are recommended.', u'Background: Perineal pressure due to bicycle riding has been associated with erectile dysfunction. We developed a novel method to measure the occlusive force exerted over the perineal arteries and determined perineal artery occlusion by a variety of seat designs. Methods: Doppler ultrasonography facilitated perineal artery localization and determination of the force required for perineal artery occlusion in 20 healthy men. Flexiforce\xae sensors were affixed over the proximal and distal aspects of the perineal arteries bilaterally. Individuals completed bicycle rides in the road- and stationary-settings with six distinct seat designs. , including those with and without an anterior \u201cnose\u201d. Results: The occlusion time proportion of the total ride time was calculated for each trial. The overall occlusion time proportion was 0.59 (95% CI 0.45-0.73) across all seats and settings. The \u201cno-nose\u201d bicycle seat and the stationary-setting demonstrated significantly lower occlusion proportion times than the traditional nose bicycle seat and road-setting, respectively. However, all bicycle seats yielded an occlusion time proportion of 0.41 or greater. Discussion: Our method of real-time, non-invasive force measurement localized to the perineal arteries may be used to validate future bicycle seat design. It also underscores the significant risk of perineal artery insufficiency in men who are avid bicyclists. This risk may be minimized by using newer \u201cno-nose\u201d bicycle seats.', u'We here provide evidence to support an extension of the recognized distributional range of the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii) to include southern Mexico. We collected two specimens in breeding condition in northwestern Sierra Norte de Chiapas, Mexico. Morphologic and genetic evidence support their identity as Elaenia frantzii. We compared environmental parameters of records across the entire geographic range of the species to those at the northern Chiapas survey site and found no climatic differences among localities.', u'The first Mares Conference on Marine Ecosystems Health and Conservation was a successful event organized by the MARES doctoral programme bringing together over 150 researchers in Olh\xe3o, Portugal from November 17th to 21st 2014. The conference was opened by Prof. Dr. Hans-Otto P\xf6rtner, whose keynote address focused on a sectoral analysis by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report (IPCC AR5) on the impacts of climate change on the world\u2019s oceans. The first session on \u201cFuture oceans\u201d was opened with a talk by Dr. Frank Melzner highlighting the problems calcifying invertebrates face in the warmer, more acidic and hypoxic waters. Other presenters dealt with changing global diversity patterns, ocean acidification, and the loss the genetic diversity. The second session on \u201cNatural resources\u201d was opened by Dr. Rainer Froese, who focused on whether or not the oceans can feed humanity. This talk introduced other contributions in the session, dealing with fisheries issues and Marine Protected Areas, as well as problems with proper identifications of species used for economic purposes. \u201cBiodiversity effects\u201d was the scope of the third session opened by a talk on oxygenation and marine biodiversity challenges in the 21st Century by Prof. Lisa Levin. Rapid ocean deoxygenation is a process which is currently less investigated but which has considerable effects on body size, taxonomic composition, habitat heterogeneity, and nutrient cycling. The following presentations focused on other factors having a strong effect on marine biodiversity, ranging from the harvesting of algae to the fragmentation of ecosystems. The fourth session addressed \u201cBiological invasions\u201d. Dr. Gregory Ruiz discussed biological invasions in North American marine ecosystems and the need for constant monitoring, and the use of a dynamic and multi-vector approach. Problems with invasive species in European waters were addressed with examples from the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, and the Mediterranean Sea. The fifth session on \u201cOcean Noise\u201d was opened by Prof. Peter Tyack with a talk on the effects of anthropogenic sound on marine mammals. Although ocean noise issues are often linked to marine mammals, the effects of sound related to marine constructions on fish behaviour, nicely illustrated that ocean noise is a factor with a much broader impact than expected. The last session of the first Mares Conference dealt with \u201cHabitat loss\u201d. Dr. Michael Beck focused on this topic with his talk on \u2018Building Coastal Resilience for Climate Adaptation and Risk Reduction\u2019. Talks in the session ranged from the use of telemetry as a tool to monitor species in changed habitats, to cases dealing with sea level rise related problems in for example salt-marshes. The first Mares Conference offered a broad range of oral and poster presentations, as well as digital presentations. The poster and digital object presentations included over 100 contributions.', u'The H5N8 influenza subtype is a relatively new highly pathogenic avian influenza. Until the recent Korean outbreak of H5N8 the viral subtype had only been detected sporadically. This paper looks at the multiple reassortment events between H5 hemagglutinin and N8 neuraminidase segments that explain the breaks in the history of the H5N8 subtype, especially in the United States and that show that the recent reassortment has produced an outbreak that has very different characteristics to previous H5N8 outbreaks.', u'Background: Pipeline hybrids of maize must be evaluated very intensively and from several perspectives in order to extract reliability of success of the hybrids in farmers\u2019 field before their release as cultivars and to extract some useful physiology preferably photosynthesis and tolerance of green LS (leaf sectors) under biotic and abiotic stresses as scientists\u2019 bonus. For it, five pipeline single cross hybrids of yellow maize have been examined from the standpoint of photosynthetic potentiality of central leaf and nutrient mobilization from it to ear for grain fill. Materials and methods: Just above ear (e1) leaf have been minutely examined through ratio of absorbance to transmittance of red light of 650 nm (RAT) measure, chl and N concentration (conc). From correlation coefficients (r) computed between grain yield (GY) and frequency of LS of varying RAT SPAD (Soil Plant Analysis and Development) measures, chl and N conc; a few photosynthesis models have been proposed to explain leaf physiologies and its effects on GY. Results and discussions: Through analysis of frequency distribution of RAT measures and r between GY and frequency of LS of varying RAT (SPAD) measure, RATA Makai model has been proposed to explain for a variety of efficiency of antennae to harvest light energy especially red photons and transfer the energy to reaction centers (RCs). Antenna has been classified into functional, semi-functional and least functional based on their contribution on GY. Next is diversity model to explain existence of two types of diversity of leaf sector such as narrow and wide diversity on the central maize leaf based on r between GY and frequency of LS of varying RAT. This sort of LS diversity study helps classify nature of LS based on RAT and or chl and N conc. A few more models proposed in it are NARC (Nitrogen Concentration in Antenna and Reaction Centers) and PAY (Protein Amounts and its effects on Yield) based on r between GY and leaf N and protein amounts. In addition; strong positive r has been found between GY and the frequencies of the LS of 46-52 RAT SPAD; 46-56 \u03bcg cm-2 of chl conc and 2-2.3% N of dry weight; This way, we proposed about threshold and upper limit of the RAT SPAD, chl and N conc in maize leaves. It implies that cells in the RAT SPAD range 46-52 are genotype based multiplicative, physiologically active and competent to make their identity in the e1 leaf of the hybrids for GY contribution. Furthermore, next model of \u201cgreen car\u201d has been proposed for four kinds of proportion of green and carotenoid (car) conc: high green-high car, high green-low car, low green-high car and low green-low car on maize leaves and their effects on grain yield and dry matter production. We can extract a model of no car-no food from the existence of effect phenomena of high green-low car conc on the low dry matter and GYs in maize.', u'The www has started a new era in dissemination of scientific information, which is already to such extent propagated by electronic media that it has become practically independent from the system of subscription driven printed journals. These developments of marked increase in availability of scientific information, commonly described as Open Access, have profound consequences for functioning of all segments of scientific community and also strategically influence education systems. Generally, there are growing expectations for freely available results of publicly funded research. Open Access (OA), which is developing for ca 25 years, has generated a number of large publishers (i.e. BioMedCentral) and over 5 000 of scholarly peer reviewed journals, which can be checked in the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ; https://doaj.org/). Leaving aside new types of business models which evolved in connection with widespread of electronic publishing, we will analyze the OA phenomenon from the point of view of an active life science researcher, as a reader and an author. Thus, the OA \u201cfor profit\u201d publishing modalities, distinguished as \u201cgreen route\u201d and \u201cgold route\u201d will be presented as well as some extracts from ongoing debate on the economics of particular variants. Finally, the question of choice between publishing options for prospective results in getting cited, will be touched upon.', u"Heavy metal contamination has been a significant problem limiting agricultural development, but sugarcane has recently emerged as a valuable phytoremediator. To better understand the molecular mechanism behind sugarcane's metal tolerance, it is necessary to analyze the expression of a novel gene(s) by qRT-PCR. Importantly, introducing internal reference gene(s) should be selected based upon gene stable expression, the inclusion of which could enhance both the accuracy and reliability of this method. In this study, 13 candidate genes were selected and evaluated stability of each genes. The results derived by statistical algorithms were then validated by normalizing the expression of metal related gene ScMTP (GenBank Accession No. KP864146), ScMT2-1-3 (GenBank Accession No. JQ627644), ScMPP (GenBank Accession No. CA267392.1) and ScHMA1 (GenBank Accession No. CA156665.1). Collectively, our qRT-PCR results indicated that in heavy metal-exposed sugarcane, APRT was the better single internal control in expression quantification. Moreover, the combination of CAC + CUL provide for a more accurate normalization for gene transcript profiles under these same conditions. The gene expression quantification that included APRT and CAC + CUL suggested that ScMTP had a differential expression pattern, ScMT2-1-3 and ScMPP were slightly inhibited, and ScHMA1 had minimal induction of expression in response to Cd2+ and Cu2+ stresses in sugarcane. Taken together, the suitable reference genes identified in this study will benefit future work aimed at the sugarcane gene functional characterization.", u'The Multidisciplinary Conference on Drug Research is being organized every two years since 1999 under auspices of Pharmaceutical Research Institute and constitutes a forum for presenting research results, exchange views and multi-faceted discussion between professionals associated with the broader science of medicine. The lectures cover topics in the field of medicinal chemistry, organic synthesis and technology, pharmaceutical analysis and clinical and pharmaceutical technology. Scientific program of MKNOL (Polish acronym of the conference) reflects the intention of Scientific Committee to comprise various aspects of drug discovery development process, stressing from the beginning the need for multidisciplinary communication of all researchers interested in scientific progress for betterment of human life. Past editions of the MKNOL: a) I. Muszyna, 3-5 March 1999, b) II. Jelenia G\xf3ra-Cieplice, 5-7 April 2000, c) III. Pi\u0142a, 13-16 May 2002, d) IV. Gda\u0144sk-Sobieszewo 17-19 May 2004, e) V. Dar\u0142\xf3wko Wschodnie, 15-17 May 2006, f) VI. Przemy\u015bl-Krasiczyn, 26-28 May 2008, g) VII. Zakopane, 10-12 May 2010, h) VIII. Ossa ko\u0142o Rawy Mazowieckiej, 30 May -1 June 2012, i) IX. Korytnica ko\u0142o Szyd\u0142owa, 12-14 May 2014. We hope that the X MKNOL will be also a great opportunity to share new scientific achievements.', u'Efficient methods of biodiversity assessment and monitoring are central to ecological research and crucial in conservation management. Technological advances in remote acoustic sensing inspire new perspectives in ecology: environmental sound monitoring is emerging as a reliable non-invasive proxy for ecological complexity (Sueur and Farina, 2015). Rather than attempting to recognise species-specific calls, either manually or automatically, we are interested in monitoring the global acoustic environment, tackling the problem of diversity assessment at the community (rather than species) level. Preliminary work has attempted to make a case for community-level acoustic indices (e.g. Pieretti et al., 2011; Farina, 2014; Sueur et al., 2008b) which provide simple statistical summaries of the frequency or time domain signal. We suggest that under this approach, the opportunity to analyse spectro-temporal structural information is diminished, limiting their power both as monitoring and investigative tools. In this paper we consider sparse-coding and source separation algorithms (specifically, shift-invariant probabilistic latent component analysis in 2D) as a means to access and summarise ecologically-meaningful sound objects. In doing so we highlight a possible new approach for understanding and assessing ecologically relevant interactions within the conceptual framework of ecoacoustics.', u'Background. Usain Bolt holds the current world record for a 100-m run, 9.58 s, and has been described as the best human sprinter in history. However, this raises questions concerning the maximum human running speed. Can the world\u2019s fastest men become faster still? The correct answer is likely \u201cYes\u201d. Methods. We plotted the historical world records for bipedal and quadrupedal 100-m sprint times according to competition year. These historical records were plotted using several curve-fitting procedures. Results. We found that the projected speeds intersected in 2052, when for the first time, the winning quadrupedal 100-m sprint time of 9.249 s was projected to be lower than the winning bipedal time of 9.350 s. Conclusion. Quadrupedal running is not a new running style, and has been used by all humans. This running style simply awakens a human locomotive instinct from an enduring sleep.', u'Marine environments are generally considered as highly valuable and their health and conservation status are seen as key priorities. However, marine wildlife and habitats are facing multiple threats ranging from eutrophication to overfishing and ocean acidification, all of which directly or indirectly affect the biodiversity of marine ecosystems. The Mares Conference 2016 aims to address the main issues of marine ecosystems health and conservation. To do this, six thematic subjects will be explored throughout the conference scientific sessions and exhibitions; 1) Future oceans: Temperature increase, ocean acidification and expanding hypoxic zones in the ocean have the most prominent impacts on marine ecosystems health on the global scale. Recent results show that the reaction of marine ecosystems towards climate change, including ocean warming, acidification and expanding hypoxic zones, is often not linear but may occur in abrupt reorganisations of marine communities. 2) Understanding biodiversity effects on the functioning of marine ecosystems: During the last decades, it has become increasingly clear that the biodiversity of an ecosystem and its functional features are intricately linked. The objective of this theme is to further our understanding of how interactions between species, can be influenced by anthropogenic activities (pollution, fisheries). 3) Biological invasions: Species introduced outside their natural range are deemed non indigenous species. Invasive alien species can have adverse effects on biological diversity, ecosystem functioning, socio-economic values and/or human health in invaded regions. 4) Natural resources: overexploitation, fisheries and aquaculture: Since the late 19th century, the world fisheries catch has increased steadily, however, analysis of global trends of the most important marine stocks in the world shows that the majority are overexploited or depleted. 5) Ocean noise pollution: Anthropogenic sources of noise in the marine environment have increased in line with expansion in shipping, oil and gas exploration, infrastructure development, offshore renewable energy generation, naval sonar and research activities. These sound sources vary in intensity and frequency and can result in chronic and acute impacts on marine organisms. 6) Habitat loss, urban development, coastal infrastructures and marine spatial planning: The coastal zones are changing under pressure from a growing human population and the conversion of shoreline habitat to urban development. While the conservation challenges associated with the expansion of human infrastructures are well understood in terrestrial systems, urban ecology has not been of as much focus in marine science and management.', u'Spiders (Order Araneae) are massively abundant generalist arthropod predators that are found in nearly every ecosystem on the planet and have persisted for over 380 million years. Spiders have long served as evolutionary models for studying complex mating and web spinning behaviors, key innovation and adaptive radiation hypotheses, and have been inspiration for important theories like sexual selection by female choice. Unfortunately, past major attempts to reconstruct spider phylogeny typically employing the \u201cusual suspect\u201d genes have been unable to produce a well-supported phylogenetic framework for the entire order. To further resolve spider evolutionary relationships we have assembled a transcriptome-based data set comprising 70 ingroup spider taxa. Using maximum likelihood and shortcut coalescence-based approaches, we analyze eight data sets, the largest of which contains 3,398 gene regions and 696,652 amino acid sites forming the largest phylogenomic analysis of spider relationships produced to date. Contrary to long held beliefs that the orb web is the crowning achievement of spider evolution, ancestral state reconstructions of web type support a phylogenetically ancient origin of the orb web and diversification analyses show that the mostly ground-dwelling, web-less RTA clade diversified faster than orb weavers. Consistent with molecular dating estimates we report herein, this may reflect a major increase in biomass of non-flying insects during the Cretaceous Tertiary Revolution 125-90 million years ago favoring diversification of spiders that feed on cursorial rather than flying prey. Our results also have major implications for our understanding of spider systematics. Phylogenomic analyses corroborate several well-accepted high level groupings: Opisthothele, Mygalomorphae, Atypoidina, Aviculariodea, Theraphosidina, Araneomorphae, Entelygynae, Araneoidea, the RTA \u2013 clade, Dionycha and the Lycosoidea. Alternatively, our results challenge the monophyly of Eresoidea, Orbiculariae, and Deinopoidea. The composition of the major Paleocribellate and Neocribellate clades, the basal divisions of Araneomorphae, appear to be falsified. Traditional Haplogynae, and even the new concept of Synspermiata, need revision after the departure of Filistatidae and Leptonetidae from the haplogyne clade. The sister pairing of filistatids with hypochilids, implies that some peculiar features of each family may in fact be synapomorphic for the pair. Leptonetids now are seen as a possible sister group to the Entelegynae, illustrating possible intermediates in the evolution of the more complex entelegyne genitalic condition, spinning organs and respiratory organs.', u'Applying analgesics to feed is a potentially easy method of providing pain-relief to sheep and lambs that undergo painful husbandry procedures. In order for sheep to consume medicated feed it needs to be know if the medication has an adverse odour or flavour that may affect consumption. It is also important to determine if therapeutic concentrations of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) can be achieved when administered to sheep as a feed supplement. Pelleted feed was supplemented with flunixin (4.0mg/kg liveweight) and administered to eight sheep, which they were able to consume over a 12 h period. Blood samples were taken over 48 h and plasma drug concentrations were determined using Ultra High Pressure Liquid Chromatography. The mean time required to reach maximum concentration was 6 \xb1 1.46 h and ranged from 1 to 12 h. Average maximum plasma concentration was 1.78 \xb1 0.17\xb5g/mL and ranged from 1.61 to 2.80 \xb5g/mL. The average half-life of flunixin was 7.95 \xb1 0.77 h and there was a mean retention time of 13.62 \xb1 1.17 h. Sheep did not show aversiveness to pellets supplemented with flunixin. When consuming medicated feed ad libitum all sheep were able to obtain inferred therapeutic concentrations of flunixin in plasma within 6 h. Provision of flunixin in the feed may provide a practical way to provide pain relief to sheep and lambs following painful husbandry procedures removing the need for multiple injections, reducing handling stress and minimising labour requirements.', u'The Deepwater Horizon oil spill resulted in varying degrees of oiling in the salt marshes of northern Barataria Bay, Louisiana, USA. This study examines the effects of oiling intensity and recovery on two conspicuous marsh-platform macroinvertebrates, Uca spp., fiddler crabs, and Littoraria irrorata, the salt marsh periwinkle, from 2.5 to 4.5 years after the spill. The dominant fiddler crab within these marshes, Uca longisignalis, was the only species observed in field collections, and no significant difference in burrow density or burrow size was found among oiling levels over the study period indicating recovery from any negative effects of oiling already occurred for this species. The highest density of L. irrorata was found at moderately oiled sites compared to both reference (without visible oiling) and heavily oiled stations. Spartina alterniflora density recovered within two years after the spill at the moderately oiled stations facilitating recovery of L. irrorata approximately one year later. L. irrorata average shell length and length-frequency distributions were equivalent at moderately oiled and reference stations but snails were shorter at heavily oiled stations because of a greater proportion of subadults.  Shell length data from the heavily oiled sites indicate that direct mortality due to oiling or oil-induced reductions in recruitment occurred in 2010 and that recovery was starting to occur at 48 months after the spill. The extent and duration of oil in the water during the spill and the biological responses we measured indicates that L. irrorata and Uca longisignalis were both affected in their ability to carry out their life cycle on the marsh and/or in the water column at all stations including the reference stations for some period following the entry of oil into the region.', u'Biological questions today are often answered with the help of simulation models. Many of these models encode biological processes as biochemical reaction networks. The increasing amount of published models and the growing size of encoded reaction networks demand methods to analyse models. Specifically, researchers need to identify reoccurring and biologically relevant patterns. However, pattern recognition in large networks is a hard problem, and only partial solutions for very specific biological networks exist until now. In addition, while such patterns where already postulated, identifying them manually is barley feasible given a large set of complex models. This paper examines automatic methods to find reoccurring patterns structural similarities in models represented as bipartite graphs. An approach is presented to find the most frequent structures within the models. Appropriate patterns were found, which occur in a major part of the 575 input models. The occurrences of the resulting structures can provide insight into the encoding of certain biological processes, evaluate the postulated structures and serve as a reasonable similarity measure for grouping models that share many common structures.', u'When you keep a red apple in working memory, your attention is usually\u2014but not always\u2014attracted by other red objects. The conditions under which the contents of visual working memory guide visual attention are still unclear. Here we tested whether attention is indeed biased toward memory-match stimuli, and, if so, whether this bias is transient or sustained. We used a new pupillometric technique, which exploits that the pupil is larger when you covertly attend to dark, compared to bright, stimuli. This allowed us to test whether and when attention was biased toward memory-match stimuli, by placing them either on a dark or a bright background, while measuring pupil size over time. We found that the eyes were captured by memory-match probes early on in the trial. However, the pupillary data suggested that there was no sustained attention bias toward memory-match probes later in time; rather, attention appeared to be biased away from them. Together, our results suggest that: (1) memory-match stimuli automatically capture attention; but (2) they do so only briefly; and (3) they may even become inhibited later in time.', u'The highlands and mountains of Iceland, defined here as areas located above 400 m above sea level (m.a.s.l.) are one of the largest remaining wilderness areas in Europe. The present study was aimed to provide the first comprehensive and up-to-date data on non-native plant species from this region. The study was aimed to answer the following questions: (1) How many non-native vascular plant species inhabit highland and mountainous environments in Iceland? (2) Do temporal trends in alien species immigration to Iceland and highland areas differ? (3) Do human disturbed and undisturbed areas within Icelandic highlands differ in terms of alien species occurrence? (4) Is spread within the highland areas a second step in alien plant colonization? and (5) Can we point out hot-spots in the distribution of non native taxa within highlands? Overall, 16 non-native vascular plant species were detected, including 11 casuals and 5 naturalized taxa (1 invasive). Results showed that temporal trends in alien species immigration to Iceland and to highland areas are similar, but it is clear that the process of colonization of highland areas is still in its initial phase. It was evidenced that non-native plants tend to occur close to man-made infrastructure and buildings including huts, shelters, road network etc. Analysis of spatio-temporal patterns showed that the spread within highland areas is a second step in non-native plant colonization in Iceland. Several statically significant hot spots of alien plant occurrences were be identified using Getis-Ord Gi* statistic and linked to human disturbance. This research suggests that human-mediated dispersal is the main driving force increasing the risk of invasion in Icelandic highlands and mountain areas.', u'Background: Body Mass Index (BMI) has lost its credibility as an indicator of fatness. 3D scan and body composition details of Yajnik and Yudnik, the authors with similar BMI but very different body fat percentage was labelled as \u2018YY paradox\u2019. 3D scanners are not widely available; as such dependence on less specific tools is still high. It was assumed that such paradoxes may frequently occur in anthropometrically derived body composition indices and paucity of such information prompted us to explore the nature and usage of YY paradox. Methods: Body composition of 89 medical students from North India was studied using bioelectric-impedance fat monitor and anthropometric techniques. YY phenomenon were identified and studied in 1) same BMI but different body fat (Classic YY), 2) same BVI but different BMI (yy BVI~BMI), 3) same Skeletal mass/body fat but different body volume (yy SKM/BF ~ BV) and 4) same Lean Body mass/body fat but different body volume (yy LBM/BF ~ BV). Results: The study population comprised young adults aged 18 -26 years. Males comprised 51.7 % of the study group. YY phenomenon was found in 44 individuals with respect to same BMI but different body fat; 47 individuals of same BVI but different BMI. Of all the indices studied, lowest number of YYs were found in yy LBM/BF ~ BV index. 14.6% study subjects had high visceral fat. Odds Ratio (OR) for high visceral fat in all the studied indices among subjects showing yy-phenomenon and those not showing yy-phenomenon revealed an OR of 1.09 (CI 0.3-3.7) for yy LBM/BF ~ BV index. This suggests that high visceral fat (VF) is the same in both groups and implies that there is no difference between the two arms i.e., YY and non-YY group contains approximately similar proportion of subjects with high VF. Conclusion: We found a high frequency of such paradoxes in this population and also demonstrated that these are not normally distributed. It is also suggested that a deeper look in this issue could be used for deriving predictive models for disease linked anthropometric markers.', u'A popular approach in ecological modeling explicitly simulates the biology and ecology of individual organisms. Individual-based models (IBM) allow ecological patterns and dynamics to be studied as they emerge from the individual level according to simulated principles and theories. IBMs also allow virtually any aspect of a simulated system to be tracked and recorded for later analysis. I developed a novel IBM platform (i.e, simplex) to explicitly simulate physiology, life history, resource-limited growth, fluctuating environmental dynamics, and community assembly and structure in both fluid and non-fluid environments. simplex accomplishes three primary tasks in keeping with its namesake (i.e., a generalized notion of a triangle to arbitrary dimensions). First, simplex assembles and runs stochastic ecological models from random combinations of over 20 state variables. Second, simplex stores the output of models and generates and stores animations. Third, simplex provides R Markdown files for analyzing simulated data. The simplex source code is freely available, includes the standard ODD description protocol, is open to community-based revision, includes unit testing and time testing, and has been developed to run on modest hardware.', u'Globally mature forests appear to be increasing in biomass density. There is disagreement whether these increases are the result of increases in CO2 concentrations or a legacy effect of previous land-use. Recently, it was suggested that a threshold of 450 years should be used to define mature forests and that many forests increasing in biomass may be younger than this. However, the study making these suggestions failed to account for interactions between forest age and climate. Here we revisit the issue to identify: (1) how climate and forest age control global forest biomass density and (2) whether we can set a threshold age for mature forests. Using data from previously published studies we modelled the impacts of forest age and climate on biomass density using linear mixed effects models. We examined the potential biases in the dataset by comparing how representative it was of global mature forests in terms of its distribution, the climate space it occupied and the ages of the forests used. Biomass density increased with forest age, mean annual temperature and annual precipitation. Importantly the effect of forest age increased with increasing temperature, but the effect of precipitation decreased with increasing temperatures. The dataset was biased towards Northern hemisphere forests in relatively dry, cold climates. The dataset was also clearly biased towards forests <250 years of age. Our analysis suggests that there is not a single threshold age for forest maturity. Since climate interacts with forest age to determine biomass density a threshold age at which they reach equilibrium can only be determined locally. We caution against using biomass as the only determinant of forest maturity since this ignores forest biodiversity which often takes longer to recover. Future study of the influence of climate on forest biomass should aim to use the data currently being generated by long-term monitoring networks and satellite based observations.', u'Experimental mesocosm studies of rocky shore and estuarine intertidal systems may benefit from the application of natural tide cycles to better replicate variation in immersion time, water depth, and attendant fluctuations in abiotic and edaphic conditions. Here we describe a stand-alone microcontroller tide prediction open-source software program, coupled with a mechanical tidal elevation control system, which allows continuous adjustment of aquarium water depths in synchrony with local tide cycles. We used this system to monitor the growth of Spartina foliosa marsh cordgrass and scale insect herbivores at three simulated shore elevations in laboratory mesocosms. Plant growth decreased with increasing shore elevation, while scale insect population growth on the plants was not strongly affected by immersion time. This system shows promise for a range of laboratory mesocosm studies where natural tide cycling could impact organism performance or behavior, while the tide prediction system could additionally be utilized in field experiments where treatments need to be applied at certain stages of the tide cycle.', u'Background: Crop scientist\u2019s curiosities were to examine variation in photosynthetic sectors of grain filler leaf or flag leaf of any major crop species. Crop scientists including plant breeders too will be privileged from the findings. So it includes such precision evaluation of five single cross pipeline hybrids (Hs 6, 112, 14, 113 and 109) of yellow maize using red light absorbance-transmittance (RAT) measure by chlorophyll meter SPAD 502 before their release as cultivars. Materials and methods: For it, five pipeline hybrids were examined from two RCBD trials that they were in a big research plot with uniform soil fertility level and with the same control environment. Each of the trials was conducted planting the seeds of the fifteen newly bred separate hybrids on October 3, 2012 exposing their flowering and early grain filling to the natural winter in the subtropical region in Nepal. Five plants of the pipeline hybrids of the fifteen plots of three replications were randomly selected and tagged before tassel emergence. After about one month of anthesis, one hundred observations of the RAT SPAD measures were taken from the chlorophyll meter from the just-above-ear (e1) leaf of each of the selected plants of the hybrids of 180 to 185 days of crop maturity in three days from 99 to 101 days after sowing (DAS). Results and discussion: From analysis of frequency distribution of the RAT SPAD measures of the e1 leaf sectors, it is not necessary that hybrids that demonstrates curve with high kurtosis and high RAT SPAD measures always yield higher. Among the five hybrids, second highest grain yielding hybrid 112 had least leaf sectors of very low RAT SPAD measures. Besides, the hybrid 112 has been found least skewed and least peaked among the five hybrids. Furthermore, the hybrid 112 displayed least coefficient of variation and standard deviation among the 1500 RAT SPAD readings of its e1 leaf sectors. From the mean analysis through DMRT (Duncan Multiple Range Test), the twenty four averages have been found almost non-significant different among themselves inside each of the five hybrids. Single reading and four reading averages were non-significant different to one hundred reading average of each of the fifteen selected plants. Besides, the study also implies that a single reading from a leaf in the surrounding region of the topmost ear in five randomly selected plants can suffice to reflect the average SPAD measure of the particular leaf if the readings are from the e1 leaf. But, it can also be concluded that the similar non-significant nature of average central leaves around the top ear node. The mean comparison also gives useful information about the methodology of taking SPAD observations and how many readings are enough for the study of RAT, chl and N concentration in maize leaves. The paper includes logic of taking e1 leaf for RAT SPAD observations in discussion section.', u'Dispersal capacity plays a fundamental role in the riverine benthic invertebrate colonization of new habitats that emerges following flash floods or restoration. However, an appropriate measure of dispersal capacity for benthic invertebrates is still lacking. The dispersal of benthic invertebrates occurs mainly during the aquatic (larval) and aerial (adult) life stages, and the dispersal of each life stage can be further subdivided into active and passive modes. Based on these four possible dispersal modes, we first developed a simple metric to estimate the dispersal capacity for 528 benthic invertebrate taxa by incorporating a weight for each mode. Second, we tested this metric using benthic invertebrate community data from a) 23 large restored river sites with improvements of river bottom habitats dating back 1 to 10 years, b) 23 unrestored sites, and c) 298 adjacent surrounding sites in the low mountain and lowland areas of Germany. We hypothesize that our metric will reflect the temporal succession process of benthic invertebrate communities colonizing the restored sites, whereas no temporal changes are expected in the unrestored and surrounding sites. By applying our metric to these three river treatment categories, we found that the average dispersal capacity of benthic invertebrate communities in the restored sites significantly decreased in the early years following restoration, whereas there were no changes in either the unrestored or the surrounding sites. After all taxa had been divided into quartiles representing weak to strong dispersers, this pattern became even more obvious; strong dispersers colonized the restored sites during the first year after restoration and then significantly decreased over time, whereas weak dispersers continued to increase. The successful application of our metric to river restoration might be promising in further applications of this metric, for example, in assessments of rivers or metacommunity structure.', u'Theories of biodiversity seek to predict and unify patterns of commonness and rarity. Maximum entropy theory of ecology (METE) is among the most unifying and powerful theories of biodiversity, explaining >90% of variation in abundance among species of plant and animal using the total number of individuals (N0) and number of species. However, METE has yet been tested among the most abundant and diverse organisms on Earth, i.e., microorganisms. Using 20,456 sites of microbial communities, we show that METE only explains 0 to 60% of variation in abundance and increasingly fails for larger N0. In contrast, a more uneven distribution with a maximum entropy solution, the Zipf, often explains >90% of variation among microbes and performs better as N0 increases. Our findings suggest that theories of biodiversity could produce accurate predictions across the tree of life and scales of abundance if they capture how disparities in abundance increase with N0.', u'An unusual tetrapod tooth was discovered in the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of southeastern Utah. The tooth was originally hypothesized to pertain to Revueltosaurus, but further investigations have rejected that hypothesis. In this paper, we compare MNA V10668 to other known fossil tooth crowns from the Chinle Formation and assign the tooth to the least inclusive clade currently available, Archosauriformes, based on the presence of mesial and distal serrations, a distal keel, and a conical mesiodistal profile. Using data found in other publications and pictures of other teeth, we compare this specimen to other Triassic dental taxa. MNA V10668 shares some similarities with Crosbysaurus, Tecovasaurus, and several other named taxa, including a teardrop-shaped labiolingual profile, but possesses a unique combination of characteristics not found in other archosauromorph teeth. This increases the known diversity of archosauromorphs from the Chinle Formation and represents the first tooth of this morphotype to be found from Utah in the Late Triassic.', u'Background. 16S rRNA gene sequences are routinely assigned to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that are then used to analyze complex microbial communities. A number of methods have been employed to carry out the assignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences to OTUs leading to confusion over which method is the most rigorous. A recent study suggested that a clustering method should be selected based on its ability to generate stable OTU assignments that do not change as additional sequences are added to the dataset. In contrast, we contend that the ability of the method to properly represent the distances between the sequences is more important. Methods. Our analysis implemented five de novo clustering algorithms including the single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, abundance-based greedy clustering, distance-based greedy clustering, and the open and closed-reference methods. Using two previously published datasets we used the Matthew\u2019s Correlation Coefficient (MCC) to assess the stability and quality of OTU assignments. Results. The stability of OTU assignments did not reflect the quality of the assignments. Depending on the dataset being analyzed, the average linkage and the distance and abundance-based greedy clustering methods generated more robust OTUs than the open and closed-reference methods. We also demonstrated that for the greedy algorithms VSEARCH produced assignments that were comparable to those produced by USEARCH making VSEARCH a viable free and open source alternative to USEARCH. Further interrogation of the reference-based methods indicated that when USEARCH is used to identify the closest reference, the OTU assignments were sensitive to the order of the reference sequences because the reference sequences can be identical over the region being considered. More troubling was the observation that while both USEARCH and VSEARCH have a high level of sensitivity to detect reference sequences, the specificity of those matches was poor relative to the true best match. Discussion. Our analysis calls into question the quality and stability of OTU assignments generated by the open and closed-reference methods as implemented in current version of QIIME. This study demonstrates that de novo methods are the most rigorous and that the quality of clustering assignments needs to be assessed for multiple methods to identify the optimal clustering method for a particular dataset.', u'Studies of animal behavior often rely on human observation, which introduces a number of limitations on sampling. Recent developments in automated logging of behaviors make it possible to circumvent some of these problems. Once verified for efficacy and accuracy, these automated systems can be used to determine optimal sampling regimes for behavioral studies. Here, we used a radio-frequency identification (RFID) system to quantify parental effort in a bi-parental songbird species: the tree swallow (Tachycineta bicolor). We found that the accuracy of the RFID monitoring system was similar to that of video-recorded behavioral observations for quantifying parental visits. Using RFID monitoring, we also quantified the optimum duration of sampling periods for male and female parental effort by looking at the relationship between nest visit rates estimated from sampling periods with different durations and the total visit numbers for the day. The optimum sampling duration (the shortest observation time that explained the most variation in total daily visits per unit time) was 1h for both sexes. These results show that RFID and other automated technologies can be used to quantify behavior when human observation is constrained, and the information from these monitoring technologies can be useful for evaluating the efficacy of human observation methods.', u'Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, caused by a germline deleterious variant in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes, is characterized by an increased risk for breast, ovarian, pancreatic and other cancers. Identification of those who have a BRCA1/2 mutation is important so that they can take advantage of genetic counseling, screening, and potentially life-saving prevention strategies. We describe the design and analytic validation of the Counsyl Inherited Cancer Screen, a next-generation-sequencing-based test to detect pathogenic variation in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. We demonstrate that the test is capable of detecting single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), short insertions and deletions (indels), and copy-number variants (CNVs, also known as large rearrangements) with zero errors over a 96-sample validation set consisting of samples from cell lines and deidentified patient samples, including the well-characterized NA12878 sample from HapMap/1000 Genomes.', u'Mathematical models are frequently used to assess the impact of control interventions for Chlamydia trachomatis and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Modeling approaches that stratify the population by the number of sex partners often assume the transmission risk per partner to be constant. However, sexual behavior data suggests that people with many partners share less sex acts per partner than people with fewer partners. This should lower the risk of transmission per partner for highly sexually active individuals and could have important epidemiological consequences for STI transmission. We devise a new epidemiological model that we fit to chlamydia prevalence data from Natsal-2 and CSF, two population-based probability sample surveys of sexual behavior in Britain and France. Compared to a standard model where the transmission risk per partner is constant, a model with realistic numbers of sex acts per partner provides a better fit to the data. Furthermore, the improved model provides evidence for strong assortative mixing among individuals with different numbers of sex partners. Our results suggest that all chlamydia infected individuals with one or more new heterosexual partners per year contribute significantly to ongoing transmission, underlining that control interventions should be aimed towards all sexually active young adults.', u'The experiment was performed to determine the effects of alfalfa saponin extract (ASE) on the performance and cholesterol metabolism of laying hens. A total of 150 Hy-Line Brown hens with 28 weeks old, were randomly divided into five treatment groups (five replicates per treatment with six hens per replicate). Diets containing 0, 60, 120, 240, and 480 mg ASE/kg were fed to hens for 77 days. The shell thickness had a trend to increase. The yolk cholesterol and liver bile acid decreased significantly (ASE 60 and 480 mg/kg groups for yolk cholesterol, and ASE 60 and 240 mg/kg groups for liver bile acid). Fecal bile acid has an elevation trend as ASE increased. The expression of very low density apolipoprotein-\u2161 (apoVLDL-\u2161) gene was not affected by adding ASE. However, the mRNA expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase gene and cholesterol 7\u03b1-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) gene were significantly up-regulated. The mRNA expression of very-low-density-lipoprotein receptor(VLDLR) gene was suppressed due to adding ASE supplementation in the diet. These findings indicated that dietary ASE could regulate cholesterol levels in hens by up-regulating the mRNA levels of HMG-CoA and CYP7A1 and suppressing the expression of VLDLR.', u'Large, publicly available gene expression datasets are often analyzed with the aid of machine learning algorithms. Although RNA-seq is increasingly the technology of choice, a wealth of expression data already exist in the form of microarray data. If machine learning models built from legacy data can be applied to RNA-seq data, larger, more diverse training datasets can be created and validation can be performed on newly generated data. We developed Training Distribution Matching (TDM), which transforms RNA-seq data for use with models constructed from legacy platforms. We evaluated TDM, as well as quantile normalization and a simple log2 transformation, on both simulated and biological datasets of gene expression. Our evaluation included both supervised and unsupervised machine learning approaches. We found that TDM exhibited consistently strong performance across settings and that quantile normalization also performed well in many circumstances. We also provide a TDM package for the R programming language.', u'In this paper, we have tried to use statistical machine translation in order to convert Python 2 code to Python 3 code. We use data from two projects and achieve a high BLEU score. We also investigate the cross-project training and testing to analyze the errors so as to ascertain differences with previous case. We have described a pilot study on modeling programming languages as natural language to build translation models on the lines of natural languages. This can be further worked on to translate between versions of a programming language or cross-programming-languages code translation.', u'The digestive tract of mammals and other animals is colonized by trillions of metabolically active microorganisms. Changes in the gut microbiota have been associated with obesity in both humans and laboratory animals. Dietary modifications can often modulate the obese gut microbial ecosystem towards a more healthy state. This phenomenon should preferably be studied using dietary ingredients that are relevant to human nutrition. This study was designed to evaluate the influence of whole-wheat, a food ingredient with several beneficial properties, on gut microorganisms of obese diabetic mice. Diabetic (db/db) mice were fed standard (obese-control) or WW isocaloric diets (WW group) for eight weeks; non-obese mice were used as control (lean-control). High-throughput sequencing using the MiSeq platform coupled with freely-available computational tools and quantitative real-time PCR were used to analyze fecal bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences. SCFAs were measured in feces using HPLC-PDA. Results showed no statistical difference in final body weights between the obese-control and the WW group. Almost 9,000 different bacterial species (Operational Taxonomic Units at 97% similarity) were detected in all mice but the bacterial diversity (number of OTUs) did not differ among the treatment groups. The abundance of Ruminococcaceae, a family containing several butyrate-producing bacteria, was found to be higher in obese (median: 6.9%) and WW-supplemented mice (5.6%) compared to lean (2.7%, p = 0.02, Kruskal-Wallis test). Fecal concentrations of butyrate were higher in obese (average: 2.91 mmol/mg of feces) but especially in WW-supplemented mice (4.27 mmol/mg) compared to lean controls (0.97 mmol/mg), while fecal succinic acid was lower in the WW group compared to obese but especially to the lean group. WW consumption was associated with ~3 times more relative abundance of Lactobacillus spp. compared to both obese and lean control mice. PCoA plots of weighted UniFrac distances revealed a distinctive clustering of lean microbial communities separately from both obese and WW-supplemented mice (p = 0.001, ANOSIM test). Predictive metagenome analysis using PICRUSt revealed significant differences in several metabolic features of the microbiota among the treatment groups, including fatty acid biosynthesis, carbohydrate and energy metabolism as well as synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies (p < 0.01). However, obese and WW groups tended to share more similar abundances of gene families compared to lean mice. Using an in vivo model of obesity and diabetes, this study suggests that daily WW supplementation for eight weeks may not be enough to influence body weight or to output a lean-like microbiome, both taxonomically and metabolically. However, WW-supplementation was associated with several statistically significant differences in the gut microbiome compared to obese controls that deserve further investigation.', u'This study investigated whether simulated darkness influences the affective appraisal of a desktop virtual environment (VE). In the real world darkness often evokes thoughts of vulnerability, threat, and danger, and may automatically precipitate emotional responses consonant with those thoughts (fear of darkness). This influences the affective appraisal of a given environment after dark and the way humans behave in that environment in conditions of low lighting. Desktop VEs are increasingly deployed to study the effects of environmental qualities and (architectural or lighting) interventions on human behaviour and feelings of safety. Their (ecological) validity for these purposes depends critically on their ability to correctly address the user\u2019s cognitive and affective experience. However, it is currently not known how and to what extent simulated darkness in desktop (i.e., non-immersive) VEs affects the user\u2019s affective appraisal of the represented environment. In this study young female volunteers explored either a daytime or a night-time version of a desktop VE representing a deserted prototypical Dutch polder landscape. The affective appraisal of the VE and the emotional response of the participants were measured through self-report. To enhance the personal relevance of the simulation, a fraction of the participants was led to believe that the virtual exploration tour would prepare them for a follow-up tour through the real world counterpart of the VE. The results show that the VE was appraised as slightly less pleasant and more arousing in simulated darkness (compared to a daylight) condition. The fictitious follow-up assignment had no emotional effects and did not influence the affective appraisal of the VE. Further research is required to assess on the validity of desktop VEs for both etiological (e.g., the effects of signs of darkness on navigation behaviour and fear of crime) and intervention (e.g., effects of street lighting on feelings of safety) research.', u'Co-evolution between insects and their endosymbiotic bacteria can be detected by constructing and comparing their phylogenetic trees. Even though taxon sampling can greatly affect phylogenetic and co-evolutionary inference, most hypotheses of endosymbiont relationships and estimates of the number of endosymbiont lineages within a host group have used only a small percentage of available bacterial sequences. Here we examined how different sampling strategies of Gammaproteobacteria sequences affect estimates of the number of endosymbiont lineages in parasitic sucking lice (Insecta: Phthirapatera: Anoplura). We estimated the number of louse endosymbiont lineages using both newly obtained and previously sequenced 16S rDNA bacterial sequences and more than 42,000 16S rDNA sequences from other Gammaproteobacteria. We also performed parametric and nonparametric bootstrapping experiments to examine the effects of phylogenetic error and uncertainty on these estimates. We found that sampling of 16S rDNA sequences affected the estimates of endosymbiont diversity in sucking lice until we reached a threshold of genetic diversity. Sampling by maximizing the diversity of 16S rDNA sequences was more efficient than simply randomly sampling available 16S rDNA sequences. Although simulation results support the finding of multiple endosymbiont lineages in sucking lice, the bootstrap results suggest that there is still uncertainty in estimates of the number of endosymbiont origins inferred from 16S rDNA alone.', u'Background. P and NP are two classes (sets) of languages in Computer Science. An open problem is whether P = NP. This paper tests a new idea to compare the two language sets and attempts to prove that these two language sets consist of same languages by elementary mathematical methods and basic knowledge of Turing machine. Methods. By introducing a filter function C(M,w) that is the number of configurations which have more than one children (nondeterministic moves) in the shortest accept computation path of a nondeterministic Turing machine M for input w, for any language L(M) \u2208 NP, we can define a series of its subsets, Li(M) = {w | w \u2208 L(M) \u2227 C(M,w) \u2264 i}, and a series of the subsets of NP as Li = {Li(M) | \u2200M \u2219 L(M) \u2208 NP}. The nondeterministic multi-tape Turing machine is used to bridge two language sets Li and Li+1, by simulating the (i+1)-th nondeterministic move deterministically in multiple work tapes, to reduce one (the last) nondeterministic move. Results. The main result is that, with the above methods, the language set Li+1, which seems more powerful, can be proved to be a subset of Li. This result collapses Li \u2286 P for all i \u2208 N. With NP = \u22c3i\u2208NLi, it is clear that NP \u2286 P. Because by definition P \u2286 NP, we have P = NP. Discussion. There can be other ways to define the subsets Li and prove the same result. The result can be extended to cover any sets of time functions C, if \u2200f \u2219 f \u2208 C \u21d2 f2 \u2208 C, then DTIME(C) = NTIME(C). This paper does not show any ways to find a solution in P for the problem known in NP.', u'Contrarily to the majority of the members of the lipocalin family, which are stable monomers with the specific OBP fold (a \u03b2-barrel consisting of a 8-stranded anti-parallel \u03b2-sheet followed by a short \u03b1-helical segment, a ninth \u03b2-strand, and a disordered C-terminal tail) and a conserved disulfide bond, bovine odorant-binding protein (bOBP) does not have such a disulfide bond and forms a domain-swapped dimer that involves crossing the \u03b1-helical region from each monomer over the \u03b2-barrel of the other monomer. Furthermore, although natural bOBP isolated from bovine tissues exists as a stable domain-swapped dimer, recombinant bOBP has decreased dimerization potential and therefore exists as a mixture of monomeric and dimeric variants. In this article, we investigated the effect model crowding agents of similar chemical nature but different molecular mass on conformational stability of the recombinant bOBP. These experiments were conducted in order shed light on the potential influence of model crowded environment on the unfolding-refolding equilibrium. To this end, we looked at the influence of PEG-600, PEG-4000, and PEG-12000 in concentrations of 80, 150, and 300 mg/mL on the equilibrium unfolding and refolding transitions induced in the recombinant bOBP by guanidine hydrochloride.', u'Mangrove prop roots support diverse epibiont communities, but they are generally regarded as inhospitable for corals. However, recent reports have documented corals thriving on mangrove roots in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Cuba, and it has been proposed that mangroves may provide a refuge from environmental conditions that trigger coral mortality on nearby reefs. It also raises interesting questions about the potential evolutionary significance of coral populations in mangrove forest. We investigated diverse mangrove habitats for the presence of corals at Calabash Caye, Belize, part of a recently designated marine reserve on Turneffe Atoll. Here we present data on the distribution, size and morphology of 127 colonies of branching Porites found in a survey of 1858 meters of mangrove prop roots fringing three qualitatively distinct bodies of water: a high-flow channel, a moderate-flow creek, and a low-flow mangrove pond. The distribution of Porites was highly clumped, with 108 colonies occurring in a 178-meter stretch of shoreline along the high flow channel. Colony morphology varied widely, from bushy colonies with more than 40 branch tips per 1000 cm3 of ecological volume, to spindly colonies with fewer than 10 branch tips per 1000 cm3, to new recruits that have not yet developed distinct branches. Comparisons of the same coral-bearing roots in 2013 and 2014 revealed that colonies can experience substantial growth in a year\u2019s time. We also document a much more diverse coral fauna living in the mangroves at Crooked Creek, a high flow environment on the western edge of Turneffe Atoll. The data described here contribute to an emerging picture of mangroves as potentially important habitat for corals, while suggesting that different types of mangrove habitat vary in their suitability for different species of coral. Future studies are needed to identify the critical environmental features of mangrove habitats that support coral, to further characterize those corals that can utilize mangrove habitat, and to investigate potential connectivity between coral populations in mangroves and nearby reef habitats.', u'In a family of monomeric odorant-binding proteins (OBPs), bovine OBP (bOBP), that lacks conserved disulfide bond found in other OBPs, occupies unique niche because of its ability to form domain-swapped dimers. In this study, we analyzed conformational stabilities of the recombinant bOBP and its monomeric variants, the bOBP-Gly121+ mutant containing an additional glycine residue after the residue 121 of the bOBP, and the GCC-bOBP mutant obtained from the bOBP-Gly121+ form by introduction of the Trp64Cys/His155Cys double mutation to restore the canonical disulfide bond. We also analyzed the effect of the natural ligand binding on the conformational stabilities of these bOBP variants. Our data are consistent with the conclusion that the unfolding-refolding pathways of the recombinant bOBP and its mutant monomeric forms bOBP-Gly121+ and GCC-bOBP are similar and do not depend on the oligomeric status of the protein. This clearly shows that the information on the unfolding-refolding mechanism is encoded in the structure of the bOBP monomers. However, the process of the bOBP unfolding is significantly complicated by the formation of the domain-swapped dimer, and the rates of the unfolding-refolding reactions essentially depend on the conditions in which the protein is located.', u'How honest or reliable signaling can evolve and be maintained has been a major question in evolutionary biology. The question is especially puzzling for a particular class of signals used in aggressive interactions: threat signals. Here we report a study on song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) in which we assayed males with playbacks on their territories to quantify their aggressiveness (flights and close proximity) and aggressive signaling levels (rates of soft song, a close range signal reliably predicting attack) and asked whether these traits affect individuals\u2019 survival on territory. We found that the effect of aggressive signaling via soft song interacted with aggressive behaviors such that there was a negative correlational selection: among males with low aggression, those males that signaled at higher levels (over-signalers) had higher survival whereas among males with high aggression those that signaled at low levels (under-signalers) survived longer. In other words, males who deviate from reliable signaling have a survival advantage. These results, along with previous research that suggested most of the deviation from reliable signaling in this system is in the form of under-signaling (high aggression males signaling at low levels) pose a puzzle for future research on how this reliable signaling system is maintained.', u'We explored intraspecific variation in vertebral formulae, more specifically the variation in the number of thoracic vertebrae and frequencies of transitional sacral vertebrae in Triturus newts (Caudata: Salamandridae). Within salamandrid salamanders this monophyletic group shows the highest disparity in the number of thoracic vertebrae and considerable intraspecific variation in the number of thoracic vertebrae. Triturus species also differ in their ecological preferences, from predominantly terrestrial to largely aquatic. Following Geoffroy St. Hilaire\u2019s and Darwin\u2019s rule which states that structures with a large number of serially homologous repetitive elements are more variable than structures with smaller numbers, we hypothesized that the variation in vertebral formulae increases in more elongated species with a larger number of thoracic vertebrae. We furthermore hypothesized that the frequency of transitional vertebrae will be correlated with the variation in the number of thoracic vertebrae within the species. We also investigated potential effects of species hybridization on the vertebral formula. The proportion of individuals with a number of thoracic vertebrae different from the modal number and the range of variation in number of vertebrae significantly increased in species with a larger number of thoracic vertebrae. Contrary to our expectation, the frequencies of transitional vertebrae were not correlated with frequencies of change in the complete vertebrae number. The frequency of transitional sacral vertebra in hybrids did not significantly differ from that of the parental species. Such a pattern could be a result of selection pressure against transitional vertebrae and/or a bias towards the development of full vertebrae numbers. Although our data indicate relaxed selection for vertebral count changes in more elongated, aquatic species, more data on different selective pressures in species with different numbers of vertebrae in the two contrasting, terrestrial and aquatic environments are needed to test for causality.', u'The sexually transmitted bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae has developed resistance to all antibiotic classes that have been used for treatment and strains resistant to multiple antibiotic classes have evolved. In many countries, there is only one antibiotic remaining for empirical N. gonorrhoeae treatment and antibiotic management to counteract resistance spread is urgently needed. Understanding dynamics and drivers of resistance spread can provide rationales for antibiotic management. In our study, we first used antibiotic resistance surveillance data to estimate the rates at which antibiotic-resistant N. gonorrhoeae spread in two host populations, heterosexual men (HetM) and men who have sex with men (MSM). We found higher rates of spread for MSM (0.86 to 2.38 y\u22121, mean doubling time: 6 months) compared to HetM (0.24 to 0.86 y\u22121, mean doubling time: 16 months). We then developed a dynamic transmission model to reproduce the observed dynamics of N. gonorrhoeae transmission in populations of heterosexual men and women (HMW) and MSM. We parameterized the model using sexual behavior data and calibrated it to N. gonorrhoeae prevalence and incidence data. In the model, antibiotic-resistant N. gonorrhoeae spread with a median rate of 0.88 y\u22121 in HMW and 3.12 y\u22121 in MSM. These rates correspond to median doubling times of 9 (HMW) and 3 (MSM) months. The model shows the difference in the host population\u2019s treatment rate rather than the difference in the number of sexual partners explains the differential spread of resistance. As higher treatment rates result in faster spread of antibiotic resistance, treatment recommendations for N. gonorrhoeae should carefully balance prevention of infection and avoidance of resistance spread.', u'Data is the central currency of science, but the nature of scientific data has changed dramatically with the rapid pace of technology. This change has led to the development of a wide variety of data formats, dataset sizes, data complexity, data use cases, and data sharing practices. Improvements in high throughput DNA sequencing, sustained institutional support for large sensor networks, and sky surveys with large-format digital cameras have created massive quantities of data. At the same time, the combination of increasingly diverse research teams and data aggregation in portals (e.g. for biodiversity data, GBIF or iDigBio) necessitates increased coordination among data collectors and institutions. As a consequence, \u201cdata\u201d can now mean anything from petabytes of information stored in professionally-maintained databases, through spreadsheets on a single computer, to hand-written tables in lab notebooks on shelves. All remain important, but data curation practices must continue to keep pace with the changes brought about by new forms and practices of data collection and storage.', u'Biomedical knowledge is growing exponentially; however, meta-knowledge around the data is often lacking. PubMed is a database comprising more than 21 million citations for biomedical literature from MEDLINE and additional life science journals dating back to the 1950s. To explore the use and frequency of biomarkers across human disease, we mined PubMed for biomarker-disease associations. We then ranked the top 100 linked diseases by relevance and mapped them to medical subject headings (MeSH) and, subsequently, to the Disease Ontology. To identify biomarkers for each disease, we queried Covance BioPathways, an online data resource that maps commercial biomarker assays to biological and disease pathways. We then integrated pathways-based information to describe both known and potential biomarkers as well as disease-associated genes/proteins for select diseases. This approach identifies therapeutic areas with candidate or validated biomarkers, and highlights those areas where a paucity of biomarkers exists.', u'We report a new ichthyopterygian assemblage from Lower Triassic horizons of the Prida Formation at Fossil Hill in central Nevada. Although fragmentary, the specimens collected so far document a diverse fauna. One partial jaw exhibits isodont dentition with blunt tipped, mesiodistally compressed crowns and striated enamel. These features are shared with the Early Triassic genus Utatsusaurus known from coeval deposits in Japan and British Columbia. An additional specimen exhibits a different dentition characterized by relatively small, rounded posterior teeth resembling other Early Triassic ichthyopterygians particularly Grippia. This Nevada assemblage marks a southward latitudinal extension for Early Triassic ichthyopterygians along the eastern margin of Panthalassa and indicates repeated circum-oceanic dispersal events in Early Triassic ichthyopterygians.', u'Bovine odorant-binding protein (bOBP) differs from other lipocalins by lacking the conserved disulfide bond and being able to form the domain-swapped dimers. To identify structural features responsible for the formation of the bOBP unique dimeric structure and to understand the role of the domain swapping on maintaining the native structure of the protein, structural properties of the recombinant wild type bOBP and its mutant that cannot dimerize via the domain swapping were analyzed. We also looked at the effect of the disulfide bond by designing a monomeric bOBPs with restored disulfide bond which is conserved in other lipocalins. Finally, to understand which features in the microenvironment of the bOBP tryptophan residues play a role in the defining peculiarities of the intrinsic fluorescence of this protein we designed and investigated single-tryptophan mutants of the monomeric bOBP. Our analysis revealed that the insertion of the glycine after the residue 121 of the bOBP prevents domain swapping and generates a stable monomeric protein bOBP-Gly121+. We also show that the restored disulfide bond in the GCC-bOBP mutant leads to the noticeable stabilization of the monomeric structure. Structural and functional analysis revealed that none of the amino acid substitutions introduced to the bOBP affected functional activity of the protein and that the ligand binding leads to the formation of a more compact and stable state of the recombinant bOBP and its mutant monomeric forms. Finally, analysis of the single-tryptophan mutants of the monomeric bOBP gave us a unique possibility to find peculiarities of the microenvironment of tryptophan residues which were not previously described.', u'Vegetated coastal dunes grow as a result of feedbacks between vegetation and sand transport. Observing the coevolution of vegetation and the sand surface is therefore critical for unraveling the dynamics of coastal dune growth. Capturing synchronous topography and photography at high spatial resolution and high temporal frequency using traditional techniques (airplane-based aerial photography, LiDAR) is expensive and time-consuming. Structure-from-Motion combined with Multiview-Stereo, a photogrammetry workflow that uses low-cost, consumer-grade equipment, is an economical alternative to traditional collection methods. This workflow still requires the definition of ground control points (GCPs) \u2014 locations with known coordinates \u2014 to develop accurate digital surface models. In this contribution we address how the number of GCPs used impacts the accuracy of digital surface models. We flew a 9-foot single-line delta kite attached to a consumer-grade camera to photograph the beach and dune of Hog Island, VA, a site that contains 178 high precision GCPs over an area of ~0.025 km2 (as part of an ongoing field experiment). We then processed the 318 photographs using Agisoft Photoscan and compared the elevation accuracy of digital surface models rendered using SfM, with varying GCPs, to points surveyed by a total station. Our results suggest that there is \u2018diminishing returns\u2019 when greater than 10 GCPs are used. Results from this study can be used to inform future Structure-from-Motion studies using UAVs or kites in flat, low-sloping coastal environments.', u'Rhamnolipids are biosurfactants with potential for diversified industrial and environmental uses. The present study evaluated three strategies to increase the production of rhamnolipid-type biosurfactants produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PA1. The influence of pH, the addition of endogenous autoinducers and the use of a fed batch process were examined. The culture medium adjusted to pH 7.0 was the most productive. Furthermore, the pH of the culture medium had a measurable effect on the ratio of mono- and dirhamnolipids synthesized. At pH values below 7.3, the proportion of monorhamnolipids decreased from 45 to 24%. Additionally, recycling 20% of the spent culture medium where P. aeruginosa was grown up to the later stationary phase was responsible for a 100% increase in rhamnolipid volumetric productivity in the new culture medium. Finally, the use of fed batch operation under conditions of limited nitrogen resulted in a 3.8-fold increase in the amount of rhamnolipids produced (1.29 g L-1 to 4.90 g L-1, as rhamnose). These results offer promising paths to optimize processes for the production of rhamnolipids.', u'One of the goals of systems and computational neuroscience is to understand how information is processed by a single neuron and integrated by a network of neurons. A plausible approach to identifying spatial neighborhoods of the brain that host potential neural networks of interest is by observing spatially-bounded aggregates of neural activity. To this end, the potential of the multidimensional ensemble empirical mode decomposition algorithm in extracting multiple resolutions of neural activity from calcium imaging data is evaluated.', u"Emotion identification, which aims to determine a person's affective state automatically, has immense potential value in many areas, such as action tendency, health care, psychological detection and human-computer (robot) interaction. In this paper, we provide a novel method for identifying emotion from natural walking. After obtaining the three-axis acceleration data of wrist and ankle recorded by smartphone, we run a moving average filter with different window size w, then cut actual data into slices. 114 features are extracted from each slice, and principal component analysis(PCA) is used for feature selection. We train SVM, Decision Tree, Multilayerperception, Random Tree and Random Forest classification models, and compare the accuracy of emotion identification using different datasets (wrist vs. ankle) in different models. Results show that acceleration data from ankle has better performance in emotion identification than wrist. Among different models, SVM has the highest accuracy, 90:31% when differ anger from neutral, 89:76% when differ happy from neutral, and 87:10% when differ anger from happy. The model for identifying anger/neutral/happy yields the best accuracy of 85%-78%-78%. The results show that we could identify peoples emotional states through the gait of walking with high accuracy.", u"CRISPR/Cas9 is emerging as one of the most-used methods of genome modification in organisms ranging from bacteria to human cells. However, the efficiency of editing varies tremendously site-to-site. A recent report identified a novel motif, called the 3\u2019GG motif, which substantially increases the efficiency of editing at all sites tested in C. elegans. Furthermore, they highlighted that previously published gRNAs with high editing efficiency also had this motif. I designed a python command-line tool, ngg2, to identify 3\u2019GG gRNA sites from indexed FASTA files. As a proof-of-concept, I screened for these motifs in six model genomes: Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Danio rerio, Mus musculus, and Homo sapiens. I also scanned the genomes of pig (Sus scrofa) and African elephant (Loxodonta africana) to demonstrate the utility in non-model organisms. I identified more than 60 million single match 3\u2019GG motifs in these genomes. Greater than 61% of all protein coding genes in the reference genomes had at least one unique 3\u2019GG gRNA site overlapping an exon. In particular, more than 96% of mouse and 93% of human protein coding genes have at least one unique, overlapping 3\u2019GG gRNA. These identified sites can be used as a starting point in gRNA selection, and the ngg2 tool provides an important ability to identify 3'GG editing sites in any species with an available genome sequence.", u'Agent-based modeling (ABM) is a bottom-up modeling approach, where each entity of the system being modeled is uniquely represented as an independent decision-making agent. ABMs are very sensitive to implementation details. Thus, it is very easy to inadvertently introduce changes which modify model dynamics. Such problems usually arise due to the lack of transparency in model descriptions, which constrains how models are assessed, implemented and replicated. In this paper, we present PPHPC, a model which aims to serve as a standard in agent based modeling research, namely, but not limited to, conceptual model specification, statistical analysis of simulation output, model comparison and parallelization studies. This paper focuses on the first two aspects (conceptual model specification and statistical analysis of simulation output), also providing a canonical implementation of PPHPC. The paper serves as a complete reference to the presented model, and can be used as a tutorial for simulation practitioners who wish to improve the way they communicate their ABMs.', u'Ocean acidification is the suite of chemical changes to the carbonate system of seawater as a consequence of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Despite a growing body of evidences demonstrating the negative effects of ocean acidification on marine species, the consequences at the ecosystem level are still unclear. One factor limiting our ability to upscale from species to ecosystem is the poor mechanistic understanding of the functional consequences of the observed effects on organisms. This is particularly true in the context of species interactions. The aim of this work was to investigate the functional consequence of the exposure of a prey (the mussel Brachidontes pharaonis) to ocean acidification for both the prey and its predator (the crab Eriphia verrucosa). Mussels exposed to pH 7.5 for >4 weeks showed significant decreases in condition index and in mechanical properties (65% decrease in maximum breaking load) as compared with mussels acclimated to pH 8.0. This translated into negative consequences for the mussel in presence of the predator crab. The crab feeding efficiency increased through a significant 27% decrease in prey handling time when offered mussels acclimated to the lowest pH. The predator was also negatively impacted by the acclimation of the prey, probably as a consequence of a decreased food quality. When fed with prey acclimated under decreased pH for 3 months, crab assimilation efficiency significantly decreased by 30% and its growth rate was 5 times slower as compared with crab fed with mussels acclimated under high pH. Our results highlight the important to consider physiological endpoints in the context of species interactions.', u'Background: Ketamine has been reported to have efficacy as an antidepressant in several studies of treatment-resistant depression. In this study, we investigate whether an acute administration of ketamine leads to reductions in the functional connectivity of subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC) with other brain regions. Methods: Thirteen right-handed healthy male subjects underwent a 15 minute resting state fMRI with an infusion of intravenous ketamine (target blood level=150ng/ml) starting at 5 minutes. We used a seed region centred on the sgACC and assessed functional connectivity before and during ketamine administration. Results: Before ketamine administration, positive coupling with the sgACC seed region was observed in a large cluster encompassing the anterior cingulate and negative coupling was observed with the anterior cerebellum. Following ketamine administration, sgACC coupling decreased with the brainstem, hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, retrosplenial cortex, and thalamus. Discussion: Ketamine reduced functional connectivity of the sgACC with brain regions implicated in emotion, memory and mind wandering. It is possible the therapeutic effects of ketamine may be mediated via this mechanism, although further work is required to test this hypothesis.', u'The rapid adoption of microbial whole genome sequencing in public health, clinical testing, and forensic laboratories requires the use of validated measurement processes. Reference materials that are well characterized, homogeneous, and stable can be used to evaluate measurement processes and help to establish confidence in the results. Given the variety of microbial genome sequencing applications and platforms, as well as the vast microbial genomic diversity, there is a need for application-specific genomic materials for method validation. We have developed a reproducible and transparent bioinformatics tool for characterizing prokaryotic genomic materials; \u201dPEPR\u201d, Pipelines for Evaluating Prokaryotic References. We demonstrate the tool and its output using sequencing data while developing a Staphylococcus aureus candidate genomic reference material.', u'Unsupervised word segmentation methods were applied to analyze the protein sequence. Protein sequences, such as \u2018MTMDKSELVQKA \u2026..\u2019, were used as input to these methods. Segmented \u2018protein word\u2019 sequences, such as \u2018MTM DKSE LVQKA\u2019, were then obtained. We compare the \u2018protein words\u2019 produced by unsupervised segmentation and the protein secondary structure segmentation. An interesting finding is that the unsupervised word segmentation is more efficient than secondary structure segmentation in expressing information. Our experiment also suggests there may be some \u2018protein ruins\u2019 in current noncoding regions.', u'Retrospective confidence ratings and other judgments frequently are collected in computer-based psychology studies, but little research has investigated whether the method with which these ratings are collected influences the resulting data. To explore whether different confidence rating entry methods elicit different responses, 96 subjects were tested in a recognition memory paradigm. To rate confidence in recognition decisions from 0 - 100, half of the subjects used the numeric keypad on the keyboard to respond whereas the other half used an on-screen slider. Notably, whereas subjects using the numeric keypad frequently chose to enter confidence ratings divisible by 5 and 10, subjects using the slider showed no such preference but instead were more likely to accept the slider default value (i.e., 50) for each trial. The method with which confidence ratings are collected may have unintended consequences on confidence rating data and their interpretation.', u'The number of samples in high-throughput comparative \u201comics\u201d studies is increasing rapidly due to the declining experimental costs. To keep sample data and metadata manageable, and ensure the integrity of scientific results as the scale of these projects continue to increase, it is essential that we transition to better designed sample identifiers. Ideally, sample identifiers will be: globally unique across projects, project teams and institutions; be short to facilitate manual transcription; be correctable with respect to common types of transcription errors; be opaque, meaning they do not contain information about the samples; and be compatible with existing standards. We present cual-id, a lightweight command line tool that creates, or mints, sample identifiers that meet these criteria without reliance on centralized infrastructure. cual-id allows users to assign Universally Unique Identifiers, or UUIDs, that are globally unique to their samples. UUIDs are too long to be conveniently written on sampling materials such as swabs or microcentrifuge tubes however, so cual-id additionally generates human-friendly 4-12 character identifiers (CualIDs) that map to their UUIDs and are unique within a project. CualIDs are used by humans when they are manually writing or entering identifiers, while the longer UUIDs are used by computers to unambiguously reference a sample. The adoption of identifiers that are globally unique, correctable, and easily hand-written or manually entered into a computer will be a major step forward for sample tracking in comparative -omics studies within and across projects and project teams.', u'Understanding the genetic basis of natural phenotypic variation is of great importance, particularly since selection can act on this variation to cause evolution. We examined expression and allelic variation in candidate flowering time loci in Brassica rapa plants derived from a natural population and showing a broad range in the timing of first flowering. The loci of interest were orthologs of the Arabidopsis genes FLC and SOC1 (BrFLC and BrSOC1, respectively), which in Arabidopsis play a central role in the flowering time regulatory network, with FLC repressing and SOC1 promoting flowering. In B. rapa, there are four copies of FLC and three of SOC1. Plants were grown in controlled conditions in the lab. Comparisons were made between plants that flowered the earliest and latest, with the difference in average flowering time between these groups ~ 30 days. As expected, we found that total expression of BrSOC1 paralogs was significantly greater in early than in late flowering plants. Paralog-specific primers showed that expression was greater in early flowering plants in the BrSOC1 paralogs Br004928, Br00393 and Br009324, although the difference was not significant in Br009324. Thus expression of at least 2 of the 3 BrSOC1 orthologs is consistent with their predicted role in flowering time in this natural population. Sequences of the promoter regions of the BrSOC1 orthologs were variable, but there was no association between allelic variation at these loci and flowering time variation. For the BrFLC orthologs, expression varied over time, but did not differ between the early and late flowering plants. The coding regions, promoter regions and introns of these genes were generally invariant. Thus the BrFLC orthologs do not appear to influence flowering time in this population. Overall, the results suggest that even for a trait like flowering time that is controlled by a very well described genetic regulatory network, understanding the underlying genetic basis of natural variation in such a quantitative trait is challenging.', u"Background: School is an integral component of the life of a child and thus, quality of school life is an important part of the overall quality of life experienced by a child. Quality of school life may be an important outcome for the assessment of Health Promoting Schools, which is an approach used internationally to improve students\u2019 educational and health outcomes in school in an integrated and holistic way. There are a few instruments available to measure the quality of school life but they are often not available in English, or they are not appropriate for use alongside with other instruments in a survey of young children. The Quality of Life in School (QoLS) instrument is a short self-report measure to assess elementary school students\u2019 perception of their quality of school life in four domains. The instrument was developed in Israel and has been validated among Hebrew-speaking children. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the QoLS measure in Canadian elementary school children. Methods: 629 children attending grades 4 to 6 were recruited in a population-based cross-sectional study. The QoLS measure was administered to participating children by trained research assistants. In addition, their socio-demographic details and academic data were also obtained. The psychometric testing included exploratory factor analysis and reliability estimation using internal consistency (Cronbach\u2019s Alpha). Construct validity was investigated using the known groups comparisons for discriminative validity and via convergent validity. Results: A four-factor structure was generated explaining 39% of the total variance in the model. The results showed good internal consistency and acceptable floor and ceiling effects. Cronbach's Alpha ranged from 0.75 to 0.93. Known groups comparisons showed that the QoLS measure discriminated well between subgroups on the basis of gender, grade, and academic achievement, thus providing evidence of construct validity. The convergent validity was also appropriate with all the four domains demonstrating moderate to strong correlations to each other and to the total QoLS score. Conclusions: QoLS appears to be a valid and reliable measure for quality of school life assessment in young Canadian children.", u'Current research and development approaches to drug discovery have become less fruitful and more costly. One alternative paradigm is that of drug repositioning. Many marketed examples of repositioned drugs have been identified through serendipitous or rational observations, highlighting the need for more systematic methodologies to tackle the problem. Systems level approaches have the potential to enable the development of novel methods to understand the action of therapeutic compounds, but requires an integrative approach to biological data. Integrated networks can facilitate systems level analyses by combining multiple sources of evidence to provide a rich description of drugs, their targets and their interactions. Classically, such networks can be mined manually where a skilled person is able to identify portions of the graph (semantic subgraphs) that are indicative of relationships between drugs and highlight possible repositioning opportunities. However, this approach is not scalable. Automated approaches are required to systematically mine integrated networks for these subgraphs and bring them to the attention of the user. We introduce a formal framework for the definition of integrated networks and their associated semantic subgraphs for drug interaction analysis and describe DReSMin, an algorithm for mining semantically-rich networks for occurrences of a given semantic subgraph. This algorithm allows instances of complex semantic subgraphs that contain data about putative drug repositioning opportunities to be identified in a computationally tractable fashion, scaling close to linearly with network data. We demonstrate the utility of our approach by mining an integrated drug interaction network built from 11 sources. This work identified and ranked 9,643,061 putative drug-target interactions, showing a strong correlation between highly scored associations and those supported by literature. We discuss the 20 top ranked associations in more detail, of which 14 are novel and 6 are supported by the literature. We also show that our approach better prioritizes known drug-target interactions, than other state-of-the art approaches for predicting such interactions.', u'The scientific and medical community is reaching an era of inexpensive whole genome sequencing, opening the possibility of precision medicine for millions of individuals. Here we present tiling: a flexible representation of whole genome sequences that supports simple and consistent names, annotation, queries, machine learning, and clinical screening. We partitioned the genome into 10,655,006 tiles: overlapping, variable-length sequences that begin and end with unique 24-base tags. We tiled and annotated 680 public whole genome sequences from the 1000 Genomes Project Consortium (1KG) and Harvard Personal Genome Project (PGP) using ClinVar database information. These genomes cover 14.13 billion tile sequences (4.087 trillion high quality bases and 0.4321 trillion low quality bases) and 251 phenotypes spanning ICD-9 code ranges 140-289, 320-629, and 680-759. We used these data to build a Global Alliance for Genomics and Health Beacon and graph database. We performed principal component analysis (PCA) on the 680 public whole genomes, and by projecting the tiled genomes onto their first two principal components, we replicated the 1KG principle component separation by population ethnicity codes. Interestingly, we found the PGP self reported ethnicities cluster consistently with 1KG ethnicity codes. We built a set of support-vector ABO blood-type classifiers using 75 PGP participants who had both a whole genome sequence and a self-reported blood type. Our classifier predicts A antigen presence to within 1% of the current state-of-the art for in silico A antigen prediction. Finally, we found six PGP participants with previously undiscovered pathogenic BRCA variants, and using our tiling, gave them simple, consistent names, which can be easily and independently re-derived. Given the near-future requirements of genomics research and precision medicine, we propose the adoption of tiling and invite all interested individuals and groups to view, rerun, copy, and modify these analyses at https://curover.se/su92l- j7d0g-swtofxa2rct8495', u'We propose a robust method to convert triangulated surface data into polynomial volume data. Such polynomial representations are required for high-order partial differential solvers, as low-order surface representations would diminish the accuracy of their solution. Our proposed method deploys a first order spatial bisection algorithm to find robustly an approximation of given geometries. The resulting voxelization is then used to generate Legendre polynomials of arbitrary degree. By embedding the locally defined polynomials in cubical elements of a coarser mesh, this method can reliably approximate even complex structures, like porous media. It thereby is possible to provide appropriate material definitions for high order discontinuous Galerkin schemes. We describe the method to construct the polynomial and how it fits into the overall mesh generation. Our discussion includes numerical properties of the method and we show some results from applying it to various geometries. We have implemented the described method in our mesh generator Seeder, which is publically available under a permissive open-source license.', u'In April 2015, Public Health England implemented whole genome sequencing (WGS) as a routine typing tool for public health surveillance of Salmonella, adopting a multilocus sequence typing (MLST) approach as a replacement for traditional serotyping. The WGS derived sequence type (ST) was compared to the phenotypic serotype for 6887 isolates of S. enterica subspecies I, and of these, 6616 (96%) were concordant. Of the 4% (n=271) of isolates of subspecies I exhibiting a mismatch, 119 were due to a process error in the laboratory, 26 were likely caused by the serotype designation in the MLST database being incorrect and 126 occurred when two different serovars belonged to the same ST. The population structure of S. enterica subspecies II-IV differs markedly from that of subspecies I and, based on current data, defining the serovar from the clonal complex may be less appropriate for the classification of this group. Novel sequence types that were not present in the MLST database were identified in 8.6% of the total number of samples tested (including S. enterica subspecies I-IV and S. bongori) and these 654 isolates belonged to 326 novel STs. For S. enterica subspecies I, WGS MLST derived serotyping is a high throughput, accurate, robust, reliable typing method, well suited to routine public health surveillance. The combined output of ST and serovar supports the maintenance of traditional serovar nomenclature while providing additional insight on the true phylogenetic relationship between isolates.', u'Reproduction and immunity are fitness-related traits that trade-off with each other. Parasite-mediated theories of sexual selection suggest, however, that higher-quality males should suffer smaller costs to reproduction-related traits and behaviours (e.g. sexual display) from an immune challenge because these males possess more resources with which to deal with the challenge. We used Gryllus texensis field crickets to test the prediction that attractive males should better maintain the performance of a fitness-related traits (e.g. calling effort) in the face of an immune challenge compared with unattractive males. We found no support for our original predictions. However, that immune activation causes attractive males to significantly increase their calling effort compared with unattractive males suggests that these males might terminally invest in order to compensate for decreased future reproduction.', u'Software design and its engineering is essential for bioinformatics software impact. We propose a new approach \u2018Butterfly\u2019, for the betterment of modeling of scientific software solutions by targeting key developmental points: intuitive, graphical user interface design, stable methodical implementation and comprehensive output presentation. The focus of research was to address following three key points: 1) differences and different challenges required to change from traditional to scientific software engineering, 2) scientific software solution development needs feedback and control loops following basic engineering principles for implementation and 3) software design with new approach which helps in developing and implementing a comprehensive scientific software solution. We validated the approach by comparing old and new bioinformatics software solutions. Moreover, we have successfully applied our approach in the design and engineering of different well applied and published Bioinformatics and Neuroinformatics tools including DroLIGHT, LS-MIDA, Isotopo, Ant-App-DB, GenomeVX and Lipid-Pro.', u'History is often thought to be dull and boring \u2013 where large numbers of facts are memorized for passing exams. But the past informs the present and future; particularly in delineating the context surrounding specific events that, in turn, help provide a deeper understanding of their underlying causes and implications. Scientific progress (whether incremental or breakthroughs) is built upon prior work. Chronological examination of the field\u2019s evolution reveals the existence of major \u201cepochs\u201d (e.g., transition from semi-empirical methods to first-principles calculations), and the centrality of key ideas (e.g., Schrodinger equation and Born-Oppenheimer approximation) in potentiating progress in the field. The longstanding question of whether computing power (both capacity and speed) or theoretical insights play a more important role in advancing computational chemistry was examined by taking into account the field\u2019s development holistically. Particularly, availability of large amount of computing power at declining cost, and advent of graphics processing unit (GPU) powered parallel computing are enabling tools for solving hitherto intractable problems. Nevertheless, the article argues, using Born-Oppenheimer approximation as an example, that theoretical insights\u2019 role in unlocking problems through simple (but insightful) assumptions is often overlooked. Collectively, the essay should be useful as a primer for appreciating major development periods in computational chemistry, from which, counterfactual questions illuminate the relative importance of intuition and advances in computing in moving the field forward.', u"Emotion recognition can improve the quality of patient care, product development and human-machine interaction.Psychological studies indicate that emotional state can be expressed in the way people walk,and the human gait can be used to reveal a person's emotional state.This paper proposes a novel method to do emotion recognition by using Microsoft Kinect to record gait patterns and train machine learning algorithms for emotion recognition. 59 subjects are recruited, and their gait patterns are recorded by two Kinect cameras.Joint selection, coordinate system transformation, sliding window gauss filtering,differential operation, and data segmentation are used for data preprocessing.We run Fourier transformation to extract features from the gait patterns and utilize Principal Component Analysis(PCA) for feature selection. By using NaiveBayes, RandomForests, LibSVM and SMO classifiers, the accuracy of recognition between natural and angry emotions can reach 80%,and the accuracy of recognition between natural and happy emotions can reach above 70%.The result indicates that Kinect can be used in the recognition of emotions with fairly well performance.", u"It is proposed an information theoretic search engine is like RADAR. The query words are the emitted signals and the document database is the object to be detected. Various echoes come off the database, and analogous with echo cancelation, the signal with the lowest entropy is selected. Commensurate with Shannon's theory, low entropy documents are signal, higher entropy documents are noise. Thus, my proposal separates signal from noise. As many relevant documents can be tined to be signal as desired.", u"Population monitoring programmes are used to gain knowledge about system functioning or about the response of a system's state to management measures. The current study provided an assessment of comprehensive monitoring data of intertidal bivalve populations in northern New Zealand. In this region, a number of bivalve species are targeted in recreational and customary fisheries, including cockles (Austrovenus stutchburyi) that are one of the main target species. To monitor the sustainability of cockle populations, regular population surveys have been conducted since the 1990s at different northern New Zealand sites, although the sampling frequency has varied greatly across sites. Furthermore, a general lack of fishing data for the target populations prevents a systematic assessment of management measures and population trends within a fishery assessment framework. In view of these shortcomings, the current study provided a systematic phenomenological assessment of the survey data to make general recommendations about the effectiveness of management and for guiding prioritisation and design for future surveys. The assessment was based on a Bayesian state-space model that simultaneously analysed monitoring data from 21 incomplete survey time-series between 1999-2000 and 2014-15. The model showed that the predictability of estimated large-size cockle densities was highly site-specific. Across all sites, the predictability of density trends could be used to guide the prioritisation of sites to be included in the survey, or to adjust the sampling frequency at individual sites. Based on the current analysis, existing management measures in the form of fishery closures at some of the sites appear to be effective in allowing recovery of depleted cockle populations. Only those sites that had management measures in place showed an increase in large cockle densities. In the absence of fishing data, adaptive management and targeted intervention could be used to further assess the efficacy of management measures.", u'The molecular phylogeny of the Atlanto-Mediterranean species of the genus Felimare, particularly those attributed to the species F. picta, was inferred using two mitochondrial markers (16S and COI). A recent revision of the Chromodorididae clarified the taxonomic relationships at the family level reclassifying all eastern Pacific, Atlantic and Mediterranean species of the genus Hypselodoris and two species of the genus Mexichromis, within the genus Felimare. However, conflicting taxonomic classifications have been proposed for a group with overlapping morphological characteristics and geographical distributions designated here as the Felimare picta complex. Three major groups were identified: one Mediterranean and amphi-Atlantic group; a western Atlantic group and a tropical eastern Atlantic group. F. picta forms a paraphyletic group since some subspecies are more closely related with taxa traditionaly classified as independent species (e.g. F. zebra) than with other subspecies with allopatric distributions (e.g. F. picta picta and F. picta tema). Usually, nudibranchs have adhesive demersal eggs, short planktonic larval phases and low mobility as adults unless rafting on floating materials occurs. However, the phylogeny of the F. picta complex suggests they had an unusual success crossing main Atlantic biogeographic barriers including the mid-Atlantic barrier. This ability to cross different biogeographic barriers may be related with F. picta distinct life history and ecological traits. Compared to other Chromodorididae F. picta presents large eggs and planktotrophic larvae which could be related with a longer planktonic phase.', u'Several positively charged epitopes on the surface of CXCL8 involved in the binding of the major components of endothelial glycocalyx, sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).In the present study, we aimed to test the hypothesis that the surface GAGs \u2014 heparan sulfate (HS) is a crucial prerequisite for enhancement of endothelial cell migration by CXCL8, and to explore its underlying mechanism by detecting the changes in expression of Rho-GTPases and in the organization of actin cytoskeleton after enzymatic removal of HS on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) by using heparinase III.Our results revealed that the reduction of wound area by CXCL8 was greatly attenuated by removal of HS. The upregulations of Rho-GTPases, including Cdc42, Rac1, and RhoA by CXCL8 were suppressed by removal of HS . The polymerization and polarization of actin cytoskeleton, and the increasing of stress fibers by CXCL8 were also abolished by heparinase III. Taken together, our results demonstrated an essential role of HS in mediating CXCL8-induced endothelial cell migration, and highlighted the biological relevance of the CXCL8 and GAGs interactions in endothelial cell migration.', u'Sauropods are familiar dinosaurs, immediately recognisable by their great size and long necks. However, their necks are much less well known than is usually assumed. Very few complete necks have been described in the literature, and even important specimens such as the Carnegie Diplodocus and Apatosaurus, and the giant Berlin brachiosaur, in fact have imperfectly known necks. In older specimens, missing bone is often difficult to spot due to over-enthusiastic restoration. Worse still, even those vertebrae that are complete are often badly distorted \u2013 for example, in consecutive cervicals of the Carnegie Diplodocus CM 84, the aspect ratio of the posterior articular facet of the centrum varies so dramatically that C14 appears 35% broader proportionally than C13. Widespread incompleteness and distortion are both inevitable due to sauropod anatomy: large size made it almost impossible for whole individuals to be preserved because sediment cannot be deposited quickly enough to cover a giant carcass; and distortion of presacral vertebrae is common due their lightweight pneumatic construction. This ubiquitous incompleteness and unpredictable distortion compromise attempts to determine habitual neck posture and range of motion by modelling articulations between vertebrae.', u'I have utilised an assemblage of 91 bird species, their urban tolerance status objectively classified, with data on bird flight initiation distance (FID), to test questions of the importance of birds\u2019 fearfulness of humans in determining urban tolerance or intolerance in the metropolis of Melbourne, Australia. While several studies have shown that mean FID for bird species (mFID) differs between rural and urban populations of bird species, stronger predictive ability is shown by variability in FID (cvFID) in modelling urban invasiveness. I test two hypotheses. Firstly, that mFID will be shorter in urban exploiter bird species than urban adapters and avoiders. Secondly that cvFID is positively correlated with bird incidence at the landscape scale in Melbourne. Relatively weak explanatory power of cvFID found in this study suggest that environmental and behavioural factors acting in concert better explain the urban tolerance of bird species and assemblages, rather than fearfulness alone.', u"Since Chrome's initial release in 2008 it has grown in market share, and now controls roughly half of the desktop browsers market. In contrast with Internet Explorer, the previous dominant browser, this was not achieved by marketing practices such as bundling the browser with a pre-loaded operating system. This raises the question of how Chrome achieved this remarkable feat, while other browsers such as Firefox and Opera were left behind. We show that both the performance of Chrome and its conformance with relevant standards are typically better than those of the two main contending browsers, Internet Explorer and Firefox. In addition, based on a survey of the importance of 25 major features, Chrome product managers seem to have made somewhat better decisions in selecting where to put effort. Thus the rise of Chrome is consistent with technical superiority over the competition.", u'The rare socially parasitic butterfly Maculinea alcon occurs in two forms, which are characteristic of hygric or xeric habitats, and which exploit different host plants and host ants. The status of these two forms has been the subject of considerable controversy. Populations of the two forms are usually spatially distinct, but at R\u0103scruci in Romania both forms occurs syntopically. We examined the genetic differentiation between the two forms using eight microsatellite markers, using samples from a nearby hygric site as out group. Our results showed that while the two forms are strongly differentiated at R\u0103scruci, it is the xeric form there that is most similar to the hygric form at \u015eardu, and Bayesian clustering algorithms suggest that these two populations have exchanged genes relatively recently. We found strong evidence for population substructuring, caused by high within-nest relatedness, not association with host ants use, indicating very limited dispersal of most ovipositing females. Our results are consistent with the results of larger scale phylogeographic studies that suggest that the two forms represent local ecotypes specialising on different host plants, each with a distinct flowering phenology, and is an example of a genetic barrier operating on a temporal scale rather than spatial', u'One of the possible consequences of biological invasions is the decrease of native species abundances or their replacement by non-native species. In Andean Patagonia, southern Argentina and Chile, many non-native animals have been introduced and are currently spreading. On Isla Victoria, Nahuel Huapi National Park, many non-native vertebrates were introduced ca. 1937. Records indicate that several native vertebrates were present before these species were introduced. We hypothesize that seven decades after the introduction of non-native species and without appropriate management to maintain native diversity, non-native vertebrates have displaced native species -given the known invasiveness and impacts of some of the introduced species-. We conducted direct censuses in linear transects 500m long (n=10) in parallel with camera-trapping (1253 camera-days) surveys in two regions of the island with different levels of disturbance: high (n=4) and low (n= 6) to study the community of terrestrial mammals and birds and the relative abundances of native and non-native species. Results show that currently non-native species are dominant across all environments; 60.4% of census records and 99.7% of camera trapping records are of non-native animals. We detected no native large mammals; the assemblage of large vertebrates consisted of five non-native mammals and one non-native bird. Native species detected were one small mammal and one small bird. Species with a highest trapping rate were red and fallow deer, wild boar, silver pheasant (the four species non-native) and chucao (a native bird). These results suggest that native species are being displaced by non-natives and are currently in very low numbers.', u'Discovery of novel diversity in high-throughput sequencing (HTS) studies is a central task in environmental microbial ecology. To evaluate the effects that amplicon clustering methods have on novel diversity discovery, we clustered an environmental marine protist HTS dataset of protist reads together with accessions from the taxonomically curated PR2 reference database using three de novo approaches: sequence similarity networks, USEARCH, and Swarm. The novel diversity uncovered by each clustering approach differed drastically in the number of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and the number of environmental amplicons in these novel diversity OTUs. Global pairwise alignment comparisons revealed that numerous amplicons classified as novel by USEARCH and Swarm were actually highly similar to reference accessions. Using graph theory we found additional novel diversity within OTUs that would have gone unnoticed without further using their underlying network topologies. Our results suggest that novel diversity inferred from clustering approaches requires further validation, whereas graph theory provides a powerful tool for microbial ecology and the analyses of environmental HTS datasets.', u'Background. The Sousa Formation contains the richest dinosaur ichnofauna from the Early Cretaceous Rio do Peixe Basin, Northeastern Brazil. Occurs eventually ornithopod tracks, which are found also in the Antenor Navarro and Piranhas Formations. Together with one trackway from the Botucatu Formation, some isolated tracks from the Cenomanian S\xe3o Lu\xeds Basin, and some trackways from the Early Cretaceous Corda Formation, at the moment, these occurrences indicates the only definitive presence of ornithopods in the Mesozoic of Brazil. Material & Methods. In 2015, a fieldwork was held to investigate potential dinosaur tracks in new ichnosites from the Sousa Formation. All the tracks were photographed individually using a digital camera Nikon Coolpix P520. The paleoichnological terminology and morphometric parametrers follows Thulborn (1990), Marty (2008) and Castanera et al. (2013). A plastic sheet was used for drawing the tracks. Directions and measurements of each dinosaur track, as well as the entire outcrop, were taken in situ. Results. The Pereiros ichnosite represents a new occurrence of dinosaur tracks from the Sousa Formation. The dinosaur ichnofauna comprises a medium-sized, bipedal ornithopod trackway, a single ornithopod track and one pair of theropod tracks. Discussion. The ornithopod trackway is characterized by plantigrade, tridactyl, mesaxonic, subsymmetrical and wider than long pes tracks, with large and rounded heels, and short and wide digit impressions. It is referred to the ichnofamily Iguanodontipodidae, previously reported for the Sousa beds. Two medium-sized theropod tracks assigned to Irenesauripus also occurs, representing an expansion of the paleobiogeographical record for this unusual ichnotaxa. The new record of Irenesauripus from the Sousa Formation shows an unusual pattern with morphological similarities to theropods tracks from the Lower Cretaceous Feitianshan Formation of Sichuan, China (Xing et al., 2013). According to Xing et al. (2011), the Chinese tracks preserve partial metatarsal pads that are not distinct from their respective metatarsophalangeal regions. Xing et al. (2011) noted the unusual elongate digit II claw impression, indicating that digit II of the trackmaker possessed a long claw, longer than on any of the other digits. Conclusions. The outcrop studied represents the nineteenth dinosaur tracksite in the Sousa Formation and gives further evidence of the rather rare ornithopod dinosaurs in the Cretaceous of Brazil.', u'Timing Speculation (TS) is a widely known method for realizing better-than-worst-case systems. Aggressive clocking, realizable by TS, enable systems to operate beyond specified safe frequency limits to effectively exploit the data dependent circuit delay. However, the range of aggressive clocking for performance enhancement under TS is restricted by short paths. In this paper, we show that increasing the lengths of short paths of the circuit increases the effectiveness of TS, leading to performance improvement. Also, we propose an algorithm to efficiently add delay buffers to selected short paths while keeping down the area penalty. We present our algorithm results for ISCAS-85 suite and show that it is possible to increase the circuit contamination delay by up to 30% without affecting the propagation delay. We also explore the possibility of increasing short path delays further by relaxing the constraint on propagation delay and analyze the performance impact.', u'Spinal astrocyte activation contributes to the pathogenesis of paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain (PINP) in animal models. We examined glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; an astrocyte marker) immunoreactivity and gene expression of GFAP, glutamate transporters and receptor subunits by real time PCR in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) at 7 days post first administration of paclitaxel, a time point when mice had developed thermal hyperalgesia. The ACC, an area in the brain involved in pain perception and modulation, was chosen because changes in this area might contribute to the pathophysiology of PINP. GFAP transcripts levels were elevated by more than fivefold and GFAP immunoreactivity increased in the ACC of paclitaxel-treated mice. The 6 glutamate transporters (GLAST, GLT-1 EAAC1, EAAT4, VGLUT-1 and VGLUT-2) quantified were not significantly altered by paclitaxel treatment. Of the 12 ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits transcripts analysed 6 (GLuA1, GLuA3, GLuK2, GLuK3, GLuK5 and GLuN1) were significantly up-regulated, whereas GLuA2, GLuK1, GLuK4, GLuN2A and GLuN2B were not significantly altered and GLuA4 was lowly expressed. Amongst the 8 metabotropic receptor subunits analysed only mGLuR8 was significantly elevated. In conclusion, during PINP there is astrocyte activation, no change in glutamate transporter expression and differential up-regulation of glutamate receptor subunits in the ACC. Thus, targeting astrocyte activation and the glutamatergic system might be another therapeutic avenue for management of PINP.', u'Several change metrics and source code metrics have been introduced and proved to be effective in bug prediction. Researchers performed comparative studies of bug prediction models built using the individual metrics as well as combination of these metrics. In this paper, we investigate the impact of feature selection in bug prediction models by analyzing the misclassification rates of these models with and without feature selection in place. We conduct our experiments on five open source projects by considering numerous change metrics and source code metrics. And this study aims to figure out the reliable subset of metrics that are common amongst all projects.', u'There are very few tarpons (family Megalopidae) and other elopiforms (fam. Elopidae) recorded in the Tertiary. The records are mainly from the Eocene, and more abundant in the \u2018North Sea Region\u2019 in Early Eocene, as for instance the large Danish forms. They are also found in late Early Eocene in London Clay, in Late Eocene in Caucasia, and in Miocene of SE-Asia, although none were described from the famous Bolca fauna (early Mid Eocene). However, there is a large, still undescribed \u2018tarpon-like\u2019 fish in the Bolca Museum (obs. MECL & NB 2014). There are even fewer described from the long Cretaceous period, 4-5? genera, including the large Paraelops from Romualdo Formation, Araripe Basin, NE-Brazil, and a large undescribed megalopid from Tlayua, Pueblo, Mexico, both \u2018Mid Cretaceous\u2019. The oldest elopiforms are from Late Jurassic Solnhofen Limestone. The large Danish \u2018tarpons\u2019 come from \u2018cementstones\u2019 in Fur Formation (earliest Eocene, ca. 55 m.y.), and here we report an almost complete specimen which is ca. 110 cm long; however, big isolated scales found in this formation indicate fishes at least twice as big (comparable in size with the living Tarpon atlanticus - over 2\xbd m). This specimen has a heavy skull lacking the lower jaw, and is preserved in 3-D. It was split in the midline and acid prepared, being then CT-scanned in Aarhus and reconstructed in the Laboratory of Biological Anthropology, Copenhagen University to attempt precise, detailed comparisons with modern skulls and with the 3-D skulls preserved in concretions from the London Clay.', u'Ecologists and environmental scientists often prioritize research efforts with conservation importance. Dominant, widespread, or locally abundant species at low risk of extinction receive relatively little attention unless they are invasive. Native foundation species create habitats and environmental conditions that support many associated species and modulate local-scale ecosystem processes, but the generally high local or regional abundance of foundation species may lead to less research about them. We used citation analysis (2005-2014) to examine research following from a suggestion to identify and study foundation species while they were still common and not threatened. We explored the use and expanding definition of the foundation species concept, as well as the trajectory and ecological focus of research on foundation species throughout the world in 378 papers published in this nine-year span. Contemporary authors who cite key papers defining a foundation species pay little attention to its actual definition and species studied in this context rarely were identified as foundation species. Although functions and roles of foundation species, such as creating unique microclimates or supporting dependent species, are being studied, less research is focused on identifying them before they are threatened or lost from the ecosystem that they otherwise define. Invasive species were identified as the most common threat to foundation species. Our citation analysis and synthesis provides a new conceptual framework linking identification of and research about foundation species with their functional roles and our ability to manage emerging threats to them.', u'The conserved nature of sleep in Drosophila has allowed the fruit fly to emerge in the last decade as a powerful model organism in which to study sleep. Recent sleep studies in Drosophila have focused on the discovery and characterization of hyposomnolent mutants. One common feature of these animals is a change in sleep architecture: sleep bout count tends to be greater, and sleep bout length lower, in hyposomnolent mutants. I propose a mathematical model, produced by least-squares nonlinear regression to fit the form Y = aX^b, which can explain sleep behavior in the healthy animal as well as previously-reported changes in total sleep and sleep architecture in hyposomnolent mutants. This model, fit to sleep data, yields coefficient of determination R squared, which describes goodness of fit. R squared is lower in hyposomnolent mutant insomniac as compared to control, indicating a poorer fit of the model to the data in insomniac. R squared also tends to be lower in daytime sleep as compared to nighttime sleep. My findings raise the possibility that low R squared is a feature of all hyposomnolent mutants, not just insomniac. If this were the case, R squared could emerge as a novel means by which sleep researchers might assess sleep dysfunction.', u'Cellular homeostasis involves transmembrane molecular transport mediated by membrane-spanning proteins. Such proteins either carry the molecules across the membrane, or facilitate their diffusion. A generic formulation that describes transmembrane fluxes, derived from basic thermodynamic principles, and describing fluxes mediated by carrier proteins or by open channels using the same functional form is presented here. An alternative derivation from the Nernst-Planck equation that yields the same generic formulation can be obtained for the case of channel- mediated electrodiffusion. In general terms, the generic formulation is a product of an amplitude and a driving force. The amplitude models properties of the protein mediating the transport including basal rates of transport. The driving force term that depends non-linearly on the transmembrane concentrations of the molecules being transported, and possibly the transmembrane potential. The model applied for channel mediated currents is capable of displaying rectification. Further, an extension for channel gating derived en passage allows fitting of currents recorded in voltage-clamp without using powers for the gating variables. The generic formulation explicitly shows that the basal rate at which ions cross the membrane is the main macroscopic difference between currents mediated by carrier proteins and channels. Many functional forms that were not always derived from the same assumptions can be found in modelling studies of transmembrane transport, especially those studies focusing on the membrane potential of excitable cells. The derivations presented here unify the theory of biological transmembrane transport. Of particular interest, electrogenic transmembrane fluxes described with the general formulation can be converted to currents for the construction of models of membrane excitability; all based on the same assumptions and having the same functional form. The applicability of the generic derivations presented here is illustrated with models of excitability for neurones and pacemaker cardiocytes.', u'Zeta potential, defined as the electric charge at the shear plane, is widely used as a proxy for bacterial cell surface charge. Nonspecific adsorption of ions or polyelectrolytes onto the cell surface, however, alters the value and polarity of the measured zeta potential, leading to erroneous results. Multiple wash and centrifugation steps are commonly used in preparing cells for zeta potential analysis, where various wash buffers (such as 9 g/L NaCl, 0.001M KCl, and 0.1M NaNO3) are routinely used for removing (via charge screening) ions and charged molecules that bind nonspecifically to the cell surface. Preliminary data revealed that, for Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 grown in LB Lennox (with 2 g/L glucose, LBG hereafter), the zeta potential-pH profile was not significantly different over the pH range from 2 to 12 for deionized water, 9 g/L NaCl, and phosphate buffer saline (PBS) wash buffers. As LBG is a low salt medium without a phosphate buffer, it was likely that the extent of nonspecific adsorption of ions on the cell surface was not severe, and the different wash buffers would, correspondingly, not exert much effect on measured zeta potential. For E. coli grown in a semi-defined medium (with a high capacity phosphate buffer system), the zeta potential-pH profile was significantly different over the pH range from 1 to 12 for deionized water, 9 g/L NaCl, 0.1M NaNO3, 0.1M sodium acetate, and 0.1M sodium citrate wash buffers with the extent of difference positively correlated with wash buffer\u2019s ionic strength. Furthermore, the point of zero charge (pHzpc) for E. coli grown in the semi-defined medium varies between 1.5 and 3, in an ionic strength-dependent manner, for the various wash buffers tested. Collectively, this preliminary study highlights that wash buffer ionic strength plays important roles in affecting removal efficiency of nonspecifically absorbed ions on bacterial surfaces, where a threshold exists (0.15M) for charge screening to be effective, while 0.6M ionic strength might result in intrinsic cations removal, leading to possible cell surface damage and erroneous measurements.', u'Microbes in environmental studies should be cultured in growth media with characteristics as close to their original habitat as possible, and which also allows a high cell density to be attained for providing enough cells in subsequent experiments. This in-progress report describes the formulation of a medium with an environmentally-relevant composition, and which also affords aerobic high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 in shake flasks. The formulated medium comprises four components: a buffer system (K2HPO4: 12.54 g/L and KH2PO4: 2.31 g/L), vitamins (yeast extract: 12.0 g/L), salts (NaCl: 5.0 g/L and MgSO4: 0.24 g/L), and carbon and nitrogen sources (D-Glucose: 6.0 g/L and NH4Cl: 1.5 g/L). Notable characteristics of this medium were: high capacity phosphate buffer system (89 mM phosphate); 1:1 molar ratio between D-Glucose and NH4Cl; and yeast extract providing trace elements and a secondary carbon and nitrogen source. Growth experiments revealed that an OD600nm of 9 was attained after 24 hours of cultivation at 37 oC. This phase of growth was largely fuelled by glucose and NH4Cl. After 48 hours, the OD600nm reached 11, which was fuelled by the mixture of carbohydrates, lipids and proteins in yeast extract. Broth\u2019s pH varied between 5.5 and 7.8 during cultivation, which was in the range conducive for growth of E. coli. In comparison, the OD600nm of E. coli reached 1.4, 3.2, and 9.2 for three commonly used complex media; Nutrient Broth, LB Lennox, and Tryptic Soy Broth, respectively, over 48 hours under identical culture conditions. In addition, the formulated medium was able to maintain a large viable cell population for a longer period of time (three days) relative to Tryptic Soy Broth. Thus, preliminary data suggested that the formulated medium holds potential for use as a high cell density aerobic growth medium for Gram-negative bacteria.', u'Sacbrood virus (SBV) and deformed wing virus (DWV) are evolutionarily related positive-strand RNA viruses, members of the Iflavirus group, which infect the honeybee Apis mellifera, but have strikingly different levels of virulence when transmitted orally. Honeybee larvae orally infected with SBV usually accumulate high levels of the virus, which halts larval development and causes insect death. In contrast, oral DWV infection at the larval stage usually causes asymptomatic infection with low levels of the virus, although high doses of ingested DWV could lead to DWV replicating to high levels. We investigated effects of DWV and SBV infection on the transcriptome of honeybee larvae and pupae using global RNA-Seq and real-time PCR analysis. This showed that high levels of SBV replication resulted in down-regulation of the genes involved in cuticle and muscle development, together with changes in expression of putative immune-related genes. In particular, honeybee larvae with high levels of SBV replication, with and without high levels of DWV replication, showed concerted up-regulated expression of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), and down-regulated expression of the prophenoloxidase activating enzyme (PPAE) together with up-regulation of the expression of a putative serpin, which could lead to the suppression of the melanisation pathway. The effects of high SBV levels on expression of these immune genes were unlikely to be a consequence of SBV-induced developmental changes, because similar effects were observed in the honeybee pupae infected by injection. We suggest that the effects of SBV infection on the honeybee immunity could be an adaptation to horizontal transmission of the virus. Up-regulation of the expression of AMP genes in the SBV-infected brood may contribute to protection of the SBV virus particles in dead larvae from bacterial degradation. Suppression of the melanisation may also reduce the loss of infectivity of SBV in the larvae. Therefore it is possible that activation of AMP expression and suppression of melanisation could increase ability of SBV to be transmitted horizontally via cannibalization route. We observed no changes of AMPs and the melanisation pathway genes expression in the orally infected larvae with high levels of DWV replication alone. In the injected pupae, high levels of DWV alone did not alter expression of the tested melanisation pathway genes, but resulted in up-regulation of the AMPs, which could be contributed to the effect of DWV on the regulation of AMP expression in response to wounding. We suggest that the effects of single DWV infection on the expression of these immune-related genes could reflect evolutionary adaptations of DWV to vertical transmission. Up-regulation of AMPs is costly and suppression of melanisation may increase susceptibility to infections, therefore these changes may have negative impact on honeybee survival and, consequently, of the survival of DWV.', u'Plant breeders and educators working with the International Potato Center (CIP) needed freely available statistical tools. In response, we created first a set of scripts for specific tasks using the open source statistical software R. Based on this we eventually compiled the R package agricolae as it covered a niche. Here we describe for the first time its main functions in the form of an article. We also review its reception using download statistics, citation data, and feedback from a user survey. We highlight usage in our extended network of collaborators. The package has found applications beyond agriculture in fields like aquaculture, ecology, biodiversity, conservation biology and cancer research. In summary, the package agricolae is a well established statistical toolbox based on R with a broad range of applications in design and analyses of experiments also in the wider biological community .', u'Objectives. The objective of this study is to compare the impact of early and late reconstruction of complete unilateral cleft lip and palate on the growth and development of the front of the dentoalveolar arch. Methods. This study was carried out in the years 2012 - 2015 at the Clinic of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery in Banska Bystrica. Infants with unilateral complete cleft lip and palate were divided into 2 groups according to the timing of lip reconstruction. Group A consisted of infants with early lip reconstruction - realised in the first 14 days of life. Group B consisted of infants with later lip reconstruction - realised in the third month of age. Maxillary dental casts were obtained for each child in four periods \u2013 in the first 14 days of life, in the third month, in the sixth month and in the age of one year. These were followed by the identification, measurement and evaluation of anthropometric parameters. Results. Significant differences were occurred after the reconstruction of the lips in linear and angle measurements between infants in the A and B groups. Conclusion. The early surgical reconstruction of the lips in the first 14 days of life has a positive effect on the growth and development of the anterior segment of the dentoalveolar arch. Early lip reconstruction forms a continuous pressure on the frontal segment, resulting in the earlier remedy of anatomical properties and creates appropriate conditions for the best development of this area.', u'Motivation: The third generation sequencing (3GS) technology generates long sequences of thousands of bases. However, its error rates are estimated in the range of 15-40%, much higher than the previous generation (approximately 1%). Fundamental tasks such as genome assembly and variant calling require us to obtain high quality sequences from these long erroneous sequences. Results: In this paper we describe a versatile and efficient linear complexity consensus algorithm Sparc that builds a sparse k-mer graph using a collection of sequences from the same genomic region. The heaviest path approximates the most likely genome sequence (consensus) and is sought through a sparsity-induced reweighted graph. Experiments show that our algorithm can efficiently provide high-quality consensus sequences with error rate <0.5% using both PacBio and Oxford Nanopore sequencing technologies. Compared with the existing approaches, Sparc calculates the consensus with higher accuracy, uses 80% less memory, and is 5x faster, approximately. Availability: The source code is available for download at http://sourceforge.net/p/sparc-consensus/code/ and a testing dataset is available: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/trng8vdaeqywx1e/AAASJesLVAJZcbORkU9f4LuBa?dl=0 (Please copy the link to a browser to access if directly clicking the link fails)', u'Current strategies to improve graft outcome following kidney transplantation consider information at the HLA loci. Here, we used exome sequencing of DNA from ABO compatible kidney graft recipients and their living donors to determine recipient and donor mismatches at the amino acid level over entire exomes. We estimated the number of amino acid mismatches in transmembrane proteins, more likely to be seen as foreign by the recipient\u2019s immune system, and designated this tally as the allogenomics mismatch score (AMS). The AMS can be measured prior to transplantation with DNA for potential donor and recipient pairs. We examined the degree of relationship between the AMS and post-transplantation kidney allograft function by linear regression. In a discovery cohort, we found a significant inverse correlation between the AMS and kidney graft function at 36 months post-transplantation (n=10 recipient/donor pairs; 20 exomes) (r2>=0.57, P<0.05). The predictive ability of the AMS persists when the score is restricted to regions outside of the HLA loci. This relationship was validated using an independent cohort of 24 recipient donor pairs (n=48 exomes) (r2>=0.39, P<0.005). In an additional cohort of living and mostly intra-familial recipient/donor pairs (n=19, 38 exomes), we validated the association after controlling for donor age at time of transplantation. Finally, a model that controls for donor age, HLA mismatches and time post-transplantation yields a consistent AMS effect across these three independent cohorts (P<0.05). Taken together, these results show that the AMS is a strong predictor of long-term graft function in kidney transplant recipients.', u'Ankylosaurs (Dinosauria, Ankylosauria) have been known from the Lower Cretaceous English Wealden for over 170 years. Three Wealden ankylosaurian species are currently recognised: Hylaeosaurus armatus and Polacanthus rudgwickensis from the Wealden Sub-basin of Sussex, and Polacanthus foxii from both the Wessex Sub-basin of the Isle of Wight and the Wealden Sub-basin. Within recent years all have been interpreted as close relatives within the clade Polacanthidae or Polacanthinae, the monophyly of which is controversial. Most views of polacanthines as a whole are based on substantially better remains from North America. Despite the familiarity of Hylaeosaurus and Polacanthus, many questions remain about their anatomy, taxonomy and relationships and a thorough re-appraisal of the British taxa are needed. We discuss a new ankylosaur discovered in 1994 in the Wessex Formation at Chilton Chine, Isle of Wight. This partial skeleton (including limb and limb girdle elements, vertebrae and osteoderms) is one of the most complete ankylosaurs ever found in the UK and has the potential to resolve many questions about these dinosaurs. It has been provisionally referred to P. foxii but differs in several respects from the holotype and referred specimens of this taxon. Each bone has been recorded using photogrammetry and we have reconstructed the skeleton in 3D. The histology of the sacral shield shows a plywood-like structure with extensive, well ordered structural fibres, in contrast to previously reported Polacanthus specimens. Initial findings suggest that the specimen represents a new taxon. Its implications for Early Cretaceous ankylosaur diversity and taxonomy will be discussed.', u'Mangrove sediment harbors a unique microbiome and is a hospitable environment for the growth of a diverse group of bacteria capable of oil biodegradation. Our goal was to understand bacterial community dynamics from mangrove sediments under heavy-oil contamination stress, and to look for common patterns that may be associated with oil biodegradation is such environments. We tested the hypothesis of a two-phase pattern of petroleum biodegradation, already reported in the literature, where key events in the degradation process take place in the first three weeks after the contamination. Two sample sites with different oil pollution history were compared through T-RFLP analyses and using a pragmatic approach based on the Microbial Resource Management Framework. Our data corroborated the already reported two-phase pattern of oil biodegradation, although the original proposed explanation is questioned, opening up the possibility to consider other plausible hypothesis of microbial interactions as the main drivers of this pattern.', u'Copepods are ubiquitous in aquatic habitats. They exude bioactive compounds that mediate mate finding and induce defensive traits in prey organisms. Little is, however, known about the chemical nature of the copepod exometabolome that contributes to the chemical landscape in pelagic habitats. Here we describe the development of a closed loop solid phase extraction setup that allows for extraction of exuded metabolites from live copepods. We captured exudates from male and female Temora longicornis and analyzed the content with high resolution LC-MS. Chemometric methods revealed 87 compounds that constitute a specific chemical pattern either qualitatively or quantitatively indicating copepod presence. The majority of the compounds were present in both female and male exudates, but nine compounds were mainly or exclusively present in female exudates and hence potential pheromone candidates. Copepodamide G, known to induce defensive responses in phytoplankton, was among the ten compounds of highest relative abundance in both male and female extracts. The presence of copepodamide G shows that the method can be used to capture and analyze chemical signals from living source organisms. We conclude that solid phase extraction in combination with metabolic profiling of exudates is a useful tool to develop our understanding of the chemical interplay between pelagic organisms.', u'Colony Collapse Disorder has become a global problem for beekeepers and for the crops which depend on bee polination. Multiple factors are known to increase the risk of colony colapse, and the ectoparasitic mite Varroa destructor that parasitizes honey bees (Apis melifera) is among the main threats to colony health. Although this mite is unlikely to, by itself, cause the collapse of hives, it plays an important role as it is a vector for many viral diseases. Such diseases are among the likely causes for Colony Collapse Disorder. The effects of V. destructor infestation are disparate in different parts of the world. Greater morbidity - in the form of colony losses - has been reported in colonies of European honey bees (EHB) in Europe, Asia and North America. However, this mite has been present in Brasil for many years and yet there are no reports of Africanized honey bee (AHB) colonies losses. Studies carried out in Mexico showed that some resistance behaviors to the mite - especially grooming and hygienic behavior - appear to be different in each subspecies. Could those difference in behaviors explain why the AHB are less susceptible to Colony Collapse Disorder? In order to answer this question, we propose a mathematical model of the coexistence dynamics of these two species, the bee and the mite, to analyze the role of resistance behaviors in the overall health of the colony, and, as a consequence, its ability to face epidemiological challenges.', u'Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a chronic and progressive disease that is strongly associated with the all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. The present study aimed to analyze the abundance and functionality of intrinsically disordered regions in several biomarkers of insulin resistance, adiponectin, and endothelial dysfunction found in the T2DM patients. In fact, in comparison to controls, obese T2DM patients are known to have significantly higher levels of inter-cellular adhesion molecule (iCAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule (vCAM-1), and E-selectin, whereas their adiponectin levels are relatively low. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that these selected biomarkers (iCAM-1, vCAM-1, E-selectin, and adiponectin) are characterized by the noticeable levels of intrinsic disorder propensity and high binding promiscuity, which are important features expected for proteins serving as biomarkers. Within the limit of studied groups, there is an association between insulin resistance and both hypoadiponectinemia and endothelial dysfunction.', u'Ricker\u2019s stock recruitment model is widely used to describe the spawner-offspring relationship for fishes. After model fitting, the spawning stock size that produces the maximum sustainable yield (SMSY), and the harvest corresponding to it (UMSY), are two of the most common biological reference points of interest to fisheries managers. However, to date there has been no explicit solution for either reference point because of the transcendental nature of the equation needed to solve for them. Therefore, numerical or statistical approximations have been used for more than 30 years. Here I provide explicit formulae for calculating both SMSY and UMSY in terms of the productivity and density-dependent parameters from Ricker\u2019s model.', u'Combining calibrated hydrophone measurements with vessel location data from the Automatic Identification System, we estimate underwater sound pressure levels for 1,582 unique ships that transited the core critical habitat of the endangered Southern Resident killer whales during 28 months between March, 2011, and October, 2013. Median received spectrum levels of noise from 2,812 isolated transits are elevated relative to median background levels not only at low frequencies (20-30 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz from 100-1000 Hz), but also at high frequencies (5-13 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz from 10,000-96,000 Hz). Thus, noise received from ships at ranges less than 3 km extends to frequencies used by odontocetes like the southern resident killer whales for communication and echolocation. Broadband received levels (11.5-40,000 Hz) near the shoreline in Haro Strait (WA, USA) for the entire ship population were 111 \xb1 6 dB re 1 \u03bcPa on average. Mean ship speed was 14.4 \xb1 4.1 knots. Most ship classes show a linear relationship between received level and speed with a slope near +1 dB/knot. Assuming near-spherical spreading based on a transmission loss experiment we compute mean broadband source levels for the ship population of 173 \xb1 7 dB re 1 \u03bcPa @ 1 m without accounting for frequency-dependent absorption. Spectrum, 1/12- octave, and 1/3-octave source levels for the whole population have median values that are comparable to previous measurements and models at most frequencies, but for select studies may be relatively low below 200 Hz and high above 20,000 Hz. Median source spectrum levels peak near 50 Hz for all 12 ship classes, have a maximum of 159 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m for container ships, and vary between classes by about 25 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m at low frequencies (50 Hz), 13 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m at mid-frequencies (1,000 Hz), and 5 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m at high frequencies (10,000 Hz). Below 200 Hz, the class-specific median spectrum levels bifurcate with large commercial ships grouping as higher power noise sources. Within all ship classes spectrum levels vary more at low frequencies than at high frequencies, and the degree of variability is almost halved for classes that have smaller speed standard deviations.', u'Here we present a genome-wide method for de novo identification of enhancer regions and apply it to find enhancers that have increased activity after hypoxia. The method links fragmented genomic DNA to the transcription of randomer molecule identifiers and measures the functional enhancer activity of the library by massively parallel sequencing. We transfected a Drosophila melanogaster library into S2 cells in normoxia and hypoxia, and assayed 4,599,881 genomic DNA fragments in parallel. The locations of the enhancer regions strongly correlate with genes up-regulated after hypoxia and previously described enhancers. Novel enhancer regions were identified and integrated with RNAseq data and transcription factor motifs to describe the hypoxic response on a genome-wide basis as a complex regulatory network involving multiple stress-response pathways. This work provides a novel method for high-throughput assay of enhancer activity and the genome-scale identification of hypoxia-activated enhancers in Drosophila.', u'Neopasiphaeinae bees (Apoidea: Colletidae) are well known for their Amphinotic distribution in the Australian and Neotropical regions. Affinities between colletid taxa in Australia and South America have been speculated for decades, and have been confirmed by recent phylogenetic hypotheses that indicate a biogeographic scenario compatible with a trans-Antarctic biotic connection during the Paleogene. Despite this proximity, no species occurs on both sides of the Pacific Ocean, but the Neotropical species Hoplocolletes ventralis (Friese, 1924), which was described as an Australian taxon due to an error in the specimen labels. This mistake was recognized by C.D.Michener 50 years ago. We herein report that the same labeling problem also happened with Dasycolletes chalceus Friese, 1924, which remained as a tentatively placed species in the Australian genus Leioproctus until now. Moreover, Dasycolletes chalceus is interpreted as a synonym of Dasycolletes ventralis. We also provide a revised diagnosis for Hoplocolletes, describe the male of H. ventralis in detail for the first time, including a comparative study of its genitalia and associated sterna.', u"Catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) is commonly used as an index of abundance in fishery stock assessments, but CPUE may be misleading, as a number of global fishery collapses have been attributed to a hyper-stable CPUE. In abalone (Halitidae family) fisheries, CPUE at large spatial scales may be hyper-stable because of aggregating behaviour and serial-depletion, whereby fishers sequentially fish areas with no corresponding decline in CPUE. Obtaining detailed spatial information in abalone fisheries might mitigate this problem, allowing CPUE to be used more confidently in these fisheries. Here, we report on the use of newly-developed high-resolution Global Positioning System (GPS) data loggers in New Zealand's blacklip abalone (p\u0101ua, Haliotis iris) fisheries. Using these data loggers, we tested, via a fish-down experiment, if CPUE is a reliable indicator of abundance at a small spatial scale and over a period of months. In the experiment, hyper-stability at small spatial scales occurred at high abundance, but CPUE reflected the estimated depletion level at the end of experimental fishing. This experiment suggests that the GPS data loggers provide a promising avenue to track CPUE at a small spatial scale, and to assess spatial resource use in New Zealand's p\u0101ua fisheries.", u'Background.  Epigenetic influences have been implicated in the development of autoimmunity. While such mechanisms have been linked to mouse models of intestinal inflammation, and to human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms in the pathogenesis of intestinal inflammation in the interleukin-10 gene-deficient (Il10 \u2013/\u2013 ) mouse model of IBD has not yet been reported. This study investigated the hypothesis that changes observed in the expression of Stat1 and Ppara in colon tissue of Il10 \u2013/\u2013  mice are associated with differential methylation of CpG sites within key regulatory regions of these genes.  Methods.  Colon tissue was collected from Il10  \u2013/\u2013  and C57BL/6JArc mice at 6 (pre-inflammation) or 12 (established inflammation) weeks of age. Methylation levels of CpG sites within selected regions of the Stat1  and Ppara genes were assessed using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry in DNA extracted from mouse colon tissue.  Results.  Methylation of specific CpG sites within intron 2, but not the proximal promoter, of the Stat1 gene was reduced in colon tissue from Il10 \u2013/\u2013  mice at 12 weeks of age compared with colon tissue C57BL/6JArc mice at 12 weeks of age.  Discussion.  These data provide preliminary evidence that DNA methylation is altered in the Il10 \u2013/\u2013  mouse model of IBD, and this may be linked with changes in the expression levels of genes that play a key role in inflammation. Further studies are required to confirm these observations, and to establish a causative link between methylation at specific sites (such as intron 2 of Stat1) and gene expression.', u'We report on the results of a series of large-scale computer-based preference tests (conducted at The Science Museum in London and online) that evaluated for the first time the widely-held belief in kitchens that food should be plated in odd rather than even numbers of elements on the plate in order to maximize the eye appeal of a dish. Participants were presented with pairs of plates of food showing odd versus even number of seared scallops (3 vs. 4), arranged in a line or as a polygon, on either a round or square white plate. No consistent evidence for a preference for 3 or 4 number of food items was found. The implications of these results are discussed.', u'An increasing number of occupations involve tasks requiring sustained and divided attention skills. These tasks are often susceptible to the effects of cognitive fatigue, resulting in poorer performance and increasing the likelihood of human error. Previous research indicates that those who regularly play action video games have superior performance on cognitive tests that are related to sustained attention and divided attention performance. Few studies, however, have investigated how performance on these tasks change as time-on-task increases. The current study compared the performance of 18 video game players (VGPs) and 24 non-video game players (NVGPs) on the NASA Multi-Attribute Task Battery (version 2; MATB-II) before and after completing a 60-minute sustained attention task. Results indicated that at the multivariate level, VGPs demonstrated superior sustained attention compared to NVGPs, however both groups experienced similar levels of cognitive fatigue with an increasing number of errors and greater reaction time variability as time-on-task increased. In addition, at the multivariate level, VGPs demonstrated superior divided attention performance compared to NVGPs, however univariate analyses revealed a more complex relationship. Further, the performance of both groups improved in the second session compared to the first, indicating a learning effect rather than a fatigue effect. Whilst the current results demonstrate VGP superiority in sustained and divided attention tasks, there was no evidence that these abilities assist with resisting the effects of cognitive fatigue.', u'The range of Nahuelbuta has an outstanding biogeographic importance and high endemism of flora and fauna. In this range, the Valdivian temperate forest extends north along the maritime watershed, while the sclerophyllous forest extends south along the continental slope and northern coastal plain. The L. fulvipes that inhabits this habitat is considered at high extinction risk due to both demographic and ecological factors, such as disease, predation by cougars or other fox species. Our study was conducted in Caram\xe1vida using camera traps (N = 84) during October 2011-March 2012 to observe L. fulvipes, this information was correlated with LIDAR data to generate: elevation model, forest height; and the raw data were used to estimate the vertical vegetation coverage for seven different layers of height, cover, leaf area index and vertical complexity index. Our results indicate the presence of 17 positive results with L. fulvipes watch. The values of occupancy, occupancy corrected for detectability, and detectability, indicate that the proportion of stations where the species was recorded was 20%, but the actual ratio would reach 25% after correcting for detectability. The presence data and vegetation analyzes indicate correlations with tree cover larger than 20 meters high and with a high diversity of vegetation in the vertical profile, which may propose the presence of sites with potential presence and corridors for this species. We conclude that this methodology can generate highly accurate and relevant vegetation variables that may provide some guidance regarding which are the areas where a species is potentially distributed and the design of corridors that may enrich their habitat.', u'Signalling helps connects different organisms in the biosphere. This research note describes the possible concentration-dependent odour mediated attraction of flies to stationary phase aerobic liquid cultures of Bacillus subtilis NRS-762 cultivated on an open orbital shaker at 25 oC. Greater odour pungency correlated with more intense \u201cforaging\u201d attempts, which suggested the compounds\u2019 possible behaviour modifying effects. Additionally, co-occurrence of optical density decline and increase in odour pungency suggested volatile compound(s) secretion might be a cell survival response mediated by a cell density-based signalling mechanism. Flies were not attracted to odourous stationary phase cultures of other common bacteria (Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1, Pseudomonas aeruginosa PRD-10, and Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5, which suggested species-specificity of the volatile compound(s)). Altogether, volatile compound(s) might serve as interkingdom messengers to enlist flies for dispersing B. subtilis to habitats with more favourable conditions in coping with possible irreversible decline in habitability, and operate in parallel with other in situ mechanisms such as cannibalism and sporulation that help B. subtilis ride out short- and long-term environmental fluctuations, respectively. Interested researchers are invited to build upon the preliminary findings.', u'The volume of Web robot traffic seen by Web servers and clouds continue to increase with the popularity of Internet of Things (IoT) devices. Such traffic exhibits decidedly different statistical and resource request patterns compared to humans. However, the optimizations ensuring high levels of Web systems and cloud performance requires traffic to exhibit the statistical and behavioral patterns of humans, not robots. This necessitates the design of novel Web system optimizations to handle Web robot traffic effectively. Caches are a basic component of high performing Web systems, but their effectiveness relies on accurate resource request prediction. In this paper, we explore a suite of classifiers for the resource request type prediction problem for robot traffic. Our analysis reveals: (i) a striking difference in the request patterns of robots across multiple servers from the same domain; and (ii) that Elman neural networks hold promise to predict request types despite these differences.', u'Osmoregulation and systemic acid-base balance in decapod crustaceans are largely controlled by a set of transport-related enzymes including carbonic anhydrase (CA), Na + /K + -ATPase (NKA) and V-type- H + -ATPase (HAT). Variable pH levels and changes in osmotic pressure can have a significant impact on the physiology and behaviour of crustaceans. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the mechanisms via which an animal can maintain its internal pH balance and regulate the movement of ions into and out of its cells. Here, we examined expression patterns of the cytoplasmic (CAc) and membrane-associated form (CAg) of CA, NKA \u03b1 subunit and HAT subunit a in gills of the freshwater crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus. Expression levels of the genes were measured at three pH levels, pH 6.2, 7.2 (control) and 8.2 over a 24 hour period. All genes showed significant differences in expression levels, either among pH treatments or over time. Expression levels of CAc were significantly increased at low pH and decreased at high pH conditions 24 h after transfer to these treatments. Expression increased in low pH after 12 h, and reached their maximum level by 24 h. The membrane-associated form CAg showed changes in expression levels more quickly than CAc. Expression increased for CAg at 6 h post transfer at both low and high pH conditions, but expression remained elevated only at low pH (6.2) at the end of the experiment. Expression of CqNKA significantly increased at 6 h after transfer to pH 6.2 and remained elevated up to 24 h. Expression for HAT and NKA showed similar patterns, where expression significantly increased 6 h post transfer to the low pH conditions and remained significantly elevated throughout the experiment. The only difference in expression between the two genes was that HAT expression decreased significantly 24 h post transfer to high pH conditions. Overall, our data suggest that CAc, CAg, NKA and HAT gene expression is induced at low pH conditions in freshwater crayfish. Further research should examine the physiological underpinnings of these changes in expression to better understand systemic acid/base balance in freshwater crayfish.', u'Introduction. Conversion of images from DICOM format to other image formats affects measuring distances in images. Materials and methods. Distances in DICOM or JPEG images were measured with different zoom using 1.5T MRI scanning of human diaphragm during spontaneous breathing and during low and high lung volumes. Results. Correlation between distance measurements in mm and pixels at all zoom factors on DICOM and JPEG images ranged from r=0.9981-1.00 and 95% CI for r of 0.9972 - 0.9986 to 1.00 - 1.00 and the p-value in all correlations was <0.001. Results of comparing the difference in measured dimensions on DICOM and JPEG images in mm for F1.0 indicate that differences in measurements are small (0.1 mm average). Image zooming in JPEG for F1.8 compared to the idealized pixel size values with that zoom on average increases the number of pixels for 1 (range from 5 pixels increase to 4 pixels loss). Conclusions. The values of linear regression equation for all zoom factors (F1.0 - F1.8) indicate that distance measurement on the zoomed JPEG image is not suitable for obtaining accurate results of distance measurements. The distance measurements in JPEG images without zoom are entirely in accordance with distance measurements in DICOM images. In the zoomed images distance measurements differ from the results of distance measurements in DICOM format and for the possible use of the results it is necessary to provide data on zoom factor, physical size of the pixel spacing and the values of the linear regression equation.', u'Pattern recognition is commonly used for identifying an unknown entity from a set of known objects curated in a database \u2013 and find use in various applications such as fingerprint matching and microbial identification. Whether matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) or electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI MS/MS), mass spectrometry is increasingly used in identifying microbes in the research and clinical settings via species- or strain-specific mass spectrum signatures. Although the existence of unique biomarkers - such as ribosomal proteins - underpins mass spectrometry-based microbial identification, absence of corresponding genome or proteome information in publicly accessible databases for a large fraction of extant microbes significantly hamper biomarker (and species) assignment. Nevertheless, the reproducible generation of species-specific mass spectrum across different growth and environmental conditions opens up the possibility of identifying unknown microbes via comparing peak positions between mass spectra, without biomarker identities. Thus, the mass spectrum fingerprinting (pattern recognition) approach circumvents the need for biomarker information, where alignment of as many mass peaks as possible (particularly, those of phylogenetic significance) between spectra is the basis for identification. In contrast, variation in gene expression and metabolism (and biomolecules\u2019 abundances) with environmental and nutritional factors, meant that alignment of peak intensities, though desired, is not a strict requirement in species annotation. With large diversity of biomolecules present in each microbial species, mass spectrometry-based microbial identification is inherently data-intensive, which requires statistical tools and computers for implementing pattern recognition. Nevertheless, relegation of algorithmic details to the backend of software obfuscates the approach\u2019s conceptual underpinnings and hinders students\u2019 understanding. More important, mathematics-centric approaches for explaining the conceptual basis of pattern recognition, though useful, are generally less pedagogically accessible to students relative to visual illustration techniques. This short primer describes a simple graphical illustration (featuring three examples common in mass spectrometry-based biotyping workflows) that attempts to explain the conceptual underpinnings of mass spectrum fingerprinting, and highlights caveats for avoiding misidentifications.', u'Considerable effort has been devoted to the empirical estimation of species interaction strengths. This effort has focused primarily on statistical significance testing and on obtaining point estimates of parameters that contribute to interaction strength magnitude, leaving characterizations of estimation uncertainty and distinctions between the deterministic and stochastic contributions to variation largely unconsidered. Here we consider a means of quantifying interaction strength uncertainty by formulating an observational method for estimating per capita attack rates as a Bayesian statistical model. This formulation permits the explicit incorporation of multiple sources of uncertainty. In doing so we highlight the informative nature of several so-called non-informative prior choices in modeling the sparse data typical of predator feeding surveys and provide evidence for the superior performance of a new neutral prior choice. A case study application shows that while Bayesian point estimates may be made to correspond with those obtained by frequentist approaches, estimation uncertainty as described by the 95% intervals is more biologically realistic using the Bayesian method in that the lower bounds of the Bayesian posterior intervals for the attack rates do not include zero when the occurrence of a given predator-prey interaction is in fact observed. This contrasts with bootstrap confidence intervals that often do contain zero in such cases. The Bayesian approach provides a straightforward, probabilistic characterization of interaction strength uncertainty. In doing so it provides a framework for considering both the deterministic and stochastic drivers of species interactions and their impact on food web dynamics.', u'The teeth of polycotylid plesiosaurs are generally simple, cone shaped, non-serrated and only slightly recurved without distinct carinae. The surface of crowns are characterized by a series of vertical enamel wrinkles that are more highly developed on the lingual surface of the crown, and decrease in width and number toward the apex. Some of the most promising research related to fossil dentition, involves the analysis of surface and internal dental microstructure. This study, is an attempt to examine and describe polycotylid dental microstructure. It gives an overview of polycotylid plesiosaur enamel and dentine microstructures using a scanning electron microscope. Enamel type and structures vary, based on its position on the surface of the crown, and its perceived strength requirements. The dentition layer is \u201choneycombed\u201d with tubular structure, possibly to provide nourishment to fast growing crowns. The study of crown microstructures may lead to a better understanding of polycotylid niche preference in the late Cretaceous oceans.', u'Vertebrate mothers transfer diverse compounds to developing embryos that can affect their development and final phenotype (i.e. maternal effects). However, the way such effects modulate offspring phenotype, in particular their immunity remains unclear. To test the impact of maternal effects on offspring development we treated with Newcastle disease virus (NDV) vaccine wild breeding house sparrow (Passer domesticus) females in Sevilla, SE Spain. Female parents were vaccinated when caring first broods, and their offspring from their following brood were evaluated for their immune response to the same vaccine and to the PHA inflammatory test. Vaccinated chicks from vaccinated mothers developed a stronger specific response that was related to maternal NDV antibody concentration. Chick\u2019s carotenoid concentration and total antioxidant capacity in blood were negatively related to NDV antibody concentration, whereas no relation with PHA response was found. Specific NDV antibodies could not be detected on 10 day old control chicks from vaccinated mothers, implying that maternally transmitted antibodies promote offspring specific immunity through a priming effect, while other immunity components remain unaffected. Maternally transmitted antibodies are short-lived, depend on maternal circulation levels and may be adaptive when chicks are frequently exposed to the same pathogens as their mothers.', u'The coastal environments of South Africa\u2019s Cape Floristic Region (CFR) provide some of the earliest and most abundant evidence for the emergence of cognitively modern humans. In particular, the south coast of the CFR provided for hunter-gatherers a uniquely diverse resource base, namely marine shellfish, game, and carbohydrate-bearing plants, especially those with underground storage organs (USOs). It has been hypothesized that these resource underpinned the continuity of human occupation in the region since the Middle Pleistocene. Very little research has been conducted on the foraging potential of carbohydrate resources in the CFR. This study focuses on the seasonal availability of plants with edible carbohydrate by assessing their visibility to foragers at six-weekly intervals over a two-year period in four vegetation types on South Africa\u2019s Cape south coast. A total of 52 edible plant species were recorded across all vegetation types. Of these, 33 species were geophytes with edible USOs and 21 species had aboveground edible carbohydrates. Limestone Fynbos had the richest flora, followed by Strandveld, Renosterveld and lastly, Sand Fynbos. The availability of USO species differed across vegetation types and between survey years. The number of available USO species was highest for a six-month period from winter to early summer (Jul-Dec) across all vegetation types. Months of lowest species\u2019 availability were in mid-summer to early autumn (Jan-Apr); the early winter (May-Jun) values were variable, being highest in Limestone Fynbos. However, even during the late summer carbohydrate \u201ccrunch\u201d, 25 carbohydrate bearing species were visible across the four vegetation types. Overall, the plant-based carbohydrate resources available to Stone Age foragers of the Cape south coast, especially USOs belonging to the Iridaceae family, are likely to have comprised a reliable and nutritious source of calories over most of the year. The winter and early spring months likely coincided with a scarcity of protein, especially marine invertebrates, but an abundance of carbohydrates. At these times, plant carbohydrates, especially USOs, may have comprised 100% of dietary intake. However, recognising which vegetation types are most productive, identifying hotspots of productivity and distinguishing between edible and toxic USOs must have required considerable cognitive skills.', u'Cell communication is central to the integration of cell function required for the development and homeostasis of multicellular animals. Proteins are an important currency of cell communication, acting locally (auto-, juxta-, or paracrine) or systemically (endocrine). The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family contributes to the regulation of virtually all aspects of development and organogenesis, and after birth to tissue maintenance, as well as particular aspects of organism physiology. In the West oncology has been the focus of translation of FGF research, whereas in China and to an extent Japan a major focus has been to use FGFs in repair and regeneration settings. These differences have their roots in research history and aims. The Chinese drive into biotechnology and the delivery of engineered clinical grade FGFs by a major Chinese research group were important enablers in this respect. The Chinese language clinical literature is not widely accessible. To put this into context, we provide the essential molecular and functional background to the FGF communication system covering FGF ligands, the heparan sulfate and Klotho co-receptors and FGF receptor (FGFR) tyrosine kinases. We then summarise a selection of case reports that demonstrate the efficacy of engineered recombinant FGF ligands in treating a wide range of conditions that require tissue repair / regeneration. Alongside the functional reasons why application of exogenous FGF ligands does not lead to cancers are described. Together, this highlights that the FGF ligands represent a major opportunity for clinical translation, that has been largely overlooked in the West.', u'In the current study, we investigated the relation between cognitive performance and heart rate variability in visuospatial working memory. We used a visuospatial working memory paradigm involving simultaneous encoding, maintenance, active manipulation and retrieval to simulate routine daily activities. Subjects performed the visuospatial working memory paradigm which had 3 memory loads and simultaneous ECG recording was acquired for measuring heart rate variability. Based on the performance in the visuospatial working memory task, subjects were segregated into two groups: Good performers and poor performers. Two major findings emerged in this study. First, the heart rate variability decreased with an increase in the working memory load. Second, good performers had relatively higher heart rate variability compared to poor performers while performing the visuospatial working memory task. Our results highlighted the influence of cognitive performance on heart rate variability. In summary, the current study indicates that the heart rate variability during the visuospatial working memory task could predict the qualitative differences in the cognitive performance between the individuals.', u'In high-throughput sequencing (HTS) projects, the sequenced fragments\u2019 duplicate rate is a key quality metric. A high duplicate rate may arise from a low amount of input DNA and many PCR cycles. Many methods for downstream analyses require that duplicates be removed. If the duplicate rate is high, most of the sequencing effort and money spent would have been in vain. Therefore, it is of considerable interest to estimate the duplicate rate after sequencing only a small subsample at low depth (multiplexed with other libraries) for quality control before running the full experiment. In this article, we provide an elementary mathematical framework and an efficient computational approach based on quadratic and linear optimization to estimate the true duplicate rate from a small subsample. Our method is based on up-sampling the occupancy distribution of the reads\u2019 copy numbers. Compared to an existing approach, we use an explicit and easily explained mathematical model that accurately inverts the sub-sampling process. We evaluate the performance of our approach in comparison to that of the existing method on several artificial and real datasets. The same ideas can be used for diversity estimation in general. Software implementing our approach is available under the MIT license.', u'Food production with plants consumes large amounts of water, occupies large areas of land and cannot guarantee food security beyond the 21st century. Industrial agriculture in particular, is destructive to the environment, fosters climate change in profound ways, deteriorates public health and causes high \u201dhidden costs\u201d. Single-cell protein (SCP) represents an alternative with minimal carbon-, water- and land footprints. However, when grown on biowastes of industrial agriculture, heterotrophic SCP does not truly improve sustainability or food security.\nThis hypothesis paper proposes autotrophic SCP bioprocess designs which enable sustainable, fail-safe and efficient production of edible biomass from CO2 and N2 or NH3. They can be driven by H2, CO or HCOOH from several sustainable sources. Besides H2O-electrolysis and syngas, surprisingly fossil fuel may provide an effectively carbon-negative and cheap supply of H2 through the decomposition of CH4 or oil. Most promising bioprocess designs consist of 2-stages. In the first stage, homoacetogenic bacteria fix CO2 up to 10 more efficiently than plants, and secrete it as acetate. In the second stage, selected microbes grow on the acetate and thereby form edible biomass. Bacteria have unique features including N2-fixation, H2S tolerance and O2-tolerant hydrogenases for fast light-independent growth. Eukaryotic microalgae are already approved as food and exhibit oxygenic photosynthesis which partly replaces solar-panels, seawater desalination and H2O-electrolyzers. Photoheterotrophic growth on acetate decouples these benefits from inefficient endogenous CO2 fixation. Slow gas mass-transfer, poor light distribution and expensive cell harvest are major challenges arising from the cultivation in liquid media. To cope with this, microbes grow as hydrated biofilms that are exposed directly to substrate gases, and that can be dry-harvested. Two suitable bioreactors are presented and adaptations for 2-stage designs are proposed. Since provision with substrates is expensive, two strategies are proposed for the safe extraction of substrates from food-grade as well as non-food- grade biowastes via partial anaerobic digestion. Additionally, alkalic pH and hydroxides formed at the cathode during electrolysis may be used to precipitate CO2 from the air as carbonates. In two use cases, 2-stage designs with solar-powered H2-generation from seawater were estimated to exceed productivity of wheat 20-200 fold, for moderate and arid climates respectively. Preliminary cost estimates and data about direct and indirect subsidies of industrial agriculture lead to the hypothesis that autotrophic SCP likely outperforms industrial agriculture not only in ecological but also in economical aspects.', u'The German Conference on Bioinformatics (GCB) is an annual research conference bringing together researchers and practitioners in bioinformatics in Central Europe.\nThe poster session is and always has been an important part of GCB, as it gives an excellent overview of current bioinformatics research topics in Germany and other countries.At GCB 2015, there will be 57 posters on display, whose abstracts (together with the poster number) are collected in the present document. Poster prizes will be presented to the presenting author(s) of the best posters, as selected by the program committee.', u"Research has suggested that adding contextual information such as reference markers to data sonification can improve interaction with auditory graphs. This paper presents results of an experiment that contributes to quantifying and analysing the extent of such benefits for an integral part of interpreting graphed data: point estimation tasks. We examine three pitch-based sonification mappings; pitch-only, one-reference, and multiple-references that we designed to provide information about distance from an origin and assess their effects on users' performances when completing point estimation tasks. Results showed that the addition of reference tones increases users accuracy with a trade-off for task completion times, and that the multiple-references mapping is particularly effective when dealing with points that are positioned at the midrange of a given axis.", u'The Natural History Museum has undertaken a series of annual field trips to Morocco for collections enhancement purposes. Specimens are collected directly from various locations and also obtained from local collectors and dealers, introduced to the group by trusted local contacts with whom the museum has built a relationship. The 2015 fieldtrip in late February/early March was very eventful, with sudden snowfall and floods encountered, hidden mountainside quarries visited, little publicised dinosaur trackways discovered and fossil fakery by skilled preparators witnessed at first hand!. This presentation highlights the scientific value and potential pitfalls of such collaborations.', u"The rate of change \\(\\partial M/\\partial t\\) of some metric \\(M\\) measured as one of the kinematic properties of a network described by a graph \\(G\\) transitioning from \\(G(V_{t}, E_{t})\\) to \\(G(V_{t+\\partial t}, E_{t+\\partial t})\\) over time range \\(\\partial t\\) has been described in the literature with linguistic descriptions that often provide ambiguity. For example, one rate of change \\((\\partial M/\\partial t)_{1}\\) has been described as ``dynamic'' and another \\((\\partial M/\\partial t)_{2}\\) as ``highly dynamic'' but \\((\\partial M/\\partial t)_{1}>(\\partial M/\\partial t)_{2}\\). We propose in this paper a nomenclature for the standard linguistic description of the kinematics of networks in the hope that description in the literature will be standardized and understood with the corresponding quantitative meaning. We termed a network as ``static'' when \\(\\partial M/\\partial t=0\\), as ``non-volatile'' when \\(0<\\partial M/\\partial t\\le 1\\), and as ``volatile'' when \\(\\partial M/\\partial t>1\\). In the development of the linguistic nomenclature, we borrowed heavily from the standard used in signal theory to provide linguistic descriptions to various ranges for \\(\\partial M/\\partial t>1\\). We described the kinematics of example real-world networks where the proposed nomenclature was used: (1) The collaboration network of Filipino Computer Scientists; (2) The network created from friendship relations among Batangas and Laguna Facebook users; and (3) The network created from the followed-follower relations among the top ten globally influential Twitter users.", u'Plastics\u2019 bioaccumulation and biomagnification potential, poor biodegradablility, and emission of hazardous chemicals during incineration, pose challenging disposal problems. Biodegradable, bio-renewable and biocompatible bacterial lipid-based storage polymer, poly-\u03b2-hydroxybutyric acids (PHB), offers a good functional replacement for petroleum-derived plastics. Originally nature\u2019s solution for helping bacteria moderate fluctuations in nutrient availability, progressive elucidation of PHB biosynthetic pathway guided efforts aimed at overproducing the polymer via genetic engineering, or optimizing fermentation conditions and growth medium composition. Although increasing PHB production titer improves efficiency and reduces cost, the high price and lack of competitiveness of PHB in the consumer market stems largely from intracellular accumulation of PHB - where extraction and purification is the most significant cost component of PHB production. Additionally, use of toxic solvents and surfactants during PHB extraction may also contaminate the product. Thus, compared with increasing production titer, eliminating the extraction step would go further in reducing PHB\u2019s relative price (cost), and improves production sustainability; thereby, motivating the development of techniques for inducing bacterial secretion of PHB. Given society\u2019s goal of mitigating climate change through reducing dependence on petroleum-derived chemicals, extracellular secretion of PHB would also help realize a bio-feedstock based chemical industry \u2013 where secreted PHB serves as precursors for synthesizing a range of platform chemicals. By tuning the size of PHB inclusion bodies and targeting them to appropriate cellular exporters through pathway engineering, recent research has described the creation of a recombinant Escherichia coli strain capable of secreting substantial fraction of size-delimited PHB granules. Possible routes for increasing the amount of extracellularly exported PHB include: engineering PHB granules suitable for extracellular export, exploring and creating alternative export pathways and transporters through rational genetic engineering and/or directed evolution, and creating \u201cleaky\u201d bacterial strains for facile PHB secretion. Overall, achieving progress on one or more of the above challenges would help advance PHB\u2019s role in a bio-renewable chemical industry. Additional topics such as the utility of PHB as bacterial storage polymers; the genes and metabolic pathways mediating its synthesis; and fermentation and extraction methods enabling its production provide context for a holistic discussion on the evolutionary origins, contemporary rediscovery and production of this incredibly useful and versatile biopolymer.', u'Solid medium enables spatially-resolved simultaneous cultivation of different microbes in a simple and relatively low-cost format useful for preliminary screening of microbial diversity. Lack of colour contrast between colonies and agar, however, hampers colony identification by automated image analysis \u2013 thus, presenting a challenge for phenotype screening experiments and viable cell counting. Since microbes secrete pigments of myriad hues, this research sought to develop a colourless agar - which when placed on coloured paper of suitable hue \u2013 would enhance the colour contrast between agar and colonies of any colour. Nevertheless, the concept is confounded by formation of coloured compounds between medium components during autoclave sterilisation, which, in this study, was prevented by dissolving glucose and ammonium chloride in two separate solutions containing other medium components. Upon mixing the two solutions after heat sterilisation, a colourless agar was obtained \u2013 which remained colourless even after adding sterile yeast extract (max: 1 g/L) for providing essential vitamins to microbes unable to synthesise them. Culture experiments revealed good growth of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 (ATCC 53868), Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5 (ATCC BAA-477), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 15442), and Bacillus subtilis (ATCC 8473) with cell yield positively correlated with yeast extract concentration. Additionally, identical viable cell concentration and colonies of similar morphologies were observed on both the colourless and LB agar; thus, suggesting that no inhibitory compounds were formed during agar preparation. Collectively, using commonly used buffer components, salts and nutrients, a colourless agar was prepared by segregating chromogenic compounds during heat sterilisation; thereby, opening up its potential use in enhancing colour contrast between colonies and agar medium for revealing finer details of pure culture colonies, or more accurate automated colony identification and counting in screening and viable cell count assays.', u'Bacterial surface charge (SC) mediates important cell-environment and microbe-host interactions, and its accurate and precise measurement by microelectrophoresis requires removing metabolites adhered to the cell surface - where repeated centrifugation and washing by buffers is the gold standard method. Unfortunately, the need for time-consuming centrifugation limits the temporal resolution of sampling and interrogation of experimental dynamics; especially for samples requiring immediate treatment post sampling. Herein, the feasibility of diluting cell aliquots with buffer as a one-step sample preparation technique for SC measurement was investigated by characterising the effects of dilution factor, type of cation, and buffer conductivity on measuring SC of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 grown in LB medium. Results indicated that dilution factor was critical to accurate SC measurement since low signal-to-noise ratios in high or low cell concentration samples generated substantial error. Type of buffer cation was also important since putative binding of high affinity cations to the cell surface underestimated SC of negatively-charged bacteria. Finally, although high conductivity buffers enabled greater removal of adsorbed metabolites through increased charge screening, a broader statistical distribution of measured SC was also observed \u2013 which, at extreme conductivity values, led to inaccurate data, probably due to removal of both intrinsic cell surface ions and exogenous adsorbed metabolites. Altogether, one-step dilution of cell aliquot with deionized water reliably reproduced E. coli SC values obtained via the gold standard approach; however, since the ensemble of secreted metabolites is bacteria/medium specific, distinct diluent and optimal parameters exist for each system. The described methodology may find use in preparing samples for cell surface characterisation studies, where it would help reduce sample preparation time \u2013 and thus, improve temporal resolution at which scientific questions can be probed and answered.', u'The psychophysiological method can be used to detect some simple cognitive states such as arousal, attentiveness, or mental workload. This approach can be especially interesting when cognition has some productive purpose, as in knowledge work, and tends to be related to human-computer interaction (HCI). However more interesting for applied purposes are acts of coordinated high-level cognition. High- level (or higher-order) cognition (HLC) is typically associated with decision making, problem solving, and executive control of cognition and action. Further, an intuitive approach for assessing whether someone is engaged in HLC is to measure their performance of a known task. Given this, it is reasonable to define high-performance cognition (HPC) as HLC under some performance restriction, such as real-time pressure or expert skill level. Such states are also interesting for HCI in work, and their detection represents an ambitious aim for using the psychophysiological method. We report a brief review of the literature on the topic.', u'The characteristics of the culture vessel determine, to a large extent, the type of growth medium suitable for use. For example, most growth media for high cell density cultivation are designed for expensive bioreactors operating either in continuous or fed-batch mode, where provision of additional nutrients and/or removal of metabolic waste products from the basal medium \u2013 comprising salts, buffer components and small amount of carbon and nitrogen sources - help increase biomass yield by maintaining culture conditions within the range conducive for growth. The inexpensive and ubiquitous shake flask, in contrast, is usually operated in batch mode and contains, at the outset, a comprehensive medium with all necessary nutrients for conversion into biomass and, also serves as a repository for secreted metabolites - some of which are detrimental for cell growth. Thus, designing medium for high cell density cultivation in shake-flask is an optimization process aiming to increase biomass formation while reducing toxic metabolite secretion. This preprint reports improvements to a previously reported semi-defined medium for high cell density aerobic cultivation of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 (ATCC 53868) in shake flask. Specifically, by reducing the concentrations of glucose (from 6.0 to 4.0 g/L) and ammonium chloride (from 1.5 to 1.0 g/L), the following improvements were obtained: a shorter diauxic lag phase (3 versus 5 hours); a higher maximal optical density (12.0 versus 11.0) in a shorter total culture period (27 versus 48 hours), and smaller pH variation during cultivation (6.0 to 7.6 versus 5.5 to 7.8). Similar to the earlier study, glucose and yeast extract served as principal carbon sources in separate growth phases for E. coli in the improved formulated medium (FMimproved). Specifically, an OD600nm of 6.6 was attained after 9 hours of growth on glucose at 37 oC. Following a lag phase of 3 hours, growth resumed on yeast extract and the OD600nm reached 12.0 after 27 hours. The broth\u2019s pH decreased from 7.1 to 6.0 during the first growth phase, whereupon it gradually rose to 7.6 at the end of culture. A smaller pH decrease along with higher biomass yield in the first growth phase suggested that the lower glucose concentration in FMimproved might have prevented overflow metabolism - and associated negative effects on growth - thus, resulting in a shorter diauxic lag phase and total culture period. Collectively, increase in cell yield, as well as decrease in total culture time and a shorter diauxic lag phase arise from a small reduction in glucose concentration - which suggested that an optimum exist, beyond which, occurrence of overflow metabolism would reduce cell yield and biomass formation.', u'Sufficient quantities of cells of consistent characteristics are needed for studying processes - at the population level and beyond - in many areas of applied microbiology research. Nevertheless, given the relatively low biomass yield of many commercial culture media in shake flasks, producing the requisite biomass by cell culture is generally the rate-limiting step. This work reports the formulation of a semi-defined medium that enabled aerobic high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 (ATCC 53868) in shake flasks. The formulated medium (FM) comprises: a buffer system (K2HPO4: 12.54 g/L and KH2PO4: 2.31 g/L); vitamins and trace elements (yeast extract: 12.0 g/L); salts (NaCl: 5.0 g/L and MgSO4: 0.24 g/L); and carbon and nitrogen sources (D-Glucose: 6.0 g/L and NH4Cl: 1.5 g/L). Notable characteristics of this medium are: high buffer capacity (89 mM phosphate), 1:1 molar ratio between D-Glucose and NH4Cl, and yeast extract providing trace elements and a secondary source of carbon and nitrogen. Preliminary data revealed that an OD600nm of 9 was attained after 24 hours of cultivation at 37 oC \u2013 most probably fuelled by glucose and NH4Cl. At 48 hours, the OD600nm reached a maximal value of 11 with yeast extract providing the necessary nutrients for cell growth and biomass formation. The broth\u2019s pH varied between 5.5 and 7.8 during cultivation. For comparison, the maximum OD600nm of E. coli grown in three commonly used complex media: Nutrient Broth, LB Lennox, and Tryptic Soy Broth (TSB) were 1.4, 3.2 and 9.2, respectively, under identical culture conditions. Finally, FM maintained the viability of a larger population for three days - compared to a population collapse observed in TSB after one day. Taken together, the present findings suggest that the formulated medium may find use as a high cell density aerobic growth medium for E. coli in shake flask. Part 2 of this work describes improvements in medium performance - specifically, higher cell yield as well as a shorter diauxic lag phase and total culture period \u2013 achieved through a small reduction in D-Glucose and NH4Cl concentrations in the medium composition. A preprint of the work is available at https://peerj.com/preprints/117v1.', u'Microbes, with their diverse metabolic capabilities and great adaptability, occupy almost every conceivable ecological niche on Earth \u2013 thus, could they survive in the oligotrophic (i.e., nutrient-poor) deionized (DI) water that we use for our experiments? Observations of white cauliflower-like lumps and black specks in salt solutions after months of storage in plastic bottles prompted the inquisition concerning the origin and nature of the \u201ccontaminants.\u201d Hypothesising that the \u201ccontaminants\u201d may be microbes from DI water, a series of growth experiments was conducted to detect and profile the microbial diversity in fresh DI water - produced on a just-in-time basis by a filter-cum-ion-exchange system with tap water as feed. While microbes could also be present on the surfaces and headspace of the unsterilized polyethylene bottles, investigating whether microbes are present in freshly produced DI water provides a more stringent performance test of the production system. Inoculation of DI water on R2A agar followed by multi-day aerobic cultivation revealed the presence of a wide variety of microbes (total viable cell concentration of ~103 colony forming units (CFU) per mL) with differing pigmentations, growth rates as well as colony sizes and morphologies. Additionally, greater abundance and diversity of microbes was recovered at 30 oC relative to 25 and 37 oC; most probably due to adaptation of microbes to tropical ambient water temperatures of 25 to 30 oC. Comparative experiments with tap water as inoculum recovered a significantly smaller number and diversity of microbes; thereby, suggesting that monochloramine residual disinfectant in tap water was effective in inhibiting cell viability. In contrast, possible removal of monochloramine by adsorption onto ion-exchange resins \u2013 and thus, alleviation of a source of environmental stress - might explain the observed greater diversity and abundance of viable microbes in DI water. Collectively, this study confirmed the presence of microbes in fresh DI water \u2013 and suggested a possible source for the \u201ccontaminants\u201d in prepared salt solutions. Propensity of microbes for forming biofilm on various surfaces suggested that intermittent flow in just-in-time DI water production provided opportunities for cell attachment and biofilm formation in the system during water stagnation, and subsequent dislodgement and resuspension of cells upon water flow. Thus, regular maintenance and cleaning of the production system should help reduce DI water\u2019s microbial load. Additionally, simple and low-cost culture experiments on agar medium can provide a qualitative and semi-quantitative estimate of microbial diversity and viable cell concentration in DI water, respectively; which, along with regular monitoring of water resistivity or conductivity, comprise a trio of tests useful for detecting possible contamination or, deterioration of DI water\u2019s chemical and microbiological quality.', u'The set \\(S\\) of \\(\\left(\\frac{N}{2^i}\\right)\\)-distance graphs of order \\(N\\) cycle graphs \\(\\mathbb{C}_N\\) is defined here as \\[S = \\left\\{ s_i= \\bigcup_1^{\\frac{N}{2^i}} \\mathbb{C}_{2^i} \\quad\\Bigg\\vert\\quad i=1,2, \\dots, \\log N\\right\\},\\] where w.o.l.o.g. \\(N=2^k\\), \\(\\forall k=2, 3, \\dots\\), and \\(\\log\\) is base two. The utility of the computation of \\(S\\) is demonstrated by a \\(\\mathcal{O}(|S| = \\log N)\\)-step implementation of various information broadcasts and their corresponding duals (i.e., reduction) among \\(N\\) completely-connected nodes \\(\\mathbb{K}_N\\) exchanging messages under a realistic \\((1, 1, 2)\\) communication model (i.e., concurrent one in-port and one out-port over a duplex connection). Information broadcast over \\(\\mathbb{K}_N\\) under \\((1,1,2)\\) is currently implemented with \\(\\mathcal{O}(N)\\) steps using a series of \\(N\\) circular 1-shift operations (or one circular \\(N\\)--shift). Algorithmically, the \\(i\\)th element \\(s_i\\in S\\) partially coincides with the \\(i\\)th dimension of a \\(\\mathbb{K}_N\\)-embedded \\((\\log N)\\)-cube.', u'Since the 1900s, dinosaur fossils have been discovered from Jurassic to Cretaceous age strata, from all across the prairie provinces of Canada and the Western United States, yet little material is known from the outer provinces and territories. In British Columbia, fossils have long been uncovered from the prevalent mid-Cambrian Burgess Shale, but few deposits date from the Mesozoic, and few of these are dinosaurian. The purpose of this paper is to review the history of dinosaurian body fossils in British Columbia. The following dinosaurian groups are represented: coelurosaurians, thescelosaurids, iguanodontians, ankylosaurs and hadrosaurs.', u'Gallbladder carcinoma (GBC) is a chronic malignancy of the gall bladder and intrahepatic and extrahepatic common bile ducts with a high mortality rate and forms the fifth common cancer of gastrointestinal tract globally. Women remain at higher risk than men and recent studies have reported the highest rate of incidence in women from Delhi, India. GBC treatment suffers from the disadvantage of lack of suitable biomarkers for early diagnosis of the disease. Different proteomic approaches including (i) 2D gel electrophoresis (ii) Mass spectroscopic studies (iii) Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantization (iTRAQ) -based quantitativeproteomicsstudies are being employed for detection of biomarkers in order to undertake early diagnosis of the disease. In this review we focus on (i) risk factors in GBC, (ii) diagnosis and treatment, (iii) molecular markers, and (iv) proteomic studies in GBC. The future scope of this review lies in the identifying biomarkers of GBC, and may provide directions to unraveling future implications in disease treatment.', u'Background: Diarrhetic Shellfish Poisoning (DSP) Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) represent a major threat for human consumers of shellfish. The biotoxin Okadaic Acid (OA), a well-known phosphatase inhibitor and tumor promoter, is the main responsible of acute DSP intoxications. Although several studies have described the molecular effects of high OA concentrations on sentinel organisms (e.g., bivalve molluscs), the effect of prolonged exposures to low (sublethal) OA concentrations is still unknown. In order to fill this gap, this work combines Next-Generation sequencing and custom-made microarray technologies to develop an unbiased characterization of the transcriptomic response of mussels during early stages of a DSP bloom. Methods: Mussel specimens were exposed to a HAB episode simulating an early stage DSP bloom (200 cells/L of the dinoflagellate Prorocentrum lima for 24 hours). Modifications in the expression of environmentally relevant transcripts were initially assessed using qPCR. The unbiased characterization of the transcriptomic responses triggered by OA was carried out using two complementary methods of cDNA library preparation: normalized and Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH). Libraries were sequenced and read datasets were mapped to Gene Ontology and KEGG databases. A custom-made oligonucleotide microarray was developed based on these data, completing the expression analysis of digestive gland and gill tissues. Results: Our findings show that exposure to sublethal concentrations of OA is enough to induce gene expression modifications in the mussel Mytilus. Transcriptomic analyses revealed an increase in proteasomal activity, molecular transport, cell cycle regulation, energy production and immune activity in mussels. Oppositely, a number of transcripts hypothesized to be responsive to OA (notably the Serine/Threonine phosphatases PP1 and PP2A) failed to show substantial modifications. Both digestive gland and gill tissues responded similarly to OA, although expression modifications were more dramatic in the former, supporting the choice of this tissue for future biomonitoring studies. Discussion: Exposure to OA concentrations within legal limits for safe consumption of shellfish is enough to disrupt important cellular processes in mussels, eliciting sharp transcriptional changes as a result. By combining the study of cDNA libraries and a custom-made OA-specific microarray, our work provides a comprehensive characterization of the OA-specific transcriptome, improving the accuracy of the analysis of expresion profiles compared to single-replicated RNA-seq methods. The combination of our data with related studies helps understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying molecular responses to DSP episodes in marine organisms, providing useful information to develop a new generation of OA biomarkers.', u'Two experiments were carried to test stress reactions on plants. First, salinity experiments were performed in hydroponical cultures of spinach and beets. While the results were statistically untenable, a negative correlation between salinity and nitrate reductases was found. Second, pH stress experiments were conducted on lettuce. The optimal range for lettuce growth is near neutrality. The present work is the presentation of the first (mostly negative) results of a series of ecophysiological experiments carried since 2011.', u'We analyzed temporal trends in mist-net capture rates of resident (n = 8) and overwintering Nearctic-Neotropical migrant (n = 3) bird species at two sites in montane broadleaf forest of the Sierra de Bahoruco, Dominican Republic, with the goal of providing quantitative information on population trends that could inform conservation assessments. We conducted sampling at least once annually during the winter months of January \u2013 March from 1997 \u2013 2010. We found evidence of steep declines in capture rates for three resident species, including one species endemic to Hispaniola. Capture rate of Rufous-throated Solitaire (Myadestes genibarbis) declined by 3.9% per year (95% CL = 0%, 7.3%), Green-tailed Ground-Tanager (Microlegia palustris) by 6.8% (95% CL = 3.9%, 8.8%), and Greater Antillean Bullfinch (Loxigilla violacea) by 4.9% (95% CL = 0.9%, 9.2%). Two rare and threatened endemics, Hispaniolan Highland-Tanager (Xenolegia montana) and Western Chat-Tanager (Calyptophilus tertius), showed statistically significant declines, but we have low confidence in these findings because trends were driven by exceptionally high capture rates in 1997 and varied between sites. Analyses that excluded data from 1997 revealed no trend in capture rate over the course of the study. We found no evidence of temporal trends in capture rates for any other residents or Nearctic-Neotropical migrants. We do not know the causes of the observed declines, nor can we conclude that these declines are not a purely local phenomenon. However, our findings, along with other recent reports of declines in these same species, suggest that a closer examination of their conservation status is warranted. Given the difficulty in obtaining spatially extensive, long-term estimates of population change for Hispaniolan birds, we suggest focusing on other metrics of vulnerability that are more easily quantified yet remain poorly described, such as extent of occurrence.', u'Smallholder farms dominate in many parts of the world, particularly Sub-Saharan Africa. These systems are characterized by small, heterogeneous, and often indistinct field patterns, requiring a specialized methodology to map agricultural land cover. Using a variety of sites in South Africa, we present a new approach to mapping agricultural fields, based on efficient extraction of a vast set of simple, highly correlated, and interdependent features, followed by a random forest classifier. We achieved similar high performance across agricultural types, including the spectrally indistinct smallholder fields as well as the more easily distinguishable commercial fields, and demonstrated the ability to generalize performance across large geographic areas. In sensitivity analyses, we determined multi-temporal information provided greater gains in accuracy than multi-spectral information.', u'Previous research shows that people systematically match tastes with shapes. Here, we assessed the extent to which matching taste and shape stimuli share a common semantic space and whether semantically congruent versus incongruent taste/shape associations can influence the speed with which people respond to both shapes and taste words. In Experiment 1, we used semantic differentiation to assess the semantic space of both taste words and shapes. The results suggest a common semantic space containing two principal components (seemingly potency and evaluation) and two principal clusters, one including round shapes and the taste word \u201csweet\u201d, and the other including angular shapes and the taste words \u201csalty\u201d, \u201csour\u201d, and \u201cbitter\u201d. The former cluster appears more positively-valenced whilst less potent than the latter. In Experiment 2, two speeded classification tasks assessed whether congruent versus incongruent mappings of stimuli and responses (e.g., sweet with round versus sweet with angular) would influence participants\u2019 speed of responding, both to shapes and to taste words. The results revealed an overall effect of congruence that was driven mostly when the participants had to classify shapes with taste words as responses. These results are consistent with previous evidence suggesting a close relation (or crossmodal correspondence) between tastes and shape curvature that may derive from common semantic coding, perhaps along the sensory-discriminative and hedonic dimensions.', u'Body size is an extremely important characteristic, impacting on a variety of ecological and life-history traits. It is therefore important to understand the factors which may affect its evolution, and diet has attracted much interest in this context. A recent study, examining the evolution of the earliest terrestrial herbivores in the Late Carboniferous and Early Permian, concluded that in the four herbivorous clades examined there was a trend towards increased body size, and that this increase was more substantial than that observed in closely related carnivorous clades. However, this hypothesis was not based on quantitative examination, and phylogenetic comparative methods provide a more robust means of testing such hypotheses. Here, the evolution of body size within different dietary regimes is examined in Captorhinidae, the most diverse and longest lived of these earliest high fibre herbivores. Evolutionary models were fit to their phylogeny to test for variation in rate and mode of evolution between the carnivorous and herbivorous members of this clade, and an analysis of rate variation throughout the tree was carried out. Estimates of ancestral body sizes were calculated in order to compare the rates and direction of evolution of lineages with different dietary regimes. Support for the idea that the high fibre herbivores within captorhinids are being drawn to a higher adaptive peak in body size than the carnivorous members of this clade is weak. A shift in rates of body size evolution is identified, but this does not coincide with the evolution of high-fibre herbivory, instead occurring earlier in time and at a more basal node. Herbivorous lineages which show an increase in size are not found to evolve at a faster rate than those which show a decrease; in fact it is those which experience a size decrease which evolve at significantly higher rates. The opposite is true of the carnivorous lineages, suggesting that in captorhinids it is the carnivores which show the greater trend towards increased body size. It is possible the shift in rates of evolution is related to the improved food processing ability of the more derived captorhinids rather than a shift in diet, but the evidence for this is circumstantial.', u'The Peterborough Member of the Oxford Clay Formation is renowned for its abundant and well preserved marine reptile fossils. In recent years, however, the primary source of these fossils, the brick making industry, has gone into serious decline \u2013 so much so that there is only one remaining working quarry in the Lower Oxford Clay and, with the future of UK brick manufacturing unclear, the importance of this quarry to vertebrate palaeontology should not be underestimated. The Oxford Clay Working Group (OCWG) was set up in 2011, in collaboration with the quarry owners, to collect, protect and document vertebrate fossils from this very important resource. Despite collecting unassociated fossils, particularly teeth and isolated bones, efforts to secure articulated or disarticulated skeletons have been hampered by modern quarrying techniques and a change of practice in excavating to the most productive levels. Here we report on a newly recovered, partially articulated plesiosaur skeleton representing a fully mature individual, which was saved because of the combined efforts of the OCWG in conjunction with both the quarry owners and employees. The specimen, which has been safely conserved and secured by the group, will be deposited into an accredited institution and so made available for scientific study and, perhaps, public display. It is planned that the skull block is CT scanned which may not only provide hitherto unknown data relative to Plesiosauroidea but may help, together with other skeletal elements, to solve anatomical and taxonomic problems within Cryptoclididae and, perhaps, Elasmosauridae.', u'Introduction The relationship between participant motion, demographic variables and MRI-derived morphometric estimates was investigated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia. Participant motion was estimated using resting state fMRI and used as a proxy measure for motion during T1-weighted MRI acquired in the same session. Analyses were carried out in scans qualitatively assessed as free from motion-related artifact.\nMethods Whole brain T1-weighted MRI and resting state fMRI acquisitions from the ABIDE, ADHD-200 and COBRE databases were included in our analyses. Motion was estimated using coregistration of sequential resting state volumes. Morphometric estimates were obtained using Freesurfer v5.3. We investigated if motion is related to diagnosis, age and gender, and scanning site. We further determined if there is a relationship between participant motion and cortical thickness, contrast, and volumetric estimates.\nResults 2131 participants were included in our analyses. Participant motion was higher in all clinical groups compared with healthy controls. Younger (age < 20 years) and older (age > 40 years) people move more than individuals aged 20 \u2013 40 years. Increased motion is associated with reduced average cortical thickness (-0.02 mm thickness per mm motion, p = 4.03\xd710-5) and cortical contrast (0.95% contrast reduction per mm motion, p = 5.25\xd710-11) in scans that have been qualitatively assessed as free from motion artifact.\nConclusions Participant motion is increased in clinical groups and is systematically associated with morphometric estimates. These findings indicate that accounting for participant motion may be important for improving the statistical validity of morphometric studies.', u'The Truck Factor designates the minimal number of developers that have to be hit by a truck (or quit) before a project is incapacitated. It can be seen as a measurement of the concentration of information in individual team members. We calculate the Truck Factor for 133 popular GitHub applications, in six languages. To infer the authors of a file we use the Degree-of-Authorship (DOA) metric, which is computed using version history data, and to estimate the Truck Factor, we use a greedy heuristic. Results show that most systems have a small truck factor (46% have Truck Factor=1 and 28% have Truck Factor=2).', u'An important source of information concerning the fates of intentionally introduced exotic bird species has been collections of historical data that sometimes include species released, numbers released, locations of release, and establishment success. These data have been used to assess potential predictors of establishment success such as propagule pressure, site-level factors, and species characteristics. In order to better understand the limitations of such historical compilations, we compared data for the Chukar (Alectoris chukar) introductions to the USA from two often used compilations and from other sources associated with Chukar introduction programs. We found the major compilations of Long (1981) and Lever (1987) are inconsistent and likely to be incomplete, and inaccurate, in terms of the taxa introduced, the numbers introduced, and the fates of these introductions. Propagule pressure analyses have often assumed that every bird in every release must be summed to represent the propagule pressure necessary for establishment. We found, however, that large numbers of birds were released into states and counties with already established populations. Additionally, in numerous states very large numbers of Chukars were unsuccessfully released. We conclude that site-level factors were more important influences of establishment success than propagule pressure was.', u'Supertree methods combine a set of phylogenetic trees into a single supertree. Similar to supermatrix methods, these methods provide a way to reconstruct larger parts of the Tree of Life, potentially evading the computational complexity of phylogenetic inference methods such as maximum likelihood. The supertree problem can be formalized in different ways, to cope with contradictory information in the input. Many supertree methods have been developed. Some of them solve NP-hard optimization problems like the well known Matrix Representation with Parsimony, others have polynomial worst-case running time but work in a greedy fashion (FlipCut). Both can profit from a set of clades that are already known to be part of the supertree. The Superfine approach shows how the Greedy Strict Consensus Merger (GSCM) can be used as preprocessing to find these clades. We introduce different scoring functions for the GSCM, a randomization, as well as a combination thereof to improve the GSCM to find more clades. This helps, in turn, to improve the resolution of the final supertree. We find this modifications to increase the number of true positive clades by 16% while decreasing the number of false positive clades by 3% compared to the currently used Overlap scoring.', u'We present a new human-computer interface that is based on decoding of attention through pupillometry. Our method builds on the recent finding that covert visual attention affects the pupillary light response: Your pupil constricts when you covertly (without looking at it) attend to a bright, compared to a dark, stimulus. In our method, participants covertly attend to one of several letters with oscillating brightness. Pupil size reflects the brightness of the selected letter, which allows us--with high accuracy and in real time--to determine which letter the participant intends to select. The performance of our method is comparable to the best covert-attention brain-computer interfaces to date, and has several advantages: no movement other than pupil-size change is required; no physical contact is required (i.e. no electrodes); it is easy to use; and it is reliable. Potential applications include: communication with totally locked-in patients, training of sustained attention, and ultra-secure password input.', u'In biological mass spectrometry, crude instrumental data need to be converted into meaningful theoretical models. Several data processing and data evaluation steps are required to come to the final results. These operations are often difficult to reproduce, because of too specific computing platforms. This effect, known as \u2019workflow decay\u2019, can be diminished by using a standardized informatic infrastructure. Thus, we compiled an integrated platform, which contains ready-to-use tools and workflows for mass spectrometry data analysis. Apart from general unit operations, such as peak picking and identification of proteins and metabolites, we put a strong emphasis on the statistical validation of results and Data Mining. MASSyPup64 includes e.g. the OpenMS/TOPPAS framework, the Trans-Proteomic-Pipeline programs, the ProteoWizard tools, X!Tandem, Comet and SpiderMass. The statistical computing language R is installed with packages for MS data analyses, such as XCMS/metaXCMS and MetabR. The R package Rattle provides a user-friendly access to multiple Data Mining methods. Further, we added the non-conventional spreadsheet program teapot for editing large data sets and a command line tool for transposing large matrices. Individual programs, console commands and modules can be integrated using the Workflow Management System (WMS) taverna. We explain the useful combination of the tools by practical examples: 1) A workflow for protein identification and validation, with subsequent Association Analysis of peptides, 2) Cluster analysis and Data Mining in targeted Metabolomics, and 3) Raw data processing, Data Mining and identification of metabolites in untargeted Metabolomics. Association Analyses reveal relationships between variables across different sample sets. We present its application for finding co-occurring peptides, which can be used for target proteomics, the discovery of alternative biomarkers and protein-protein interactions. Data Mining derived models displayed a higher robustness and accuracy for classifying sample groups in targeted Metabolomics than cluster analyses. Random Forest models do not only provide predictive models, which can be deployed for new data sets, but also the variable importance. We demonstrate that the later is especially useful for tracking down significant signals and affected pathways in untargeted Metabolomics. Thus, Random Forest modeling supports the unbiased search for relevant biological features in Metabolomics. Our results clearly manifest the importance of Data Mining methods to disclose non-obvious information in biological mass spectrometry . The application of a Workflow Management System and the integration of all required programs and data in a consistent platform makes the presented data analyses strategies reproducible for non-expert users. The simple remastering process and the Open Source licenses of MASSyPup64 (http://www. bioprocess.org/massypup/) enable the continuous improvement of the system.', u'Social anxiety is an emotional disorder common to various populations around the world. The newly developed Self-Beliefs Related to Social Anxiety Scale (SBSA) aims to assess three kinds of self-beliefs through 15 items that include self-related cognitive factors that evidently result in social anxiety. This study explored the psychometric characteristics of SBSA among 978 Chinese. An eight-item Negative Self-beliefs Inventory (NSBI) was developed through qualitative and quantitative analyses. Exploratory factor analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and multi-group confirmatory factor analysis suggested that NSBI contained clear, meaningful, stable, and invariant three-factor structure consistent with the original SBSA. Further analyses showed that the three subscales and the entire scale exhibited high internal consistency (0.779\u20130.837), good criterion validity, and good convergent and divergent validity (i.e., negative associations with flourishing and positive associations with anxiety, depression, and stress). These findings indicated that NSBI is reliable and valid for measuring negative self-beliefs in the Chinese population. Higher total score of NSBI indicates the more serious negative self-beliefs. Limitations of the present study and implications for research and practice were also discussed. Further studies are needed to evaluate the predictive ability, incremental validity, and potential role of NSBI in clinical and large-scale populations.', u'Advances in sequencing technology have exponentially increased data-generating capabilities, and data analysis has now become the major hurdle in many research programs. As sequencing tools become more accessible and automated, experimental design and data analysis skills become the key factors in determining the success of a study. However, proper bioinformatic analysis also relies on a deep understanding of laboratory workflow, in order to prevent biases in the data. This is particularly true if commercial kits are used, as proprietary reagents frequently obfuscate underlying reactions and their conditions. Here we present a training module that seamlessly combines laboratory components (experimental evolution of T5 bacteriophage resistance by Escherichia coli, and library preparation), with bioinformatic analysis of the resulting data. Students conduct a simple genetic variant discovery experiment in the course of about a week. The module uses mature Illumina chemistry for both library preparation and sequencing, though it can be modified for use with any sequencing platform. Because most students do not use Linux, the bioinformatic pipeline is available inside a cross-platform virtual machine, simplifying software installation, and providing a non-threatening introduction to the command line. The analysis, which is made simpler by the fact that most resistance mutations occur in one gene, making them easier to find, emphasizes the potential pitfalls of using short-read data for mutational analysis, and explores biases inherent to the methodology. This module can fill an existing training gap in advanced undergraduate, or early graduate education, allowing student to experience first-hand design, execution, and analysis of next-generation sequencing experiments.', u'The amount of data used in phylogenetics has grown explosively in the recent years and many phylogenies are inferred with hundreds or even thousands of loci and many taxa. These modern phylogenomic studies often entail separate analyses of each of the loci in addition to multiple analyses of subsets of genes or concatenated sequences. Computationally efficient tools for handling and computing properties of thousands of single-locus or large concatenated alignments are needed. Here I present AMAS (Alignment Manipulation And Summary), a tool that can be used either as a stand-alone command-line utility or as a Python package. AMAS works on amino acid and nucleotide alignments and combines capabilities of sequence manipulation with a function that calculates basic statistics. The manipulation functions include conversions among popular formats, concatenation, extracting sites and splitting according to a pre-defined partitioning scheme, and creation of replicate data sets. The statistics calculated include the number of taxa, alignment length, total count of matrix cells, overall number of undetermined characters, percent of missing data, AT and GC contents (for DNA alignments), count and proportion of variable sites, count and proportion of parsimony informative sites, and counts of all characters relevant for a nucleotide or amino acid alphabet. AMAS is particularly suitable for very large alignments with hundreds of taxa and thousands of loci. It performs better at concatenation and summarizing alignments than other popular tools. AMAS is a Python 3 program that relies solely on Python\u2019s core modules. AMAS source code and manual can be downloaded from http://github.com/marekborowiec/AMAS/', u'Service portfolio planning is the process of designing collections of services and deciding on their provision. The problem is highly information intensive, and most of the information required is hard to gather. In this paper, we present a solution approach based on the paradigm of Analytical Open Innovation (AOI). Open innovation is a cheap and low risk problem solving approach which relies on knowledge exchange with outside of company as a competitive advantage. Different forms of open innovation; crowd source, open source and outsource; facilitate the provider and consumer interactions and brings higher customer value. In our proposed AOI approach, open innovation is utilized for elicitation of services from web data, crowdsourcing the service value from potential customers and for the estimation of service implementation effort. For service evaluation, we apply the Kano theory of product development and customer satisfaction. Based on that and as the result from an optimization process, resource-optimized service portfolios are created that constitute trade-offs in balancing between gained value and effort needed. As a proof of concept, the proposed approach is illustrated via a case study project for the composition of Over the Top TV (OTT) services. The atomic services from 241 qualified apps were analyzed from the android app market. We demonstrate that the proposed approach is able to generate optimized trade-off solutions, composing better apps at each capacity level and achieving better customer satisfaction .The level of improvement in customer satisfaction varies between 16.5% and 95.3%.', u'Estimating and comparing microbial diversity are statistically challenging due to limited sampling and possible sequencing errors for low-frequency counts, producing spurious singletons. The inflated singleton count seriously affects statistical analysis and inferences about microbial diversity. Previous statistical approaches to tackle the sequencing errors generally require different parametric assumptions about the sampling model or about the functional form of frequency counts. Different parametric assumptions may lead to drastically different diversity estimates. We focus on nonparametric methods which are universally valid for all parametric assumptions and can be used to compare diversity across communities. We develop here for the first time a nonparametric estimator of the true singleton count to replace the spurious singleton count. Our estimator of the true singleton count is in terms of the frequency counts of doubletons, tripletons and quadrupletons. To quantify microbial diversity, we adopt the measure of Hill numbers (effective number of taxa) under a nonparametric framework. Hill numbers, parameterized by an order q that determines the measures\u2019 emphasis on rare or common species, include taxa richness (q=0), Shannon diversity (q=1), and Simpson diversity (q=2). Based on the estimated singleton count and the original non-singleton frequency counts, two statistical approaches are developed to compare microbial diversity for multiple communities. (1) A non-asymptotic approach based on standardizing sample size or sample completeness via seamless rarefaction and extrapolation sampling curves of Hill numbers. (2) An asymptotic approach based on a continuous diversity (Hill number) profile which depicts the estimated asymptotes of diversities as a function of order q. Replacing the spurious singleton count by our estimated count, we can greatly remove the positive biases associated with diversity estimates due to spurious singletons in the two approaches and make fair comparison across microbial communities, as illustrated in applying our method to analyze sequencing data from viral metagenomes.', u'There are several types of presentations at the German Conference on Bioinformatics (GCB): original research (proceedings track), highlights, posters, and, for the first time in 2015, junior research group presentations.\nThis document collects the abstracts of invited presentations, of the junior research groups and of research highlights from the past year that were presented at GCB 2015. The program committee accepted 8 out of 10 submitted highlight abstracts and 6 out of 8 submitted junior research group presentations.\nAs junior research group presentations are new to the conference, we would especially invite feedback about this new track, in addition to other feedback you may have about the conference.', u"Teleosaurids were a successful group of semi-aquatic crocodylomorphs that were an abundant part of coastal marine/lagoonal faunas during the Jurassic. Their fossil record suggests that the group declined in diversity and abundance during the Late Jurassic. 'Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus (Hulke, 1871) from the Kimmeridge Clay Formation is a little known gracile longirostrine species of teleosaurid from the Late Jurassic (late Kimmeridgian). The holotype, an incomplete snout NHMUK PV OR43086, was firstly described by Hulke in 1871. Since then only one other specimen, an almost complete skull from the slightly older Aulacostephanus eudoxus Sub-Boreal ammonite Zone of \u201cLa Crouzette\u201d, Francoul\xe8s (Quercy, France), has been referred to this species. Here, we describe, DORCM G.5067i-v, the anterior rostrum of a teleosaurid from the same horizon and locality as the holotype. We demonstrate that DORCM G.5067i-v is referable to Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus based on a unique combination of characters, which include: strongly ventrally deflected anterior margin of the premaxilla; five premaxillary alveoli, the caudal-most being considerably reduced in size; anterodorsally oriented external nares; conical teeth bearing carinae which are only visible on the apical third of the crown. Importantly, the tooth count, shape of external nares and strong premaxillary deflection distinguish Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus from all other Middle and Late Jurassic longirostrine teleosaurids. Some of these characteristics resemble those seen in pholidosaurids, suggesting some convergence between these clades.", u"Teleosaurids were a semi-aquatic group of crocodylomorphs with a fossil record that spanned the Jurassic Period. Abundant specimens are known from Oxford Clay (OCF, Callovian to lower Oxfordian) and Kimmeridge Clay (KCF, Kimmeridgian to lower Tithonian) Formations of the UK, and contemporaneous deposits in northern France. Unfortunately, due to the paucity of material from the intermediate \u2018Corallian Gap\u2019(middle to upper Oxfordian), we lack an understanding of how and why teleosaurid taxic abundance and diversity declined from the OCF to the KCF. Our discovery of an incomplete teleosaurid lower jaw from the Corallian of Weymouth (Dorset, UK) begins to help rectify this. The vertically oriented dentition, blunt tooth apices, and intense enamel ornamentation that shifts apical to an anastomosed pattern, and deep reception pits on dentary unambiguously demonstrates the affinity of this specimen with a sub-clade of macrophagous/durophagous teleosaurids ('Steneosaurus' obtusidens + Machimosaurus>). The high symphyseal tooth count allows us to exclude the specimen from M. hugii and M. mosae, but in absence of more diagnostic material we cannot unambiguously assign the specimen to a more specific level. Nevertheless, this specimen represents the first UK mandibular material referable to Teleosauridae from this poorly known time-span.", u'Pholidosauridae was a clade of longirostrine crocodyliforms that radiated across Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas between the Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous. The type genus of this clade, Pholidosaurus, is poorly understood and even the number of valid species referable is uncertain. There is considerable instability in this part of the crocodyliform tree, as previous phylogenetic analyses do not agree upon whether Pholidosauridae is monophyletic or not. Preliminary results based on a first-hand re-scoring of the type specimen of Pholidosaurus purbeckensis for different phylogenetic analyses (both in preparation modifications of published datasets) unfortunately does not resolve this issue. When P. purbeckensis is treated as separate OTU, a monophyletic Pholidosaurus is not recovered. The first matrix finds P. purbeckensis and P. schaumbergensis to be distantly related (i.e. a polyphyletic Pholidosaurus), whereas in the second matrix both Pholidosaurus species form a polytomy with Dyrosauridae and a large clade constituting most of Pholidosauridae (in this matrix the inclusion of P. purbeckensis greatly decreases the level of resolution). The on-going in-depth re-description and re-scoring of English Pholidosaurus specimens will help determine whether the genus is monophyletic. This further descriptive work will provide a platform from which the internal relationships of the Pholidosauridae can be investigated.', u'The apatosaurine sauropods \u2014 Apatosaurus, Brontosaurus and possibly others \u2014 resemble their diplodocine relatives, but are generally more robust. Apatosaur necks are much thicker than in other sauropods: cervical ribs and their supports are uniquely robust, and the ribs are strongly displaced ventrally. The diapophyseal and parapophyseal rami therefore project ventrolaterally, so that the neck would have been subtriangular in cross-section, not tubular.\nWhy did apatosaurines evolve necks that were apomorphically expensive to build, maintain, and operate? While sexual selection is not a convincing explanation for the evolution of sauropod necks in general, several features of apatosaurine necks suggest adaptation for combat:\n1. Ventral displacement of cervical ribs improved the lever arms of the hypaxial muscles, strengthening ventral neck movements.\n2. Ventrolaterally directed parapophyseal rami were oriented to resist ventral impacts.\n3. The ventral trough between the cervical ribs provided soft-tissue protection for the trachea, oesophagus, and major blood vessels.\n4. The ventrolateral processes on the cervical ribs may have been bony clubs, bearing thickened pads of connective tissue or keratinous knobs or spikes.\nThese adaptations suggest a style of combat in which the neck itself was crashed down or sideways into the opponent, rather than giraffe-style combat in which the head is the weapon. The closest extant analogue may be the elephant seal Mirounga: males fight by crashing their necks and anterior thoraxes together. As with apatosaurs, their cervical vertebrae are more robust than in relatives, and their ventral processes more pronounced; but enormous soft-tissue padding makes the analogy very inexact.', u'Metriorhynchids were a widely distributed group of marine crocodylomorphs that thrived during the Middle Jurassic\u2013Early Cretaceous. Within this group there is a subclade, Geosaurini, that evolved craniodential characteristics indicative of macrophagy (feeding on large-bodied prey items). When this subclade evolved and began to diversify into the myriad of morphologically distinct lineages is still unclear. Previous phylogenetic analyses suggest this clade evolved during the Late Jurassic, and rapidly diversified into numerous different ecomorphotypes. It was hypothesized that this was in response to the absence of small and medium-sized pliosaurs after the Middle-Late Jurassic Boundary. However, re-examination of poorly preserved fossils from the Callovian of England and France casts doubt on this. Based on our comparative study of these fossils, and new phylogenetic analyses, we conclude that Geosaurini had evolved and diversified by the mid Callovian. Although comparatively rare in the Middle Jurassic, at least four morphofunctionally distinct lineages of macrophages had evolved. Moreover, based on maximum likelihood modelling analyses, numerous macrophagy-linked characters (e.g. contiguous tooth serrations, low tooth count) evolved independently in these different lineages. Thus, the characteristics that previously suggested a Late Jurassic origin of Geosaurini was due to long-branch attraction and incomplete sampling. That these different macrophagous lineages evolved distinct morphofunctional complexes and began niche partitioning early in their evolution, suggests that their diversification was driven by foraging specialisation. We hypothesise that this may be a common driver of rapid diversification in marine tetrapod evolution.', u'The GCTF-PRO seeks to examine the extent gastric cancer patients are tapping into new information particularly outside of conventional healthcare disclosures. Its significance is in assessing dimensions of QOL paradigms that frame statistical power using predictive methods. It seeks to embed evidence-based theories (perceptual and cognitive) to awareness levels in an attempt to bridge the biotechnological advances with prognostic/ diagnostic-related patient satisfactions. At present, it may complement existing GC QOL instruments and offer a novel approach on how cellular level prognoses could possibly correlate with QOL measures.', u'Necrophagous beetles are underrepresented in forensic entomology studies despite their undeniable utility for the field. In our article we would like to address this problem and provide information regarding developmental biology and instar determination of Sciodrepoides watsoni (Spence, 1813), which is very common species occurring across the Holarctic region. We collected adult specimens from several localities across the Czech Republic to establish a laboratory culture with constant temperature regime and long day photoperiod. These adults were divided between five treatments that differed only in temperature (15, 18, 21, 25 and 28\xb0C). Emerging larvae were separated and their individual development was photographically documented every day until adulthood. Parameters of thermal summation models and their standard errors were calculated for each developmental stage. We also propose head width as a new character for larval instar determination together with a new methodology for future studies of size based characters.', u'Central Place and Central Flow Theory are geographic principles explaining why and how cities develop across large regional spaces. Central Place Theory postulates that cities self-organize into a spatial hierarchy were small numbers of very large \u2018Central Places\u2019 support numerous surrounding and less developed \u2018Low Places\u2019, while \u2018Middle Places\u2019 develop at the periphery of where Central Places carry spatial influence. Central Flow Theory is a comple- mentary notion that explains the cooperative development of cities through joint information sharing. Both theories are often discussed, with multiple regional development and economic models built upon their tenents. However, it is very difficult to quantify the degree to which Central Place and Central Flow Theory explains the development and positions of cities in a region, particularly in developing countries where socioeconomic data is difficult to collect. To facilitate these measurements, this paper presents a way to operationalize Central Place and Central Flow Theory using mobile phone data collected across a region. It defines a set of mobile phone data attributes that are related to basic facets of the two theories, and demonstrates how their measurements speak to the degree to which the theories hold in the region the mobile phone data covers. The theory is then applied in a case study where promising locations for economic investment in a developing nation are identified.', u'The first dromaeosaurid theropod from the Early Cretaceous Bayan Gobi Formation is identified based on an incompletely preserved partially-articulated left leg, increasing the known diversity of its understudied ecosystem. The leg belongs to specimen IVPP V22530 and includes a typical deinonychosaurian pedal phalanx II-2 with a distinct constriction between the enlarged proximal end and the distal condyle as well as a typical deinonychosaurian enlarged pedal phalanx II-3. It possesses a symmetric metatarsus and a slender and long MT V that together suggest it is a dromaeosaurid. Two anatomical traits suggest the leg is microraptorine-like, but a more precise taxonomic referral was not possible: metatarsals II, III and IV are closely appressed distally and the ventral margin of the medial ligament pit of phalanx II-2 is close to the centre of the rounded distal condyle. This taxonomic status invites future efforts to discover additional specimens at the study locality because - whether it is a microraptorine or a close relative - this animal is expected to make important contributions to our understanding of dromaeosaurid evolution and biology. IVPP V22530 also comprises of an isolated manual ungual, a proximal portion of a right dorsal rib and an indeterminate bone mass that includes a collection of ribs. However, these specimens cannot be confidently referred to Dromaeosauridae, although they may very well belong to the same individual from whom the left leg belongs.', u'Cryophilic algae thrive in liquid water within snow and ice in alpine and polar regions worldwide. Blooms of these algae lowers albedo (reflection of sunlight), thereby altering melting patterns (Kohshima et al. 1993; Lutz et al. 2014; Thomas & Duval 1995) . Here metagenomic DNA analysis and satellite imaging were used to investigate red snow in Franz Josef Land in the Russian Arctic. Franz Josef Land red snow metagenomes confirmed that the communities are composed of the autotroph Chlamydomonas nivalis that is supporting a complex viral and heterotrophic bacterial community. Comparisons with white snow communities from other sites suggest that snow and ice are initially colonized by fungal-dominated communities and then succeeded by the more complex C. nivalis-heterotroph red snow. Satellite image analysis showed that red snow covers up to 80% of the surface of snow and ice fields in Franz Josef Land and globally. Together these results show that C. nivalis supports a local food web that is on the rise as temperatures warm, with potential widespread impacts on alpine and polar environments worldwide.', u'Knowledge regarding the early evolution within the dinosaurian clade Ankylopollexia drastically increased over the past two decades, in part because of an increase in described taxa from the Early Cretaceous of North America. These advances motivated the recent completion of extensive preparation and conservation work on the holotype and only known specimen of Dakotadon lakotaensis, a basal ankylopollexian from the Lakota Formation of South Dakota. That specimen (SDSM 8656) preserves a partial skull, lower jaws, a single dorsal vertebra, and two caudal vertebrae. That new preparation work exposed several bones not included in the original description and revealed that other bones were previously misidentified. The presence of extensive deformation in areas of the skull is also noted that influenced inaccuracies in prior descriptions and reconstructions of this taxon. In addition to providing an extensive re-description of D. lakotaensis, this study reviews previously proposed diagnoses for this taxon, identifies two autapomorphies, and provides an extensive differential diagnosis. Dakotadon lakotaensis is distinct from the only other ankylopollexian taxon known from the Lakota Formation, Osmakasaurus depressus, in the presence of two prominent, anteroposteriorly oriented ridges on the ventral surfaces of the caudal vertebrae, the only overlapping material preserved between these taxa. The systematic relationships of D. lakotaensis are evaluated using both the parsimony and posterior probability optimality criteria, with both sets of analyses recovering D. lakotaensis as a non-hadrosauriform ankylopollexian that is more closely related to taxa from the Early Cretaceous (e.g., Iguanacolossus, Hippodraco, and Theiophytalia) than to more basally situated taxa from the Jurassic (e.g., Camptosaurus, Uteodon). This taxonomic work is supplemented by field work that relocated the type locality, confirming its provenance from unit L2 (lower Fuson Member equivalent) of the Lakota Formation. Those data, combined with recently revised ages for the members of the Lakota Formation based on charophyte and ostracod biostratigraphy, constrain the age of this taxon to the late Valanginian to early Barremian.', u'The tails of extant crocodilians are anatomically the closest approximation of the tails of non-avian dinosaurs, and therefore a good starting point for any reconstruction of non-avian dinosaur tail muscles. However, we here demonstrate some methodological problems using crocodile tails, firstly regarding the general reconstruction of tail mobility from osteology, secondly for the reconstruction of tail musculature for the quantification of muscle forces, especially the m. caudofemoralis longus, and thirdly with respect to the anatomical differences between crocodilians and non-avian dinosaurs, especially in relation to the reconstruction of m. caudofemoralis brevis. Our results show that, given the current limited knowledge of crocodilian tails, volumetric reconstructions should be created on the basis of more gross morphological data than is usually used, and that biomechanical studies should include sensitivity analysis with greater parameter ranges than often applied.', u'Computational modelling of cardiac cellular electrophysiology has a long history, with many models now available for different species, cell types, and experimental preparations. This success brings with it a challenge: how do we assess and compare the underlying hypotheses and emergent behaviours, in order to choose a model as a suitable basis for a new study, or characterize how a particular model behaves in different scenarios? We have created an online resource for the characterization and comparison of electrophysiological cell models under a wide range of experimental scenarios. The details of the mathematical model (quantitative assumptions and hypotheses formulated as ordinary differential equations) are separated from the experimental protocol being simulated. Each model and protocol is then encoded in computer-readable formats. A simulation tool runs virtual experiments on models, and a website \u2013 https://chaste.cs.ox.ac.uk/FunctionalCuration \u2013 provides a friendly interface, allowing users to store and compare results. The system currently contains a sample of 36 models and 23 protocols, including current-voltage curve generation, action potential properties under steady pacing at different rates, restitution properties, block of particular channels, and hypo-/hyper-kalaemia. This resource is publicly available, open source, and free; and we invite the community to use it and become involved in future developments. Those interested in comparing competing hypotheses using models can make a more informed decision; those developing new models can upload them for easy evaluation under the existing protocols, and even add their own protocols.', u'This work describes a novel solution to remote R. ferrugineus monitoring. Classical, plastic RPW traps containing aggregation pheromones for RPW are modified to include an optical sensor that senses adult pests falling in the trap. The counts of the pests are accumulated through the day and the counts are transmitted via the mobile phone network straight to a smartphone/tablet or internet address. The device is small and is attached internally in the trap carrying all necessary electronic equipment to allow optical detection, counting and transmission of counts through GSM. Smart RPW traps are expected to reduce the cost of monitoring and allow for reliable decision making as the wireless transmission is instantaneous thus allows the creations of real-time infestation maps. Our device has been tested extensively in real field delivering excellent detection results. We did not observe a single case that a RPW was not detected while being inside the trap and our trap delivers nearly zero rate false alarms.', u'Whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) is the current method of choice to obtain the methylation status of each single CpG dinucleotide in a genome. The typical analysis asks for regions that are differentially methylated (DMRs) between samples of two classes, such as different cell types. However, even with current low sequencing costs, many studies need to cope with few samples and medium coverage to stay within budget. We present a method to conservatively estimate the methylation difference between the two classes. Starting from a Bayesian paradigm, we formulate an optimization problem related to LASSO approaches. We present a dynamic programming approach to efficiently compute the optimal solution and its implementation diffmer. We discuss the dependency of the resulting DMRs on the free parameters of our approach and compare the results to those obtained by other DMR discovery tools (BSmooth and RADMeth). We showcase that our method discovers DMRs that are missed by the other tools.', u'Disparities in cancer risk exist between ethnic groups in the United States. These disparities often result from differential access to healthcare, differences in socioeconomic status and differential exposure to carcinogens. This study uses cancer incidence data from the population based Texas Cancer Registry to investigate the disparities in digestive and respiratory cancers from 2000 to 2008. A Bayesian hierarchical regression approach is used. All models are fit using the INLA method of Bayesian model estimation. Specifically, a spatially varying coefficient model of the disparity between Hispanic and Non-Hispanic incidence is used. Results suggest that a spatio-temporal heterogeneity model best accounts for the observed Hispanic disparity in cancer risk. Overall, there is a significant disadvantage for the Hispanic population of Texas with respect to both of these cancers, and this disparity varies significantly over space. The greatest disparities between Hispanics and Non-Hispanics in digestive and respiratory cancers occur in eastern Texas, with patterns emerging as early as 2000 and continuing until 2008.', u'Background: We wish to introduce a new chemical format called UCM (Universal Chemical Markup). The format is based on XML (Extensible Markup Language) and its first version focuses on recording chemical structures and their properties. Results: UCM currently supports structures containing isotopes, ions and various types of bonding including delocalized bonds. Properties can be expressed by combining UCM with UnitsML (Units Markup Language). Using UnitsML one defines quantities with scientific units, and then refers to them in UCM when recording property values. Users can also add literature references with BibTeXML (BibTeX Markup Language) and annotate the recorded data using plain text or XHTML (Extensible Hypertext Markup Language) descriptions. In contrast to presently available general-purpose chemical formats, UCM offers built-in validation, which combines both grammar and pattern-based XML schema languages. Thus, all recorded data can be precisely validated by UCM schemas in standard XML validators. Conclusions: We developed the structure for UCM from scratch on the basis of an analysis described in our previous article. Starting from scratch allowed us to integrate BibTeXML, UnitsML and XHTML as well as chemical line notations and identifiers into UCM. It also helped us to avoid unnecessary redundant parts and create the implementation that aims to minimize ambiguity and is designed to be easily extensible in the future.', u'Background: In order to design concepts for a new general-purpose chemical format we analyzed the strengths and weaknesses of current formats for common chemical data. While the new format is discussed more in the next article, here we describe our software tools and two stage analysis procedure that supplied the necessary information for the development. The chemical formats analyzed in both stages were: CDX, CDXML, CML, CTfile and XDfile. In addition the following formats were included in the first stage only: CIF, InChI, NCBI ASN.1, NCBI XML, PDB, PDBx/mmCIF, PDBML, SMILES, SLN and Mol2. Results: A two stage analysis process devised for both XML (Extensible Markup Language) and non-XML formats enabled us to verify if and how potential advantages of XML are utilized in the widely used general-purpose chemical formats. In the first stage we accumulated information about analyzed formats and selected the formats with the most general-purpose chemical functionality for the second stage. During the second stage our set of software quality requirements was used to assess the benefits and issues of selected formats. Additionally, the detailed analysis of XML formats structure in the second stage helped us to identify concepts in those formats. Using these concepts we came up with the concise structure for a new chemical format, which is designed to provide precise built-in validation capabilities and aims to avoid the potential issues of analyzed formats. Conclusions: We believe our analysis methodology is potentially highly reusable and could be easily adapted even for domains outside the chemistry area. It is because the methodology and software tools will need only few changes, although analyzed formats and software quality requirements for a format will differ according to the given domain.', u'International concern is growing with regard to the sustainability of manta and devil ray (collectively mobulids) fisheries as demand for mobulid products has increased in international markets over the last decade. While Indonesia has been reported to be one of the worlds\u2019 top three catchers of mobulid rays, detailed information on these fisheries and the status of Indonesian mobulid populations are lacking. Through collection of historical and recent mobuild fisheries data from published and unpublished sources, this study aimed to identify trends in abundance of Indonesian manta and devil rays and explore socio-economic factors and incentives associated with mobulid fisheries. Comparison of catches from 2001-5 to the most recent data from 2013-14 revealed dramatic declines in mobulid landings over the study period of 64% at Cilacap, 75% at Lamakera, and 94% at Tanjung Luar. The largest declines were observed for Manta spp. and the two large devil rays, Mobula tarapacana and Mobula japanica. Anecdotal reports indicated that catches had declined substantially at three additional sites and local extirpations are strongly suspected to have occurred at three locations. A lack of data on the population ecology of Indonesia\u2019s mobulids makes it difficult to determine whether natural fluctuations may be playing a part in the declining catch rates. However, mobulid life history traits, including low reproductive rates and late age of sexual maturation, indicate that fishing pressure is likely the primary driver in these declines. Interviews in Lamakera, a community which depends on income from its targeted mobulid fishery, suggest that programs focused on education, training and infrastructure development to enable shifts to sustainable livelihood alternatives are likely to offer the most successful path to long-term conservation and management of manta and devil rays, while simultaneously yielding economic and social benefits to fishing communities.', u'Because plans for large-scale landscape preservation in the US do not rely exclusively on lands held in trust, conservation programs have a vested interest in forest stewardship by private landowners. Selective harvests for commercial sale are often highlighted as a financial incentive for owners of non-industrial "family forests" to sustainably maintain the working character of their acreage rather than subdivide it or convert it for development. However, the business costs inherent in even a small-scale commercial timber harvest typically mean that forest parcels smaller than approximately 80 acres are too small to support a financial return. Statistics for private forest ownership in the U.S. suggest this minimum scale makes commercial harvest incentives effectively inaccessible to more than 90% of forest owners. Rural landscape conservation and commercial timber harvests depend on the same economies of scale to be viable. Designs for regional-scale forest conservation need to account for non-industrial but nonetheless commercial economies of scale that set an inherent limit on financial incentives intended to foster stewardship activity among family-forest landowners.', u'The Caribbean island biota is characterized by high levels of endemism, the result of an interplay between colonization opportunities on islands and effective oceanic barriers among them. A relatively small percentage of the biota is represented by \u2018widespread species\u2019, presumably taxa for which oceanic barriers are ineffective. Few studies have explored in detail the genetic structure of widespread Caribbean taxa. The cobweb spider Spintharus flavidus Hentz, 1850 (Theridiidae) is one of two described Spintharus species and is unique in being widely distributed from northern N. America to Brazil and throughout the Caribbean. As a taxonomic hypothesis, Spintharus \u201cflavidus\u201d predicts maintenance of gene flow among Caribbean islands, a prediction that seems contradicted by known S. flavidus biology, which suggests limited dispersal ability. As part of an extensive survey of Caribbean arachnids (project CarBio), we conducted the first molecular phylogenetic analysis of S. flavidus with the primary goal of testing the \u2018widespread species\u2019 hypothesis. Our results, while limited to three molecular loci, reject the hypothesis of a single widespread species. Instead this lineage seems to represent a radiation with at least 16 species in the Caribbean region. Nearly all are short range endemics with several distinct mainland groups and others being single island endemics. While limited taxon sampling, with a single specimen from S. America, constrains what we can infer about the biogeographical history of the lineage, clear patterns still emerge. Consistent with limited overwater dispersal, we find evidence for a single colonization of the Caribbean about 30 million years ago, coinciding with the timing of the GAARLandia landbridge hypothesis. In sum, S. \u201cflavidus\u201d  is not a single species capable of frequent overwater dispersal, but rather a 30 my old radiation of single island endemics that provides preliminary support for a complex and contested geological hypothesis.', u"Background. This study compared resting and exercise heat/hypoxic-stress induced levels of plasma eHSP70 in humans using two commercially available ELISA kits. Methods. EDTA plasma samples were collected from 21 males during two separate investigations. Participants in Part A completed a 60 min treadmill run in the heat (HOT70; 33.0 \xb1 0.1 \xb0C, 28.7 \xb1 0.8%, n = 6) at 70% V\u0307O2max. Participants in Part B completed 60 minutes of cycling exercise at 50% V\u0307O2max in either hot (HOT50; 40.5\xb0C, 25.4 RH%, n = 7) or hypoxic (HYP50; FIO2 = 0.14, 21\xb0C, 35% RH, n = 8) conditions. Samples were collected prior to and immediately upon termination of exercise and analysed for eHSP70 using EKS-715 high sensitivity HSP70 ELISA, and new ENZ-KIT-101 AMP\u2019D\u2122 HSP70 high sensitivity ELISA. Results. ENZ-KIT was superior in detecting resting eHSP70 (1.54 \xb1 3.27 ng.mL-1; range 0.08 to 14.01 ng.mL-1), with concentrations obtained from 100% of samples compared to 19% with EKS-715 assay. The ENZ-KIT requires optimisation prior to running samples in order to ensure participants fall within the standard curve, a step not required with EKS-715. Using ENZ-KIT, a 1:4 dilution allowed for quantification of resting HSP70 in 26/32 samples, with a 1:8 (n = 3) and 1:16 (n = 3) dilution required to determine the remaining samples. After exercise eHSP70 was detected in 6/21 and 21/21 samples using EKS-715 and ENZ-KIT respectively. eHSP70 was increased from rest after HOT70 (p < 0.05), but not HOT50 (p > 0.05) or HYP50 (p > 0.05) when analysed using ENZ-KIT. Conclusion. It is recommended that future studies requiring the precise determination of resting plasma eHSP70 use the ENZ-KIT (i.e., HSP70 Amp'd\xaeELISA) instead of the EKS-715 assay, despite additional assay development time and cost required.", u'Background. The Psychology Experiment Building Language (PEBL) software consists of over one-hundred computerized tests based on classic cognitive neuropsychology and behavioral neurology measures. Although the PEBL tests are becoming more widely utilized, there is currently very limited information about the psychometric properties of these measures. Methods. Study I examined inter-relationships among ten PEBL tests including indices of motor-function (Pursuit Rotor and Dexterity), attention (Test of Attentional Vigilance and Time-Wall), working memory (Digit Span Forward), and executive-function (PEBL Trail Making Test, Berg/Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Iowa Gambling Test, and Mental Rotation) in a normative sample (N = 189, ages 18-22). Study II evaluated test-retest reliability with a two-week interest interval between administrations in a separate sample (N = 79, ages 18-22). Results. Moderate intra-test, but low inter-test, correlations were observed and ceiling/floor effects were uncommon. Sex differences were identified on the Pursuit Rotor (Cohen\u2019s d = 0.89) and Mental Rotation (d = 0.31) tests. The correlation between the test and retest was high for tests of motor learning (Pursuit Rotor time on target r = .86) and attention (Test of Attentional Vigilance response time r = .79), intermediate for memory (digit span r = .63) but lower for the executive function indices (Wisconsin/Berg Card Sorting Test perseverative errors = .45, Tower of London moves = .15). Significant practice effects were identified on several indices of executive function. Conclusions. These results are broadly supportive of the reliability and validity of individual PEBL tests in this sample. These findings indicate that the freely downloadable, open-source, PEBL battery http://pebl.sourceforge.net is a versatile research tool to study individual differences in neurocognitive performance.', u'Background. The Psychology Experimental Building Language (PEBL) http://pebl.sourceforge.net/ test battery is a popular application for neurobehavioral investigations. This study evaluated the correspondence between the PEBL and the non-PEBL versions of four executive function tests. Methods. In one cohort, young-adults (N = 44) completed both the Conner\u2019s Continuous Performance Test (CCPT) and the PEBL CPT (PCPT) with the order counter-balanced. In a second cohort, participants (N = 47) completed a non-computerized (Wechsler) and a computerized (PEBL) Digit Span (WDS or PDS) both Forward and Backward. Participants also completed the Psychological Assessment Resources or the PEBL versions of the Iowa Gambling Task (PARIGT or PEBLIGT). Results. The between test correlations were moderately high (reaction time r = 0.78, omission errors r = 0.65, commission errors r = 0.66) on the CPT. DS Forward was significantly greater than DS Backward independent of the test modality. The total WDS score was moderately correlated with the PDS (r = 0.56). The PARIGT and the PEBLIGTs showed a very similar pattern for response times across blocks, development of preference for Advantageous over Disadvantageous Decks, and Deck selections. However, the amount of money earned (score \u2013 loan) was significantly higher in the PEBLIGT during the last Block. Conclusions. These findings are broadly supportive of the criterion validity of the PEBL measures of sustained attention, short-term memory, and decision making. Select differences between workalike versions of the same test highlight how detailed aspects of implementation may have more important consequences for computerized testing than has been previously acknowledged.', u'Basal hadrosauriform iguanodontian dinosaurs have been invaluable towards understanding the evolution of the complex and highly efficient advanced hadrosauriform tooth battery dental system. Here we report a new basal hadrosauriform maxilla specimen - IVPP V22529 - from the Dashuiguo Formation of Maortu, Nei Mongol, China that preserves a corrugated middle ventrolateral margin that differs from the straight and undulating ventral margins found in most iguandontian and non-iguanodontian dinosaurs. The uniqueness of this ventrolateral margin relates to a new dental structure - cementum \u2018jackets\u2019 that wrap about the labial sides of the teeth. To our knowledge this is the first time that cementum has been described migrated onto the tooth crowns of iguandontians (and other dinosaurs), but this trait is common amongst mammals. This dental morphology - seen in a similar form in the basal hadrosauriform Equijubus \u2013 therefore broadens our knowledge of iguanodontian maxillary anatomy and shows that the basal hadrosauriform dental system was more morphologically complex than previously thought. IVPP V22529 resembles maxillae specimens of Probactrosaurus gobiensis, a contemporaneous taxon known from the same locality in North China, in sharing an inferred subtriangular shape, a relatively flat lateral surface bearing a low row of foramina as well as similar-looking teeth. However, the presence of a unique corrugated middle ventrolateral margin in IVPP V22529, a low row of foramina on its lateral surface that also open anteriorly and increase in size posteriorly as well as a prominent medial shelf suggests that this specimen does not belong to P. gobiensis. However, these differences could conceivably be related to ontogenetic and sexual variation, which have not been fully documented in P. gobiensis. More detailed comparisons of IVPP V22529 and Probactrosaurus are also hampered by the missing posterior portion of IVPP V22529 as well as the missing anterior ramii in Probactrosaurus maxillae specimens. It is clear though that IVPP V22529 is different from the more advanced Northern Chinese hadrosauriforms Bactrosaurus and Gilmoreosaurus. The latter lack well-developed maxillary grooves on their medial shelves, unlike IVPP V22529, but all three taxa possess less-developed ones on the medial surfaces of the anteromedial processes of the anterior ramii. Different to IVPP V22529, Gilmoreosaurus also has foramina that are more highly-positioned on the lateral surface of its maxilla as well as a row of larger and more circular \u2018special\u2019 foramina on its medial surface. Thus, at this time, IVPP V22529 is identified as a basal hadrosauriform and not as a new genus or as a new species of Probactrosaurus.', u'The aim of this research brief is to describe a study that sought to understand the post-disclosure experiences of HIV-positive and negative children after they received disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses, respectively. This is the first study from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that describes the post-disclosure experiences of HIV-positive and negative children in one study. Prior studies in SSA have mostly centered on the post-disclosure experiences of HIV-positive children after receiving disclosure of their own illnesses, or HIV-positive mothers\u2019 descriptions of the effect of maternal disclosure on their HIV-negative children.', u'Plants are a hyperdiverse clade that plays a key role in maintaining ecological and evolutionary processes as well as human livelihoods. Glaring biases, gaps, and uncertainties in plant occurrence information remain a central problem in ecology and conservation, but these limitations have never been assessed globally. In this synthesis, we propose a conceptual framework for analyzing information biases, gaps and uncertainties along taxonomic, geographical, and temporal dimensions and apply it to all c. 370,000 species of land plants. To this end, we integrated 120 million point-occurrence records with independent databases on plant taxonomy, distributions, and conservation status. We find that different data limitations are prevalent in each dimension. Different information metrics are largely uncorrelated, and filtering out specific limitations would usually lead to extreme trade-offs for other information metrics. In light of these multidimensional data limitations, we critically discuss prospects for global plant ecological and biogeographical research, monitoring and conservation, and outline critical next steps towards more effective information usage and mobilization. We provide an empirical baseline for evaluating and improving global floristic knowledge and our conceptual framework can be applied to the study of other hyperdiverse clades.', u'The aim of this research brief is to summarize a case report study that described an HIV-positive married couple\u2019s poor disclosure experience of their illnesses to all their children in the household. It is important to communicate this couple\u2019s HIV disclosure experience to healthcare professionals so that they are aware of the problems that can occur if married or cohabiting couples do not collaborate with each other during the disclosure process. The data presented in the case report study and in this research brief should be used to provide targeted counseling to HIV-positive parents or cohabiting couples considering disclosure to their children.', u'Supernumerary chromosomes have been shown to transfer horizontally from one isolate to another. However, the mechanism by which horizontal chromosome transfer (HCT) occurs is unknown. In this study, we compared the genomes of 11 isolates comprising six Fusarium species that cause soybean sudden death syndrome (SDS) or bean root rot (BRR), and detected numerous instances of HCT in supernumerary chromosomes. We also identified a statistically significant number (21 standard deviations above the mean) of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the supernumerary chromosomes between isolates of the asexual pathogen F. virguliforme. Supernumerary chromosomes carried reverse transcriptase-related genes (RVT); the presence of long RVT open reading frames (ORFs) in the supernumerary chromosome was correlated with the presence of two or more chromosome copies with a significant number of SNPs between them. Our results suggest that supernumerary chromosomes transfer horizontally via an RNA intermediate. Understanding the mechanism by which HCT occurs will have a profound impact on understanding evolution and applying biotechnology as well as accepting HCT as a natural source of genetic variation.', u'Background: As a profession, Nursing has its own code of ethics and codes of conduct which establish personal and professional behavior expected on Nursing professionals and students to be competent in their practice, learning and development. The Nursing and Midwifery Council has a Code of Professional Conduct for students of Nursing and Midwife. Considering that the diversity of values is a fact in the university community, it is necessary to explore the validity and meaning to implement Codes of Professional Conduct for Nursing students in the teaching and learning process. Objective: To identify and assess codes of conduct aimed at Nursing students to understand the commitment to Bioethics training of higher education in Spain. Methods: A literature review was conducted. Main elements of ethical codes and the dimensions of the attitudinal assessment template for Nursing students in clinical practice with the code of conduct of the English Council were compared. Results: The literature review brings two articles in Spanish language and according to the selection criteria. The journal \u201cEtica de los cuidados\u201d -indexed in \u201cCuiden\u201d database- collects these studies reporting that both professionals and students know the Spanish Code of Ethics for Nursing and there is a need to establish a new teaching and learning framework in Bioethics; however, no specific articles provide knowledge about codes of conduct for Nursing students in Spain. Conclusion: In general, the standards of conduct for students of the Nursing and Midwifery Council are already implicit in the ethical rules, rights and duties of the Spanish code of professional ethics. So it is still necessary to consider the Code of Conduct of the Spanish Nursing Council and the White Paper of the Nursing Degree to understand the commitment to Bioethics training on Nursing.', u'While the presence of cattle in forests is quite common, how they use this habitat is often overlooked. When this is examined, most studies focus on measurements of the vegetation variables influencing habitat selection. This current report provides a suitable model to study habitat use by livestock in forested areas by means of GPS tracking on selected individuals. The model was applied to data from semi-feral cattle in order to obtain the first description of their habitat use in southern forests. Furthermore, the model accounted for individual variability, and hinted at population patterns of habitat use. The positions of 15 individual cows with GPS collars were recorded covering twelve months in a Nothofagus (southern beech) forest in Patagonia (Argentina). By projecting these GPS location data into a geographical information system (GIS), a resource selection probability function (RSPF) that considers topographic and vegetation variables was built. The habitat selection by semi-feral cattle in southern beech forests showed a large interindividual variability, but also some similar characteristics which enable a proper description of habitat-use patterns. It was found that habitat selection by cattle was mainly affected by topographic variables such as altitude and the combination of slope and aspect. In both cases the variables were selected below average relative to availability, suggesting a preferred habitat range. Livestock also tended to avoid areas of closed shrublands and showed a slight preference for meadows. Cattle give significant importance to topographic variables to define their habitat selection in this type of mountainous forests. This might be because of an ecological adaptation to the major features of these types of forests due to ferality. Furthermore, these results are the basis for management applications such as predictive maps of use by semi-feral livestock in forested landscapes.', u'Apache Hadoop has evolved significantly over the last years, with more than 60 releases bringing new features. By implementing the MapReduce programming paradigm and leveraging HDFS, its distributed file system, Hadoop has become a reliable and fault tolerant middleware for parallel and distributed computing over large datasets. Nevertheless, Hadoop may struggle under certain workloads, resulting in poor performance and high energy consumption. Users increasingly demand that high performance computing solutions being to address sustainability and limit power consumption. In this paper, we introduce HDFSH, a hybrid storage mechanism for HDFS, which uses a combination of Hard Disks and Solid-State Disks to achieve higher performance while saving power in Hadoop computations. HDFSH brings to middleware the best from HDs (affordable cost per GB and high storage capacity) and SSDs (high throughput and low energy consumption) in a configurable fashion, using dedicated storage zones for each storage device type. We implemented our mechanism as a block placement policy for HDFS, and assessed it over six recent releases of the Hadoop project, representing different designs of the Hadoop middleware. Results indicate that our approach increases overall job performance while decreasing the energy consumption under most hybrid configurations evaluated. Our results also showed that in many cases storing only part of the data in SSDs results in significant energy savings and execution speedups.', u'Emerging concerns over energy security and accelerating climate change have led to a global interest in developing a sustainable biofuel. Recently, it was determined that algal biofuels can be possibly cultured in a wastewater medium due to high levels of nutrients nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (NPK), reducing economic costs. Further efforts are needed in strain selection for cultivation in wastewater or inexpensive fertilizer. Common algal strains Nannochloropsis sp. and Chlorella sp. were studied to determine effects. Both strains were exposed to standard nutrients, which acted as controls, and high levels of NPK to simulate wastewater. The results revealed that NPK had a positive effect on turbidity and dissolved oxygen while decreasing the lipid productivities (measured via hexane solvent extraction) by an average of 36.5%. Specifically, Nannochloropsis sp. had overall higher values for all dependent variables. It is believed that under nutrient limiting conditions the cells deposited fatty acids in a triacylglycerol pathway. A follow-up experiment was performed using salinity as a novel method of decreasing biomass while maintaining lipid viability. Results revealed that freshwater algae can be cultivated in salinity levels between 10-15 ppt in order to increase lipid production. It is believed that while salinity osmotically interfered with the cell, lipid content increased, acting as a protective mechanism. Future research should focus on optimizing lipid production under stressed conditions using genetic manipulation of the TAG biosynthesis pathway.', u'We present ProCS15: A program that computes the isotropic chemical shielding values of backbone and C \u03b2 atoms given a protein structure in less than a second. ProCS15 is based on around 2.35 million OPBE/6-31G(d,p)//PM6 calculations on tripeptides and small structural models of hydrogen-bonding. The ProCS15-predicted chemical shielding values are compared to experimentally measured chemical shifts for Ubiquitin and the third IgG-binding domain of Protein G through linear regression and yield RMSD values of up to 2.2, 0.7, and 4.8 ppm for carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen atoms. These RMSD values are very similar to corresponding RMSD values computed using OPBE/6-31G(d,p) for the entire structure for each proteins. These maximum RMSD values can be reduced by using NMR-derived structural ensembles of Ubiquitin. For example, for the largest ensemble the largest RMSD values are 1.7, 0.5, and 3.5 ppm for carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen. The corresponding RMSD values predicted by several empirical chemical shift predictors range between 0.7 - 1.1, 0.2 - 0.4, and 1.8 - 2.8 ppm for carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen atoms, respectively.', u'Many recent studies rely on 16S rRNA-based sequencing approaches to analyze bacterial or archaeal communities found in soil and other environmental samples. While this approach is valuable for determining the relative abundances of different microbial taxa found in a given sample, it does not provide information on how the total abundances of targeted microbes differ across samples. Here we demonstrate how the simple addition of an internal standard at the DNA extraction step allows for the quantitative comparison of taxon abundances across samples. The reliability of this method was assessed in two ways. First, we spiked a dilution series of two different soils with internal standards to ascertain whether we could accurately quantify differences in cell abundances. We tested two different internal standards, adding DNA from Aliivibrio fischeri or Thermus thermophilus, bacterial taxa unlikely to be found in soil. Both standards allowed us to accurately quantify microbial abundances in soil as there was a strong positive correlation between total 16S rRNA gene estimations based on the recovery of sequences from these internal standards and the different starting amounts of soil extracted. We then tested whether we could use this approach to quantify differences in microbial abundances across a wide range of soil types. Microbial biomass of these samples was determined with standard methods: phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis and substrate induced respiration (SIR) analysis. The taxon abundances estimated with the internal standard sequencing approach were significantly correlated with the independent biomass measurements, and were in fact better correlated to SIR and PLFA estimates than either of these two biomass measurements were correlated with one another. Together, these results demonstrate that adding a DNA internal standard to soil or other environmental samples prior to DNA extraction is an effective method for comparing absolute bacterial cell abundances across samples. Given the ease of adding DNA internal standards to soil samples prior to high-throughput marker gene sequencing, absolute abundances and community composition can now be determined simultaneously and routinely.', u'Retrieving the hemodynamic response function (HRF) in fMRI data is important for several reasons. Apart from its use as a physiological biomarker, HRF can act as a confounder in connectivity studies. In task-based fMRI is relatively straightforward to retrieve the HRF since its onset time is known. This is not the case for resting state acquisitions. We present a procedure to retrieve the hemodynamic response function from resting state (RS) fMRI data. The fundamentals of the procedure are further validated by a simulation and with ASL data. We then present the modifications to the shape of the HRF at rest when opening and closing the eyes using a simultaneous EEG-fMRI dataset. Finally, the HRF variability is further validated on a test-retest dataset.', u'The project scheduling and resource allocation problems have been studied using different optimization methods. The resource leveling problem was proposed to reduce the resource fluctuation and was always studied independently resource constraint problem. For example, resource-constrained project scheduling problem (RCPSP) was proposed to optimize scheduling under resource constraints. This research proposed a new model which integrates the resource leveling problem and resource-constrained time-cost tradeoff problem. The evolutionary multi-objective optimization technique, strength Pareto evolutionary approach II (SPEA II) was applied to calculate the Pareto front of time and cost. The resource leveling measured by the metric, resource release/re-hiring, was converted to resource cost. The analysis of the time complexity of the model showed that the runtime of the algorithm was polynomial times of the number of activities. The results of case testing showed that the model was reasonably accurate in comparison with a proposed baseline model.', u'The growth of the software industry has gone hand in hand with the development of tools and cultural practices for ensuring the reliability of complex pieces of software. These tools and practices are now acknowledged to be essential to the management of modern software. As computational models and methods have become increasingly common in the biological sciences, it is important to examine how these practices can accelerate biological software development and improve research quality. In this article, we give a focused case study of our experience with the practices of unit testing and test-driven development in OpenWorm, an open-science project aimed at modeling Caenorhabditis elegans. We identify and discuss the challenges of incorporating test-driven development into a heterogeneous, data-driven project, as well as the role of model validation tests, a category of tests unique to software which expresses scientific models.', u'The Tabin Wildlife Reserve (TWR), Lahad Datu, Sabah is a popular tourist spot in Malaysia. It is the largest wildlife reserve in Sabah, mainly focusing on endangered mammals and birds. Thus, in this research, it is proposed to include invertebrates\u2019 information in the current ecotourism activities in TWR. Implicitly, it could increase a sustainable invertebrate conservation. Invertebrates possess many benefits to humankind, namely waste recycling whereby, they cycle minerals and organic minerals for plants and animals. Thus, this investigation aimed to study the tourists\u2019 perception on including invertebrate information in the current TWR ecotourism activity. Hence, to collect data from tourists, pre-visit and post-visit questionnaire surveys were adopted as the methodological approach during preliminary entotourism activities. Two different conceptual framework sets (pre-visit and post-visit) were posited in this investigation. The collected data were analysed via Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) and Analysis of Moment Structure (AMOS) software program by adopting Structural Equation Modelling (SEM). SEM analyses revealed that both pre-visit and post-visit surveys have significant variance towards Ecotourism. This implied a good potential in including invertebrates in ecotourism activities especially in Sabah. The findings of this study are important to contribute to the literature of invertebrate conservation awareness in Sabah, since very limited researches were conducted specifically on entotourism field.', u'The statistics from the National Health Service in the United Kingdom show that despite the current advice to breastfeed an infant exclusively for the first six months of life, less than 1% of mothers are actually doing this. Therefore, it is important it understand the barriers to breastfeeding experiences by women. The study aimed to investigate why some women choose to continue breastfeeding their infant, whilst other women do not. A qualitative semi-structured approach was employed recruiting eight participants interviewed one-to-one and three participants via one mini focus group. It was decided to use a qualitative approach in order to understand the experiences of women who have breastfed. Ethical approval was received from University of Plymouth, Faculty of Health and Human Sciences. Data was analysed using interpretive phenomenological analysis. The analysis identified four main themes centred on; social and cultural expectations of women, the impact of breastfeeding on maternal role, the perceived impact of breastfeeding on the mother\u2019s attachment to her infant, and finally, the information provision from health care professional involved throughout pregnancy and after. The study only employed 11 participants. It is hoped that this study can be extended in the future to better understand the experiences of a wider range of breastfeeding women. Increased support and resources are needed to support women through the early stages of breastfeeding. Women need more appropriate help and support from professionals to enable them to breast feed without undue pressure, particularly when breastfeeding becomes problematic. Future research should investigate when different forms of information provision should be provided.', u'Enterobacter cancerogenus strain M004 genome size is 5.67 Mb. Here, its luxI homologue, designated as ecnI which is ecnI gene (633 bp) was cloned and overexpressed. Its AHL synthesis activity was verified using the high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis revealed the production of N-(3-oxo-hexanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C6-HSL) and N-(3-oxo-hexanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C8-HSL). The cloning and characterization of luxI homologue of E. cancerogenus strain M004 was firstly reported here.', u'For producing ATP, tumor cells rely on glycolysis leading to lactate to about the same extent as on respiration. Thus, they use a higher fraction of glycolysis than the corresponding healthy cells. This is known as the Warburg effect (named after German biochemist Otto Warburg) and also applies to striated muscle cells, activated lymphocytes and microglia, endothelial cells and several other cell types. This effect is paradoxical at first sight because the ATP yield of glycolysis is much lower than that of respiration. Although a straightforward explanation is that glycolysis allows a higher ATP production rate, the question arises why the cell does not re-allocate protein to the high-yield pathway of respiration. We tackle this question by a minimal model only including three combined reactions. We consider the case where the cell can allocate protein on several enzymes in a varying distribution and model this by a linear programming problem in which not only the rates but also the maximal velocities are variable. Depending on side conditions and on protein costs, this leads to pure respiration, pure glycolysis, and respirofermentation as a mixed flux distribution.', u'Although thoroughly criticized, null hypothesis significance testing is the statistical method of choice in biological, biomedical and social sciences to investigate if an effect is likely. In this short tutorial, I first summarize the concepts behind the method while pointing to common interpretation errors. I then present the related concepts of confidence intervals, effect size, and Bayesian factor, and discuss what should be reported in which context. The goal is to clarify concepts, present statistical issues that researchers face using the NHST framework and highlight good practices.', u'Objective. To explore whether the image noises and the metal artifacts could be further managed by the combined use of two technologies, the adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction (ASIR) and the monochromatic imaging generated by gemstone spectral imaging (GSI) dual-energy CT. Materials and Methods. Fifty-one patients with 318 spinal pedicle screws were prospectively scanned with dual energy CT by using fast kV-switching GSI between 80 and 140 kVp. The monochromatic GSI images at 110 keV were reconstructed either without ASIR or with ASIR of various levels (30%, 50%, 70% and 100%). For these five sets of images, both objective and subjective image quality assessments were performed to evaluate the image quality. Results. With objective image quality assessment, the metal artifacts (measured by an artifacts index) significantly decreased when increasing levels of ASIR was utilized (p < 0.001). Moreover, adding ASIR to GSI also decreased the image noise (p < 0.001) and improved the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR, p < 0.001). With subjective image quality analysis, the inter-reader agreements were good, with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) of 0.89 to 0.99. Meanwhile, the visualization of the peri-implant soft tissue was improved at higher ASIR levels (p < 0.001). Conclusion. Combined use of ASIR and GSI is shown to decrease the image noise and improve the image quality in post-spinal fusion CT scans. Optimal results were achieved with ASIR levels of over 70%.', u'In personalized medicine, one major goal is the identification of yet unknown patient subgroups with specific gene or protein expression. Different subgroups can indicate different molecular subtypes of a disease. These subtypes might correlate with disease progression, prognosis or therapy response, and the subgroup-specific genes or proteins are potential drug targets. Using high-throughput molecular data, the aim is to characterize the patient subgroup by identifying both the set of samples that shows a distinct expression pattern as well as the set of features that are affected. We present the new workflow FSOL for the identification of patient subgroups from two sample comparisons (e.g. healthy vs. diseased). First, a pre-filtering based on the univariate score FisherSum (FS) is applied to assess subgroup-specific expression of the features. FS has been shown to outperform competing methods in several settings. Second, the selected features are compared regarding the samples that form the affected subgroup. This step uses the OrderedList (OL) method that was originally developed for the comparison of result lists from gene expression studies. We compare our workflow FSOL to a reference workflow based on biclustering using real world and simulated data. On a leukemia data set, a true biological subgroup can be detected with higher stability by FSOL. On simulated data, FSOL shows higher sensitivity and accuracy compared to biclustering especially for small to moderate differences. The exploratory approach FSOL may help in identifying yet unknown mechanisms in pathologic processes and may assist in the generation of new research hypotheses.', u"Treatment with broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) has recently proven effective against HIV-1 infections in humanized mice, non-human primates, and humans. For optimal treatment, susceptibility of the patient's viral strains to a particular bNAb has to be ensured. Since no computational approaches are so far available, susceptibility can only be tested in expensive and time-consuming neutralization experiments. Here, we present well-performing computational models (AUC up to 0.84) that can predict HIV-1 resistance to bNAbs given the envelope sequence of the virus. Having learnt important binding sites of the bNAbs from the envelope sequence, the models are also biologically meaningful and useful for epitope recognition. Additional to the prediction result, we provide a motif logo that displays the contribution of the pivotal residues of the test sequence to the prediction. As our prediction models are based on non-linear kernels, we introduce a new visualization technique to improve the model interpretability. Moreover, we confirmed previous experimental findings that there is a trend towards antibody resistance for the subtype B population of the virus. While previous experiments considered rather small and selected cohorts, we were able to show a similar trend for the global HIV-1 population comprising all major subtypes by predicting the neutralization sensitivity for around 36,000 HIV-1 sequences - a scale-up which is very difficult to achieve in an experimental setting.", u'Dysfunctional protein complexes are often associated with diseases. To develop effective treatments it is essential to understand the composition, formation and functionality of protein complexes. Novel techniques like complexome profiling give an overview of possible protein-protein interactions in an entire sample. In this approach intact protein complexes are separated using blue-native electrophoresis. The migration patterns of thousands of proteins are then uncovered using quantitative mass spectrometry and compared to find co-migrating proteins. Here, we present the concepts of our visualization approach for large complexome profiling datasets using our software NOVA. In agreement with recent literature we show that the protein NDUFA4, a previously known subunit of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, is instead a subunit of complex IV.', u'High-throughput data, for instance ChIP-seq data, measure binding of transcription factors (TFs) or other proteins to DNA and have become a widespread data source for de-novo motif discovery. Often, several ChIP-seq data sets study the same TF under different conditions resulting in several, potentially redundant motifs, which demands for identification and clustering of similar motifs. Here, we propose a refined measure of motif similarity based on the correlation between score profiles on de Bruijn sequences. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed measure in benchmark studies on artificial motifs and motifs discovered from ENCODE ChIP-seq data. We use this measure to cluster motifs discovered from 757 different ENCODE ChIP-seq data sets for 166 TFs and RNA-polymerase II and III. Based on this clustering, we derive a TF interaction network that reflects many known TF-TF interactions, but also reveals novel putative interaction partners.', u'Genomic structural variations play key roles in genetic diversity and disease. Despite recent advances in structural variation discovery, many variants are yet to be discovered. Midsize insertions and deletions pose particularly involved algorithmic challenges. The recent CLEVER algorithm addressed these challenges with a statistical model on cliques in a graph whose nodes are read alignments and whose edges arise from a statistical test on length and overlap of read alignments. However, the resulting read alignment clusters tend to be too small and are heavily overlapping, which leads to losses in recall performance rates. Here we present a model based on weighted cluster editing, which alleviates these issues: clusters are provably non-overlapping and tend to be larger. In order to render the inherent optimization problem tractable on all read alignments of a genome, we present a novel, principled heuristic, which runs in time linear in the length of the genome. The heuristic is based on an exact polynomial-time algorithm for weighted cluster editing in one-dimensional point graphs. We demonstrate that the new model improves recall rates achieved by CLEVER.', u'As whole genome sequencing is taking on ever-increasing dimensions, the new challenge is the accurate and consistent annotation of entire clades of genomes. We address this problem with a new approach to comparative gene finding that takes a multiple genome alignment of closely related species and simultaneously predicts the location and structure of protein-coding genes in all input genomes, thereby exploiting negative selection and sequence conservation. The model prefers potential gene structures in the different genomes that are in agreement with each other, or \u2013 if not \u2013 where the exon gains and losses are plausible given the species tree. We formulate the multi-species gene finding problem as a binary labeling problem on a graph. The resulting optimization problem is NP hard, but can be efficiently approximated using a subgradient-based dual decomposition approach. The proposed method was tested on a whole-genome alignment of 12 Drosophila species and its accuracy evaluated on D. melanogaster. The method is being implemented as an extension to the gene finder AUGUSTUS.', u'In the United States, state-specific mortality rates that are high relative to national rates can result from legitimate reasons or from variability in coding practices. This paper identifies instances of state-specific mortality rates that were at least twice the national rate in each of three consecutive five-year periods (termed persistent outliers), along with rates that were at least five times the national rate in at least one five-year period (termed extreme outliers). The resulting set of 71 outliers, 12 of which appeared on both lists, illuminates mortality variations within the country, including some that are amenable to improvement either because they represent preventable causes of death or highlight weaknesses in coding techniques. Because the approach used here is based on relative rather than absolute mortality, it is not dominated by the most common causes of death such as heart disease and cancer.', u'This study examines the role of the magnocellular system in the early stages of face perception, in particular sex categorization. Utilizing the specific property of magnocellular suppression in red light, we investigated visually guided reaching to low and high spatial frequency hybrid faces against red and grey backgrounds. The arm movement curvature measure shows that reduced response of the magnocellular pathway interferes with the low spatial frequency component of face perception. This is the first definitive behavioral evidence for magnocellular contribution to face perception.', u'Ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) is a technology for the detection of volatile compounds in the air of exhaled breath that is increasingly used in medical applications. One major goal is to classify patients into disease groups, for example diseased versus healthy, from simple breath samples. Raw IMS measurements are data matrices in which peak regions representing the compounds have to be identified and quantified. A typical analysis process consists of pre-processing and peak detection in single experiments, peak clustering to obtain consensus peaks across several experiments, and classification of samples based on the resulting multivariate peak intensities. Recently several automated algorithms for peak detection and peak clustering have been introduced, in order to overcome the current need for human-based analysis that is slow, subjective and sometimes not reproducible. We present an unbiased comparison of a multitude of combinations of peak processing and multivariate classification algorithms on a disease dataset. The specific combination of the algorithms for the different analysis steps determines the classification accuracy, with the encouraging result that certain fully-automated combinations perform even better than current manual approaches.', u'Studying the evolutionary history of life\u2019s molecules - DNA, RNA, and protein - reveals nature-based solutions to real-world problems. We discuss an approach to applied molecular evolution that is well-known within the field but may be unfamiliar to a wider audience. Using a case study at the intersection of molecular evolution and medicine, we introduce the fundamental concepts of orthology and paralogy. We also explain a practical entry point to molecular evolution named STORI: Selectable Taxon Ortholog Retrieval Iteratively. STORI is a machine learning algorithm designed to clear a bottleneck that researchers encounter when studying evolution.', u'Background: There is growing awareness of the public health importance of the mental well-being of population in general. This study was carried out to examine the wellbeing of Pakistani healthcare professionals, and to evaluate the psychometric properties of Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale in in this population. The well-being of health professionals is likely to influence their care delivery. Methods: A cross-sectional survey was carried out from June, 2013 to December, 2014 among 1271 Pakistani health personnel (HCPs) belonging to seven different cities of Punjab province, Pakistan, to examine the acceptability, internal consistency, test-retest reliability and the content and construct validity of the English version of the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale in a Pakistani population sample. All data were analyzed in SPSS v.21. Results: Our analysis demonstrated a unidimensional construct, a high internal consistency (0.89) and test-retest reliability, good convergent validity and easy readability of WEMBS among Pakistani HCPs. The mean on WEMWBS score was 48.1 (9.4) which is lower than general population sample in other nations. Male healthcare professionals scored significantly higher on WEMWBS than their female counterparts (P < .05), and older respondents had higher scores. Conclusion: The WEMBS appears feasible and acceptable for use in the Pakistani healthcare professionals, and findings from this study indicate its validity and internal consistency. The well-being scores of the health professional respondents were lower than those identified in general population surveys in the UK.', u"We describe and experimentally validate a question-asking framework for machine-learned linguistic knowledge about human emotions. Using the Socratic method as a theoretical inspiration, we develop an experimental method and computational model for computers to learn subjective information about emotions by playing emotion twenty questions (EMO20Q), a game of twenty questions limited to words denoting emotions. Using human-human EMO20Q data we bootstrap a sequential Bayesian model that drives a generalized pushdown automaton-based dialog agent that further learns from 300 human-computer dialogs collected on Amazon Mechanical Turk. The human-human EMO20Q dialogs show the capability of humans to use a large, rich, subjective vocabulary of emotion words. Training on successive batches of human-computer EMO20Q dialogs shows that the automated agent is able to learn from subsequent human-computer interactions. Our results show that the training procedure enables the agent to learn a large set of emotions words. The fully trained agent successfully completes EMO20Q at 67% of human performance and 30% better than the bootstrapped agent. Even when the agent fails to guess the human opponent's emotion word in the EMO20Q game, the agent's behavior of searching for knowledge makes it appear human-like, which enables the agent maintain user engagement and learn new, out-of-vocabulary words. These results lead us to conclude that the question-asking methodology and its implementation as a sequential Bayes pushdown automaton are a successful model for the cognitive abilities involved in learning, retrieving, and using emotion words by an automated agent in a dialog setting.", u'Services computing is both, an academic field of study looking back at close to 15 years of fundamental research, as well as a vibrant area of industrial software engineering. Industrial practice in this area is notorious for its ever-changing nature, with the state of the art changing almost on a yearly basis based on the ebb and flow of various hypes and trends. In this paper, we provide a look "across the wall" into industrial services computing. We conducted an empirical study based on the service ecosystem of 42 companies, and report, among other aspects, how service-to-service communication is implemented, how service discovery works in practice, what Quality-of-Service metrics practitioners are most interested in, and how services are deployed and hosted. We argue that not all assumptions that are typical in academic papers in the field are justified based on industrial practice, and conclude the paper with recommendations for future research that is more aligned with the services industry.', u'Loss of vision is a severe impairment to the dominant sensory system. It often has a catastrophic effect upon the sufferer, with knock-on effects to their standard of living, their ability to support themselves, and their care-givers lives. Research into visual impairments is multi-faceted, focusing on the causes of these debilitating conditions as well as attempting to alleviate the daily lives of affected individuals. One of the methods is through the usage of sensory substitution device. Our proposed system, Luminophonics, focuses on visual to auditory cross modalities information conversions. A visual to audio sensory substitution device a type of system that obtains a continual stream visual inputs which it converts into corresponding auditory soundscape. Ultimately, this device allows the visually impaired to visualize the surrounding environment by only listening to the generated soundscape. Even though there is a huge potential for this kind of devices, public usage is still minimal (Loomis, 2010). In order to promote the adoption from the visually impaired, the overall performance of these devices need to be improved in terms of soundscape interpretability, information preservation and listening comfort amongst other factors. Luminophonics has developed 3 type of prototypes, which we have used to explore different ideas pertaining to visual to audio sensory substitution. In addition to these, one of the prototypes has been converted to include depth information using time of flight camera. Previously, an automated measurement method is used to evaluate the performance of the 3 prototypes (Tan, 2013). The results of the measurement cover the effectiveness in terms of interpretability and information preservation. The main purpose of the experiment reported herein, was to test the prototypes on human subjects in order to gain greater insight on how they perform in real-life situations.', u'Introduction: Plant breeders are in search of traits for high grain yielding hybrids (GYHs), genotypes or populations in several crop species including maize. So, the research has been designed to examine a variety of SG traits during entire grain filling (GF) and their association to grain yields (GYs) among the fifteen newly bred single cross maize hybrids. Materials and methods: An RCBD trial of three replications was conducted planting seeds of the hybrids on October 3, 2012 at Rampur, Chitwan in the subtropical foot plain of Nepalese Himalaya. The sowing date of the trial was arranged to expose flowering and grain filling to natural winter and to represent the commercial hybrid maize production season in granary belt. Results and discussion: Although previous studies reported that leaves that stay green long have been found positively grain yield attributing; this study have depicted either long, or short stay-green (SG) are high grain yielding. Polynomial regression equations (PREs) obtained between GYs and numbers of green leaves below ear (BtmGrn) on 110, 125 and 140th day during GF of the FHs (fifteen hybrids) had coefficient of determination (r2) less than 18%. Although it is so, there is still two diagnostic association curves for high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 13, 5, 6 and 7 and medium to low GYHs 10, 1, 14, 2, 9, 15, 4 and 3 separately. After the date, high GYHs still displayed association curve between GYs and BtmGrn. In addition; PREs obtained between GYs and numbers of green leaves above ear (TopE0Grn) during entire GF of the FHs had r2 19 to 53%. Although it is so, there is still separate diagnostic association curve for high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 13, 5, 6 and 7; and medium to low GYHs 10, 1, 14, 2, 9, 15, 4 and 3. High GYHs and medium to low GYHs similarly displayed different association curve between GYs and numbers of total green leaves (GrnLves) on 110 to 155th day during entire GF and that had r2 equal to 21 to 53%. Although r2 of the PRE formed between GYs and days for net ear senescence duration (ErSenDur) has been found higher than PREs formed for days for ear senescence completion (ErSenCmp) and net ear senescence duration (ErSenDur); two meaningful separate quadratic curves can form between ErSenIni and GYs of high GYHs and medium to low GYHs. Curve formed between GYs and days for 0% green PP (plant population) (days for 100% PP senescence) of the FHs reflect strong positive correlation and almost straight line regression among fourteen hybrids except the highest GYH 8. Although the hybrid 8 lost SG almost earliest; but, its GY has been found highest. It means that the hybrid had highly photosynthetic leaves to contribute to high GY. But; fourteen high to low GYHs are inside the strong positive correlation pattern except GYH 8. So, number of days required by hybrids for 0% SG PP can be positive marker for selection of high GYHs.', u'Background: Since 2004, the World Alliance for Patient Safety brings proposing hand hygiene as the key measure of its international strategy in the fight against healthcare-associated infections. In Spain the Safe Hands Distinction of the Patient Safety Observatory recognizes the good practices on improving hand hygiene of the World Health Organization. Objectives: Apply the WHO multimodal strategy to improve hand hygiene at the Faculty of Health Sciences and maintain the culture of Patient Safety on hand hygiene by students and staff. Methods: A teaching innovation project called "Safe Hands" was developed in the Nursing Degree at the Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Granada during the academic period 2013-2015. The tool "Guide to the Implementation of the WHO Multimodal Hand Hygiene Improvement Strategy" served to develop and plan the program to improve hand hygiene according to its five phases. In parallel, activities were implemented according to the three stages of the accreditation process "Safe Hands Distinction". Results: The Faculty of Health Sciences has become a dynamic secure environment that provides alcoholic gel for practice and training on hand hygiene, disseminates information and updated signage, reinforces the training of students and staff, and reinforces the quality assurance project. Study Limitations: It is necessary to complete the five years cycle of continuous improvement in quality of the WHO guide to establish an optimal strategy for improving hand hygiene. Conclusion: Safe Hands has launched the WHO multimodal strategy in an academic context. The Faculty of Health Sciences has got credited the Safe Hands Distinction, becoming the first Higher Education Center accredited in Spain to improve hand hygiene.', u'DNA data are becoming increasingly important in experimental biology. For example, it may be necessary to obtain DNA from an organism before using it in a bioassay or an experiment, to identify and distinguish between cryptic species, or when comparing different morphocryptic genotypes. Another example could be the assessment of relatedness between organisms prior to a behavioural study. In such cases, DNA must be obtained without affecting the fitness or behaviour of the subject being tested, as this could bias the results of the experiment. This points out the existence of a gap in the current molecular and experimental biology terminology, for which we propose the use of the term non-disruptive DNA sampling, specifically addressing behaviour and/or fitness, rather than simply physical integrity (invasiveness). We refer to these methods as \u201cnon-disruptive\u201d, and discuss when they are appropriate to use.', u'To develop new cytoprotectors to reduce the risk of second cancers caused by methotrexate-induced cytogenotoxicity, cytoprotective effects of ten kinds of phytochemicals and their combinations were evaluated by umu test combined with micronucleus assay. It is demonstrated that allicin, proanthocyanidins, polyphenols, eleutherosides and isoflavones owned higher antimutagenic activities than other phytochemicals. At the highest dose tested, the MTX genetoxicity was inhibited by 34.03%~67.12%. Of all the bioactive phytochemical combinations, the combination of grape seed proanthocyanidins and eleutherosides from siberian ginseng as well as green tea polyphenols and eleutherosides showed stronger antimutagenic effects, the inhibition rate of methotrexate-induced genotoxicity separately reached 74.7 \xb1 6.5 % and 71.8 \xb1 4.7%. The Kunming mice treated by MTX along with bioactive phytochemicals combinations showed significant reduction in micronucleus induction and sperm abnormality rate compared to MTX treated control groups without cytoprotector candidates (p<0.01). Moreover, obvious increases in thymus and spleen indices were observed in cytoprotector candidates treated groups. The results indicated that bioactive phytochemicals combinations owned potentials to be used as new cytoprotectors, besides umu test was the same effective assay to evaluate antimutagenic potential of phytochemicals as Ames test.', u'Enteric methane (CH4) production by cattle is one of the major sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the livestock sector. In order to develop a national GHG inventory and establish a mitigation strategy for GHG emissions from livestock production, accurate estimation of enteric CH4 production by cattle is required. In this regard, the Tier 2 method in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines is the most widely used. The objective of this study was to estimate and evaluate the CH4 emission factor (MEF; kg CH4/head/year) for enteric fermentation using the IPCC Tier 2 method in Hanwoo steers, a dominant beef production species in Korea raised in a unique feeding system (e.g., a duration of > 16 months in a feedlot). Methane emission factor for enteric fermentation was estimated using the IPCC Tier 2 method (T2) on Korea- and Hanwoo-specific data obtained from the literature. The MEF values were also estimated and compared using the IPCC Tier 1 (T1), the IPCC Tier 2 methodology with estimated gross energy GE intake based on actual dry matter intake (T2DMI), and the Japanese Tier 3 method (JT3). JT3 was chosen due to the similarity in the beef cattle production system between the two countries. Estimated MEF using T2 were 43.4, 33.9, and 36.2 kg CH4/head/year for the growing, finishing, and overall period, respectively. The overall MEF estimated using T2 was 23% lower than the estimate by T1 (47.0 kg CH4/head/year). There were significant differences in the estimated MEF for enteric fermentation of Hanwoo steers among the T2, T2DMI, and JT3 methods. JT3 estimated the highest values in all periods possibly due to overestimation of the conversion ratio of feed energy to CH4. No significant difference was found in the overall MEF of Hanwoo steers between T2 and T2DMI. However, T2DMI estimated 8% higher and 14% lower MEF than T2 for the growing and finishing period, respectively, mainly because the IPCC Tier 2 model significantly over-predicts the GE intake of Hanwoo steers at the high level of intake. The IPCC Tier 2 methodology is preferred to IPCC Tier 1 in estimating the MEF for enteric fermentation of Hanwoo steers, and the DMI model for Japanese cattle can be used to predict DMI of Hanwoo steers. In order to reduce the uncertainty of the estimates and search for a better mitigation strategy, however, development of a country-specific methodology and parameter estimates for enteric CH4 production of Hanwoo is required.', u'The information expressed in humanistic datasets is inextricably tied to a wider discursive environment that is irreducible to complete formal representation. Humanities scholars must wrestle with this fact when they attempt to publish or consume structured data. The practice of \u201cnanopublication\u201d, which originated in the e-science domain, offers a way to maintain the connection between formal representations of humanistic data and its discursive basis. In this paper we describe nanopublication, its potential applicability to the humanities, and our experience curating humanities nanopublications in the PeriodO period gazetteer.', u"Anchors are important attachment appendages that prevent the physical dislodging of a monogenean parasite from fish host gills. Common descent and evolutionary processes have left their mark on anchor morphometry, in the form of patterns of shape and size variation useful for systematic and evolutionary studies. We used a geometric morphometric approach to explore anchor shape variation in 13 Ligophorus (Monogenea:Ancyrocephalidae) species infecting two marine mugilid (Teleostei: Mugilidae) fish hosts (Moolgarda buchanani and Liza subviridis) in the waters off West Peninsular Malaysia. Molecular sequence data from three nuclear markers: 28S rRNA, 18S rRNA and ITS1, were used to infer a maximum likelihood phylogeny to enable visualization of shape evolution in phylomorphospace. For inferring patterns of size evolution in the phylogeny, we used a size measure based on the first principal component of all pairwise Euclidean distances between landmarks. Cluster heat map and principal component analysis showed that anchor shape variation had sufficient systematic information for delimiting 12 of the 13 species. Adams' multivariate K test indicated significant correlation between anchor shape and phylogeny (p-value = 0.0001). We also discovered that characters based on anchor shaft shape, the length between inner and outer root tips and the length between inner root tip and the dent point were more phylogenetically informative than inner and outer lengths, as indicated by a maximum parsimony tree that was better resolved and had major clades congruent with those of the molecular phylogenetic tree. Continuous character mapping of size onto the inferred molecular phylogeny and Rayleigh\u2019s test for departure from directional uniformity in each species\u2019s landmark relative to the ancestor indicated that species infecting M. buchanani generally evolved larger and more robust anchors, while those infecting L. subviridis generally evolved smaller and more delicate anchors. Nevertheless, phylogenetic regression of anchor shape against body size and anchor size showed significant correlation (p-value = 0.02) between anchor shape and size, suggesting morphometric constraints in anchor evolution. Finally, morphological integration analysis revealed tight integration between the root and point compartments within anchors, confirming that the anchor functions as a single, fully integrated module. The present work is supported by the development of integrative analytical tools in the form of a new R package \u2013 monogeneaGM. By lowering barriers to data integration and analysis , we aim to encourage the scientific community to collect and contribute morphometric and genetic data from other Ligophorus species, which are essential for developing Ligophorus as a model system for understanding association between patterns of anchor shape size evolution and biodiversity in the Monogenea.", u'Bacteria grow and transform elements at different rates, yet quantifying this variation in the environment is difficult. Determining isotope enrichment with fine taxonomic resolution after exposure to isotope tracers could help, but there are few suitable techniques. We propose a modification to Stable Isotope Probing (SIP) that enables determining the isotopic composition of DNA from individual bacterial taxa after exposure to isotope tracers. In our modification, after isopycnic centrifugation, DNA is collected in multiple density fractions, and each fraction is sequenced separately. Taxon specific density curves are produced for labeled and non-labeled treatments, from which the shift in density for each individual taxon in response to isotope labeling is calculated. Expressing each taxon\u2019s density shift relative to that taxon\u2019s density measured without isotope enrichment accounts for the influence of nucleic acid composition on density and isolates the influence of isotope tracer assimilation. The shift in density translates quantitatively to isotopic enrichment. Because this revision to SIP allows quantitative measurements of isotope enrichment, we propose to call it quantitative Stable Isotope Probing (qSIP). We demonstrate qSIP using soil incubations, in which soil bacteria exhibited strong taxonomic variation in 18O and 13C composition after exposure to 18O-H2O or 13C-glucose. Addition of glucose increased assimilation of 18O into DNA from 18O-H2O. However, the increase in 18O assimilation was greater than expected based on utilization of glucose-derived carbon alone, because glucose addition indirectly stimulated bacteria to utilize other substrates for growth. This example illustrates the benefit of a quantitative approach to stable isotope probing.', u'Transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) is one of the most widely implemented forms of non-invasive neuromodulation in basic and clinical neuroscience. Further, the use of tES by healthy populations for various purposes is growing widespread daily. The effects of tES protocols on the skin and other tissues has remained uncharacterized when used across extended periods of time by healthy individuals. Therefore, we examined the basic safety and tolerability profile of two distinct tES protocols used repeatedly across an extended period of time by healthy subjects and report our findings here for the first time. The safety and tolerability profile previously accumulated regarding extended use of tES in clinical populations is compelling and supports a low-risk or non-significant risk designation. In the present study, we tested the tolerability (safety) and compliance, compared to sham, of two common tES approaches having a current density < 2 mA/cm2; transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) or transcranial Pulsed Current Stimulation (tPCS) used by healthy subjects three to five days (17 - 20 minutes per day) per week for up to six weeks in a naturalistic environment. In this study 100 healthy subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups: tDCS (n = 33), tPCS (n = 30), or sham (n = 37) and blinded to the treatment condition. The tES and sham waveforms were delivered through self-adhering electrodes on the right lateral forehead and back of the neck. We conducted 1905 treatment sessions (636 sham, 623 tDCS, and 646 tPCS sessions) on study volunteers over a six-week period. There were no serious adverse events in any treatment condition. Common side effects were primarily restricted to influences upon the skin and included skin tingling, itching, and mild burning sensations. The incidence of these events in active tES treatment arms (tPCS, tDCS) was equivalent or significantly lower than their incidence in the sham treatment arm. Other adverse events had a rarity (< 5% incidence) that could not be statistically distinguished across the treatment groups. Some subjects withdrew early from the study for atypical headache (sham n = 2, tDCS n = 2, and tPCS n = 3), atypical discomfort (sham n = 0, tDCS n = 1, and tPCS n = 1), or atypical skin irritation (sham n = 2, tDCS n = 8, and tPCS n = 1). The compliance (elected sessions completed) for tPCS was significantly greater when compared to sham (p = 0.007). The present study represents the most comprehensive analysis of tES tolerability and safety in healthy subjects to date. Limited to the hardware, electrodes, and protocols tested here, we conclude that repeated use of limited output tES across extended periods, is well tolerated and poses no significant risks to healthy subjects, as previously observed in clinical studies.', u'The tunicate Ciona intestinalis is an opportunistic invader with high potential for causing economic losses in aquaculture centers. Recent phylogenetic and population genetic analysis support the existence of a genetic complex described as C. intestinalis with two main dominant species (sp A and B) occurring worldwide. In Chile, the species has been observed around 30o S of latitude, but no official reports exist for the presence of C. intestinalis in southern regions (above 40o S), where most of the mollusk aquaculture centers are located. Here, we used occurrences from multiple invaded regions and extensive field sampling to model and validate the environmental conditions that allow the species to persist and to find the geographic areas with the most suitable environmental conditions for the spread of C. intestinalis in the Chilean coast. By studying the potential expansion of C. intestinalis southward in the Chilean Coast, we aimed to provide valuable information that might help the development of control plans before the species becomes a significant problem, especially above 40o S. Our results highlight that, by using portions of the habitat that are apparently distinguishable, the species seem to be not only genetically distinct, but ecologically distinct as well. The two regional models fitted for sp A and for sp B showed disagreement on which sections of Chilean coastline are considered more suitable for these species. While the model for sp A identifies moderately to highly suitable areas between 30o and 40o S, the model for sp B classifies the areas around 45o S as the most appropriate. Data from field sampling show a positive linear relationship between density of C. intestinalis and the index of suitability for sp A in aquaculture centers. Understanding the relation of the distinct species with the surrounding environment provided valuable insights about probable routes of dispersion in Chile, especially into those areas considered suitable for aquaculture activities but where the species has not yet been recorded. We discuss the implications of our findings as a useful tool to anticipate the invasion of such harmful invasive species with regard to the most relevant environmental variables.', u"The development of predictive mathematical models can contribute to a deeper understanding of the specific stages of bone mechanobiology and the process by which bone adapts to mechanical forces. The objective of this work was to predict, with spatial accuracy, cortical bone adaptation to mechanical load, in order to better understand the mechanical cues that might be driving adaptation.\nThe axial tibial loading model was used to trigger cortical bone adaptation in C57BL/6 mice and provide relevant biological and biomechanical information. A method for mapping cortical thickness in the mouse tibia diaphysis was developed, allowing for a thorough spatial description of where bone adaptation occurs.\nPoroelastic finite-element (FE) models were used to determine the structural response of the tibia upon axial loading and interstitial fluid velocity as the mechanical stimulus. FE models were coupled with mechanobiological governing equations, which accounted for non-static loads and assumed that bone responds instantly to local mechanical cues in an on-off manner.\nThe presented formulation was able to simulate the areas of adaptation and accurately reproduce the distributions of cortical thickening observed in the experimental data with a statistically significant positive correlation (Kendall's tau rank coefficient \\(\\tau = 0.51\\), \\(p<0.001\\)).\nThis work demonstrates that computational models can spatially predict cortical bone mechanoadaptation to time variant stimulus. Such models could be used in the design of more efficient loading protocols and drugs therapies that target the relevant physiological mechanisms.", u'Recent technological advancements have enabled mobile devices to provide mobile users with substantial capability and accessibility. Energy is evidently one of the most critical resources for such devices; in spite of the substantial gain in popularity of mobile devices, such as smartphones, their utility is severely constrained by battery life. Mobile users are very interested in accessing the Internet while it is one of the most expensive operations in terms of energy and cost. HTTP/2 has been proposed and accepted as the new standard for supporting the World Wide Web. HTTP/2 is expected to offer better performance, such as reduced page load time. Consequently, from the mobile users point of view, question arises: Does HTTP/2 offer improved energy consumption performance achieving longer battery life?In this paper, we compare the energy consumption of HTTP/2 with its predecessor (i.e., HTTP/1.1) using a variety of real world and synthetic test scenarios. We also investigate how Transport Layer Security (TLS) impacts the energy consumption of the mobile devices. Our study suggests that Round Trip Time (RTT) is one of the biggest factors in deciding how advantageous is HTTP/2 compared to HTTP/1.1. We conclude that for networks with higher RTTs, HTTP/2 has better energy consumption performance than HTTP/1.1.', u'Agent-based modeling (ABM) is a bottom-up modeling approach, where each entity of the system being modeled is uniquely represented as an independent decision-making agent. ABMs are very sensitive to implementation details. Thus, it is very easy to inadvertently introduce changes which modify model dynamics. Such problems usually arise due to the lack of transparency in model descriptions, which constrains how models are assessed, implemented and replicated. In this paper, we present a template ABM which aims to serve as a basis for a series of investigations, including, but not limited to, conceptual model specification, statistical analysis of simulation output, model comparison and model parallelization. This paper focuses on the first two aspects (conceptual model specification and statistical analysis of simulation output), also providing a canonical implementation of the template ABM, such that it serves as a complete reference to the presented model. Additionally, this study is presented in a tutorial fashion, and can be used as a road map for simulation practitioners who wish to improve the way they communicate their ABMs.', u'While reusing research data has evident benefits for the scientific community as a whole, decisions to archive and share these data are primarily made by individual researchers. In this paper we analyse, within a game theoretical framework, how sharing and reuse of research data affect individuals who share or do not share their datasets. We construct a model in which there is a cost associated with sharing datasets whereas reusing such sets implies a benefit. In our calculations conflicting interests appeared for researchers. Individual researchers are always better off not sharing and omitting the sharing cost, at the same time both sharing and not sharing researchers are better off if (almost) all researchers share. Namely, the more researchers share, the more benefit can be gained by the reuse of those datasets. We simulated several policy measures to increase benefits for researchers sharing or reusing datasets. Results point out that, although policies should be able to increase the rate of sharing researchers, and increased discoverability and dataset quality could partly compensate for costs, a better measure would be to directly lower the costs for sharing, or even turn it into a (citation-) benefit. Making data available would in that case become the most profitable, and therefore stable, strategy. This means researchers would willingly make their datasets available, and arguably in the best possible way to enable reuse, making other policy measures less pressing.', u'Despite being a relatively new discipline, Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS) has witnessed tremendous growth in the number of publications and diversity of topics investigated over the past two decades. The number of doctoral dissertations produced has also increased rapidly since the late 1990s. As CIS continues to mature, it is important to evaluate its dominant topics, trends and institutions, as well as the career development of PhD graduates in the subject. In addition to traditional scientometric techniques, this study\u2019s empirical objectivity is heightened by its use of Probabilistic Topic Modeling (PTM), which uses Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) to analyze the topics covered in a near-exhaustive corpus of CIS dissertations. The analysis reveals that the topics of allocation of cognitive resources, deverbalization, and modeling the interpreting process attracted most attention from doctoral researchers. Additional analyses were used to track the research productivity of institutions and the career trajectories of PhD holders: one school was found to stand out, accounting for more than half of the total dissertations produced, and a PhD in CIS was found to be a highly useful asset for new professional interpreters.', u'Comprehensive analysis of shotgun metagenomic assemblies have revolutionized molecular microbial ecology, but few microbiologists command the full suite of bioinformatics skills necessary to process, interact, organize and visualize overlapping DNA sequence contigs. Here we introduce anvi\u2019o, an advanced analysis and visualization platform for \u2018omics data, and its assembly-based metagenomic workflow. Anvi\u2019o\u2019s interactive interface facilitates the management of contigs and associated metadata for automatic or human-guided identification of genome bins, and their curation. Its extensible visualization approach distills multiple dimensions of information about each contig into a single, intuitive display, offering a dynamic and unified work environment for data exploration, manipulation and reporting. Beyond its easy-to-use interface, the advanced modular architecture of anvi\u2019o as a platform allows users with programming skills to implement and test novel ideas with minimal effort. To demonstrate anvi\u2019o\u2019s capabilities, we re-analyzed a metagenomic time-series data from an infant gut microbiome. Through the anvi\u2019o interface we identified near-complete draft genomes, and explored temporal genomic changes within the abundant microbial populations through de novo characterization of subtle nucleotide variations. We also used anvi\u2019o to re-analyze a collection of datasets from multiple investigators who studied microbial responses to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. We linked metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, and single-cell genomic data from the water plume, and used the holistic perspective anvi\u2019o provides to identify the draft genome of a previously uncharacterized, active population of Oceanospirillales. We also linked environmental isolates with metagenomes recovered from an oil-contaminated beach, and identified 56 near-complete draft genomes including abundant oil degraders whose functional features suggested an oceanic origin.', u'The brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) is an obligate brood parasite known to use over 200 host species. The red-winged blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) is a commonly used accepter host that incubates cowbird eggs and cares for cowbird nestlings and fledglings. This host species, however, may reduce the risk of parasitism with a frontloaded antiparasite strategy in which it attacks parasites that approach active host nests. To test this frontloaded parasite-defense hypothesis (FPDH), we presented taxidermic models of a female northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), which represents no threat to redwings, a male cowbird, which cannot lay a parasitic egg, and a female cowbird, together with species- and sex-specific vocalization playbacks for 5 min. We conducted these presentations at 25 active redwing nests at Newark Road Prairie in south-central Rock County, Wisconsin, USA, where 18% of redwing nests were parasitized by cowbirds in 2015. As predicted by the FPDH, the female cowbird mount elicited the most aggressive responses and the female cardinal mount the least aggressive, as measured by number of times more than one male redwing responded and number of times the male host attacked the mount, and by Principal Component analyses yielding redwing aggressive behavior and intimidation scores. Contrary to the predictions of FPDH regarding the success of nest defense behaviors, male redwings responding at naturally parasitized nests were significantly more likely to attack the mount than males with nests that were not parasitized. We also compared our results with those of a study using the same methods and conducted in New York State where cowbird parasitism was rare. Wisconsin redwings were more aggressive toward the female cowbird mount than redwings in New York State. Red-winged blackbirds appear to frontload their antiparasite defenses and the aggressiveness, but the apparent success of those defenses depends on individual and population-level experience with parasites.', u'Objective: Analyze the mortality by all causes in M\xe9xico during the Winter season. Methods: We extracted and tabulated data on monthly all-cause mortality in the general population from 1991 to 2008 from database INEGI. Coefficients of seasonal variation in mortality were calculated. Results: An increase of 15 % in mortality for general population during Winter was observed during the studied period. The more susceptible age groups were old people and children with an increase of winter deaths of 19 % and 11 % respectively. Months with low levels of mortality were April, October and September for children, adolescents and old people respectively. Conclusions: In Mexico winter months shown the highest levels of mortality. The increase in mortality is similar to some Mediterranean countries. More susceptible age groups correspond to child and old people. Months with low levels of mortality are different for each age group. In M\xe9xico it is necessary identify the main factors that contribute to low mortality among different months according age groups.', u'Over the five decades since its beginnings, Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS) has evolved into a dynamic field of academic enquiry with more than 3,500 scholars and 4,200 publications. Using quantitative and qualitative analysis, this scientometric study delves deep into CIS citation data to examine some of the noteworthy trends and patterns of behavior in the field: how can the field\u2019s progress be quantified by means of citation analysis? Do its authors tend repeatedly to cite \u2018classic\u2019 papers or are they more drawn to their colleagues\u2019 latest research? What different effects does the choice of empirical vs. theoretical research have on the use of citations in the various research brackets? The findings show that the field is steadily moving forward with new papers continuously being cited, although a number of influential papers stand out, having received a stream of citations in all the years examined. CIS scholars also have a tendency to cite much older English than Chinese publications across all document types, and empirical research has the greatest influence on the citation behavior of doctoral scholars, while theoretical studies have the largest impact on that of article authors. The goal of this study is to demonstrate the merits of blending quantitative and qualitative analyses to uncover hidden trends.', u'Changes in hardware or image processing settings are a common issue for large multi-center studies. In order to pool MRI data acquired under these changed conditions, it is necessary to demonstrate that the changes do not affect MRI-based measurements. In these circumstances classical inference testing is inappropriate because it is designed to detect differences, not prove similarity. We used a method known as statistical equivalence testing to address this limitation.\nEquivalence testing was carried out on three datasets: (i) cortical thickness and automated hippocampal volume estimates obtained from healthy individuals imaged using different multi-channel head coils; (ii) manual hippocampal volumetry obtained using two readers; and (iii) corpus callosum area estimates obtained using an automated method with manual cleanup carried out by two readers. Equivalence testing was carried out using the \u201ctwo one-sided tests\u201d (TOST) approach. Power analyses of the two one-sided tests were used to estimate sample sizes required for well-powered equivalence testing analyses. Mean and standard deviation estimates from the automated hippocampal volume dataset were used to carry out an example power analysis.\nCortical thickness values were found to be equivalent over 61% of the cortex when different head coils were used (q < 0.05, FDR correction). Automated hippocampal volume estimates obtained using the same two coils were statistically equivalent (TOST p = 4.28 \xd7 10-15). Manual hippocampal volume estimates obtained using two readers were not statistically equivalent (TOST p = 0.97). The use of different readers to carry out limited correction of automated corpus callosum segmentations yielded equivalent area estimates (TOST p = 1.28 \xd7 10-14). Power analysis of simulated and automated hippocampal volume data demonstrated that the equivalence margin affects the number of subjects required for well-powered equivalence tests.\nWe have presented a statistical method for determining if morphometric measures obtained under variable conditions can be pooled. The equivalence testing technique is applicable for analyses in which experimental conditions vary over the course of the study.', u'Sustained oscillations are frequently observed in biological systems consisting of a negative feedback loop, but a mathematical model with two ordinary differential equations (ODE) that has a negative feedback loop structure fails to produce sustained oscillations. Only when a time delay is introduced into the system by expanding to a three-ODE model, transforming to a two-DDE model, or introducing a bistable trigger do stable oscillations present themselves. In this study, we propose another mechanism for producing sustained oscillations based on periodic reaction pauses of chemical reactions in a negative feedback system. We model the oscillatory system behavior by allowing the coefficients in the two-ODE model to be periodic functions of time \u2013 called pulsate functions \u2013 to account for reactions with go-stop pulses. We find that replacing coefficients in the two-ODE system with pulsate functions with micro-scale (several seconds) pauses can produce stable system-wide oscillations that have periods of approximately one to several hours long. We also compare our two-ODE and three-ODE models with the two-DDE, three-ODE, and three-DDE models without the pulsate functions. Our numerical experiments suggest that sustained long oscillations in biological systems with a negative feedback loop may be an intrinsic property arising from the slow diffusion-based pulsate behavior of biochemical reactions.', u'We bring together fifteen, nonredundant, tabulated collections (amounting to 696 separate measurements) of the apparent permeability (Papp) of Caco-2 cells to marketed drugs. While in some cases there are some significant interlaboratory disparities, most are quite minor. Most drugs are not especially permeable through Caco-2 cells, with the median Papp value being some 16.10-6 cm.s-1. This value is considerably lower than those (1310 and 230.10-6 cm.s-1) recently used in some recent simulations that purported to show that Papp values were too great to be transporter-mediated only. While these values are outliers, all values, and especially the comparatively low values normally observed, are entirely consistent with transporter-only mediated uptake, with no need to invoke phospholipid bilayer diffusion. The apparent permeability of Caco-2 cells to marketed drugs is poorly correlated with either simple biophysical properties, the extent of molecular similarity to endogenous metabolites (endogenites), or any specific substructural properties. In particular, the octanol:water partition coefficient, log P, shows negligible correlation with Caco-2 permeability. The data are best explained on the basis that most drugs enter (and exit) Caco-2 cells via a multiplicity of transporters of comparatively weak specificity.', u'Valveless, tubular pumps are widespread in the animal kingdom, but the mechanism by which these pumps generate fluid flow are often in dispute. Where the pumping mechanism of many organs was once described as peristalsis, other mechanisms, such as dynamic suction pumping, have been suggested as possible alternative mechanisms. Peristalsis is often evaluated using criteria established in a technical definition for mechanical pumps, but this definition is based on a small-amplitude, long-wave approximation which biological pumps often violate. In this study, we use a direct numerical simulation of large-amplitude, short-wave peristalsis to investigate the relationships between fluid flow, compression frequency, compression wave speed, and tube occlusion. We also explore how the flows produced differ from the criteria outlined in the technical definition of peristalsis. We find that many of the technical criteria are violated by our model: fluid flow speeds produced by peristalsis are greater than the speeds of the compression wave; fluid flow is pulsatile; and flow speed have a non-linear relationship with compression frequency when compression wave speed is held constant. We suggest that the technical definition is inappropriate for evaluating peristalsis as a pumping mechanism for biological pumps because they too frequently violate the assumptions inherent in these criteria. Instead, we recommend that a simpler, more inclusive definition be used for assessing peristalsis as a pumping mechanism based on the presence of non-stationary compression sites that propagate uni-directionally along a tube without the need for a structurally fixed flow direction.', u'The current focus from research based pharmaceutical companies is rather on cancer, not CNS. There are several reasons for this, e.g. problems with pre-clinical models, problems with dose-finding, large long-lasting trials, high failure rate, eventually leading to no return on investment. Are the regulatory requirements too high? Certainly not in Multiple Sclerosis, where we had 5 approvals since 2011 (Fingolimod, Fampridine, Teriflunomide, Alemtuzumab, Dimethylfumarate). In parallel we have worked on a new guideline for MS clinical trials, starting with a concept paper in 2011 followed by a large EMA workshop with all relevant stakeholders in 2013. The aim was "to make sure that in the revision of the MS guideline, the EMA can take the most up-to-date, state-of the-art scientific developments in MS into consideration, as well as the positions of experts in the field on the main topics in the guideline". The publication of the final guideline followed in Q2 in 2015 (http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Scientific_guideline/2015/03/WC500185161.pdf). Among other things, we concluded that in the context of long-term outcomes the development of secondary progression is most important. Neither a relapse-based primary endpoint nor an MRI based endpoint can be accepted as a surrogate for disease progression. The EDSS as a rating scale for disability is widely used but has well-known deficiencies, e.g. considerable variability among assessors, that make the interpretation of clinical relevance difficult. However, MS specialists and regulators are familiar with EDSS and it is historically the most frequently used clinician assessment of neurologic impairment in MS clinical trials. Therefore it still will be important to use the EDSS, along with other candidate parameters, to assess true unremitting disability also in future trials to allow comparison among trials. Candidates for other parameters to assess disability are various short-time functional walking tests (e.g. T25-FW, 6MWT) and the MSWS12. Alternative tools to EDSS are currently being developed. Hereby it is important to apply functional assessments for measuring disability in MS. Specific recommendations are not given, but in general the requirements for new tools are that they are reliable, valid, sensitive to change over time, predictive value for disability progression, clinically meaningful and acceptable by the patient. EMA strongly encourages the development of new approaches and innovative methods. EMA intends to apply a flexible approach with regard to the acceptability of positive new endpoints, but a prerequisite is the scientific justification and adequate validation. Qualification procedures are recommended. Collaborative work will be necessary by academia, industry and regulators to develop criteria for appropriate use of PROs in studies, for instance to help assessing clinical relevance.', u'Nitrogen (N) and Carbon (C) are popular indicators of soil fertility; however, they are not soil fertility itself. In fact, they may be seen as just two aspects of the one entity. Soil microbial biomass (SMB) is also one of soil fertility indicators; furthermore, recent study of co-evolution between plants and microorganisms raises an idea that SMB might be the entity of fertility. The correlation between SMB and crop yield has been found in some studies but not in others. Those studies were conducted from the standpoint of N stock balance; therefore, the correlation between soil properties before planting and plant yields were analyzed. Here, we show\u2014in our analysis of harvest-time soil properties and crop yields\u2014that SMB correlates more strongly than inorganic N, total N, or total C with average crop yield under a wide range of cultivation conditions. From the viewpoint of co-evolution, plant biomass is a part of the plant and soil microorganism system; therefore, increasing SMB will balance by increasing plant biomass. In addition, the SMB could increase independently from the plant growth by artificial organic matter input. This concept will break through the yield limitation of conventional farming.', u'Introduction: The determinant factors that influence self-reported quality of vision have yet to be fully elucidated. This study evaluated a range of contextual information, established psychophysical tests, and in particular, a series of cognitive tests as potentially novel determinant factors. Materials & Methods: Community dwelling adults (aged 50+) recruited to Wave 1 of The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing, excluding those registered blind, participated in this study (N=5021). Self-reports of vision were analysed in relation to visual acuity and contrast sensitivity, ocular pathology, visual (Choice Response Time task; Trail Making Test) and global cognition. Contextual factors such as having visited an optometrist and wearing glasses were also considered. Ordinal logistic regression was used to determine univariate and multivariate associations. Results and Discussion: Poor Trail Making Test performance (Odds ratio, OR= 1.36), visual acuity (OR =1.72) and ocular pathology (OR=2.25) were determinant factors for poor versus excellent vision in self-reports. Education, wealth, age, depressive symptoms and general cognitive fitness also contributed to determining self-reported vision. Conclusions: Trail Making Test contribution to self-reports may capture higher level visual processing and should be considered when using self-reports to assess vision and its role in cognitive and functional health.', u'Two Component Systems and Phosphorelays (TCS/PR) are environmental signal transduction cascades in prokaryotes and, less frequently, in eukaryotes. The internal domain organization of proteins and the topology of TCS/PR cascades play an important role in shaping the responses of the circuits. It is thus important to maintain updated censuses of TCS/PR proteins in order to identify the various topologies used by nature and enable a systematic study of the dynamics associated with those topologies. To create such a census, we analyzed the proteomes of 7609 organisms from all domains of life with fully sequenced and annotated genomes. To begin, we survey each proteome searching for proteins containing domains that are associated with internal signal transmission within TCS/PR: Histidine Kinase (HK), Response Regulator (RR) and Histidine Phosphotranfer (HPt) domains, and analyze how these domains are arranged in the individual proteins. Then, we find all types of operon organization and calculate how much more likely are proteins that contain TCS/PR domains to be coded by neighboring genes than one would expect from the genome background of each organism. Finally, we analyze if the fusion of domains into single TCS/PR proteins is more frequently observed than one might expect from the background of each proteome. We find 50 alternative ways in which the HK, HPt, and RR domains are observed to organize into single proteins. In prokaryotes, TCS/PR coding genes tend to be clustered in operons. 90% of all proteins identified in this study contain just one of the three domains, while 8% of the remaining proteins combine one copy of an HK, a RR, and/or an HPt domain. In eukaryotes, 25% of all TCS/PR proteins have more than one domain. These results might have implications for how signals are internally transmitted within TCS/PR cascades. These implications could explain the selection of the various designs in alternative circumstances.', u'Traditionally, programmers have received a wide range of training on programming languages and methodologies, but rarely about software energy consumption. Yet, the popularity of mobile devices and cloud computing require increased awareness about software energy consumption. On a mobile device, computation is often limited by the battery life. Under the demands of cloud computing, data centers struggle to reduce energy consumption through vir- tualization and data center infrastructure management (DCIM) systems. Efficient energy consumption of software is increasingly becoming an important non-functional requirement for programmers. However, are programmers knowledgeable enough about software energy consumption? Do programmers base their implementation decision on popular beliefs? In this article, we survey over 100 programmers for their knowledge of software energy con- sumption. We find that programmers have limited knowledge about energy efficiency, lack the knowledge about the best practice to reduce energy consumption of software, and are often unsure about how software consumes energy. Education about the importance of energy effective software will benefit the programmers. Our results highlight the need for training about energy consumption and efficiency.', u'Electroencephalography (EEG) signals\u2019 interpretation is based on waveform analysis, where meaningful information should emerge from a plethora of data. Nonetheless, the continuous increase in computational power and the development of new data processing algorithms in the recent years have put into reach the possibility of analyzing raw EEG signals. Bearing that motivation, the authors propose a new approach using raw data EEG signals and deep learning neural networks, for the classification of motor activities (executed and imagery). The hypothesis to be presented here is: each instantaneous measurement of the raw signal of all EEG channels (superchord) is unique per motor activity regardless the moment of measurement. This study has confirmed the hypothesis (results with accuracy over 80%, mean for 109 subjects), reinforcing the need of further research for the understanding of mental processes.', u'Ladyfish (Elops sp) are a common and economically valuable coastal nearshore species found along coastal beaches, bays, and estuaries of the southeastern United States, and subtropical and tropical regions worldwide. Previously, ladyfish were a substantial bycatch in Florida\u2019s commercial fisheries, but changes in regulations significantly reduced commercial landings. Today, ladyfish are still taken in commercial fisheries in Florida, but many are also taken by recreational anglers. Life-history information and research interest in ladyfish is almost non-existent, especially information on age and growth. Thus, the overarching purpose of this study was to expand our understanding of ladyfish age and growth characteristics. The specific objectives were to describe, for the first time, age, growth, and recruitment patterns of juvenile ladyfish from the east coast of Florida (USA). In the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), annual monthly length-frequency distributions were confounded because a few small individuals recruited throughout the year; monthly length-frequency data generally demonstrated a cyclical pattern. The smallest were collected in September and the largest in May. Post-hoc analysis showed no significant difference in length between August and May, or among the other months. In Volusia County (VC), annual monthly length-frequency distribution demonstrated growth generally occurred from late-winter and spring to summer. The smallest ladyfish were collected in February and the largest in August. On average, the absolute growth rate in the IRL was 36.3 mm in 60 days or 0.605 mm day-1. Cohort-specific daily growth rates, elevations, and coincidentals were similar among sampling years. Cohort-specific growth rates ranged from 1.807 in 1993 to 1.811 mm day-1 in 1994. Overall, growth was best (i.e., goodness of fit) described by exponential regression. On average, the absolute growth rate in VC was 28 mm in 150 days or 0.1866 mm day-1. Cohort-specific daily growth rates were significantly different among sampling years; however, the elevations and coincidentals were similar. Cohort-specific growth rates ranged from 1.741 in 1994 to 1.933 mm day-1 in 1993. Mean ladyfish growth was best described by linear regression; however, natural growth was explained better by exponential regression. In the IRL, the corrected exponential growth equation yielded a size-at-age 1 of 156.0 mm SL, which corresponded to an estimated growth rate of 0.4356 mm day-1. In VC, the corrected exponential growth equation yielded a size-at-age 1 of 80 mm SL corresponding to an estimated growth rate of 0.2361 mm day-1.', u'Rapidly changing climate makes humans realize that there is a critical need to rethink the current conservation and incorporate climate change adaptation into conservation planning. Whether Great Bustards\u2019 (Otis tarda dybowskii), a globally endangered species whose population is approximately 1,500~2,200 individuals in China, would survive in a changing climate environment is an important protection issue. In this study, we selected the most suitable species distribution model for bustards from four machine learning models, combining two modelling approaches (TreeNet and Random Forest) with two sets of variables (correlated variables removed or not), using common evaluation methods (AUC, Kappa and TSS) and independent testing data. We found Random Forest with all environmental variables outperformed in all assessment methods. Projected the best model to the latest IPCC-CMIP5 climate scenarios (RCP 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5 in BCC-CSM1-1), we found suitable wintering habitats in the current bustards distribution would increase during the 21st century, and dramatically extend eastwards, lightly northwards and westwards, with ongoing climate change. Northeast Plain and the south of North China and the North of East China would become two major suitable wintering habitats of bustards. However, some current suitable habitats will experience a reduction, such as in Middle and Lower Yangtze. Although our results suggest the habitats quantity and quality would widen with climate changing, greater efforts should be undertaken on human disturbance, such as pollution, hunting, unsuitable agriculture development, infrastructure construction, habitat fragmentation, oil and mine exploitation. All of which are negatively and intensely linked with global change.', u'In this chapter I describe my own personal experiences with the flipped classroom approach (e.g. lectures at home, problem solving in class) called peer instruction. I describe both the technical aspects such as making video lectures, practical aspects such how to get started, and pedagogical aspects such as curriculum design and how to write good peer instruction questions. Additional and updated material, including short tutorial videos and many additional links to extra material can be found at tinyurl.com/janstips.', u'We show here that chicken gizzard caldesmon (CaD) and its C-terminal domain (residues 636-771, CaD136) are intrinsically disordered proteins. The computational and experimental analyses of the wild type CaD136 and series of its single tryptophan mutants (W674A, W707A, and W737A) and a double tryptophan mutant (W674A/W707A) suggested that although the interaction of CaD136 with calmodulin (CaM) can be driven by the non-specific electrostatic attraction between these oppositely charged molecules, the specificity of CaD136-CaM binding is likely to be determined by the specific packing of important CaD136 tryptophan residues at the CaD136-CaM interface. It is suggested that this interaction can be described as the \u201cbuttons on a charged string\u201d model, where the electrostatic attraction between the intrinsically disordered CaD136 and the CaM is solidified in a \u201csnapping buttons\u201d manner by specific packing of the CaD136 \u201cpliable buttons\u201d (which are the short segments of fluctuating local structure condensed around the tryptophan residues) at the CaD136-CaM interface. Our data also show that all three \u201cbuttons\u201d are important for binding, since mutation of any of the tryptophans affects CaD136-CaM binding and since CaD136 remains CaM-buttoned even when two of the three tryptophans are mutated to alanines.', u'Shepperd et al. (2014) find that the reported performance of a defect prediction model shares a strong relationship with the group of researchers who construct the models. In this paper, we perform an alternative investigation of Shepperd et al. (2014)\u2019s data. We observe that (a) researcher group shares a strong association with the dataset and metric families that are used to build a model; (b) the strong association among the explanatory variables introduces a large amount of interference when interpreting the impact of the researcher group on model performance; and (c) after mitigating the interference, we find that the researcher group has a smaller impact than the metric family. These observations lead us to conclude that the relationship between the researcher group and the performance of a defect prediction model may have more to do with the tendency of researchers to reuse experimental components (e.g., datasets and metrics). We recommend that researchers experiment with a broader selection of datasets and metrics to combat potential bias in their results.', u'The present study aimed to investigate phylogeographical patterns present within A. halleri in Central Europe, to propose hypotheses explaining the emergence of these patterns and to formulate hypotheses on the formation of the present day range of A. halleri in the region. 1281 accessions sampled from 52 populations within the investigated area were used in the study of genetic variation based on chloroplast DNA. Over 500 high quality species occurrence records were used in ecological niche modelling experiments. We evidenced the presence of a clear phylogeographic structure within A. halleri in Central Europe. Our results suggest that the species might have not survived the last glacial maximum in the Carpathians and Sudetes and that its range during the last glacial maximum might have consisted of at least two major parts: (1) a northern refugium consisting of vast refugial areas north and northeast of the Alps and (2) a southern refugium located in the Dinaric Alps and Balkan Mts. We postulate that the Sudetes and Western Carpathians were colonised mainly by plants originating from the northern refugium, whereas populations from the Eastern Carpathians originate from southern refugium. We also discuss our results in relation to the problematic taxonomy of the species.', u'Pupillometry is a promising method for assessing mental workload and could be helpful in the optimization of systems that involve human-computer interaction. The present study focuses on replicating the studies by Ahern (1978) and Klingner (2010), which found that for three levels of difficulty of mental multiplications, the more difficult multiplications yielded larger dilations of the pupil. Using a remote eye tracker, our research expands upon these two previous studies by statistically testing for each 1.5 s interval of the calculation period (1) the mean absolute pupil diameter (MPD), (2) the mean pupil diameter change (MPDC) with respect to the pupil diameter during the pre-stimulus accommodation period, and (3) the mean pupil diameter change rate (MPDCR). An additional novelty of our research is that we compared the pupil diameter measure with a self-report measure of workload, the NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX), and with the mean blink rate (MBR). The results showed that the findings of Ahern and Klingner were replicated, and that the MPD and MPDC discriminated just as well between the lowest and highest difficulty levels as did the NASA-TLX. The MBR, on the other hand, did not interpretably differentiate between the difficulty levels. Moderate to strong correlations were found between the MPDC and the proportion of incorrect responses, indicating that the MPDC was higher for participants with a poorer performance. For practical applications, validity could be improved by combining pupillometry with other physiological techniques.', u'Background: Health related information and communication technology is globally an important and growing sector. With the promise of more efficient and cost-effective care, eHealth is becoming a key priority to address the current challenges faced by health systems worldwide. Addressing IT skills for health care workforce is seen as an important element of achieving greater social inclusion. Objective: To identify and prioritize the actions needed to improve the IT skills of health care workforce across the EU from different perspectives of experts in health care. Methods: A diverse group of experts, representing different fields of expertise in health care and geographical locations participated in the study. A scientific priority-setting methodology was used to systematically list and score actions that would improve IT skills among health care workforce. The participants evaluated the actions using several criteria: feasibility, effectiveness, deliverability, and maximum impact on IT skills improvement. Results: The actions that scored highest were related to appropriate training, integrating eHealth in curriculum, involving health care workforce in the eHealth solution development, improving awareness of eHealth as well as learning arrangement. The actions that scored lowest were related to the workforce management, identification of IT skills competences needed, joint funding for training program and training on potential workforce. Conclusion: To maintain highly IT skilled health care workforce, eHealth related knowledge and skills in current curricula, improving awareness of eHealth and continuous training according to the different professionals\u2019 needs should be addressed. In addition, healthcare workforce should be actively and continuously included in the development of eHealth solutions.', u'Instream wood promotes habitat heterogeneity through its influence on flow hydraulics and channel geomorphology. Within the Columbia River Basin, USA, wood is vital for the creation and maintenance of habitat for threatened salmonids. However, our understanding of the relative roles of the climatic, geomorphic, and ecological processes that source wood to streams is limited, and making it difficult to identify baseline predictions of instream wood and create targets for stream restoration. Here we investigate how instream wood frequency and volume differ between seven sub-basins of the Columbia River Basin and what processes shape these differences within these sub-basins. We collected data on wood volume and frequency, discharge and stream power, and riparian and watershed forest structure for use in modeling wood volume and frequency. Using random forest models, we found that mean annual precipitation, riparian tree cover, and the individual watershed were the most important predictors of wood volume and frequency. Within sub-basins, we used linear models, finding that some basins had unique predictors of wood. Discharge, watershed area or precipitation often combined with forest cover, riparian conifer and/or large tree cover in models of instream large wood volume and frequency. In many sub-basins, models showed at least one hydrologic variable, indicative of transport capacity and one ecological variable, indicative of the reach or upstream watershed\u2019s ability to grow measurable instream wood. We conclude that basin-specific models yield important insights into the hydrologic and ecological processes that influence wood loads, creating tractable hypotheses for building predictive models of instream wood.', u'Recent developments in neural interfaces show that it is possible to have fine control of a robotic prosthetic by interfacing with the motor cortex of the human brain. Development of long term systems for this purpose is a challenging task with many different possibilities. Intracortical implants have shown the most promise in providing enough signal selectivity and throughput for complex control systems with many degrees of freedom. Intracortical systems generally fall into two categories: MEMS devices and bundle of wire systems. While both show promise, MEMS systems have been greatly popularized due to their reproducibility. In particular, the Michigan probe and Utah microarray are often used as a base for construction of more complex intracortical systems. However, these systems still carry many downsides. Their long-term viability is questionable, with mixed results. The effects of damage from implantation are still inconclusive and immune responses remain a problem for long-term use. While there is some promising research in the use of bioactive molecules and biocompatible materials to prevent immune responses, more controlled study is needed before intracortical systems become widespread.', u'Understanding the genetic variation of the Plasmodium parasites could play an important role in controlling and preventing this lethal infection. Inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers have successfully been tested for investigating the genetic diversity of malaria vectors. It is hypothesized that ISSRs could lead to fruitful results in studying the genetic variation of Plasmodium species, as well. To illustrate the genetic diversity of two infectious Plasmodium species, including Plasmodium knowlesi and Plasmodium cynomolgi, infected and uninfected monkey blood samples were separately collected on filter papers (FTA cards), and used for DNA extraction. A total of 103 and 95 polymorphic ISSR loci were detected in infected and uninfected samples, respectively. Cluster analysis of the Plasmodium and Macaca fascicularis accessions both resulted in the generation of three clusters. However, the most significant result of the cluster analysis was revealing the high efficiency of ISSR markers in the discrimination of the two Plasmodium species from each other. The cluster analysis showed a wide range of genetic diversity among both Plasmodium and the long-tailed Macaque accessions. The principal component analysis (PCA) also confirmed the cluster analysis results.', u'Instrumental music performance ranks among the most complex of learned human behaviors, requiring development of highly nuanced powers of sensory and neural discrimination, intricate motor skills, and adaptive abilities in a temporal activity. Teaching, learning and performing on the violin generally occur within musico-cultural parameters most often transmitted through aural traditions that include both verbal instruction and performance modeling. In most parts of the world, violin is taught in a manner virtually indistinguishable from that used 200 years ago. The current study uses methods from movement science to examine the \u201chow\u201d and \u201cwhat\u201d of left-hand position changes (shifting), a movement skill essential during violin performance. In doing so, it begins a discussion of artistic individualization in terms of anthropometry, the performer-instrument interface, and the strategic use of motor behaviors. Results based on 540 shifting samples, a case series of 6 professional-level violinists, showed that some elements of the skill were individualized in surprising ways while others were explainable by anthropometry, ergonomics and entrainment. Remarkably, results demonstrated each violinist to have developed an individualized pacing for shifts, a feature that should influence timing effects and prove foundational to aesthetic outcomes during performance. Such results underpin the potential for scientific methodologies to unravel mysteries of performance that are associated with a performer\u2019s personal artistic style.', u'Most caridean decapods have compound eyes of the reflecting superposition kind and some additionally possess an accessory eye-like organ of unknown function also referred to as the nebenauge. We examined 308 caridean genera to assess the general morphology of the eye, rostrum length, eye diameter and the presence or absence and, when present, the diameter of the nebenauge. We have attempted to relate these data to ecological and taxonomic considerations. We consider there to be 6 distinct eye types based on the margin between the eyestalk and cornea. The presence of nebenaugen appears to be generally linked to an active lifestyle, as evidenced by the fact that species that have nebenaugen tend to have larger eyes and are more likely to have a distinct rostrum. We suggest that the inconsistencies in its presence/absence under both systematic and ecological lenses may indicate that when present it has various roles relating to behavioural and physiological rhythms.', u'A significant outbreak of H5N8 avian influenza began in early 2014 in Korea. H5N8 is a highly pathogenic avian influenza that is often fatal to chickens and other domestic poultry but which can be asymptomatic in ducks. The virus was also found in migratory birds in Europe and more recently in North America. This is the first time that an H5N8 outbreak has spread so widely and persisted for so long. Previous outbreaks have usually been short and geographically localised. In this study I present a phylogenetic analysis of all of the H5 hemagglutinin and N8 neuraminidase sequences to show that each of the H5N8 outbreaks has resulted from a different re-assortment event and that there have been at least 7 distinct origins of the viral sub-type since it was first characterised in a Turkey in Ireland in 1983.', u"Evolutionary process has selected for inherently unstable physiological systems in higher animals that can react swiftly to patterns of threat or affordance, for example blood pressure and the immune response. However, these require ongoing strict regulation: unregulated blood pressure is fatal, and immune cells can attack 'self' tissues. Consciousness, perhaps the most sophisticated rapid large-scale neural process, demands high rates of metabolic free energy to both operate and regulate the basic physiological machinery. Both the 'stream of consciousness' and the 'riverbanks' that confine it to useful realms are constructed and reconstructed moment-by-moment in response to highly dynamic internal and environmental circumstances. Using an information bottleneck method that links control and information theories, it is relatively easy to show that rapid response based on instability and its stabilization will always require high rates of metabolic free energy. In sum, neural structures in higher animals are highly 'coevolutionary', responding both to environmental signals and to signals from other physiological systems, and stabilizing coevolutionary cognitive structures is as difficult as programming them. Consciousness appears fundamentally unstable, and the necessary synergism between conscious action and its regulation underlies the ten-fold higher rate of metabolic energy consumption in human neural tissues. Implications for the etiology of certain psychiatric disorders are obvious.", u'Algal have attracted attention from biomedical scientists as they are a valuable natural source of secondary metabolites that exhibit antioxidant activities. In this study, single-factor experiments were conducted to investigate the best extraction conditions (ethanol concentration, solid-to-solvent ratio, extraction temperature and extraction time) in extracting antioxidant compounds and capacities from four species of seaweeds (Sargassum polycystum, Eucheuma denticulatum , Kappaphycus alvarezzi variance Buaya and Kappaphycus alvarezzi variance Giant) from Sabah. Total phenolic content (TPC) and total flavonoid content (TFC) assays were used to determine the phenolic and flavonoid concentrations, respectively, while 2,2-azinobis-3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging capacity assays were used to evaluate the antioxidant capacities of all seaweed extracts. Results showed that extraction parameters had significant effect (p < 0.05) on the antioxidant compounds and antioxidant capacities of seaweed. Sargassum polycystum portrayed the most antioxidant compounds (37.41 \xb1 0.01 mg GAE/g DW and 4.54 \xb1 0.02 mg CE/g DW) and capacities (2.00 \xb1 0.01 \xb5mol TEAC/g DW and 0.84 \xb1 0.01 \xb5mol TEAC/g DW) amongst four species of seaweed. Single-factor experiments were proven as an effective tool to determine and quantify the relationship between a single factor and a single response variable.', u'Regular expressions with capture groups offer a concise and natural way to define parse trees over the text that they are parsing, however classical algorithms only return a single match for each capture group, not the full parse tree. We describe an algorithm based on finite-state automata that extracts full parse trees from text in \u0398 (n,m) time and \u0398(dn + m) space (where n is the size of the text, m the size of the pattern, and d the number of groups in the pattern). It is the first to do so in a single pass with complete control over greediness. This allows the algorithm to process streaming data using all constructs familiar to users of regular expressions.', u'Ten years ago, we studied the distribution and status of Acropora palmata at archipelago Los Roques because the actual status of this species at Los Roques was unclear in this archipelago after its regional collapse. In that opportunity we aimed to produce a baseline study for this species in Los Roques combining population genetics with demographic data. At that time, our results suggested that this species had the potential to come back at least in 6 out of 10 surveyed sites. This conclusion was based upon high abundance, low disease prevalence, high genetic diversity and a dominance of sexual reproduction in these populations. However, we recognized that the potential of recovery could be hindered depending on local and regional threats. In 2014, the status of this species was re-evaluated by increasing the number of sites from 12 to 106 and by identifying and targeting local and global threats that may affect population recovery. The results from this new survey showed that A. palmata had a restricted distribution being only present in 15% of the surveyed sites. Large stands of old dead colonies were common throughout the archipelago; which demonstrates that this species has lost almost 50% of its original distribution over the past decades. In most cases live colonies were large adults (\u0334 2m height); however, partial mortality and degradation of living tissues were found in 45% of the colonies. Moreover 44.78% of them were located on degraded reefs. In the past 8 years, two massive bleaching events occurred in Los Roques, the last one was known to decrease coral cover to unprecedented levels in the the archipelago. These events might have produced significant mortality for this species for signs of recent mortality was also common across sites. In addition, a growing local tourism industry, which has become massive and the concomitant increase of pressure on ecosystems goods and services are both becoming a problem of serious concern. Our results suggest that increasing use conflicts within the MPA and global threats such as ocean warming could prevent the recovery of this endangered species in Los Roques.', u'Methods for in-silico screening of large databases of molecules increasingly complement and replace experimental techniques to discover novel compounds to combat diseases. As these techniques become more complex and computationally costly we are faced with an increasing problem to provide the research community of life-sciences with a convenient tool for high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS) on distributed computing resources. To this end, we recently integrated the biophysics-based drug screening program FlexScreen into a service applicable for large-scale parallel screening and reusable in the context of scientific workflows. Our implementation, based on Pipeline Pilot and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) provides an easy-to-use graphical user interface to construct complex workflows which can be executed on distributed computing resources, thus accelerating the throughput by several orders of magnitude.', u'Animals generally adjust their behavior in response to bodily state (e.g. size and energy reserves) to optimize energy intake in relation to mortality risk, weighing predation probability against starvation. Here we investigated whether brown trout adjust their behavior in relation to feeding history (energetic status) and body size during a major early-life selection bottleneck, when fast growth also appear to be important. We manipulated growth using different food ration schemes over two consecutive time periods (P1 = 12 days, P2 = 23 days), excluding social effects through individual isolation. During these experimental periods the fish were fed either high or low food rations in a crossed design. In behavioral trials following the treatment, where acute hunger levels were standardized among all treatments, fish that were initially fed high rations (P1) and thereafter low rations (P2) had on average 15-21% higher swimming activity than the other groups, but large within-treatment variation rendered only weak statistical support for the effect. Furthermore, fish on low ration during P2 tended to be more aggressive than fish on high ration. Size was related to behavioral expression, with larger fish being more active and aggressive. Swimming activity and active aggression were positively correlated, forming a behavioral syndrome in the studied population. Based on these behavioral traits we could also distinguish two behavioral clusters, one consisting of more active and aggressive individuals, and the other consisting of less active and aggressive individuals. This indicates that two behavioral strategies may exist in young brown trout.', u"The concept of phylogenetic homology has been criticized of involving circular argumentation resulting from a methodological gap between its ontological definition and its empirical recognition criteria. Based on the role of similarity for the recognition of phylogenetic homologues I argue that phylogenetic homology presupposes non-evolutionary comparative homology. Due to their use of Platonic ideals, archetypes and the requirement of the a priori assumption of a stable positional reference system, pre-Darwinian notions of homology cannot be used in this context. Based on Young's concept of comparative homology, I suggest a similarity-based procedure for recognizing comparative homologues that utilizes a semantic framework. This approach circumvents the problems of the pre-Darwinian notions of comparative homology and provides the so far lacking conceptual basis for the application of recognition criteria of phylogenetic homology, adding the missing link to the logical chain for assessing phylogenetic homology and closing the methodological gap between its ontological definition and its epistemological recognition criteria. This approach to comparative homology provides an essential methodological framework for generalizing over individual organisms and identifying and demarcating anatomical structural kinds. It thus represents an important contribution to the theoretical and methodological foundation of both morphology and comparative biology.", u'This paper explores a possible underlying tenet of classical information-feed pathways (feedback and feedforward) as seen in metabolism and signaling in biological systems. We intend to determine whether information-feed pathways derive from spatial and temporal overlap of event occurrences involving connection points of the information-feed loop. We shall revisit three known and established biological phenomena involving information-feed, in an attempt to deduce the principles governing such phenomena. We propose that such principles involve anticipatory associations.', u'The rapid growth of small Internet connected devices, known as the Internet of Things (IoT), is creating a new set of challenges to create secure, private infrastructures. The purpose of this paper is to review the current literature on the challenges and approaches to security and privacy in the Internet of Things, with an especial focus on how these aspects are handled in IoT middleware. We focus on IoT middleware because many systems are built from existing middleware and these inherit the underlying security properties of the middleware framework. The paper is composed of three main sections. Firstly, we look at the general security and privacy challenges around IoT. Secondly, we present a structured literature review of the available middleware and how security is handled in these middleware approaches. Finally, we draw a set of conclusions and identify further work in this area.', u'This study investigated peoples\u2019 opinion on auditory interfaces in contemporary cars and their willingness to be exposed to auditory feedback in automated driving. We used an Internet-based survey to collect 1,205 responses from 91 countries. The participants stated their attitudes towards two existing auditory driver assistance systems, a parking assistant (PA) and forward collision warning system (FCWS), as well as towards a futuristic augmented sound system (FS) proposed for fully automated driving. The respondents were positive towards the PA and FCWS, and rated their willingness to have these systems as 3.87 and 3.77, respectively (1 = disagree strongly, 5 = agree strongly). The respondents tolerated the FS. The results showed that a female voice is the most preferred feedback mode for the support of takeover requests in highly automated driving, regardless of whether the respondents\u2019 country is English speaking or not. The present results could be useful for designers of automated vehicles and other stakeholders.', u'Climate warming will fundamentally alter basic life history strategies of many ectothermic insects. In the lab, rising temperatures increase growth rates of lepidopteran larvae, but also reduce final pupal mass and increase mortality. Using in situ field warming experiments on their natural host plants, we assessed the impact of climate warming on development of monarch (Danaus plexippus) larvae. Monarchs were reared on Asclepias tuberosa grown under \u2018Ambient\u2019 and \u2018Warmed\u2019 conditions. We quantified time to pupation, final pupal mass, and survivorship. Warming significantly decreased time to pupation, such that an increase of 1\u02da C corresponded to a 0.5 day decrease in pupation time. In contrast, survivorship and pupal mass were not affected by warming. Our results indicate that climate warming will speed the developmental rate of monarchs, influencing their ecological and evolutionary dynamics. However, the effects of climate warming on larval development in other monarch populations and at different times of year should be investigated.', u'The cerebrum of mammals spans a vast range of sizes and yet has a very regular structure. The amount of folding of the cortical surface and the proportion of white matter gradually increase with size, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, two laws are derived to fully explain these cerebral scaling relations. The two general laws are derived from the notion that total processing power of the cortex is determined by the total cortical surface (i.e., the number of neurons), whereas the most efficient over-all flow of information is governed by the size of local networks (cortical columns). Since information is transferred by axonal connections which have a definite volume, a trade-off can be formulated from theoretical considerations between local, inter-gyral information transfer and long-range information transfer. It can be shown that this trade-off is governed by a single parameter describing the size of local networks, tlocal. Despite having just one free parameter, the first law fits the mammalian cerebrum better than any existing function, both across species and within humans. According to the second law, the scaling of white matter volume is also determined by the information principles. It follows that large cerebrums have much local processing and little global information flow. Moreover, paradoxically, a further increase in long-range connections would decrease the efficiency of information flow. These theoretical scaling principles help to compare the cerebrums across mammals regardless their size.', u'The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG) is a loose assemblage of systematic botanists aiming to establish a stable, modern classification system of flowering plants strongly based on molecular phylogenetics. The group published three seminal papers starting in 1998. An update to be entitled "APG IV" is in preparation and due shortly. A survey was conducted among systematic botanists in the forefront of this project, the results of which were recently published. The author of this Opinion Piece comments on the concept, evaluation, and results of this survey, and on the advice provided by the initiators, in particular regarding the order Boraginales. Expert opinion should be favored over a general majority vote on suggestive questions of an uncoordinated survey conducted by a single "authority". Science is based on knowledge and on scholarly expertise, and should not be made a matter of popular votes and majority preferences.', u'This work follows as a response to a problem posed in a previous work (Jeff-Eke, 2015b). Here we propose and explore a probable solution to the posed problem of how well a cellular system can tolerate random changes to the frequency of osmolytes infused into an intracellular space of interest. The proposed solution involves the ability of biological systems to anticipate occurrences of imminent challenge stimuli, with such means involving alignment of moments of initiation of the required functional response mechanism(s) to stimuli, in relation to moments of initiation of occurrences of these stimuli. The resultant outcome is reduction of the lag interval for the functional response mechanism. We also present propositions on the means by which these anticipatory relationships may be formed, and some consequences for biological systems. By stating anticipatory roles in biological systems, we are suggesting a possible origin for non-natural stimulus-functional response pairing.', u'Background: A macrogene is defined here as a gene on which successive mutations incrementing a repeat count produces successive punctuated evolutionary events in species that are homogeneous for it. The set of repeat count on the asp (abnormal spindle) family of gene is thought to affect brain size in mammals. Corticogenesis requires two integer valued (quantum) variables, the f and s counts, to determine the number of division cycles during the first and second phases, respectively, of neuron production in the cerebral cortex. Quantum \u2018extra\u2019 neuron theory hypothesizes that increments in a quantum variable, the n count, cause punctuated encephalization events in species that are homogenous for it. There is evidence in six pairs of inbred mice strains for one or more major genes affecting brain size. Results: The s count is probably equal to the n count plus a positive integer. The calculated n counts are different in three of the four pairs of strains studied where encephalization data has been previously published. Five different n counts have been found in eleven mouse strains. The difference between the n counts of humans and mice is about 25. Conclusions: Encephalization in mammals may be caused by a macrogene that determines the s count. This theory can be tested by determining the s counts of the various mice strains. However, the asp family of gene is probably not the s count macrogene because the difference in the asp counts of humans and mice of 13 (= 74 \u2013 61) is much smaller than the difference in their s counts of around 25.', u"An intriguing educational approach, learning by teaching, was applied in the course of dental informatics. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect that teaching expectancy (preparation to teach) and actually teaching, have on skills and knowledge that students are expected to acquire during the course. In order to assess the applicability of this method to various forms of educational materials, students were asked to prepare and present educational objects that would be part of the current semester's curriculum. These were short lectures, computer laboratory exercises and virtual patient cases. The instructors evaluated their content and presentation fulfillment. Focus group sessions were held so as to capture the students' perception of the pedagogic technique. The results indicate that learning by teaching can enhance the quality of knowledge in Dental Informatics and increase computer, research, communication and cognitive skills of the involved students.", u'The loss of phosphorus (P) during the early pedogenesis stage is important at the ecosystem level, and it also plays an important role in the global P cycle. The seasonal variation of total P (Pt) and its fractions along a young soil chronosequence (Hailuogou chronosequence) on the eastern slope of Gongga Mountain, SW China, was investigated based on the modified Hedley fractionation technique to understand P loss during the early pedogenesis stage. The results showed that the mineral P (mainly apatite) was the dominant fraction of Pt in the C horizon of the soil, and the seasonal difference in Pt and its fractions was insignificant. In the A horizon, Pt concentrations decreased markedly compared with those in the C horizon, and as the age of the soil increased, the inorganic P (Pi) significantly decreased and the organic P (Po) prominently increased. Seasonally, the P fractions exhibited various distributions in the A horizon. The variation of Pt and its fractions revealed that the P loss was rapid along the 120-year soil chronosequence. The concentrations of Pt in the original minerals decreased more than 50% in the 52 years since the glacier retreated, and the depletion reached almost 80% at the 120-year pedogenesis. The loss of P from the soil of the Hailuogou chronosequence was mainly attributed to weathering, plant uptake, and transport by runoff. The data obtained indicated that the glacier retreat chronosequence could be used to elucidate the fast rate of P loss during the early pedogenesis stage.', u'Quorum sensing (QS) is a mechanism that plays important roles in gene expression in response to an expanding bacterial population. In many Gram-negative bacteria, N-acyl homoserine lactone is mainly secreted as the diffusible signalling molecules. This QS system has been shown to control diverse array of virulence and secondary metabolism. Recently, whole genome sequencing of Aeromonas veronii biovar sobria strain 159 was performed. Genome comparison with closely-related Aeromonas species showed that A. veronii strain 159 shares a high degree of genome synteny with A. hydrophila ATCC 7966. A detailed genome analysis and gene annotation led us to the findings that A. veronii strain 159 harbors QS system which relies on its signal generator, AveI and the transcriptional regulator, AveR. This Aeromonas strain was found to secrete N-butanoylacyl homoserine lactone (C4-HSL). Its LuxIR homologs are similar to proteins of LuxIR famililies among Aeromonas species. This study aims to gain further insights into AveIR system and to compare with AhyIR from A. hydrophila ATCC 7966 and AsaIR from A. salmonicida.', u'Song features during the breeding season are important for determining classifications. Whether Oriental Cuckoo Cuculus optatus and Himalayan Cuckoo C. saturatus inhabiting the Palearctic and Oriental realms respectively can be distinguished according to song characteristics is uncertain. In this study, we performed a thorough investigation of the song characteristics of these taxa by collecting and analyzing recordings of song in their areas of distribution. We found that these cuckoos could be divided into two groups based on the number of notes in their songs. In addition, we observed significant differences in song duration and frequencies such that these two species could be clearly distinguished based on discriminant analysis of song features. Songs of Oriental cuckoos had two notes, whereas songs of Himalayan cuckoos had more than two notes. Thus, our data supported the separation of the two species based on their song features. The areas of distribution of the two species are thus refined, with Oriental Cuckoo distributed in Northeast China, Xinjiang in northwest China, Japan and Russia, and Himalayan Cuckoo distributed in the Himalayas through central and northern China to northeast Hebei, and the northern part of southeast Asia (Guangxi, China). The taxonomic status of birds in Taiwan indicates a closer relationship to C. optatus, which is contrary to the prevailing interpretation and requires further study.', u'Research on climate change-driven coral disease outbreaks has greatly advanced our understanding of the coral innate immune system, and coral genomics has provided insight into the evolution of metazoan immune systems. However, only recently has next generation sequencing (NGS) technology been used to investigate coral immune responses to environmental stress and disease. In the present investigation, tissue of the threatened Caribbean reef-building coral, Orbicella faveolata\xb8 was collected during a warm water thermal anomaly and coral disease outbreak in 2010 in Puerto Rico. Multiplex sequencing of messenger RNA that was extracted from tissue samples of diseased, bleached and apparently healthy coral colonies was conducted on the Illumina GAIIx platform, and total reads were pooled accordingly for de novo assembly into contigs by Trinity software. From 70,745,177 raw short-sequence reads, 32,463 contigs were assembled in silico and taxonomically identified as O. faveolata in origin. The resulting reference transcriptome was annotated with gene ontologies, and sequences were mapped to KEGG pathways. The reference transcriptome presented here expands upon the genetic data currently available for O. faveolata. By sampling coral colonies affected by infectious disease and thermal stress in situ, it was possible to enrich the data set for genes that are expressed under natural conditions as part of the coral innate immune response. The results of the present investigation advance our understanding of the coral immune system and expand upon bioinformatic data available for O. faveolata \u2013 a threatened coral species that is widely studied as a model for immune responses to climate-driven stress and disease.', u'Whether obesity is a disease or a risk factor of chronic diseases including diabetes and fatty liver remains debating. We report here that a high-fat diet (HFD) alone or HFD and intramuscular injection of mice with a high dose (1.2 mg/kg) of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces the peripheral noninflammatory obesity. In contrast, HFD and intraperitoneal injection of mice with a low dose (0.25 mg/kg) of LPS induces the visceral low-grade inflammatory obesity. While the noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM)- and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)-related genes are globally upregulated in HFD+low-dose LPS mice, NIDDM and NAFLD genes are not extensively upregulated in HFD+high-dose LPS mice. The mitochondrial uncoupler 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) was found to exert a weight-reducing effect in obese mice by downregulating NF-\u03baB-primed inflammatory response accompanying with NIDDM and NAFLD genes, thereby abrogating inflammatory hepatic injury. In conclusion, visceral low-grade inflammatory obesity that predisposes NIDDM and NAFLD can be ameliorated by DNP via anti-inflammation.', u'Sargassum sp., a marine brown macroalgae, is an efficient sorbent for various heavy metals at high concentrations. Nevertheless, the efficiency at which seaweed removes heavy metals from dilute solutions and the effect of ammonium on metal removal is not well understood; an issue of importance given the ubiquity of nitrogenous compounds in the environment arising from various surface run-offs. Herein, the effect of ammonium on copper removal (at trace to low concentration) by formaldehyde crosslinked Sargassum sp. (treated SW) was studied. Due to high copper background, equilibrium sorption experiments was inconclusive concerning treated SW\u2019s ability in removing copper (<1000 ppb), but rapid copper sorption observed in kinetic experiments suggested potential feasibility of the process. Within initial copper concentration of 4 to 20 ppm and pH 2 to 5, experiments revealed that, above a threshold concentration of [NH4+-N] of 50 ppm, ammonium impeded copper uptake on treated SW in a concentration-dependent manner. Specifically, sorption kinetics slowed and uptake capacity decreased with increase in [NH4+-N] from 0 to 2500 ppm. Collectively, beyond demonstrating that treated SW could remove copper from dilute solutions, revelations that ammonium reduced copper sorption highlighted the importance of accounting for the effect in data interpretation and modelling.', u'The behavior of concerned significant others (CSOs) can have a measurable impact on the health and wellness of individuals attempting to meet behavioral and health goals, and research is needed to better understand the attributes of text-based CSO language when encouraging target significant others (TSOs) to achieve those goals. In an effort to inform the development of interventions for CSOs, this study examined the language content of brief text-based messages generated by CSOs to motivate TSOs to achieve a behavioral goal. CSOs generated brief text-based messages for TSOs for three scenarios: (1) to help TSOs achieve the goal, (2) in the event that the TSO is struggling to meet the goal, and (3) in the event that the TSO has given up on meeting the goal. Results indicate that there was a significant relationship between the tone and compassion of messages generated by CSOs, the CSOs\u2019 perceptions of TSO motivation, and their expectation of a grateful or annoyed reaction by the TSO to their feedback or support. Results underscore the importance of attending to patterns in language when CSOs communicate with TSOs about goal achievement or failure, and how certain variables in the CSOs\u2019 perceptions of their TSOs affect these characteristics.', u'Acute carbon monoxide poisoning (ACMP) is one of the most common types of poisoning worldwide, and may result in delayed encephalopathy, however, its pathogenesis remains obscure and there is no optimal treatment strategy for the patients with ACMP. Here, we developed the ACMP rat model to observe the protective effects of Buyanghuanwu decoction (BYHWD) on hippocampal neuron. BYHWD (per 5 g/kg) were intragastric administration to rats twice each day for 28 days after ACMP. In ACMP + BYHWD group rats, the neuronal injury in the hippocampal region was significantly less than that of ACMP group\u2019s. BYHWD of intragastric administration also markedly decreased the expression of the TLR4, MyD88, NF-\u03baB P65 after acute carbon monoxide poisoning (P<0.05). TNF-\u03b1\u3001IL-1\u03b2 protein level in ACMP + BYHWD group was lower than that of ACMP group (P<0.05). Our results suggested that decreased the activation of TLR4- NF-\u03baB signal pathway due to BYHWD may partially account for its effect of neuroprotection standing against ACMP, and inhibited the inflammatory reaction to promote the ability recovery of learning and memory in ACMP rats.', u'Previously we presented Swarm v1, a novel and open source amplicon clustering program that produced fine-scale molecular operational taxonomic units (OTUs), free of arbitrary global clustering thresholds and input-order dependency. Swarm v1 worked with an initial phase that used iterative single-linkage with a local clustering threshold (d), followed by a phase that used the internal abundance structures of clusters to break chained OTUs. Here we present Swarm v2 that has two important novel features: 1) a new algorithm for d = 1 that allows the computation time of the program to scale linearly with increasing amounts of data; and 2) the new fastidious option that reduces under-grouping by grafting low abundant OTUs (e.g., singletons and doubletons) onto larger ones. Swarm v2 also directly integrates the clustering and breaking phases, dereplicates sequencing reads with d = 0, outputs OTU representatives in fasta format, and plots individual OTUs as two-dimensional networks.', u'Background: Taxonomic classification of marker-gene (i.e., amplicon) sequences represents an important step for molecular identification of microorganisms.\nResults: We present three advances in our ability to assign and interpret taxonomic classifications of short marker gene sequences: two new methods for taxonomy assignment, which reduce runtime up to two-fold and achieve high-precision genus-level assignments; an evaluation of classification methods that highlights differences in performance with different marker genes and at different levels of taxonomic resolution; and an extensible framework for evaluating and optimizing new classification methods, which we hope will serve as a model for standardized and reproducible bioinformatics methods evaluations.\nConclusions: Our new methods are accessible in QIIME 1.9.0, and our evaluation framework will support ongoing optimization of classification methods to complement rapidly evolving short-amplicon sequencing and bioinformatics technologies. Static versions of all of the analysis notebooks generated with this framework, which contain all code and analysis results, can be viewed at http://bit.ly/srta-012 .', u'Natural Language Processing (NLP) refers to Human-like language processing which reveals that it is a discipline within the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). However, the ultimate goal of research on Natural Language Processing is to parse and understand language, which is not fully achieved yet. For this reason, much research in NLP has focused on intermediate tasks that make sense of some of the structure inherent in language without requiring complete understanding. One such task is part-of-speech tagging, or simply tagging. Lack of standard part of speech tagger for Afaan Oromo will be the main obstacle for researchers in the area of machine translation, spell checkers, dictionary compilation and automatic sentence parsing and constructions. Even though several works have been done in POS tagging for Afaan Oromo, the performance of the tagger is not sufficiently improved yet. Hence,the aim of this thesis is to improve Brill\u2019s tagger lexical and transformation rule for Afaan Oromo POS tagging with sufficiently large training corpus. Accordingly, Afaan Oromo literatures on grammar and morphology are reviewed to understand nature of the language and also to identify possible tagsets. As a result, 26 broad tagsets were identified and 17,473 words from around 1100 sentences containing 6750 distinct words were tagged for training and testing purpose. From which 258 sentences are taken from the previous work. Since there is only a few ready made standard corpuses, the manual tagging process to prepare corpus for this work was challenging and hence, it is recommended that a standard corpus is prepared. Transformation-based Error driven learning are adapted for Afaan Oromo part of speech tagging. Different experiments are conducted for the rule based approach taking 20% of the whole data for testing. A comparison with the previously adapted Brill\u2019s Tagger made. The previously adapted Brill\u2019s Tagger shows an accuracy of 80.08% whereas the improved Brill\u2019s Tagger result shows an accuracy of 95.6% which has an improvement of 15.52%. Hence, it is found that the size of the training corpus, the rule generating system in the lexical rule learner, and moreover, using Afaan Oromo HMM tagger as initial state tagger have a significant effect on the improvement of the tagger.', u'We measured urban/rural disparities in cancer incidence in New York State using a data set with more than 500,000 tumors diagnosed among New York State residents between 2008-2012 geocoded to the census tract level. Using poisson regression, we computed the site and stage-specific relative risks of cancer by level of urbanicity after adjustment for age, sex, socioeconomic status and race/ethnicity. 18 of the 23 cancer sites analyzed showed some form of significant association between cancer incidence and urbanicity, although the risk differences were generally small. Differences in risk of 50% or more were seen for stomach, liver, distant-stage uterine, and thyroid cancers (each higher in New York City than in rural areas); esophagus, distant-stage kidney, and distant-stage lung (each lower in New York City than in rural areas); and distant-stage prostate cancer (higher in rural areas).', u'A rising need for workers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields has fueled interest in improving teaching within STEM disciplines. Numerous studies have demonstrated the benefits of active learning approaches on student learning outcomes. However, many of these studies have been conducted in experimental, rather than real-life class, settings. In addition, most of these studies have focused on in-class active learning exercises. This study tested the effects of a form of out-of-class active learning on exam performance for General Biology students at the University of Minnesota. An online database of 1,020 multiple-choice questions covering material from the first half of the course was generated, with feedback provided for 73% of the questions. Students in seven course sections (with an average of approximately 265 students per section) were given unlimited access to the online study questions. These students made extensive use of the online questions, with students answering an average of approximately 1,323 questions (94.5 questions per lecture) covering material from the half of the semester for which the questions were available. The extent to which access to the online study questions improved student learning outcomes was assessed by comparing the performance on exam questions of students in the seven course sections with access to the online study questions with the performance of students in course sections without access to the online study questions. Student performance was analyzed for a total of 89 different exams questions that were not included in the study questions, but that covered the same material covered by the study questions. Each of these 89 questions was used on one to five (average of 2.3) exams administered to students in course sections that had access to the online study questions and on three to 77 (average of 24.8) exams administered to students in sections that lacked access to the online study questions. Data from over 1,800 students in sections with access to the online study questions show that those students scored a statistically significant average of 6.6 percentage points higher on the exam questions analyzed than students in sections without access to the study questions. This difference was greater than the average amount necessary to raise students\u2019 exam grades by one grade (e.g. from a \u201cB-\u201c to a \u201cB\u201d). In addition, there was a higher correlation between number of questions answered and success on exam questions on material related to the study questions than between number of questions answered and success on exam questions on material unrelated to the study questions. The online study question system analyzed in this work required substantial effort to set up in the first year, but required minimal effort to maintain in subsequent years and was effective in significantly raising average exam scores for even very large course sections.', u'\u201cCandidatus Liberibacter europaeus\u201d (Leu) is one of six currently known Liberibacter species. It is known primarily from pear and related species across Europe, and from Scotch broom and its associated psyllids in New Zealand (introduced from Britain). The psyllids were introduced to New Zealand as a biocontrol agent for broom and it is thought the bacterium may have been introduced as an endosymbiont of the psyllids. No symptoms in apple or pear trees have been reported, but mild symptoms can occur in broom. 16S and 16S\u201323S intergenic spacer region DNA sequences of this species are available from GenBank. Analysis of these sequences and associated ecological descriptions indicates the occurrence of two haplotypes, LeuA and LeuB, defined not only genetically but also by geographic range as well as by plant/psyllid host species composition. Liberibacter species are new to science and haplotype identifications enable historical accounts of relationships and spread to be generated.', u'Open access publications are those where following the publication itself, the publishers allow anyone to access the article or publication to read, or download without any restriction. It is believed that publishing in open access journals can increase the visibility of the publication, although uncertainties prevail. In a bid to improve the PBRF ratings, the College research committee in its monthly meeting agreed to organise an Open Access Seminar in the college. The seminar was organised on 4th of June, 2015, Thursday. Four speakers were identified. They were: Peter Lund and Anton Angelo from the University of Canterbury Central Library and Researcn Unit, Peter Binfield from PeerJ, and Viriginia Barbour from Australian Open Access Support Group. The topics of the seminar included a brief introduction to open access publishing and the state of the scenario in NZ and Australia and exploration of the issues around green and gold open access, and future directions as to what can be done to increase participation in open access. The seminar was also designed to be an open to all, and free flowing discussion. This seminar followed a format of webinar and on the spot presentations, questions and answers. A web based page was set up using the openly accessible Adobe Connect "room" where participants could connect even if they were not able to attend in person. Dr Binfield and Barbour were overseas speakers and they connected using the webinar (Adobe Connect). Mr Lund and Angelo were local speakers and they came to the meeting hall directly and spoke. A resource website was set up and the event was recorded for later viewing. The event was publicised across the university and through online channels. About 30 individuals attended the meeting in person, and ten participants joined online. Mr Lund introduced the concept of open access at the University of Canterbury, and introduced the concepts of gold and green open access; Mr Angelo introduced the concepts of creative commons, and Drs Binfield and Barbour discussed models of open access and the situation in Australia. The floor was open for questions, and clarifications and discussions from the audience participation. Key takeaway lessons from the seminar included: at the University of Canterbury, scholars are active in publishing in Open Access channels; green open access is popular in Australia and in New Zealand; newer channels and novel publishing models uitlising the Open Access formats are emerging and becoming popular; while some reservations about quality in open access exist, quality of peer review in OA journals were at par.', u'Energy consumption is a major concern when developing and evolving mobile applications. The user wishes to access fast and powerful mobile applications, which is usually in contrast to optimized battery life and heat generation. The software engineering community have acknowledged the relevance of the problem and researchers are investigating ways to reduce energy consumption, for example by examining which library, device configuration, and applications parameters should be used to promote long battery life. We conjecture that these studies are at the border between hardware and software and we must be careful on how the energy consumption is measured and how the energy consumption is attributed to methods and libraries.To the best of our knowledge, no previous work investigates how much energy and power consumption is due to high frequency events missed when sampling at low frequencies such as 10 kHz and verified the error at the precision of method level. Low frequency sampling is a rough approximation that hinders the understanding of fine grain details: the real picture of energy consumption as well as the root causes are missed. This has profound implications on the choice of methods to evolve or components to replace.In this paper, we propose an approach for accurate measurements of the energy consumption of mobile applications. We apply the proposed approach to assess the energy consumption of 21 mobile, closed source, applications and four open source Android applications.We show that by sampling at 10 kHz one may expect a median error of 8%, however, such error may be as high as 50% for short fast executing methods. Finally, we revisit a previous approach that estimates the energy consumption of methods based on execution time and found that it can miss as much as 84% of the energy, with a median of 30%.', u'In this paper, I comment on Barrett et al. (2015) "Evolution of dinosaur epidermal structures". Though the original authors made some very interesting results, the conclusions made by them are likely influenced by inappropriate or incorrect assumptions such as very little preserved skin fragments represent whole body covering or dinosaurian integumentary structures might represent a degraded collagen fibres. Therefore, their result might represent small size of current datas or preservational bias rather than actual evolutionary history of dinosaurian feathers.', u'Despite the central role of species distributions in ecology and conservation, occurrence information remains geographically and taxonomically incomplete and biased. Numerous socio-economic and ecological drivers of uneven record collection and mobilization among species have been suggested, but the generality of their effects remains untested. We develop scale-independent metrics of range coverage and geographical record bias, and apply them to 2.8M point-occurrence records of 3,625 mammal species to evaluate 13 putative drivers of species-level variation in data availability. We find that data limitations are mainly linked to range size and shape, and the geography of socio-economic conditions. Surprisingly, species attributes related to detection and collection probabilities, such as body size or diurnality, are much weaker predictors of the amount and range coverage of available records. Our results highlight the need to prioritize range-restricted species and to address the key socio-economic drivers of data bias in data mobilization efforts and distribution modeling.', u'This is a companion to A Gauge model for analysis of Biological systems. Here we reconcile the gauge model with a \u201creal\u201d system, which in this case is a unicellular system. We address effects of infusion of free osmolytes into an intracellular space of interest, and how changes to the frequency of infusion affects the aggregate measure of systemic failure. We also describe limitations to the functionality of the system that may stem from a limited availability of resources. We end by introducing a theoretical problem related to how well the system can tolerate random and extreme changes to the frequency of osmolytes presented via infusion.', u'Phylogenetic comparative methods (PCMs), especially ones based on linear models, have played a central role in understanding species\u2019 trait evolution. These methods, however, usually assume that phylogenetic trees are known without error or uncertainty, but this assumption is most likely incorrect. So far, Markov chain Monte Carlo, MCMC-based Bayesian methods have successfully been deployed to account for such phylogenetic uncertainty in PCMs. Yet, the use of these methods seems to have been limited, probably due to difficulties in their implementation. Here, we propose an approach with which phylogenetic uncertainty is incorporated in a simple, readily implementable and reliable manner. Our approach uses Rubin\u2019s rules, which are an integral part of a standard multiple imputation procedure, often employed to recover missing data. In our case, we see the true phylogenetic tree as a missing piece of data, and apply Rubin\u2019s rules to amalgamate parameter estimates from a number of models using a set of phylogenetic trees (e.g. a Bayesian posterior distribution of phylogenetic trees). Using a simulation study, we demonstrate that our approach using Rubin\u2019s rules performs better in accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty than alternative methods such as MCMC-based Bayesian and Akaike information criterion, AIC-based model averaging approaches; that is, on average, our approach has the best 95% confidence/credible interval coverage among all. A unique property of the multiple imputation procedure is that the index, named \u2018relative efficiency\u2019, could be used to quantify the number of trees required for incorporating phylogenetic uncertainty. Thus, by using the relative efficiency, we show the required tree number is surprisingly small (~50 trees) at least in our simulation. In addition to these advantages above, our approach could be combined seamlessly with PCMs that utilize multiple imputation to recover missing data. Given the ubiquity of missing data, it is likely that the use of the multiple imputation procedure with Rubin\u2019s rules will be popular to deal with phylogenetic uncertainty as well as missing data in comparative data.', u'Kelantan Forest Areas (KFA) are known to be the major portion of Taman Negara National Park, and it has been identified as an Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA) rank 1 under Malaysia\u2019s National Physical Plan (NPP). Since access to the forest areas is often lacking and vital forest information are often inadequate, this study aims to find a baseline data for macro EIA of KFA. This study consists of rapid assessment of logging effects on bird species. Based on the study, Kelantan forests are divided into (1) lowland evergreen rain forest, (2) lower mountain rain forest and (3) upper mountain rain forest, using general vegetation forms. A total of 321 species of birds were recorded in KFA using data collection from related agencies, Mist-netting Method, Transect survey Method (Distance Sampling Method; Point Count Method) and Secondary data. Out of this number, 220, 49, 7 and 1 species were falls under totally protected, nearly threatened, vulnerable and critically endangered categories, respectively. Out of the total recorded species, a total of 155, 292 and 128 species were recorded in lowland evergreen rain forest reserves, lower mountain rain forest reserve and upper Kelantan mountain rain forest respectively. The blue-banded kingfisher Alcedo euryzonia in the list of Kelantan birds was fall under critically endangered status. A total of 83 species were observed commonly in 3 kinds of habitat, 20 species were recorded only in Kelantan lowland forest reserve, which species Jambu fruit-dove was fall under nearly threatened. Furthermore, a total of 5 species were recorded just in upper mountain Kelantan rain forest. This study considered that Kelantan forests could be one of the `megadiversity\u2019 places in Malaysia, and effects of logging on wildlife species as well as birds were cleared.', u'Multiple sequence alignment (MSA) is widely used to reveal structural and functional changes leading to genetic differences among species, and to reconstruct evolutionary histories of related genes, proteins and genomes. Traditionally, proteins and their coding sequences (CDSs) are aligned and analyzed separately, but often drastically different conclusions were drawn on a same set of data. Here we present a new alignment strategy, Codon and Amino Acid Unified Sequence Alignment (CAUSA) 2.0, which aligns proteins and their coding sequences simultaneously. CAUSA 2.0 optimizes the alignment of CDSs at both codon and amino acid level efficiently. Theoretical analysis showed that CAUSA 2.0 enhances the entropy information content of MSA. Empirical data analysis demonstrated that CAUSA 2.0 is more accurate and consistent than nucleotide, protein or codon level alignments. CAUSA 2.0 locates in-frame indels more accurately, makes the alignment of coding sequences biologically more significant, and reveals several novel mutation mechanisms that relate to some genetic diseases. CAUSA 2.0 is available in website www.DNAPlusPro.com .', u'BACKGROUND: Hospitalists play a significant role in medical student education and have been shown to be satisfactory and effective teachers in several observational studies. We hypothesized that the clinical productivity demands placed on academic hospitalists may influence medical student evaluations, which has the potential to impact the promotion and retention of hospitalist faculty. METHODS: Retrospective review with correlation analysis of clinical productivity and medical student evaluations of faculty during the 2009 to 2013 academic years for the hospitalists at SIU\u2010SOM. RESULTS: A total of 32 sets of annual learner evaluations and clinical intensity data were reviewed, representing data for 18 individual hospitalists. Significant correlations between long term measures of service intensity such as annual work RVUs, total patient encounters, and duty days with lower teaching evaluations in many areas were identified. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that medical student evaluations of hospitalist faculty are negatively influenced by higher clinical service intensity measured in terms of annual work RVUs, patient encounters, and duty days when measured on an annual basis.', u'Biobanks hold human biological samples and/or data giving a crucial contribution to the progress of biomedical research. However, the effective and efficient exploitation of these resources depends on their accessibility. In fact, making bio-resources promptly accessible to all, can favour collaboration among research groups as well as multidisciplinarity. Although this has become a rather common belief, several laboratories still apply secrecy and withholding of samples and data. In this study we conducted a questionnaire based survey in order to investigate sample and data accessibility in research biobanks operating all over the world. 46 out of the 238 contacted biobanks have decided to participate. Most of them provide permission to access their samples (95.7%) and data (85.4%), but free and unconditioned accessibility seems not to be a common practice. The analysis of the biobanks guidelines regarding the accessibility of their resources reveal the importance of three aspects: (i) request for applicants to explain what they would like to do with the required resources; (ii) the role of funding, public or private, in the establishment of fruitful collaborations between biobanks and research labs; (iii) request of co-authorship in order to give access to their data. These results suggest that economic and academic aspects are involved in determining the extent of sharing of samples and data stored in biobanks. As a second step of this study, we investigated the reasons behind the high diversity of the requirements for accessing to biobanks\u2019 resources. The analysis of informative answers suggested that the different modalities of resource accessibility seem to be largely influenced by both social context and legislation of the countries where biobanks operate.', u'The nematode, C. elegans is a useful organism to study aging due to its relatively short lifespan and genetic tractability. The lifespan of a population of worms can be easily determined. Under normal conditions worms can live up to 2 weeks, and if they are under heat shock, most worms die within 2 days. In order to investigate the effects of drug concentration and temperature on an organism ability to survive, a model based on Gibbs Free Energy was used to determine under what conditions is survival rate increased or decreased. Furthermore, along with wildtype, N2, worms, a small RNA mutant, eri-6 (mg379), was studied to try to understand the role of small RNA pathways in aging and stress response. The ultimate goal of the model is to prove that the types of chemical reactions within an organism depend on temperature and substrate concentration. Worm lifespan was used as a marker for chemical reactions within an organism. Differences in aging may be a result of different types of chemistry occurring in an organism. For example a long-lived species may used redox reactions more than a short-lived species.', u'We investigated the interplay between overt prosodic cues and semantic cues on the structural interpretation of spoken sentences that permit either high- or low-attachment of a final relative clause. Prosodic cues were manipulated via the presence or absence of a strong prosodic boundary before the relative clause, and semantic cues were induced via plausibility restrictions (e.g., the servant of the actress who was {serving tea / very famous}). In the first two experiments, each type of cue was studied in isolation while keeping influences of the relevant other cue constant. Experiment 1 employed a standard off-line comprehension task and suggested that prosodic cues were not as effective as semantic cues in biasing participants\u2019 attachment preferences. However, using a more implicit (and less biased) structural priming task, Experiment 2 showed that our overt prosody manipulation was actually no less effective than plausibility in biasing relative-clause attachments. Experiment 3 was, again, based on structural priming; here, the two factors were fully crossed to investigate the interaction between overt prosody and plausibility. This experiment showed that the two types of cues interact in a complex way, suggesting that (a) the amount of surprisal associated with cueing a generally dispreferred structure and (b) the type of revision necessary to resolve the ambiguity both play a major role in determining relative clause attachments.', u'Introduction: The value of tablet computer use in medical education is an area of considerable interest, with preliminary investigations showing that the majority of medical trainees feel that tablet computers added value to the curriculum. This study investigated potential differences in tablet computer use between medical students and resident physicians. Materials & Methods: Data collection for this survey was accomplished with an anonymous online questionnaire shared with the medical students and residents at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine (SIU-SOM) in July and August of 2012. Results: There were 76 medical student responses (26% response rate) and 66 resident/fellow responses to this survey (21% response rate). Residents/fellows were more likely to use tablet computers several times daily than medical students (32% vs 20%, p = 0.035). The most common reported uses were for accessing medical reference applications (46%), e-Books (45%), and board study (32%). Residents were more likely than students to use a tablet computer to access an electronic medical record (41% vs 21%, p = 0.010), review radiology images (27% vs 12%, p = 0.019), and enter patient care orders (26% vs 3%, p < 0.001). Discussion: This study shows a high prevalence and frequency of tablet computer use among physicians in training at this academic medical center. Most residents and students use tablet computers to access medical references, e-books, and to study for board exams. Residents were more likely to use tablet computers to complete clinical tasks. Conclusions: Tablet computer use among medical students and resident physicians was common in this survey. All learners used tablet computers for point of care references and board study. Resident physicians were more likely to use tablet computers to access the EMR, enter patient care orders, and review radiology studies. This difference is likely due to the differing educational and professional demands placed on resident physicians. Further study is needed better understand how tablet computers and other mobile devices may assist in medical education and patient care.', u'Background: In the daily operation of X-ray machine, radiation technologists need to have direct close contact with patients with known or potential infectious disease, resulting in environmental contamination by pathogens if hand hygiene was not properly observed. In the last 15 decades, the method for inputting computer commands has evolved from using keyboard, mouse and to touchscreen and a touch-less method: motion sensing technology. Therefore in the present study, we aim to explore the feasibility of using motion-sensing technology to replace several computer-inputting commands that were frequently used during radiographic examination in order to reduce the chance of pathogen contamination to the radiographic equipment and accessories.\nMethod:  In this study, two sets of gesture commands that can encompass the most frequently used computer commands for image manipulation and x-ray acquisition during radiographic examination were carefully designed. Then, the proposed gesture commands were detected by the Leap Motion Controller using motion sensing technology under a controlled experimental environment. Using Leap Motion Diagnostic Visualizer, the recognition performance, practicability and feasibility of the gesture commands were assessed by 4 different trained operators.\nResults: In our proposed gesture commands, the horizontal movement of the thumb (when performing right click and exposure release command) and the vertical movement of the index finger (when performing left click, scrolling up and scrolling down command) were the key sensing component that govern and trigger the gesture command. In general, the magnitude of these key sensing fingertip movement was consistent within an operator, but was varies from operator to operator because each of the operator was allowed to achieve the proposed gesture commands with certain extent of flexibility.\nDiscussion and conclusion: Motion-sensing technology could practicably for image manipulation and making X-ray exposure. As a high variability exists among different operators, the application of an individual operator dependent threshold value rather than a single threshold value in the magnitude of key sensing fingertip movement of gesture commands is recommended. Also, although the implementation motion sensing technology in radiographic examination may inevitably slow down the examination throughput, it could possibly reduce pathogen contamination to the radiographic equipment and accessories, in particular under nosocomial outbreak of epidemic diseases.', u'The use of species distribution models\u2019 (SDM) is limited by its performance in terms of accuracy, precision, or the spatial distribution of model errors. Despite the wide acceptance of some standard statistics used to evaluate SDM, there is currently a strong on-going debate as to their use. The \u201carea under the curve\u201d (AUC) is a popular measure used to evaluate SDMs; however, it does not provide complete information about model accuracy. The maximum True Skill Statistic (TSS) is another statistic that is gaining acceptance. However, evaluations of a model\u2019s accuracy solely based on this statistic may also be misleading. We investigate the use of alternative methods to evaluate the performance of SDMs, to objectively compare among different modelling approaches. We evaluate the performance of SDMs fitted to simulated and real data by contrasting model predictions to additional validation datasets. We propose visualising TSS scores over the whole detection threshold range (TSS profile). We show how models with similarly good performance according to AUC, present very different results and may serve to different purposes. Also, a high maximum TSS may not guarantee accurate predictions and should be accompanied by the threshold where the maximum is reached (t*). We observe that the higher t* the better predicted observations correlate with confirmed observations. Also, SDM predictions should be accompanied with the corresponding uncertainty map to avoid misleading conclusions. Too high or too widely spread uncertainty on such maps would question the overall accuracy of the model. Whether the model is intended to detect all potential observation sites (sensitive model) or to accurately predict where confirmed observations could be found (specific model) sets a different performance targets to be achieved by the model. The approach proposed helps to discern which SDM may best suit the intended goals. Furthermore, the TSS profile helps i) to evaluate the overall performance of SDMs and compare among them, ii) to identify the main source of error, and iii) to select a detection threshold depending on the maps intended use.', u'For this initial work, we shall focus on introducing a biological model for utilization [mainly] as a descriptive framework on which future analyses will be based. The model includes a definition of a biological systems as a composite of properties that occupy defined states. We also introduce a concept of failure; in addition to a hypothetical mechanism by which failure occurs. We then define a functional response as a means of preventing attainment of failure state. We also define such functional responses as properties of the system, in addition to interactions between these systemic properties. We discuss determinants of the rate of- and measures of systemic failure. We conclude with two assumptions on the principal significance of systemic phenomena.', u'Counterintuitively, unstable control systems can allow extremely rapid responses that may be strongly selected by evolutionary process. Application of an information bottleneck iteration to the Data Rate Theorem -- taking the minimum necessary rate of control information as a distortion measure -- leads to a diffusion dynamic for onset of sudden failure in such systems via the necessary convexity of the Rate Distortion Function. Imposition of maintenance mechanisms seems a necessary consequence, but those too are subject to deterioration by aging or pathological exposures. In sum, a fairly simple control theory model that iterates the Data Rate Theorem provides deep insight across a wide sweep of diseases and the chronic dysfunctions of senescence.', u'Purpose: This study identified the effect of occupational dysfunction on psychological factors of stress response, burnout syndrome, and depression in healthcare workers.\nMethod: Three cross sectional studies were conducted to assess the following relations: 1) occupational dysfunction on stress response (n = 468), 2) occupational dysfunction on burnout syndrome (n = 1142), and 3) occupational dysfunction on depression (n = 687). Personal characteristics were collected through a questionnaire (such as age, gender, and job category, opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships) as well as the Classification and Assessment of Occupational Dysfunction (CAOD). Furthermore, study 1 included the Stress Response Scale-18 (SRS-18), study 2 used the Japanese Burnout Scale (JBS), and study 3 employed the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). The Kolmogorov\u2013Smirnov test, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), exploratory factor analysis (EFA), and path analysis of structural equation modeling (SEM) analysis were used in all of the studies. EFA and CFA were used to measure structural validity of four assessments; CAOD, SRS-18, JBS, and CES-D. For examination of a potential covariate, we assessed the correlation of the total score of CAOD and personal factors in all studies. Moreover, direct and indirect effects of occupational dysfunction on stress response (Study 1), burnout syndrome (Study 2), and depression (Study 3) were also analyzed.\nResults: CAOD had 16 items and 5 factors. SRS-18 had 18 items and 3 factors, JBS had 17 items and 3 factors, CES-D had 20 items and 4 factors. All studies found that there were significant correlations between the CAOD total score and the personal factor that included opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships (p<0.01). The causal sequence model results suggest that the classification of occupational dysfunction had positive causal effects on the stress response (RMSEA = 0.058, CFI = 0.951, and TLI = 0.947), burnout syndrome (RMSEA = 0.074, CFI = 0.922, and TLI = 0.915), and depression (RMSEA=0.059, CFI=0.926, TLI=0.920). Moreover, the positive effect of external covariates include opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships on occupational dysfunction.\nConclusion: The classification of occupational dysfunction indicated a possibility of increase in the stress response, burnout syndrome, and depression in healthcare workers. Furthermore, occupational dysfunction affected personal factors including opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt occupational therapy strategies to prevent this problem.', u'Stream classification provides a means to understand the diversity and distribution of channels and floodplains that occur across a landscape while drawing linkages between geomorphic form and process. Accordingly, stream classification is frequently employed as a watershed planning, management, and restoration tool. At the same time, there has been intense debate and criticism of particular frameworks, on the grounds that these frameworks classify stream reaches based largely on their physical form, rather than direct measurements of the hydrogeomorphic processes operating therein. Despite this critical debate surrounding stream classifications, and their ongoing use in applied watershed management, direct comparisons of channel classification frameworks are rare. Here we apply four classification frameworks that contain a range of form- and process-based methods within a watershed of high conservation interest in the Columbia River Basin, U.S.A. We compare the results of the River Styles Framework, Natural Channel Classification, Rosgen Classification System, and a channel form-based statistical classification at 33 field-monitored sites. For stream network-based frameworks (Natural Channel Classification and River Styles) we compare classification outputs across the entire Middle Fork John Day Watershed. We found that the four frameworks consistently classified reach types into similar groups based on each reach or segment\u2019s dominant hydrogeomorphic elements. Where divergence in classified channel types occurred, differences can be attributed to the (a) spatial scale of input data used, (b) the requisite metrics and their order in completing a framework\u2019s decision tree and/or (c) whether the framework attempts to classify current or historic channel form. The relative agreement between frameworks indicates that criticism of classification based simply on whether a classification contains form-based measurements, devalues each framework\u2019s relative merits. These form-based criticisms may also ignore the geomorphic tenet that channel form reflects formative hydrogeomorphic processes across a given landscape.', u'By analysing species differences in brain and behaviour, comparative neuroscience & psychology can help to understand the nature and mechanisms of behaviour. The task is enormously complex due to the number of dimensions onto which species can differ. In addition, it is shown here that the approaches, methods and concepts used in these fields contain numerous issues. Many of these issues result from the persistence of misconceptions on the evolution of brain and behaviour; despite increasing evidence that more complex approaches and concepts should be considered. Most of the issues discussed here have been presented in a previous publication (Willemet, 2013, doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00396) but have not been addressed by recent literature. They are restated here in detail, using as a reference a recent paper resulting from the cooperative work of many researchers in the field (Maclean et al. 2014, doi: 10.1073/pnas.1323533111). The factors responsible for the evolution of brain structure size are reviewed, with particular emphasis on the adjustment effect recently introduced (Willemet, 2015, doi: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00084:). The traditional interpretation of the concept of allometry is critically evaluated, and an alternative is discussed. It is also argued that the lack of consideration towards emotional, motivational and attentional factors constitutes a major obstacle to understanding the evolution of behaviour. A dataset on the neuroecology of repertoire size in songbirds is analyzed using the framework discussed here. It is concluded that until the issues detailed here are addressed, progress in our understanding of the evolution of brain and behaviour will be undermined.', u'BACKGROUND: The ischemic damage of the sinus node (SN) is a well known cause of cardiac arrhythmias and can be a consequence of any flow abnormality in the sinus node artery (SNA). Accordingly we aimed this retrospective study to: 1. evaluate the suitability of the standard coronary angiography to study the SNA and 2. determine if the percentage of subjects with a positive retrospective history of supra-ventricular arrhythmias (SVA) differs in patients with normal and diseased SNA ascertained at the time of coronary angiography. METHODS and RESULTS: out of the 541 coronary angiograms reviewed the SNA was visible for its entire course in 486 cases (89.8%). It was found to arise from the right side of the coronary circulation in 266 cases (54.7%) slightly more often than from the left, 219 cases (45.1%). One patient had 2 distinct SNA arising from either side of the coronary circulation. For the second objective we studied the 333 patients with: a. coronary artery disease (CAD), b. properly evaluable SNA and c. complete clinical history available. In 51 (15.3%) a SNA disease was found, the 41.2% of them had a positive SVA history, mainly atrial fibrillation (AF), whereas only the 7.4% of patients with a positive history of SVA could be found in the non-SNA diseased. This difference was statistically significant (P< 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: 1- The evaluation of the SNA is feasible in clinical practice during a standard coronary angiography; 2- this may be relevant since angiographically detectable SNA disease was significantly associated with a positive history of SVA .', u"Introduction: Frequent presenters (FPs) to the Emergency Department (ED) have been studied heavily in international literature. Many studies suggest that maintaining services for this cohort of patients is wasteful and detracts from the needs of nonfrequent presenters. In this study we aim to describe the characteristics of FPs to the ED. We review data pertaining to frequent ED use, demographics of FPs, their preferred methods of arrival to the ED and their social living arrangements. FP's tend to rely heavily on other services as well as the ED and primary care. Methods: A systematic retrospective review of FPs attendance was performed. Results: FPs accounted for 3.9% (n=1231) of total ED attendance. The age of the FP population ranged from 19- 94 (Median = 45.5, SD 18.422). Increased ED attendance was positively associated with younger age groups. The age category accounting for the highest ED attendance was those aged between 19-35 years. From the 152 (100%) FPs, 50.7% (n=77) were males and 49.3% (n=75) were female. When the living arrangements of FPs were examined, 40.1% (n=61) lived with family, 37.5% (n=57) lived alone, 12.5% (n=19) resided in residential care while data on 9.9% (n=15) FPs was unknown. A Chi-squared analysis was computed to determine if age showed any significant correlation with living arrangements. The findings were not significant as X2 =2.148 (df3, p=0.542). Conclusions: FP's are positively associated with being young and often present with true medical needs. Many believe that frequent presentation is positively associated with free health care and living alone this is not the case. FP's are more likely to live with family and up to 17% of FP attendances have been as a result of primary care referral. FPs also present frequently to the ambulance service with almost 50% utilising the service for transport to the ED.", u'Embodied awareness is the pervasive, multimodal self-awareness that is thought to form the foundation of emotion. This awareness was recently proposed to rely on the anterior insular cortex (AIC) comparing expected and actual bodily signals arising in prefrontal and sensory cortices. To investigate this possibility in the somatosensory domain, we measured brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging while healthy participants discriminated tactile stimuli in a roving oddball design. Dynamic Causal Modelling revealed that unexpected stimuli increased the strength of forward connections in a caudal to rostral ascending hierarchy from thalamic and somatosensory regions towards insula, cingulate and prefrontal cortices, consistent with hierarchical predictive coding. Within this feed-forward flow of neural coupling, the AIC increased both forwards and backwards connections with prefrontal and somatosensory cortex, supporting a comparator role. Further, we found that greater prefrontal to AIC connectivity predicted subjective ratings of stimulus discrimination difficulty. These results are interpreted in light of embodied predictive coding, suggesting that the AIC coordinates global cortical processing of tactile changes to support body awareness.', u'Background: Diabetes mellitus is increasing worldwide, especially in developing countries, as a consequence of urbanization. The use of the Internet and mobile service are increasing as well. The independent use of the Internet and mobile technologies by the patients could be a key step towards self-care management of the disease. Methods: A validated questionnaire with two parts was used and was completed by patients who came to two diabetic clinics for routine checkup. The first part consisted of 16 items collecting demographics information. The second part contained 26 items about the specific use of the Internet and mobile services to access information. Results: 407 questionnaires were completed. 108 (26,5 %) had routine access to Internet, of which 95,4 % had routine access to mobile services and 77,8 % were positive to the use of a Persian website for medical information. Yet, 55 % of respondents preferred to get information from TV, radio and educational courses. Conclusions: Data suggest that most diabetic patients who use the Internet in this study were willing to receive educational material by the Internet. However, many still prefer traditional means of information. Our future research is going to focus on early adopters.', u'After a 40-year hiatus, the question of whether psychedelics can increase creativity is being asked with renewed vigor. This article critically reviews the conceptual issues of studying psychedelic-induced creativity by summarizing the limited evidence on the question and suggesting two broader frameworks. There are two important challenges to researchers on this topic. One is to separate creativity from other effects of the drug that may be mistaken for creativity. The second is to develop operational measures to quantify it. This article reviews the major studies assessing creativity (or related constructs) induced by psychedelics, including a reanalysis of raw data from one study. Results are modest and inconclusive but are consistent with reports that psychedelics give rise to unusual or novel thoughts. Given the lack of robust changes in creativity measures, I suggest creativity may be too specific of a construct to accurately and fully characterize the putatively beneficial cognitive changes that psychedelic users report. Feelings of creativity may be an inconsistent result of a more general effect of these drugs, such as alterations in availability of mental representations or changes in Bayesian inference. Ultimately, creativity may not be a sufficiently creative construct to capture the beneficial effects of psychedelics.', u'In this communication a representation of the links between DNA-relatives based on Graph Theory is applied to the analysis of personal genomic data to obtain genealogical information. The method is tested on real data and discussed its applicability to the field of genealogical research. We envisage the proposed approach as a valid tool for a streamlined application to the publicly available data generated by many online personal genomic companies. By this way, anonymized matrices of pairwise genome sharing counts will enable to improve the retrieval of genetic relationship between customers who provided explicit consent to the treatment of their data.', u"The intent of high test coverage is to ensure that the dark nooks and crannies of code are exercised and tested. In a language like Python this is especially important as syntax errors can lurk in unevaluated blocks, only to be discovered once they are finally executed. Bugs that present themselves as error messages mentioning a line of code which is unrelated to the cause of the bug can be difficult and time-consuming to fix when a developer must first determine the actual location of the fault. A new code metric, charm, is presented. Charm can be used by developers, researchers, and automated tools to gain a deeper understanding of source code and become aware of potentially hidden faults, areas of code which are not sufficiently tested, and areas of code which may be more difficult to debug. Charm quantifies the property that error messges caused by a fault at one location don't always reference that location. In fact, error messages seem to prefer to reference some locations far more often than others. The quantity of charm can be estimated by averaging results from a random sample of similar programs to the one being measured by a procedure of random-mutation testing. Charm is estimated for release-quality Python software, requiring many thousands of similar Python programs to be executed. Charm has some correlation with a standard software metric, cyclomatic complexity. 21 code features which may have some relationship with charm and cyclomatic complexity are investigated, of which five are found to be significantly related with charm. These five features are then used to build a linear model which attempts to estimate charm cheaply.", u"Background: Achievement motive is defined as the intention to achieve one's goals. It is an important consideration in rehabilitation. However, previous studies have not demonstrated the causal relationship between achievement motive and a more enhanced quality of life such as the concept of ikigai and role expectation. Purpose: The purpose of this study is to identify the effect of achievement motive on ikigai, social participation, and role expectations of community-dwelling elderly people. Method: Participants were community-dwelling elderly people in day-service centers. A total of 281 participants (male: 127, female: 154) answered the self-administered questionnaire in cross-sectional research. The questionnaire comprised demographic data and scales that evaluated achievement motive, social participation, ikigai, and role expectation. We studied the causal relationship established on our hypothesized model by a structural equation modeling approach. Results: We checked the standardized path coefficients and the modification indices, and the modified model were good fit statistics: CFI = .984, TLI = .983, RMSEA = .050, 90% CI [.044, 055]. Achievement motive had a significant direct effect on ikigai (direct effect = .455, p value = .000), a significant indirect effect on ikigai via social participation or role expectation (indirect effect = .170, p value = .000) and a total effect on ikigai (total effect = .615). Discussion: This result suggested that enhancing the intention to achieve one's goals enables participants to feel a spirit of challenge with a purpose and a sense of fulfillment in daily living. At the same time, engaging in important activities for oneself as well as recognizing one's role in society enables participants to experience a willingness to help others. We recommend that rehabilitation therapists collaborate with their clients to form new goals based on the client's achievement motive.", u'The demographic characteristics of an amphibian population fluctuate independently over time, mainly in response to the temporal variation of environmental factors, especially precipitation and temperature. These temporal fluctuations may contribute to the effective size of an amphibian population and could be used to inform the current conservation status of a species. During a five year (2004-2008) period, we studied the relative abundance, sex ratio, and size-age structure of a population of metamorphosed individuals of the endemic treefrog Hyla eximia in Central Mexico. We also studied the species\u2019 relationship with climatic variables such as temperatura and precipitation. We found an interannual constant abundance during the study period. However, interannual differences were observed in the population structure by age-sex category (males, females, or juveniles), with increased abundance of juveniles during the rainy months (August-November). The annual abundance of H. eximia was positively correlated with rainfall, but negatively with monthly temperature. We found the sex ratio was male-biased (2:1) except for year 2008. Also, differences in snout-vent length (SVL) were found between years, suggesting changes in recruitment of new individuals. We conclude that variations in abundance, and frequencies by age-sex category, of H. eximia are related to seasonal variations in temperature and precipitation characteristics of temperate zones. However, this temporal stability may suggest that anurans have an unusual capacity to persist even in the face of human-induced habitat change.', u'Background: A common research goal in transcriptome projects is to find genes that are differentially expressed in different phenotype classes. Biologists might wish to validate such gene candidates experimentally or use them for downstream systems biology analysis. Producing a coherent differential expression analysis from RNA-seq count data requires an understanding of how numerous sources of variation such as the replicate size, the hypothesized biological effect, and the specific method for making differential expression calls interact. We believe an explicit demonstration of such interactions in real RNA-seq data sets is of practical interest to the biologist. Results: Using two large public RNA-seq data sets - one representing strong, and another mild, biological response, we simulated different replicate size scenarios and tested the performance of several commonly-used methods for calling differentially expressed genes in each of them. Our results suggest that if the biological response of interest in the different phenotype classes is expected to be mild, then RNA-seq experiments should focus on validation of differentially expressed gene candidates. At least triplicates must be used, and the differentially expressed genes should be called using methods with high positive predictive value such as NOISeq or GFOLD. In contrast, for strong biological response, differentially expressed genes mined from unreplicated experiments using NOISeq, ASC and GFOLD had between 30 to 50% mean positive predictive value, an increase of more than 30-fold compared to the case of mild biological response. Among methods with good positive predictive value performance, having triplicates or more substantially improved mean positive predictive value to over 90% for GFOLD, 60% for DESeq2, 50% for NOISeq, and 30% for edgeR. We found DESeq2 to be the most reasonable method to call differentially expressed genes for systems level analysis as it showed the best PPV and sensitivity trade-off (mean PPV and mean sensitivity \u223c 65% at replicate size of six). Conclusion: When biological effect size is strong, NOISeq and GFOLD are effective tools for detecting differentially expressed genes in unreplicated RNA-seq experiments for validation work. Having triplicates or more enables DESeq2 to detect sufficiently large numbers of reliable gene candidates for downstream systems level analysis. When biological effect size is weak, systems level investigation is not possible, and no meaningful result can be obtained in unreplicated experiments. Nonetheless, NOISeq or GFOLD may yield limited numbers of candidates with good validation potential when triplicates or more are available.', u'Pawns is a programming language under development that supports algebraic data types, polymorphism, higher order functions and "pure" declarative programming. It also supports impure imperative features including destructive update of shared data structures via pointers, allowing significantly increased efficiency for some operations. A novelty of Pawns is that all impure "effects" must be made obvious in the source code and they can be safely encapsulated in pure functions in a way that is checked by the compiler. Execution of a pure function can perform destructive updates on data structures that are local to or eventually returned from the function without risking modification of the data structures passed to the function. This paper describes the sharing analysis which allows impurity to be encapsulated. Aspects of the analysis are similar to other published work, but in addition it handles explicit pointers and destructive update, higher order functions including closures and pre- and post-conditions concerning sharing for functions.', u"It is commonly believed that vision is impaired during saccadic eye movements. However, here we report that some visual stimuli are clearly visible during saccades, and trigger a constriction of the eye's pupil. Participants viewed sinusoid gratings that changed polarity 150 times per second (every 6.67 ms). At this rate of flicker, the gratings were perceived as homogeneous surfaces while participants fixated. However, the flickering gratings contained ambiguous motion: rightward and leftward motion for vertical gratings; upward and downward motion for horizontal gratings. When participants made a saccade perpendicular to the gratings' orientation (e.g., a leftward saccade for a vertical grating), the eye's peak velocity matched the gratings' motion. As a result, the retinal image was approximately stable for a brief moment during the saccade, and this gave rise to an intrasaccadic percept: A normally invisible stimulus became visible when eye velocity was maximal. Our results confirm and extend previous studies by demonstrating intrasaccadic perception using a reflexive measure (pupillometry) that does not rely on subjective report. Our results further show that intrasaccadic perception affects all stages of visual processing, from the pupillary response to visual awareness.", u'The Ganges River dolphin (Platanista gangetica gangetica) (GRD) is classified as one of the most endangered of all cetaceans in the world and the second scarcest freshwater cetacean. The population is estimated to be less than 2,000 individuals. In Nepal\u2019s Narayani, Sapta Koshi, and Karnali river systems, survival of GRD continues to be threatened by various anthropogenic activities, such as dam construction and interactions with artisanal fisheries. A basic description of the geographic scope, economics, and types of gear used in these fisheries would help managers understand the fishery-dolphin interaction conflict and assist with developing potential solutions to reduce interactions between GRD and local fisheries in Nepal. The main purpose of the study was to collect fishery and socio-economic information by conducting interviews with local fishermen in the Narayani, Sapta Koshi, and Karnali river systems. Based on interviews (n = 163), 79 percent of Nepalese fishermen indicated fishing for local species (e.g., mullet [Rhinomugil corsula] or siloroid catfish [Bagarius bagarius]) was their primary form of income. Fishermen reported fishing effort was greater in summer than winter; greatest in the afternoon (1430 hrs \xb1 0.27) and during low water level conditions; and gear was set 4.8 \xb1 0.2 days/week. Fishermen reported using eight different types of monofilament nets (gillnets and cast nets). Sixty percent used gillnets less than 10 m long, and less than one third preferred gillnets between 10 and 100 m long; a few used gillnets longer than 100 m. Fishermen usually set their gear close to their village, and about 50 percent preferred to fish in tributaries followed by the main channel behind sandbars and islands, and the main channel near a bank. Fishermen reported seeing more GRD in the main river stem in winter. In summer, fishermen spotted more GRD in tributaries. Most fishermen told us they believed education, awareness, and changing occupations were important for GRD conservation, but they indicated that occupational options were currently limited in Nepal. Nepalese fishermen acknowledged that fisheries posed a risk to GRD, but they believed water pollution, and dam/irrigation development were the greatest threats.', u'This paper describes how scholars in Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS) interact with each other and form discrete circles of influence. It also discusses what it means to be an influential scholar in the community and the relationship between an author\u2019s choice of research topic and his academic influence. The study examines an all-but-exhaustive collection of 59,303 citations from 1,289 MA theses, 32 doctoral dissertations and 2,909 research papers, combining traditional citation analysis with the newer Social Network Analysis to paint a panorama of CIS. It concludes that the community cannot be broadly divided into Liberal Arts and Empirical Science camps; rather, it comprises several distinct communities with various defining features. The analysis also reveals that the top Western influencers have an array of academic backgrounds and research interests across many different disciplines, whereas their Chinese counterparts are predominantly focused on Interpreting Studies. Last but not least, there is found to be a positive correlation between choosing non-mainstream research topics and having a high level of academic influence in the community.', u'Irrigation in desert ecosystems can either reduce or increase species diversity. Groundwater pumping often lowers water tables and reduces natural wetlands, while canal irrigation often creates mesic habitat, resulting in great increases in avian diversity from irrigation. Here we use remotely-sensed data sets to show that 60% of the land in the coastal plain of southern Sonora and northern Sinaloa lying below 200m elevation has been converted by irrigation to more mesic habitats. We then use the record of bird specimens in the world\u2019s museums from this same region of Mexico to examine the avian community before and after the development of extensive irrigation. In general these museum records show an increase in the abundance and diversity of breeding birds associated with mesic habitats. Although thorn forest birds have likely decreased in total numbers, most are common enough in the remaining thorn forest that collection records did not indicate their probable decline. Four migrants having most of their breeding ranges in the U.S. or Canada, Yellow-billed Cuckoo, Cliff Swallow, Bell\u2019s Vireo, and Orchard Oriole, apparently have increased dramatically as breeders in irrigated habitats of NW Mexico. Because these species have decreased or even largely disappeared as breeding birds in parts of the U.S. or Canada, further research should assess whether their increases in new mesic habitats of NW Mexico are linked to their declines as breeding birds in Canada and the U.S. For Bell\u2019s Vireo recent specimens from Sinaloa suggest its new breeding population in NW Mexico may be composed partly of the endangered Least Bell\u2019s Vireo.', u'Automatic music transcription is a difficult task that has provoked extensive research on transcription systems that are predominantly general purpose, processing any number or type of instruments sounding simultaneously. This paper presents a polyphonic transcription system that is constrained to processing the output of a single instrument with an upper bound on polyphony. For example, a guitar has six strings and is limited to producing six notes simultaneously. The transcription system consists of a novel pitch estimation algorithm that uses a deep belief network and multi-label learning techniques to generate multiple pitch estimates for each audio analysis frame, such that the polyphony does not exceed that of the instrument. The implemented transcription system is evaluated on a compiled dataset of synthesized guitar recordings. Comparing these results to a prior single-instrument polyphonic transcription system that received exceptional results, this paper demonstrates the effectiveness of deep, multi-label learning for the task of polyphonic transcription.', u'A PeerJ paper by Nalliah and Allareddy (2014) describes improvement in weaker dental students\u2019 scores (and decline in stronger students\u2019 scores) by use of a unique instructional method. I argue that the causal conclusion in their paper cannot be justified because of lack of a comparison group. Regression to the mean is a common confound in test-retest studies such as presented in their paper. Inclusion of a comparison group could be used to rule it out. Other minor issues are raised involving scaling and consistency in the data.', u'', u'Physicians, nurses and other professionals interact with patients every day, and ICT, especially the internet, can enhance the communication processes among them, providing timely information to patients about disease prevention, health promotion, as well as treatment of diseases. ICT skills are: access to health science information, management of health information and knowledge, generation and dissemination of health knowledge. The development of these new ICT skills requires digital literate people.\nFunded by the CAMEI EC funded project, a whitepaper has been produced, identifying some key recommendations about how USA organisations and communities can cooperate with EU organisations in order to empower sharing, reuse, repurposing and creation of educational material applied in different context and promote renewal of programmes.\nAfter the analysis of opportunities about education of IT skills for the healthcare workforce in EU-US, authors conclude that:\n- Common challenges and opportunities on providing IT skills for healthcare workforce have been identified, assessing the cooperation potential among the EU and the US.\n- A benchmark in detail policy priorities of US on IT skills for Healthcare workforce and research sub-areas with those of EU (i2010, FP7-ICT strategic priorities, Horizon 2020) has been performed to help partners from the other side to be involved in joint related activities.\n- Open Education and the creation of some educational frameworks have been identified as the means and the guidelines of sharing, re-using, and repurposing technologies of new educational material and programs for IT-skilled workforce in healthcare applied in the different context, different languages and cultures in the EU and US.\n- A prominent base of cooperation where mutual benefits can be generated for both regions has been located, identifying key players from the EU and US.', u'Background: Self-management is crucial among patients with diabetes. Increasing the levels of self-management may prevent patients from developing further complications related to their disease. Tailoring education to the patient needs, and providing them with follow-up education on the various topics of diabetes could significantly improve patient understanding. The inclusion of distance learning, and especially Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC), in diabetes education has not been significant though. What topics should a distance-learning platform focus on when offering patient education to type 2 diabetics? How do patients perceive such a platform? And what education method should be used to better reach patient understanding, ultimately helping diabetics to reach better self-management? Objective: Describing the needs and requirements of type 2 diabetics for the development of an online learning platform. The study tried to analyse what topics patients need follow-up education on to reach better self-management and how. The study wants to get an answer where patients would use a knowledge-driven decision support method inside the patient centric learning model Methods: A qualitative approach for this study included 6 participants, aged 30 to 65 years old. They were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not earlier than 6 months before the start of this study and had no further diabetes related complications. They participated in an interview on the several topics related to diabetes, which identified where the need and requirements for education in is at. To help identify which topics patients wanted to receive follow-up education on the Diabetes Self-Management education (DSME) was used. The interview contained structured and unstructured questions, and was performed with a high level of involvement to provide relevant information related to diabetes throughout the interview. Results: Participants welcomed the idea of receiving education via an online learning platform. The incorporation of multimedia was highly recommended, and the method of receiving education was recommended to change per subject, not per topic. Overall, patient-centric learning was a preferred method in all topics, but knowledge-driven decision support was welcomed as an addition to some of the subjects. Conclusion: The current education offered is limited to providing basic understanding of performing self-management. Participants felt the need for follow-up education, but could not be provided with this. The proposed platform, with possibilities to access information whenever the patients needed, was seen as a welcomed addition to the current education offered in the different setups. Using patient-centric learning, combined with the integration of knowledge-driven decision support, could provide education and information whenever needed and benefit in increasing self-management levels among diabetics.', u'The trade of marine ornamental animals for home and public aquariums has grown into a major global industry. Since the 1990s, the aquarium hobby has shifted focus from fish to miniature reef ecosystems. Millions of marine fish and invertebrates are removed from coral reefs and associated habitats each year, and the majority are imported into the United States, with the remainder imported by Europe, Japan, and a handful of other countries. This shift in aquarium complexity demands increases in not only the volume but also the diversity of species harvested by collectors, who now must supply the trade with species sought for both aesthetics as well as ecosystem services (e.g., species that benefit the life support services of aquariums). Despite the recent growth and diversification of the aquarium trade, to date, data collection is not mandatory, and hence comprehensive information on species volume or diversity is wanting. The lack of this information makes it impossible to study trade pathways. Without species-specific volume and diversity data, it is unclear how importing and exporting governments can oversee this industry effectively. It is also unclear how sustainability should be encouraged given the paucity of data. To expand our knowledge and understanding of this trade, and to be able to effectively communicate this new understanding, we introduce the Marine Aquarium Biodiversity and Trade Flow online database (https://www.aquariumtradedata.org/). This tool was created as a means to assess the volume and diversity of marine fishes and/or invertebrates imported into the US over four years (2005, 2008, 2009, and 2011) and one month of additional data in 2000. It is available online for perusal by the public which will help communicate this new understanding in the trade of aquatic wildlife. To create this online tool, invoices pertaining to shipments of live marine fish and invertebrates were scanned and analyzed for species name, quantity, country of origin, and city of import destination. The results for October 2000 as well as the year between June 2004 and May 2005 have been published (Rhyne et al. 2012, http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0035808; Balboa 2003). Here we focus on the later three years of data and also produce an estimate of fish to create complete calendar years for 2000, 2004, and 2005. The three-year aggregate totals indicate that just under 2,300 fish and 725 invertebrate species were imported into the US, even though each year, just shy of 1,800 fish and 550 invertebrate species were traded. Overall, the total number of live marine animals decreased between 2008 and 2011. In 2008, 2009, and 2011, the total number of individual fish (8.2, 7.3, and 6.9 million) and invertebrates (4.2, 3.7, and 3.6 million) assessed by analyzing the invoice data are roughly 60% of the total volumes recorded through the LEMIS dataset.', u'Introduction: Hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge is a target for health care cost savings through the medicare Value Based Purchasing initiative. Because of this focus, hospitals and health systems are investing considerable resources into the identification of patients at risk of hospital readmission and designing interventions to reduce the rate of hospital readmission. Malnutrition is a known risk factor for hospital readmission.\nMaterials and Methods: All medical patients 65 years of age or older discharged from Memorial Medical Center from January 1, 2012 to March 31, 2012 who had a determination of serum albumin level and total lymphocyte count on hospital admission were studied retrospectively. Admission serum albumin levels and total lymphocyte counts were used to classify the nutritional status of all patients in the study. Patients with a serum albumin less than 3.5 grams/dL and/or a TLC less than 1,500 cells per mm3 were classified as having protein energy malnutrition. The primary outcome investigated in this study was hospital readmission for any reason within 30 days of discharge.\nResults: The study population included 1,683 hospital discharges with an average age of 79 years. The majority of the patients were female (55.9%) and had a DRG weight of 1.22 (0.68). 219 patients (13%) were readmitted within 30 days of hospital discharge. Protein energy malnutrition was common in this population. Low albumin was found in 973 (58%) patients and a low TLC was found in 1,152 (68%) patients. Low albumin and low TLC was found in 709 (42%) of patients. Kaplan-Meier analysis shows any laboratory evidence of PEM is a significant (p < 0.001) predictor of hospital readmission. Low serum albumin (p < 0.001) and TLC (p = 0.018) show similar trends. Cox proportional-hazards regression analysis showed low serum albumin (Hazard Ratio 3.27, 95% CI: 2.30-4.63) and higher DRG weight (Hazard Ratio 1.19, 95% CI: 1.03-1.38) to be significant independent predictors of hospital readmission within 30 days.\nDiscussion: This study investigated the relationship of PEM to the rate of hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge in patients 65 years of age or older. These results indicate that laboratory markers of PEM can identify patients at risk of hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge. This risk determination is simple and identifies a potentially modifiable risk factor for readmission: protein energy malnutrition.', u'Non-avian saurischian skulls underwent at least 165 million years of evolution and shapes varied from elongated skulls, such as in Coelophysis, to short and box-shaped skulls, such as in Camarasaurus. A number of factors have long been considered to drive skull shape, including phylogeny, dietary preferences and functional constraints. However, heterochrony is increasingly being recognized as a major factor in dinosaur evolution. In order to quantitatively analyse the impact of heterochrony on saurischian skull shape, we have analysed five ontogenetic trajectories using two-dimensional geometric morphometrics in a phylogenetic framework. This allowed for the evaluation of how heterochrony affected overall skull shape through both ontogenetic and phylogenetic trajectories and how it impacted modular changes within the skull. Using principal component analyses and multivariate regressions, it was possible to quantify different ontogenetic trajectories in light of heterochrony. The results recovered here indicate that taxa underwent a combination of local paedomorphosis and peramorphosis within the skull along individual ontogenies and phylogenies, but that either peramorphosis or paedomorphosis dominated when the skull was considered as a whole. We found that the hypothetical ancestor of Saurischia led to basal Sauropodomorpha mainly through paedomorphosis, and to Neotheropoda mainly through peramorphosis. Paedomorphosis then led from Orionides to Avetheropoda, indicating that the paedomorphic trend previously found in advanced coelurosaurs may extend back into the early evolution of Avetheropoda. Not only are changes in saurischian skull shape complex due to the large number of factors that affect shape, but heterochrony itself is complex, with a number of reversals throughout non-avian saurischian evolution. The sampling of ontogenetic trajectories is considerably lower than the sampling of adult species and the current study represents a first exploratory analysis. To better understand the impact of heterochrony on cranial evolution in saurischians, the data set we present must be expanded and complemented with further sampling from future fossil discoveries, especially of juvenile taxa.', u'No order correlation or similarity metric exists in nominal data, and there will always be more redundancy in a nominal dataset, which means that an efficient mutual information-based nominal-data feature selection method is relatively difficult to find. In this paper, a nominal-data feature selection method based on mutual information without data transformation, called the redundancy-removing more relevance less redundancy algorithm, is proposed. By forming several new information-related definitions and the corresponding computational methods, the proposed method can compute the information-related amount of nominal data directly. Furthermore, by creating a new evaluation function that considers both the relevance and the redundancy globally, the new feature selection method can evaluate the importance of each nominal-data feature. Although the presented feature selection method takes commonly used MIFS-like forms, it is capable of handling high-dimensional datasets without expensive computations. We perform extensive experimental comparisons of the proposed algorithm and other methods using three benchmarking nominal datasets with two different classifiers. The experimental results demonstrate the average advantage of the presented algorithm over the well-known NMIFS algorithm in terms of the feature selection and classification accuracy, which indicates that the proposed method has a promising performance.', u'Background. Beyond the International Codes of Zoological (ICZN) and Botanical Nomenclature and the PhyloCode, there is an alternative taxonomic system for phylogenetic systematics proposed. This phylogenetic nomenclature suggests the elimination of suprageneric names and the use of negative indexes instead of it. This system of nomenclature has a basic principle to identify clades: the presence of nominal heterobathmy, which is analogous to Hennig\'s "heterobathmy of characters", but applied to taxa names. Here I argue for an extensive use of heterobathmy as basic criteria to determinate \u201cgood\u201d nodes to identify higher level taxa names. Methods. I used a previews published dataset (doi:10.5061/dryad.f2h6r) and ran several searches for Most Parsimonious Trees (MPT) using different search algorithms and assumptions in TNT. After that, I compared the results of different searches, mapped the characters transformations, and calculate the Bremer supports. The results were then compared with the current taxonomy proposed for Pelomedusoides, with emphasis on Bothremydidae. Results. The remarkable divergences with the current taxonomy of Bothremydidae are: (1) Kurmademydini and Bothremydini need to be redefined; (2) Cearachelyini and Galianemys lack diagnostic characters and, therefore, are not monophyletic; and (3) Bothremydidae do not possess common diagnostic characters in all MPT, thus, lacks a well supported heterobathmy with its sister-group, Podocnemidinura (=Pan-Podocnemididae). Moreover, the Infrafamily Bothremydodda has Bremer support of 3. However, given that all bothremydids are extinct, it is impossible to define a panstem clade based on a crown group. The result is an unstable nomenclature with more names than necessary. Discussion. The use of heterobathmy is a center point in Hennig\'s argumentation for phylogenetic reconstruction. Indeed, it implies the zero length collapsing rule applied to cladistic reconstruction (which is the TNT default option). Nonetheless, ambiguous characters or several equal MPT can imply on phylogenetic reconstructions that lack a consistent heterobathmy (i.e.: a common diagnostic character in the ancestor eidophoront of a given node in all MPT; as is the case of Bothremydidae). A possible solution is to use the suffix \u201cformes\u201d to designate extinct lineages with stem-species when some nodes are not well supported in a given phylogeny. In the example presented here, it would consist on naming ICZN\u2019s Bothremydodda as \u201cBothremydidae\u201d (sensu stricto) and ICZN\u2019s Bothremydidae (sensu lato, i.e.: including stem-Bothremydidae) as \u201cBothremydidiformes\u201d and avoid naming each node of the consensus tree unless it has high Bremer support. By taking into account this delimitation criterion, we can propose a more stable and clean taxonomy.', u'This exploratory research was conducted to study the relationship between Big Five personality measurement scale and the interaction behaviour of the programmers with keyboard and mouse to examine the possibility of creating a computer based objective personality measurement scale. A field study with two analyses (N = 20), (N = 12) and a lab study (N = 15) were conducted where N is the number of participants who participated in the research. In the field study, interaction data were collected during normal PC use over several days. In the laboratory study, participants worked on a programming task while their interaction with keyboard and mouse was being recorded in background. All of the participants rated their personality online and uploaded the data for analysis. Results found inconsistent behaviour of all of the personality traits except \u2018activity level\u2019 in all studies and thus suggested that a programmer\u2019s \u2018activity level\u2019 can be predicted from his/her interaction behaviour with keyboard and mouse. This prediction will help in differentiating good programmers from not so good programmers objectively.', u"It's time to rethink prevention as a strategy to fight diseases? In this opinion I'll try to question preventive medicine as a strategy starting from the evidences on the randomness of disease, as suggested by recent and very questioned data on variation in cancer risk among different tissues. To understand the scope of this refutation we must remember that the preventive strategy was developed since the introduction of the concept of risk factor, that date back to the Framingham Heart Study (FHS) started in 1948. Indeed, prior to the FHS, doctors were still engaged in the study of causation by following the established paradigm of aetiology, and had not yet focused on the concept of multifactorial diseases and prevention or prophylaxis of risk factors was not yet a paradigm in medicine. After having metabolised these new concepts and made prevention of risk factors the main strategy to fight multifactorial diseases for years, today, in a Western world that is aging, we are facing a new challenge since prevention seems to be no longer enough to cope with diseases such as cancer and, possibly, we need new strategies that we still have not. And this why? Possibly because the randomness appears ever more like the engine that drives the physical universe even if, for living organisms, we must admit several deterministic or, at least, very reproducible events since they are able to actively interact with the environment.", u'Agreeable people are more likely to display prosocial attitudes and helpful behavior in a broad range of situations. Here we show that this tendency interacts with the personal characteristics of interaction partners. In an online study (n = 284), participants were given the opportunity to report attitudes toward and make monetary donations to needy individuals who were described in dynamically generated biographies. Using a machine learning and multilevel modeling framework, we tested three potential explanations for the facilitatory influence of Agreeableness on charitable behavior. We find that Agreeableness preferentially increased donations and prosocial attitudes toward targets normatively rated as being more deserving, but not to targets considered less deserving. Our results advance understanding of person-by-situation interactions in the context of charitable behavior and prosocial attitudes.', u'This paper introduces a novel, universal distance-based classification procedure. It is based on a simple geometric model. Considering all objects as points in a metric space, a class is imagined as covered by potentially differentsized hyperspheres, the centres of which are referred to as prototypes. The radii of the hyperspheres are individually optimised by a generalised ROC-analysis. For the approximate solution of the entire discrete optimisation problem, a greedy algorithm was developed and implemented in R. It runs in O(k2\u2219n2\u2219log(n)) time where k is the number of prototypes to be selected and n the number of training objects. For application to multi class problems, one against all approach is performed. The diagnostic decision is finalised for that class of maximum positive predictive value when in doubt. Objects not recognised as a member of any of the classes are assigned to an additional residual class. The performance of the classification system presented is demonstrated on various data examples, and in comparison with other methods.', u'A new live-trap (named LOT trap) for small mammals is described herein. This trap is easily built and is considerably cheaper than commercial traps. The trap body is made of a PVC 8x8 cm pipe, with a tin door and a transparent plexiglas back door. The efficacy of this trap was tested in an experimental field study, and the results are presented and discussed. Capture rates were significantly different between types of trap, with 81.6% of captured rodents for LOT and 18.4% of rodents for multiple-capture traps.', u'Tabin Wildlife Resort in Tabin Wildlife Reserve, Lahad Datu, Sabah is a popular tourist spot in Malaysia for being the largest wildlife reserve by mainly focusing on endangered mammals and birds. Thus, in this research, it is proposed to include invertebrates\u2019 information in the current ecotourism activities in Tabin Wildlife Reserve. Implicitly, it could increase a sustainable invertebrates\u2019 conservation. Invertebrates possess large benefits to humankind, namely waste recycling whereby, they cycle the minerals and organic minerals for plants and animals. Thus, this investigation aimed to study the tourists\u2019 perception on including invertebrates\u2019 information in current Tabin Wildlife Resort ecotourism activity. Hence, to collect data from tourists, pre-visit and post-visit questionnaire surveys were adopted as the methodological approach during preliminary entotourism activity. Two different conceptual framework sets (pre-visit and post-visit) were posited in this investigation. The collected data were analysed via Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) and Analysis of Moment Structure (AMOS) software program by adopting Structural Equation Modelling (SEM). SEM analyses revealed that both pre-visit and post-visit surveys have significant variance towards the ecotourism. This implied a good potential in including invertebrates in ecotourism activities especially in Sabah. The findings of this study are important to contribute to the literature of invertebrates\u2019 species conservation awareness in Sabah, since very limited researches are conducted specifically on entotourism field.', u'Are motor neurons just passive relayers of the signals they receive? Or, do motor neurons shape the signals before passing them on to the muscles, thereby influencing the timing of motor behavior? Few direct tests of the role of motor neuron intrinsic properties in shaping motor behavior have been carried out, and many questions remain about the role of specific ion channel genes in motor neuron function. In this study, two potassium channel transgenes were expressed in Drosophila larval motor neurons to increase their excitability. Mosaic animals were created in which some identified motor neurons expressed the transgenes while others did not. Motor output underlying crawling was compared in muscles innervated by control and experimental neurons in the same animals. No effect of the transgenic manipulation on motor output was seen. Possible explanations for these results are discussed, and future experiments are outlined that could shed light on how the larval nervous system produces normal motor output in the face of altered motor neuron excitability.', u'Telomerase core enzyme minimally consists of the telomerase reverse transcriptase domain-containing protein (Est2 in budding yeast S. cerevisiae) and telomerase RNA, which contains the template specifying the telomeric repeat sequence synthesized. Here we report that in vivo, a fraction of S. cerevisiae telomerase RNA (TLC1) molecules form complexes containing at least two molecules of TLC1, via two separable modes: one requiring a sequence in the 3\u2019 region of the immature TLC1 precursor and the other requiring Ku and Sir4. Such physical TLC1-TLC1 association peaked in G1 phase and did not require telomere silencing, telomere tethering to the nuclear periphery, telomerase holoenzyme assembly, or detectable Est2-Est2 protein association. These data indicate that TLC1-TLC1 associations reflect processes occurring during telomerase biogenesis; we propose that TLC1-TLC1 associations and subsequent reorganization may be regulatory steps in telomerase enzymatic activation.', u'Within the Gulf of Aqaba, coral reefs have been considered the dominating ecosystem, attracting not only scientific attention, but also restoration efforts, aquarium exhibits and outreach educational programs. Seagrasses, which are known worldwide as a highly important ecosystem, have not received much attention by the public, scientists or authorities involved in conservation and management in this region. This is surprising considering the value of ecosystem services associated with seagarsses and the fact that many of these services are important to adjacent coral reefs. The absence of comprehensive seagrass maps for this region, prohibits other downstream activities such as evaluations of the associated ecosystem services and implementation of potential conservation and management tools. Here we present efforts to map seagrass meadows along the Israeli coast of the northern Gulf of Aqaba. Mapping was done by snorkeling with a GPS and a handheld echo-sounder. Transects perpendicular to the shore were conducted with measurements taken every 10-20 m that included water depth, GPS position and percent of seagrass cover estimated visually up to 13-23 m depending on visibility. In addition to these transects, we also tracked the shallow boundary of the meadows parallel to shore, usually at 3-5 m depth. Both data sets were then fed into Arc-GIS to create an interpolated GIS layer. Out of 11 km available shoreline, we swam along 9.7 km and collected a total of 2830 data points. Seagrasses were found growing along 7.5 km of these shores, with seagrass meadows covering 707,000 sqm2.estimated to be worth = US$ 2,000,000 year-1 in associated ecosystem services. In addition to mapping the seagrass meadows themselvs, we also mapped the potential dangers to seagrasses in the region. Disturbances were ranked as low, medium or high according to severity and frequency. We expect that these maps (GIS layers) will allow us to not only understand the current distribution of seagrasses in the area, but also to develop a GIS-based tool that will improve our understanding of how changes in the Gulf could affect the cover and state of seagrasses, and thus improve conservation efforts in the region.', u'Alu elements are sequences of approximately 300 basepairs that combined comprise more than 10% of the human genome. Due to their recent origin in primate evolution some Alu elements are polymorphic in humans, present in some individuals while absent in others. We present PopAlu, a tool to detect polymorphic Alu elements on a population scale from paired-end sequencing data. PopAlu uses read pair distance and orientation as well as split reads to identify the location and precise breakpoints of polymorphic Alus. Genotype calling enables us to differentiate between homozygous and heterozygous carriers, making the output of PopAlu suitable for use in downstream analyses such as genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We show on a simulated dataset that PopAlu calls Alu elements inserted and deleted with respect to a reference genome with high accuracy and high precision. Our analysis of real data of a human trio from the 1000 Genomes Project confirms that PopAlu is able to produce highly accurate genotype calls. To our knowledge, PopAlu is the first tool that identifies polymorphic Alu elements from multiple individuals simultaneously, pinpoints the precise breakpoints and calls genotypes with high accuracy.', u'Background. Studies have shown that nursing students have challenges in translating and applying their theoretical knowledge in a clinical context. Virtual patients (VPs) have been proposed as an adequate learning and assessment activity to improve clinical reasoning. Although feedback and debriefing are essential aspects to foster learning in medical simulation, few studies have explored systematic and theory anchored ways of supporting feed forward and debriefing based on student activity collected in a systematic manner. Objective. The aim of this study was to develop a systematic approach for collecting the nursing students\u2019 clinical reasoning artifacts as they encounter virtual patients. Method. The Outcome-Present-State-Test (OPT) model for clinical reasoning was used as the starting point since it is an internationally common model used by faculty to plan for and design learning activities in nursing education (Pesut & Herman, 1999). Two virtual patients were developed using the virtual patient nursing design model vpNDM (Georg &Zary, 2014). Nighty-five participants from undergraduate nursing education encountered the VPs and the intervention was composed of the exploration of methods for tracking and collecting the participants\u2019 clinical reasoning artifacts. Results. An instrument to collect the students\u2019 clinical reasoning was developed. Artifacts are collected during the whole virtual patient encounter. The aspects collected are related to clinical judgment, nursing action, outcome and present states, cue logic and the client in context. The empirical demonstrated that the instrument was able to collect and expose quantitative and qualitative aspects of the students\u2019 clinical reasoning. Conclusions. A method to systematically collect aspects of clinical reasoning during a virtual patient driven learning activity would allow purposeful feed forward and provide the necessary information for constructive debriefing sessions.', u'The Galapagos Sailfin grouper, Mycteroperca olfax, locally known as bacalao and listed as vulnerable by IUCN, is culturally, economically, and ecologically important to the Galapagos archipelago and its people. It is regionally endemic to the Eastern Tropical Pacific, and, while an important fishery resource that has shown substantial declines in recent years, to date no effective management regulations are in place to ensure the sustainability of its Galapagos fishery. Previous estimates of longevity and size of maturity for bacalao are inconsistent with estimates for congeners, which questions the accuracy of prior estimates. We set out to rigorously assess the age, growth, and reproductive biology of bacalao in order to provide more accurate life history information to inform more effective fisheries management for this species. The oldest fish in our sample was 24 years old, which is 2-3 times greater than previously reported estimates of longevity. Parameter estimates for the von Bertalanffy growth function (k= 0.07, L\u221e= 119.1 cm TL, and to= -2.33 years) show bacalao to grow much slower and obtain substantially larger asymptotic maximum length than previous studies. Mean size at maturity (as female) was estimated at 61.1 cm TL, corresponding to an age of 7.8 years. As a protogynous hermaphrodite, size at sex change (from adult female to adult male) occurred at 83.7 cm TL, corresponding to 15.2 years of age. We found that sex ratios were extremely female biased (0.015 M:1F), with a large majority of the individuals in our experimental catch being immature (73%). Our results show that bacalao grow slower, live longer, and mature at a much larger size and greater age than previously thought, with very few mature males in the population. These findings have key implications for the fishery of this valuable species and urge for a long-due species management plan to ensure its long-term sustainability.', u'Genomic pipelines consist of several pieces of third party software and, because their experimental nature, frequent changes and updates are commonly necessary thus raising serious distribution and reproducibility issues. Docker containers technology offers an ideal solution, as it allows the packaging of pipelines in an isolated and self-contained manner. This makes it easy to distribute and execute pipelines in a portable manner across a wide range of computing platforms. Thus the question that arises is to what extent the use of Docker containers might affect the performance of these pipelines. Here we address this question and conclude that Docker containers have only a minor impact on the performance of common genomic pipelines, which is negligible when the executed jobs are long in terms of computational time.', u'Feathers are the most complex and diversified integuments in vertebrates. Their complexity are provided by the different forms and functions, and they occur both in non-avian and avian-dinosaurs. Despite their rareness, feathers are found throughout the world, and the Santana Formation (comprised by Crato and Romualdo formations) of the Araripe Basin is responsible for the majority of these records in Brazil. Most occurrences is consisted by isolated feathers, where downy-feathers is the recurrent morphotype, two coelurosaurs and one enantiornithe bird. The sedimentary deposition of this unit is consisted by a lacustrine (Crato Fm) and lagoonal (Romualdo Fm) environments, where reducing conditions prevailed, precluding the activity of bottom dwelling organisms that favored the exquisite preservation. Despite the arid and hot conditions during the Cretaceous, life teemed in the adjacency of both paleolakes, however, feathered non-avian dinosaurs were not found yet in the Crato Member. By the great diversity of life that existed in the paleolake surroundings, is possible to recognize, through the fossil record, that a complex and diversified trophic chain was well established during the time period of sedimentation of this unit. When the remains reached the bottom of the paleolakes, the subsequent isolation from the environment allowed their preservation. In this work, three fossilized feathers, consisted of two downy and one contour feather, extracted from the laminated limestone of the Crato Member of the Santana Formation, were described and identified according to morphological and evolutionary models. We also used the terminology commonly applied to extant organisms. Relying on the fossil record of this unit and the adjacencies formations and basins (by autochthonous condition), taxonomic inferences can be made when the lowest hierarchy level is considered, and hence, is possible to propose the plausible taxa that could bear these elements. Taphonomic and paleoecological aspects, such as the preservation of these structures, and the presence of dinosaurs, were also reviewed, as well as the future perspectives about the study of these elements. Despite the virtual low significance, the pragmatical study of fossilized feathers, can help with the understanding of the evolution and paleobiology of dinosaurs, especially on the South Hemisphere.', u'Seagrass meadows of Zostera noltei are widely distributed over the coasts of Tunisia and represent relatively dominant populations in the Northern lagoon of Tunis. This brackish environment was the subject of a plan of restoration and development implemented in the mid 1980\u2019s to deal with problems of eutrophication. This work is a contribution to the characterization of seagrass meadows of Z. noltei in the Northern lagoon of Tunis, with (i) mapping meadows along 36 equally spaced and well distributed transects, (ii) measuring the biomass with its two components, above and below-ground, in representative stations of different types of seagrass meadows, and (iii) the observation of phenological characteristics of the plant. The results show that Z. noltei meadows grow over 40% of the total area of the lagoon. They spread gradually to the Southern part of the lagoon where they are able to survive and to thrive. The total biomass in the North lagoon of Tunis was about 2512 tons of DW in June of 2014. Most of this biomass comes from dense beds with cover of 50 to 90%. The phenological characteristic analysis shows that the mean density is about 1830 shoots/m\xb2, the average length and average width of the leaves are 26.6 cm (SD = 6.9) and 1.8 mm (SD = 0.2), respectively. Depending on the type of cover, the total length of rhizomes varies between 2.3 and 40.6 m/m\xb2 and the average number of leaves/shoot is between 3.1 and 4.5 (SD = 0.4). Flowering, which begins in April, continues until the end of August. The flowering rate varies between stations, ranging from 0 to 16% in June of 2014. The study should be extended to other seasons to better understand the characteristics and dynamics of Z. noltei meadows, which have a very important role in the restoration and the ecological balance of the Northern lagoon of Tunis.', u'Widespread replacement of native ecosystems by productive land sometimes results in the outbreak of a native species. In New Zealand, the introduction of exotic pastoral plants has resulted in the diet alteration of the native coleopteran species, Costelytra zealandica (White) (Scarabaeidae) such that this insect has reached the status of pest. In contrast, C. brunneum (Broun), a close congeneric species, has not developed such a relationship with these \u2018new\u2019 host plants. This study investigated the feeding preferences and fitness performance of these two closely related scarab beetles to increase fundamental knowledge about the mechanisms responsible for the development of invasive characteristics in native insects. To this end the feeding preferences of larvae of both Costelytra species were investigated under controlled conditions and the survival and larval growth of the invasive species C. zealandica were compared on native and exotic host plants. Costelytra zealandica, when sampled from exotic pastures, was unable to fully utilise its ancestral native host and showed better performance on exotic plants. In contrast, C. zealandica sampled from native grasslands did not perform significantly better on either host and showed similar feeding preferences to C. brunneum. This study suggests the possibility of strong intra-specific variation, in the ability of C. zealandica to exploit native or exotic plants, supporting the hypothesis that such ability underpins the existence of distinct host-races in this species.', u'According to the Water Framework Directive (WFD), a specific monitoring of Posidonia oceanica meadows was carried out along the Apulian coasts by the Regional Agency for the Environmental Prevention and Protection (ARPA Puglia). A total of 17 sites, 11 in the Southern Adriatic Sea and 6 in the Northern Ionian Sea were investigated during two consecutive monitoring cycles (2009-2011 and 2012-2014). Sampling procedures as well as laboratory analyses (phenology and lepidochronology) were carried out according to a common methodological protocol shared at Italian national level (D.M. 260/2010) for the final ecological classification (sensu WFD) using the PREI index. In each meadow, two sampling stations were investigated by scuba divers at the fixed depth of 15 m and in correspondence of the lower bathymetric distribution limit. For each station, 9 shoots counting (40x40 cm square) and 3 covering estimates (around 5 m of radius) were carried out. In addition, 18 orthotropic shoots and a sediment sample were collected as well as some other bio-ecological data (meadow continuity, dead matte presence, bottom type, invasive algae presence, flowering, disturbance sources, lower limit type and depth). The results showed that 29% of sites were classified as \u201cGOOD\u201d, 59% were classified as \u201dMODERATE\u201d while the remaining 12% as \u201cPOOR\u201d, with a general slight improvement of the classification in the last monitoring cycle (2012-2014). Although the ecological quality status of the Apulian Posidonia oceanica meadows (summarized by the PREI index values) reflects the distribution of anthropic pressures on the coast (harbours, industrial and urbanized areas, river\u2019s outlets) along a latitudinal gradient, the classification based on the rules (reference conditions and EQR boundaries for the PREI index) reported in the Italian law (D.M. 260/2010) seems to underestimate the real ecological status. Consequently, a revision of both the actual reference conditions and EQR boundaries is suggested for the BQE Posidonia oceanica in the Apulian marine waters, in order to taking account of the environmental features of two different marine basins as the south-western Adriatic Sea and the north-western Ionian Sea.', u'Monitoring of Posidonia oceanica was carried out in the framework of the MedMPAnet Project in eight meadows not formerly explored in an area along the north coast of Croatia (Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Northern Adriatic Sea). The survey was aimed to collect preliminary data as a baseline for future surveillance cycles of the priority habitat 1120 "Posidonia beds" within the framework of the National Monitoring Programme, according to the requirements of the EU Habitats Directive. Fieldwork was carried out in 2013 and 2014 through direct SCUBA diving surveys. At each site, general information on coastal features and potential human pressures was recorded and the following descriptors of meadow conditions were assessed at three depth ranges: shoot density, percent coverage of Posidonia oceanica, dead matte and substrate type; depth and type of lower limits were also recorded for each meadow. Two meadows, located in the island of Rab (Uvala Planka and Frkanj), were investigated during both years of survey in order to test any differences due to the methodological approach we used. Overall, results indicated signs of distress for several meadows. Density ranged from 355\xb122 to 629\xb121 shoot per m2 at shallow stations (<10 m depth), from 141\xb18 to 324\xb123 shoot per m2 at intermediate depth (about 15 m), and from 79\xb15 to 157\xb110 shoot per m2 at the lower limit. Regression was also testified by high coverage of dead matte (locally >40%) especially at the lower limit, which was regressive in four meadows and in no case did it exceed 27 meters in depth. The temporal comparison provided consistent results between the two years for investigation of shoot density, at all sites and throughout the bathymetric range. However, some changes were detected in the deepest portions of both meadows in the coverage of Posidonia oceanica (lower than 50% in 2014). Further monitoring and research campaigns are recommended to improve the level of knowledge on the status of meadows in this area, to develop a baseline for assessing trends on a long-term temporal scale as requested by Habitats Directive, and to shed light on the relevance of both environmental and anthropogenic factors in determining the health status of the meadows. Intercalibration among operators is also suggested to ensure reliable data in implementing the National Monitoring Programme.', u'Monitoring of marine priority habitats has been recently undertaken in the Tela\u0161\u0107ica Nature Park (Croatia) in compliance with the management plan developed within the MedPAN South project. Assessment of the state of Posidonia oceanica meadows was made in 2011, 2012 and 2014, in five locations subjected to different anthropogenic pressure. The monitoring was mainly aimed to establish the presence of disturbance in locations that are highly frequented by recreational boaters. Using an empirical assessment of frequent boat use, meadows were defined as \u201canchoring\u201d (four locations - \u010cu\u0161ka Dumboka, Kobiljak, Lu\u010dica, Sestrica \u2013 that are potentially subjected to high pressure from boating activities) or \u201cno-anchoring\u201d (one location - Garmenjak - where boating activites are considered negligible since the area is not a preferred destination for boater). Structural descriptors of the meadows (i.e shoot density and the Conservation Index) were assessed at different sites at each location, by means of direct surveys in SCUBA diving. Results indicate clear signs of deterioration at the locations that are subjected to high pressure of anchoring. Overall, shoot density at the "no-anchoring" sites had significant higher values than the "anchoring" sites, by around 31% to 45% higher, over the three years of investigations. Changes in values of the Conservation Index were smaller; 10% to 15% higher in \u201cno-anchoring\u201d than "anchoring" sites. Among the \u201canchoring\u201d locations, \u010cu\u0161ka Dumboka and Kobiljak showed the lowest values of shoot density and Conservation Index (as a consequence of the highest cover of dead matte), over the three years of monitoring. The combined use of the two descriptors seems to be effective in obtaining information on the condition of the seagrass meadows and strengthens the a priori assumption that mechanical disturbance of anchors affects P. oceanica adversely by enhancing regression of the meadows. The management authority is now implementing a series of actions to reduce human pressures and promote a more sustainable approach to nautical tourism. Monitoring of boating frequency and activities (number and size of boats, anchor type), is recommended to assess the effective pressure of anchoring and understand whether the different conditions of meadows under pressure correspond to the different levels of disturbance or if other factors along with anchoring are influencing the seagrass beds.', u'The genus Halobates includes the only five insect species that have been successful in a pelagic marine environment. Different scenarios of independent colonization events of that environment have been proposed, considering the appearance of pelagic distribution in several non-sister clades in the phylogeny of the genus. In this paper, we aim to update the phylogenetic hypothesis under the criterion of Bayesian inference, calibrate a molecular clock using the only fossil described in the genus and also analyze the diversity pattern of the lineage since its divergence. High support values were found in the phylogenetic reconstruction, which tend to decrease with an increase of the distances from the root. Low supports for the most derived clades or relatively recent divergences cast doubt on the delimitation of some species. Although the divergence time for Halobates was estimated at 42.01 mya (\xb1 8.13) the emergence of the lineage probably happened a few million years before, so the estimated time of divergence probably also marked the start of diversification of the marine lineages of this genus. Since divergence, the richness of genus showed continuous linear growth for approximately 24.4 my, when the lineages began to diversify more quickly with a significantly lower extinction rate.The colonization of the pelagic environment which occurred nearly 42 mya, could also have been the starting point of the colonization of the marine pelagic environment when changes in their morphology, physiology and behaviour enabled them to exploit novel ecological niches. Ancestors of pelagic marine insects probably inhabited areas close to the seacoast more than 41 mya ago. The ecological history of Halobates was probably not limited to a pair of open water colonization events as indicated by earlier proposals. We hypothesize instead that at least three independent events of open water colonization by Halobates species have occurred. In this sense, the ecological character of coastal or pelagic distribution is considered to be a homoplasic character without direct implications on the net diversification of Halobates.', u'Recent researches have underlined that maternal psychopathology can be considered as a crucial risk factor for the development and maintaining of several emotional behavioural problems in children. While several researches have dealt prominently with maternal psychopathological risk and with their outcomes on NOFTT, limited attention has been given in literature to fathers\u2019 involvement in caregiving and to their psychological profiles, while this issue may represent a significant risk and/or protective factor. The present longitudinal study is aimed to further elaborate on the impact of the maternal psychological functioning on the adaptation of the child between the first and second childhood, focusing also on the paternal involvement in caregiving.', u'For a number of years, the United Nations Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC) has collaborated with Dr. Frederic Short (SeagrassNet, University of New Hampshire) and other seagrass experts worldwide to compile a global georeferenced dataset of seagrass occurrences. More than 184,000 point and polygon records have been collated to date. The GIS dataset and associated metadata can be downloaded from UNEP-WCMC\u2019s Ocean Data Viewer, thereby providing ready-for-use information on the location of this critical habitat to policy-makers, conservationists, and scientists. This knowledge is necessary to inform better decisions regarding marine conservation (e.g., marine spatial planning) and to ensure the sustainable use of our ocean\u2019s resources (e.g., ecosystem service valuation). This and other similar datasets on the distribution of key marine habitats\u2014e.g., saltmarshes, mangroves, and corals (also curated and distributed by UNEP-WCMC)\u2014have been used in numerous global and regional studies that examine the status of sensitive marine biodiversity and related impacts. Occurrence datasets such as these are also used to inform predictive models aimed at filling spatial gaps in knowledge. Moreover, such a global dataset can support analyses that explore the contribution of seagrass and other \u2018blue carbon\u2019 ecosystems (e.g. saltmarsh, mangrove) to carbon sequestration, thereby aiding climate change mitigation. As part of an interactive session, we will: 1. Present current progress towards collating a global dataset of seagrass occurrences, highlighting the achievements of such collaborative endeavours and the relevance of this dataset to global science, conservation, and policy initiatives; and 2. Facilitate a discussion with Mediterranean seagrass experts to develop recommendations for addressing the knowledge gaps and challenges (e.g. licensing issues) that have been identified. In particular, this session will focus on improving our collective knowledge of the spatial distribution of seagrass ecosystems in data-poor regions of the Mediterranean by drawing from local and regional expertise. Given the importance of these ecosystems to sustaining marine biodiversity, regulating carbon, and supporting global fisheries, such contributions towards developing a comprehensive and accurate dataset can help to ensure that scientists, conservationists, policy-makers and other decision-makers have the appropriate information to make better-informed analyses and decisions.', u'Research has yielded approaches for predicting future changes and defects in software artifacts, based on historical information, helping developers in effectively allocating their (limited) resources. Developers are unlikely able to focus on all predicted software artifacts, hence the ordering of predictions is important for choosing the right artifacts to concentrate on. We propose using a Genetic Algorithm (GA) for tailoring prediction models to prioritize classes with more changes/defects. We evaluate the approach on two models, regression tree and linear regression, predicting changes/defects between multiple releases of eight open source projects. Our results show that regression models calibrated by GA significantly outperform their traditional counterparts, improving the ranking of classes with more changes/defects by up to 48%. In many cases the top 10% of predicted classes can contain up to twice as many changes or defects.', u'Manual therapy has long been a component of physical rehabilitation programs, especially to treat those in pain. The mechanisms of manual therapy, however, are not fully understood, and it has been suggested that its pain modulatory effects are of neurophysiological origin, and may be mediated by the descending modulatory circuit. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to examine the neurophysiological response of different types of manual therapy, in order to better understand the neurophysiological mechanisms behind each therapy\u2019s analgesic effects. It is concluded that different forms of manual therapy elicit analgesic effects via different mechanisms. Additionally, future avenues of mechanistic research pertaining to manual therapy are discussed.', u'Association rule mining has a great importance in data mining. Apriori is the key algorithm in association rule mining. Many approaches are proposed in past to improve Apriori but the core concept of the algorithm is same i.e. support and confidence of item sets and previous studies finds that classical Apriori is inefficient due to many scans on database. In this paper, we are proposing a method to improve Apriori algorithm efficiency by reducing the database size as well as reducing the time wasted on scanning the transactions.', u'Consumer-grade GPS units are a staple of modern field ecology, but the relatively large error radii reported by manufacturers (up to 10 meters) ostensibly precludes their utility in measuring fine-scale movement of small animals such as insects. Here we demonstrate that for data collected at fine spatio-temporal scales, these devices can produce exceptionally precise data on step-length and movement patterns of small animals. With an understanding of the properties of GPS error and how it arises, it is possible, using a simple field protocol, to use consumer grade GPS units to collect step-length data for the movement of small animals that introduces a median of 11 cm of error. Such small errors make these inexpensive units useful for measuring insect and other small animal movements on small to intermediate scales on budgets that are orders of magnitude lower than the survey-grade units used in past studies. As an additional advantage, these units are much simpler to operate and insect or other small animal trackways can be collected more quickly than either survey-grade units or more traditional ruler / gird approaches.', u'Background: Data from 16S amplicon sequencing present challenges to ecological and statistical interpretation. In particular, library sizes often vary over several ranges of magnitude, and the data contains many zeroes. Also, since researchers sample a small fraction of the ecosystem, the observed sequences are relative abundances and therefore the data is compositional. Here we evaluate methods developed in the literature to address these three challenges in the context of normalization and ordination analysis, which is commonly used to visualize overall differences in bacterial composition between sample groups, and differential abundance analysis, which tests for significant differences in the abundances of microbes between sample groups. Results. Effects of normalization on ordination: Most normalization methods successfully cluster samples according to biological origin when many microbes differ between the groups. For datasets in which clusters are subtle and/or sequence depth varies greatly between samples, or for metrics in which rare microbes play an important role, rarefying outperforms other techniques. For abundance-based metrics, rarefying as well as alternatives like DESeq and metagenomeSeq\u2019s cumulative sum scaling (CSS), seem to correctly cluster samples according to biological origin. With these normalization alternatives, clustering by sequence depth as a confounding variable must be checked for, especially for low library sizes. Effects of differential abundance testing model choice: We build on previous work to evaluate each statistical method using rarefied as well as unrarefied data. When the mean library sizes in the differential abundance groups differ by more than 2-3x, or the library sizes differ in distribution, our simulation studies reveal that each statistical method improved in its false positive rate when samples were rarefied. However, when the difference in library size mean is less than 2-3x, and the library sizes are similarly distributed, rarefying results in a loss of power for all methods. In this case, DESeq2 has the highest power to compare groups, especially for less than 20 samples per group. MetagenomeSeq\u2019s fitZIG is a faster alternative to DESeq2, although it does worse for smaller sample sizes (<50 samples per group) and tends to have a higher false positives rate. For larger sample sizes (>50 samples), rarefying paired with a non-parametric test, such as the Mann-Whitney test, can also yield equally high sensitivity. Based on these results, we recommend a stepwise procedure in which sample groups are first tested for significant differences in library size. If there is a significant difference, we recommend rarefying with a non-parametric test. Otherwise, DESeq2 and/or fitZIG offer increased sensitivity, especially for rare OTUs and small sample numbers. Conclusions. These findings help guide which technique to use depending on the data characteristics of a given study.', u'Kernel-based smoothers have enjoyed considerable success in the estimation of both probability densities and event frequencies. Existing procedures can be modified to yield a similar kernel-based estimator of instantaneous probability over the course of a binomial or multinomial time series. The resulting nonparametric estimate can be described in terms of one bandwidth per outcome alternative, facilitating both the understanding and reporting of results relative to more sophisticated methods for binomial outcome estimation. Also described is a method for sample size estimation, which in turn can be used to obtain credible intervals for the resulting estimate given mild assumptions. One application of this analysis is to model response accuracy in tasks with heterogeneous trial types. An example is presented from a study of transitive inference, showing how kernel probability estimates provide a method for inferring response accuracy during the first trial following training. This estimation procedure is also effective in describing the multinomial responses typical in the study of choice and decision making. An example is presented showing how the procedure may be used to describe changing distributions of choices over time when eight response alternatives are simultaneously available.', u'The interest in mammalian palaeohistology has increased dramatically in the last two decades. Starting in 1849 via descriptive approaches, it has been demonstrated that bone tissue and vascularisation types correlate with several biological variables such as ontogenetic stage, growth rate, and ecology. Mammalian bone displays a large variety of bone tissues and vascularisation patterns reaching from lamellar or parallel-fibred to fibrolamellar or woven-fibred bone, depending on taxon and individual age. Here we systematically review the knowledge and methods on mammalian bone and palaeohistology and discuss potential future research fields and techniques. We present new data on the bone microstructure of two extant marsupial species and of several extinct continental and island placental mammals. Three juvenile specimens of the dwarf island hippopotamid Hippopotamus minor from the Late Pleistocene of Cyprus show reticular to plexiform fibrolamellar bone. The island murid Mikrotia magna from the Late Miocene of Gargano, Italy displays parallel-fibred primary bone with reticular vascularisation being pervaded by irregular secondary osteons in the central part of the cortex. Leithia sp., the dormouse from the Pleistocene of Sicily, is characterised by a primary bone cortex consisting of lamellar bone and low vascularisation. The bone cortex of the fossil continental lagomorph Prolagus oeningensis and three fossil species of insular Prolagus displays parallel-fibred primary bone and reticular, radial as well as longitudinal vascularisation. Typical for large mammals, secondary bone in the giant rhinocerotoid Paraceratherium sp. from the Miocene of Turkey is represented by dense Haversian bone. The skeletochronological features of Sinomegaceros yabei, a large-sized deer from the Pleistocene of Japan closely related to Megaloceros, indicate a high growth rate. These examples and the critical summary of existing data show how bone microstructure can reveal essential information on life history evolution. The bone tissue and the skeletochronological data of the sampled island species show that there is no universal modification of bone tissue and life history specific to insular species.', u'Social networks are growing day by day. Users of the social networks are generating values for these networks. All the users can\u2019t be considered equal as they have different social network impact value. In this paper we analyze the social impact of a user and propose a method to estimate an individual\u2019s worth to a social network in terms of impact. The mathematical evaluations show the effectiveness of our method. Based on the proposed method many applications can be built taking into consideration the impact any individual\u2019s social profile has. We have tried to make various social data attributes more valuable and meaningful.', u'In modern molecular systematics, matrices of unordered multistate characters, such as DNA sequence alignments, are used for analysis with no further re-coding procedures nor any a priori determination of character polarity. Here we present 1001, a simple freely available Python-based tool that helps re-code matrices of non-additive characters as different types of binary matrices. Despite to the historical basis, our analytical approach to DNA and protein data has never been properly investigated since the beginning of the molecular age. The polarized matrices produced by 1001 can be used as the proper inputs for Cladistic analysis, as well as used as inputs for future three-taxon permutations. The 1001 binary representations of molecular data (not necessary polarized) may also be used as inputs for different parametric software. This may help to reduce the complicated sets of assumptions that normally precede either Bayesian or Maximum Likelihood analyses.', u'Thermal physiology of entomopathogenic nematodes (EPN) is a critical aspect of field performance and fitness. Thermal limits for survival and activity, and the ability of these limits to adjust (i.e. show phenotypic flexibility) depending on recent thermal history, are generally poorly established, especially for non-model nematode species. Here we report the acute thermal limits for survival, and the thermal acclimation-related plasticity thereof for two key endemic South African EPN species, Steinernema yirgalemense and Heterorhabditis zealandica. Results including LT50 indicate S. yirgalemense (LT50 = 40.8\xb10.3\xb0C) has greater high temperature tolerance than H. zealandica (LT50 = 36.7\xb10.2\xb0C), but S. yirgalemense (LT50 = -2.4\xb10\xb0C) has poorer low temperature tolerance in comparison to H. zealandica (LT50 = -9.7\xb10.3\xb0C), suggesting these two EPN species occupy divergent thermal niches to one another.\nAcclimation had both negative and positive effects on temperature stress survival of both species, although the overall variation meant that many of these effects were non-significant. There was no indication of a consistent loss of plasticity with improved basal thermal tolerance for either species at upper lethal temperatures. At lower temperatures measured for H. zealandica, the 5\xb0C acclimation lowered survival until below -12.5\xb0C, where after it increased survival. Such results indicate that the thermal niche breadth of EPN species can differ significantly depending on recent thermal conditions, and should be characterized across a broad range of species to understand the evolution of thermal limits to performance and survival in this group.', u'In a number of recent studies we used computer modeling to investigate the evolution of muscle leverage (moment arms) and function in extant and extinct archosaur lineages (crocodilians, dinosaurs including birds and pterosaurs). These studies sought to quantify the level of disparity and convergence in muscle moment arms during the evolution of bipedal and quadrupedal posture in various independent archosaur lineages, and in doing so further our understanding of changes in anatomy, locomotion and ecology during the group\u2019s >250 million year evolutionary history. Subsequent work by others has led us to re-evaluate our models, which revealed a methodological error that impacted on the results obtained from the abduction-adduction and long-axis rotation moment arms in our published studies. In this paper we present corrected abduction-adduction and long axis rotation moment arms for all our models, and evaluate the impact of this new data on the conclusions of our previous studies. We find that, in general, our newly corrected data differed only slightly from that previously published, with very few qualitative changes in muscle moments (e.g. muscles originally identified as abductors remained abductors). As a result the majority of our previous conclusions regarding the functional evolution of key muscles in these archosaur groups are upheld.', u'The thermal behaviour and decomposition kinetics of pelletized oil palm empty fruit bunch (OPEFB) was investigated in this study using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The OPEFB pellets were heated from room temperature to 1000 \xbaC at different heating rates; 5, 10 and 20 \xb0C min-1 under inert atmosphere. Thermal degradation occurred in three steps; drying, devolatization and char decomposition. Subsequently, the Popescu method was applied to the TG/DTG data to determine the kinetic parameters of the OPEFB pellets. The activation energy, E, for different degrees of conversion, \u03b1 = 0.05 to 0.7 are 36.60 kJ/mol to 233.90 kJ/mol with high correlation R2 values. In addition, the drying and decomposition of lignin reactions displayed lower E values compared to the devolatization characterized by high E value of 233 kJ/mol at \u03b1 = 0.2. This indicates that the devolatization process is slower and requires higher energy requirement to reach completion than the other stages of thermal decomposition of the fuel under inert atmosphere. Keywords: decomposition, kinetics, oil palm, empty fruit bunch, pyrolysis.', u'Posidonia oceanica, the dominant Mediterranean seagrass, has been historically described as a species typically growing on mobile substrates whose development requires precursor communities. During more than 10 years of direct observations, we noticed that P. oceanica seedlings were often firmly anchored to rocky reefs, even at exposed sites. Thus, we analysed the ultrastructural features of seedling root systems to identify specific traits that may represent adaptations for early seedling anchorage on rocky bottoms. Subapical sections of adventitious roots were obtained from 2-3 months old specimens collected in the field and were observed at SEM revealing an extensive coverage of adhesive root hairs with a maximum length of 2400 \xb5m. Hairs were provided with an enlarged tips with a maximum width of 78.3 \xb5m, which extended the contact area between the hair tip and the substrate. To test whether adhesive root hairs may facilitate P. oceanica seedlings establishment on rocky substrates, a manipulative experiment was performed. 360 seedlings were reared for 5 months in a land-based culture facility under simulated natural hydrodynamic conditions to identify suitable substrates for early seedling anchorage. Two main substrate features were investigated: firmness (i.e., sand vs. rock) and complexity (i.e., size of interstitial spaces between rocks). Anchorage was strongly influenced by substrate firmness and occurred only on rocks through adhesion by sticky root hairs. Percentage of anchored seedlings on rocks was as high as 89%. The minimum force required to dislodge plantlets attached to rocky substrates reached 23.8 N, which would potentially allow many plantlets to overcome winter storms in the field. The ability of rocky substrates to retain seedlings increased with their complexity. The interstitial spaces between rocks provided appropriate microsites for seedling settlement, as seeds were successfully retained and a suitable substrate for anchorage was available. Adhesive root hairs allowed fast and strong seedling anchorage to consolidated substrates when the root system was not yet developed. This mechanism could favour plant recruitment on rocky substrates with respect to mobile ones, in contrast with traditional paradigms. Such an adaptation leads to hypothesize a new microsite driven bottleneck in P. oceanica seedling survival linked to substrate features.', u'Background: MOOCs are \u201conline courses designed for large numbers of participants, that can be accessed by anyone anywhere as long as they have an internet connection, are open to everyone without entry qualifications, and offer a full/complete course experience online for free\u201d. Videos are usually a widely used resource in MOOCs and knowledge on different aspects that impacts the design and production of the videos is needed. Objective: To explore production aspects that can improve videos for MOOCs based on the video producers perspective Method: A qualitative case study was conducted, in Stockholm Sweden, among staff members in charge of the design and production of videos for MOOCs over a period of eighteen months. Data collection consisted in a series of field notes and journal conducted thought the development of three MOOCs (Explore statistics with R, Pragmatics randomized controlled trials in healthcare, Introduction to urology). Interpretive analysis aimed at revealing best practices and processed for designing MOOC videos. Results: The findings presented in this article consist of XX themes. (a) Time to establish a good relation between the faculty and video producers, (b) Storyboard driven production is preferred, (c) Technical affordances of the recording studio, (d) video length, source and faculty acting (e) Video editing process that allows faculty involvement Conclusions: Our findings provide an additional perspective to existing studies (Guo et al 2014, Alario-Hoyos et al 2014) with a focus on best practices and processes of benefits to video producers.', u'Background: High stake assessments are an important component in all stages of healthcare education that validate learners\u2019 clinical performance but may also inform and promote the learning process. Informatics has been a driver to transform paper examinations to digital examinations (e-examinations) but knowledge about their efficient and effective application in the context of healthcare assessment is still limited. Objective: The aim of this study is therefore to investigate the main aspects of the examination process and information that may become more effective and efficient with the application of informatics. Method: With the use of a deductive approach, we wish to study four cases of e-assessment and develop a conceptual model to standardize the e-examination process. Results: Based on the four e-examination cases studied, we developed a common information model. To visualize the e-examination ecosystem we outlined different types of e-examination, the aspects composed in it, illustration of its processes, contextual components and stakeholders incorporated in it.', u'Background: Healthcare is transformed by the usage of new technologies, like Wearable Devices (WD). Patient generated health data (PGHD) from WDs could be found useful in the management and the research of a chronic disease, like Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Objective: The objective of the study was to propose a model for the import of PGHD from WDs to the MS Quality Register (MS QR), the main resource for research on MS in Sweden. The study focused both on the medical data that is needed and on the technical challenges that exist in such an implementation. Methods: Design Science was adopted as a methodology. The context of the study chosen was the MS QR. Participants were interviewed for the technical part and a questionnaire was delivered in order to find the most meaningful PGHD for MS QR. Based on the results, an artifact was created and evaluated from the perspective of the MS QR stakeholders. Results: The survey was answered by 35 healthcare professionals. The results revealed the factors that WDs can help track for the monitoring of a disease like MS. The interviews revealed several challenges and opportunities, like the legislative or organizational difficulties, but also the opportunities that appear with initiatives towards healthcare innovation. The evaluation triggered an optimization of the technical integration model, demonstrating that simple solutions could solve complex problems. Conclusion: The import of PGHD in MS QR, is technically possible. Applications should also be added together with WDs monitoring. The choice of model to use, is strongly related to how the data will be used within the organization.', u'Using photos of captive Andean bears of known age and pedigree, and photos of wild Andean bear cubs < 6 months old, we evaluated the degree to which visual information may be used to estimate bears\u2019 ages and assess their kinship. We demonstrate that the ages of Andean bear cubs \u2264 6 months old may be estimated from their size relative to their mothers with an average error of < 0.01 \xb1 13.2 days (SD; n = 14), and that ages of adults \u2265 10 years old may be estimated from the proportion of their nose that is pink with an average error of < 0.01 \xb1 3.5 years (n = 41). We also show that similarity among the bears\u2019 natural markings, as perceived by humans, is not associated with pedigree kinship among the bears (R2 < 0.001, N = 1,043, p = 0.499). Thus, researchers may use photos of wild Andean bears to estimate the ages of young cubs and older adults, but not to infer their kinship. Given that camera trap photos are one of the most readily available sources of information on large cryptic mammals, we suggest that similar methods be tested for use in other poorly understood species.', u'Seagrass habitats play an important role in maintaining the biodiversity and functions of coastal marine ecosystems of the Black Sea. \u0415utrophication pressures in the 1970s and 1980s had a severe impact on phytobenthic communities, including deterioration, decrease in geographical and depth distribution and disappearance from certain areas. The state of Zostera spp. habitats in the SW Black Sea has not been studied since the 1970s. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the current distribution, structure and overall condition of seagrasses in Burgas Bay, Bulgaria. Historical sites with seagrass meadows were surveyed by SCUBA diving between 2009 and 2014, using destructive sampling and georeferenced digital photogrammetry. Nutrient concentrations in water were measured seasonally at selected sites to study the effects of eutrophication on seagrasses. Seagrass biomass, shoot density, leaf length and leaf area index were measured. Species diversity and biomass of zoobenthic organisms were also determined. Community structure was analyzed with multivariate statistical methods based on photo and destructive samples.The geographical extent of the meadows was mapped in GIS on recent satellite images, then verified by georeferenced photo samples. Results indicate that most of the seagrass meadows reported in the area in the late 1970s are present today. A decrease in the depth limit of the habitat was established in areas under local eutrophication pressures. A clear depth-related change in community structure was observed, where Zostera noltei dominated the 1-3 m depth range, followed by a mixed Z. noltei \u2013 Zannichellia palustris - Zostera marina community (3-4 m) , and dominance of Z. marina between 4 and 7 m. Zoobenthic communities within seagrass meadows were dominated by the gastropods Bittium reticulatum and Rissoa sp., the bivalve Loripes lucinalis, and oligochaetes. Abundance and species richness, as well as faunal dominance were significantly higher in seagrass meadows than in adjacent unvegetated sediments. Biometric parameters of Z. noltei showed significant correlations with measured eutrophication pressures (nutrient concentrations, LUSI index, sediment organic matter content). The ecological quality status of selected meadows was evaluated by using a multimeric indicator based on Z. noltei phenology data, which also showed clear correlation with anthropogenic pressures.', u'The meadows formed by the Mediterranean seagrass Posidonia oceanica are subjected to various natural (e.g., water movement, light availability, sedimentation) and anthropogenic (e.g., anchoring, trawling, fish farms, explosives) phenomena that erode them and create diverse types of patches. The assemblage of the P. oceanica matrix and these patches creates particular seascapes. On the basis of this assessment, we aimed to investigate the importance of the patch type in structuring P. oceanica seascapes and to offer new prospects in the large scale studies of seagrass meadows. Five sites encompassing large P. oceanica meadows ranging from 1.86 km\xb2 to 4.42 km\xb2 along the Corsican coast (France) were considered. Eleven patch types with different sizes, shapes and origins were identified using side scan sonar images (sonograms). Five were recognized as natural and five as anthropogenic. One can be of both origins. The resolution of the sonograms allowed to detect patches of various sizes ranging from 1 m\xb2 to 111 829 m\xb2. The relation between structural characteristics of patches and the whole seascape aspect was explored using seven landscape metrics relevant for the study of meadows patchiness (patch area, mean radius of gyration, area-weighted radius of gyration, coefficient of variation of the Euclidean nearest-neighbor distance, area-weighted perimeter-area ratio, landscape division index, number of patches). Only a small number of patch types appears to play the strongest role in the characterization of the P. oceanica seascapes. Furthermore, the use of seascape structures seems to be suitable for the development of new tools like indices for the assessment of human impacts on P. oceanica meadows. In this perspective we propose a new and simple index, the Patchiness Source Index (PaSI), to estimate the origin of the patchiness (natural or anthropogenic) for a given area. A landscape approach, as well as information on patch dynamic, should be integrated in the new indices that aim to assess the state of conservation of the whole P. oceanica ecosystem.', u'Recent advances in CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tool have made great promises to basic and biomedical research as well as gene therapy. Efforts to make the CRISPR-Cas9 system applicable in gene therapy are largely focused on two aspects: 1) increasing the specificity of this system by eliminating off-target effects, and 2) optimizing in vivo delivery of the CRISPR-Cas9 DNA constructs to target cells and limiting the expression of Cas9 and gRNA to prevent toxicity immune responses. However, there is an unnoted but crucial consideration about the mode of DNA repair at the lesion caused by CRISPR-Cas9. In this commentary, I briefly highlight recent publications on in vivo use of the CRISPR-Cas9 system in gene therapy. I then discuss the undesired on-target DNA repair events that can occur as a result of the activity of CRISPR-Cas9. Overall, this commentary underscores the need for more study on controlled DNA repair in systems targeted with CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tools.', u"The WHAAM (Web Health Application for Adhd Monitoring) project, funded by the European LLP program, aims at spreading a multimodal and comprehensive cognitive-behavioral treatment for the ADHD. The main deliverable of this project was the WHAAM app, a digital environment designed to support parents, teachers and health professionals in the monitoring children\u2019s behaviors throughout different contexts: home, school and social interaction with peers. A web microportal was developed to introduce potential users both to the methodology and the main characteristics underlying this environment. The aims of the microportal were to illustrate the use of the WHAAM application and describe the ideas underlying the WHAAM approach. The web interface is divided into two areas: the first, introduces users to a short tour in the core functionalities of the application, the latter guides users to keep information around four principal themes, which are ADHD overview, Observation, Intervention and Training. Each of them respects the main steps of an approach based on the careful analysis of the behavior's functions in the main life contexts of the child. This second area permits both horizontal and vertical navigation. In the first modality, users can explore the contents very quickly, obtaining a fresh and simple picture of the most important concepts of the approach used in the project. Otherwise, in the vertical one, users can examine in depth many ADHD resources, some of which are internal to the microportal, and other external. Authors have paid special attention to the use of a simple terminology, avoiding specialized and obscure terms and concepts. Besides, they carefully filtered any sensible information and examined ethical issues related to the health information management. The final version of the microportal will be available in four languages.", u"The aim of this study was to investigate the reliability and validity of the Norwegian Kidscreen-27 questionnaire, a measure of generic health-related quality of life, in 10 year-old children. The Kidscreen-27 consists of five domains and was validated in a sample of 56 school children (29 boys). The children completed the questionnaire at three different time points during two consecutive school days. For convergent validity, the study was powered to detect a statistically significant correlation coefficient of 0.4. Cronbach's alpha values ranged from 0.73 to 0.83. Floor effects were all zero and ceiling effects ranged from 1.7% to 23.7%. Intraclass correlation values over time ranged from 0.71 to 0.81. However, some individual variability over time occurred and was illustrated by Bland Altman plots. The domains of physical well-being, psychological well-being and autonomy & parents improved over time (Ps < 0.05), while social support and school environment domains did not. We assessed convergent validity using general life satisfaction scores obtained by administering the Cantrils Ladder. All the Kidscreen-27 domains were significantly associated with general life satisfaction (Spearman rank correlations ranged from 0.29 to 0.59, Ps < 0.05). In conclusion, the Norwegian version of Kidscreen-27 has good reliability and validity.", u'Non-cellulosomal processive endoglucanase 9I (Cel9I) from Clostridium thermocellum is a modular protein, consisting of a family-9 glycoside hydrolase (GH9) catalytic module and two family-3 carbohydrate-binding modules (CBM3c and CBM3b), separated by linker regions. GH9 does not show cellulase activity when expressed without CBM3c and CBM3b and the presence of the CBM3c was previously shown to be essential for endoglucanase activity. Physical reassociation of independently expressed GH9 and CBM3c modules (containing linker sequences) restored 60-70% of the intact Cel9I endocellulase activity. However, the mechanism responsible for recovery of activity remained unclear. In this work we independently expressed recombinant GH9 and CBM3c with and without their interconnecting linker in Escherichia coli. We crystallized and determined the molecular structure of the GH9/linker-CBM3c heterodimer at a resolution of 1.68 \xc5 to understand the functional and structural importance of the mutual spatial orientation of the modules and the role of the interconnecting linker during their re-association. Enzyme activity assays and isothermal titration calorimetry were performed to study and compare the effect of the linker on the re-association. The results indicated that reassembly of the modules could also occur without the linker, albeit with only very low recovery of endoglucanase activity. We propose that the linker regions in the GH9/CBM3c endoglucanases are important for spatial organization and fixation of the modules into functional enzymes.', u'Dynamic scripting programming languages present a unique challenge to software engineering tools that depend on static analysis. Dynamic languages do not benefit from the full lexical and syntax analysis provided by compilers and static analysis tools. Prior work exploited a statically typed language (Java) and a simple \\(n\\)-gram language model to find syntax-error locations in programs. This work investigates whether \\(n\\)-gram-based error location on source code written in a dynamic language is effective without static analysis or compilation. UnnaturalCode.py is a syntax-error locator developed for the Python programming language. The UnnaturalCode.py approach is effective on Python code, but faces significantly more challenges than its Java counterpart did. UnnaturalCode.py generalizes the success of previous statically-typed approaches to a dynamically-typed language.', u'The availability of maps of the main habitats and types of bottom constitutes a priority for managers of the marine environment. For several years, a number of studies have been undertaken in order to meet this requirement, but they generally only cover limited areas and the methods used, as well as their accuracy, vary widely from one site to another. An original approach has been initiated for this purpose along the coast of Corsica (1 000 km of coastline); it has involved (i) surveying all the available data (293 identified maps), (ii) selecting and extracting the most relevant data (date and method of acquisition, accuracy), (iii) updating the data on surface habitats (e.g. upper limits of the Posidonia oceanica meadows) by means of remote sensing of recent images, (iv) homogenizing all the available data (typology of benthic biocenoses in the Mediterranean), (v) assembling the full set of data within an easily incrementable Geographical Information System (GIS), and (v) proposing a scale of reliability making it possible to associate a degree of confidence to each point on the map. This approach has resulted in the production of a map covering the whole of the Corsican coastline down to 50 to 150 m depth (depending on the sector considered), including, where there is an overlap, only the data with the highest degree of reliability. The surface area mapped is estimated at more than 299 700 ha, which makes it one of the largest recent maps ever produced for the Mediterranean. The P. oceanica meadow covers a surface area of about 57 500 ha, or 45.3% of the seabed between 0 and 50 m depth. In relation to the earlier data collected in the 1990s (potential surface area of seagrass beds), the extension of P. oceanica has remained relatively stable, and the differences observed may be explained mainly by the accuracy of this new map which possesses a greater degree of reliability.', u'Invasive species establish successfully in new habitats especially due to their generalist diet and release of natural enemies. However, native species may also adapt to use new elements in their ecosystem. The planarian Endeavouria septemlineata, first recorded in Hawaii, was later registered in Australia and Brazil. Recently we found it in human-disturbed areas in southern Brazil and here we investigate its interactions with other invertebrates both in the field and in the laboratory. We observed the species in the field during collecting activities and maintained some specimens alive in small terraria in the laboratory, where we offered different invertebrate species as potential prey and also put them in contact with native land planarians in order to examine their interaction. Both in the field and in the laboratory, E. septemlineata showed a gregarious behavior and was found feeding on woodlice, millipedes, earwigs and gastropods. In the laboratory, specimens did not attack live prey, but immediately approached dead specimens, indicating a scavenging behavior. Four native land planarians of the genus Obama and two of the genus Paraba attacked and consumed E. septemlineata, which, after the beginning of the attack, tried to escape by tumbling or using autotomy. As a scavenger, E. septemlineata would impact the populations of species used as food, but could possibly exclude native scavengers by competition. On the other hand, its consumption by native land planarians may control its spread and thus reduce its impact on the ecosystems.', u'The coastal vegetation, and in particular the seagrasses, plays a major role in the fixation of carbon. Posidonia oceanica, a species endemic to the Mediterranean, is of particular interest because of the constitution of a particular structure, the matte, which enables the sequestration of carbon over long periods of time. An initial assessment of the stocks of carbon sequestrated within the matte has been undertaken in two sectors of the NATURA 2000 site \u201cGrand Herbier de la Plaine Orientale\u201d, Biguglia in the north and Al\xe9ria in the south. The surface area of the meadow has been measured by means of the combined use of aerial remote sensing (shallow zone) and side-scan sonar (deep zone). The thickness of the matte has been assessed by means of seismic reflection using a 2.5 KHz sediment probe and a sparker. The calibration of the seismic data was performed by scuba diving at the level of intermatte cliffs, clearly visible on the seismic profiles. The seagrass meadow at the NATURA 2000 site extends from 3 to 41 m depth and covers an estimated total area of 22 667 ha, or 52.4% of the bottom between 0 and 50 m depth. The speed of propagation within the matte (celerity), estimated by comparison of the field data (intermatte) and the seismic profiles, ranges from 1 600 to 1 700 m.s-1. The thickness of the matte, estimated on the basis of the mean celerity, is on average 2.7 m for the Biguglia zone where it may locally exceed 8 m; it is on average 3.2 m for the Al\xe9ria zone where it may exceed 13 m, in particular off the mouth of the coastal river Tavignano. The presence of matte beneath the sediment should also be noted in patches of sand within the meadow and also beyond the lower limit. The quantity of carbon sequestered at this NATURA 2000 site may exceed 60 million tons. However, it would be necessary to carry out coring within the matte, in several representative sectors, in order to assess more accurately the amounts of carbon sequestered at this site.', u'Background. The turtle body plan differs markedly from that of other vertebrates and serves as a model system for studying structural and developmental evolution. Incorporation of the ribs into the iconic turtle shell negates the rib movements that effect lung ventilation in the majority of air-breathing amniotes (the clade encompassing mammals, lizards, turtles, birds, and crocodilians). Instead, turtles have a novel abdominal-muscle-based ventilatory apparatus whose evolutionary origin remains a mystery. Methods. Here we show through broadly comparative anatomical and histological analyses that the earliest stem-group turtle form the middle Permian (260 mya), Eunotosaurus africanus, has several turtle-specific lung ventilation characters: rigid ribcage, inferred loss of intercostal muscles which drive costal ventilation in all other amniotes, and histological correlates for the primary muscle, M. transverses, used in exhalation. Results. Our results place the origin of the unique lung ventilatory apparatus of extant turtles shortly after the divergence of turtles from other reptiles and approximately 50 million years before the oldest known fully developed shell. Discussion. These data indicate that it was an easing of structural constraints through division of function (divergent specialization) between the ribs and abdominal musculature that facilitated the evolution of both the novel turtle lung ventilation mechanism and the turtle shell.', u'Objective:The objective of this survey was to explore the attitudes towards plagiarism of faculty members and medical students in Pakistan.\nMethods:The attitudes toward plagiarism questionnaire (ATPQ) was modified and distributed among 550 medical students and 130 faculty members in 7 medical colleges of Lahore and Rawalpindi. Data was entered in the SPSS v.20 and descriptive statistics were analyzed. The questionnaire was validated by principal axis factoring analysis.\nResults:Response rate was 93% and 73% respectively. Principal axis factoring analysis confirmed one factor structure of ATPQ in the present sample. It had an acceptable Cronbach\u2019s alpha value of 0.73. There were 421 medical students (218 (52%) female, 46% 3rd year MBBS students, mean age of 20.93 \xb1 1.4 years) and 95 faculty members (54.7% female, mean age 34.5 \xb1 8.9 years). One fifth of the students (19.7%) trained in medical writing (19.7%), research ethics (25.2%) or were currently involved in medical writing (17.6%). Most of the faculty members were demonstrators (66) or assistant professors (20) with work experience between 1-10 years. Most of them had trained in medical writing (68), research ethics (64) and were currently involved in medical writing (64). Medical students and faculty members had a mean score of 43.21 (7.1) and 48.4 (5.9) respectively on ATPQ. Most of the respondents did not consider that they worked in a plagiarism free environment and reported that self-plagiarism should not be punishable in the same way as plagiarism. Opinion regarding leniency in punishment of younger researchers who were just learning medical writing was divided.\nConclusions:The general attitudes of Pakistani medical faculty members and medical students as assessed by ATPQ were positive. We propose training in medical writing and research ethics as part of the under and post graduate medical curriculum.', u'The serpin superfamily is characterized by proteins that fold into a conserved tertiary structure and exploits a sophisticated and irreversible suicide-mechanism of inhibition. Vertebrate serpins can be conveniently classified into six groups (V1-V6), based on three independent biological features - genomic organization, diagnostic amino acid sites and rare indels. However, this classification system was based on the limited number of mammalian genomes available. In this study, several non-mammalian genomes are used to validate this classification system, using the powerful Bayesian phylogenetic method. This method supports the intron and indel based vertebrate classification and proves that serpins have been maintained from lampreys to humans for about 500 MY. Lampreys have less than 10 serpins, which expanded into 36 serpins in humans. The two expanding groups V1 and V2 have SERPINB1/SERPINB6 and SERPINA8/SERPIND1 as the ancestral serpins, respectively. Large clusters of serpins are formed by local duplications of these serpins in tetrapod genomes. Interestingly, the ancestral HCII/SERPIND1 locus (nested within PIK4CA) possesses group V4 serpin (A2APL1, homolog of \u03b12-AP/SERPINF2 ) of lampreys; hence, pointing to the fact that group V4 might have originated from group V2. Additionally in this study, the phylogenetic history and genomic characteristics of vertebrate serpins were revisited.', u'Over the last two decades the number of total joint replacement surgeries increased consistently. With the patient population growing older and therefore suffering from more comorbidities and total joint replacement being progressively indicated even in patients with compromised medical status, the need for preoperative optimization of medical conditions appears a promising approach to reduce perioperative risk for complication, and readmission rates, avoid prolonged functional deficiency and improve functional, objective as well as patient reported, subjective outcome following surgery. Literature addressing the question of preoperative status afflicting postoperative outcome after total joint replacement is still imprecise and inconsistent. There seems to be some data, that a worse preoperative functional status predicts worse outcome in terms of both function and pain after total joint replacement. It is still not clear, what preoperatively evaluable parameters can be modified by which kind of intervention and which measures are suitable to monitor improvement of the outcome following such interventions. Based on the hypothesis that patient reported outcome, the frequency of untoward events and functional outcome following total joint replacement can be improved by establishing an individualized concept aiming at improving medical conditions and physical performance preoperatively, the EndoPRIME Trial (ENDOprosthetic joint replacement \u2013 improving treatment by integrating Prehabilitation, Rehabilitation, Individualized Management and Education) was initiated. The trial was approved by the competent ethics committee at Wuerzburg University. The project aims at expanding current knowledge about the feasibility and potential of preoperative improvement and quantivfy respective effects on postoperative outcome after total joint replacement, The proposed study is an interventional, prospective, single-center pilot study with exploratory data analysis to evaluate the feasibility and potential of improving peri- and postoperative outcome in total joint replacement of the hip, knee and shoulder by a standardized, individually optimized treatment pathway including pre- and postoperative exercising, risk management and patient education based on a comprehensive preoperative functional assessment and expanded clinical evaluation. Study duration for each individual patient comprises 12 weeks prior to surgery and one year after surgery, i.e. individual participation will last weeks. The primary endpoint of the trial is intraindividual development of osteoarthritis-associated health-limitations as measured by the WOMAC-Score. Further objectives include Patient Reported Outcome measures, type and frequency of perioperative untoward events, and a wide range of clinical and technical assessments of physical performance. Results can be expected by the third quarter 2017.', u'Sedimentary facies and foraminiferal assemblages of sediments sampled into seven Posidonia oceanica meadows from Western Mediterranean Sea were investigated. Six sampling sites are localised in Italy (Maratea, Ponza Island, Santa Marinella, Giglio Island, Osalla and Alghero), and one in France (Argentella, Crovani Bay, Corsica). The role of P. oceanica meadows in the sedimentary processes was investigated in different contexts: sampled meadows are set up both on soft and hard substrates, often forming \u201cmattes\u201d, in geographical areas subject to different wind and sea conditions (waves and longshore currents) and characterised by various coastal landforms and terrigenous inputs derived from costal erosional processes and/or fluvial contributions. A sedimentological, compositional, micropaleontological and geochemical characterisation of 111 bottom sediment samples, collected by SCUBA diving between 0 and 35 mwd, was carried out and finally tested with a Q-mode cluster analysis. Five sedimentary facies have been recognised, from terrigenous to mixed siliciclastic-carbonate and carbonate. Facies (and subfacies) are distinguishable by sorting, gravel content, abundance and maturity of clastic sediments, and weighted average of carbonate content. In all facies, foraminifers and red algae dominate the bioclastic fraction, whereas other bioclastic components are very subordinate and show a variable distribution. In all the investigated sites, benthic foraminiferal assemblages are generally dominated by typical epiphytic species, such as Asterigerinata mamilla, Lobatula lobatula, Peneroplis pertusus, Planorbulina mediterranensis, Rosalina spp. and miliolids. Nevertheless, these assemblages show some differences in the different sites according to the presence or absence of terrigenous contributions and, consequently, to the water turbidity. This parameter influences symbiont-bearing foraminifer as P. pertusus. Moreover, the samples from Argentella (Crovany Bay) are characterised by a peculiar assemblage, in which Miniacina miniacea dominates with very high frequencies.', u'Pristine conditions in transitional water ecosystems are characterized by the dominance of aquatic angiosperms. Aquatic plants consolidate bottoms, prevent erosion, support benthic and fish communities as nursery and food areas, and favour the bird presence. Hence, they may contribute to the achievement of a good ecological status as required by the WFD (2000/60/EC). Their reduction or disappearance is a symptom of environmental deterioration. Over the past few decades, the aquatic angiosperms have shown a significant decrease on a worldwide scale and in some areas of Venice Lagoon (Adriatic Sea), particularly in the central and Northern basins, as a consequence of anthropogenic activities.\nAt present, most of the anthropogenic pressures which caused their decline or disappearance in Venice Lagoon have significantly decreased creating the ecological conditions for a new colonization. In this context, the project SeResto (LIFE12 NAT/IT/000331), funded by the European Commission, aims at restoring the angiosperm meadows in the Northern basin of Venice Lagoon where the natural seed spreading is hampered by the presence of island, tidal marsh barriers and long residence times.\nThe project has two main strengths: i) the widespread transplantations of small angiosperm sods and manual dispersion of rhizomes and seeds and based on a low costs and low impact on donor sites approach, ii) the participation of fishermen and hunters daily living the lagoon for recreational purposes. Thirty-five sites have been selected and in each one 9 sod-bearing plants (diameter: 30 cm), supplied by fish farms where angiosperm meadows are almost natural, have been transplanted. In addition, the plant spreading is enhanced by the dissemination of hundreds of rhizomes, 1500 at minimum in each area during the project period (52 months).\nIn 8 sites, out of the 35, biological and chemico-physical conditions are being monitored monthly during the first and last year and quarterly in the intermediate period. Ecological indices, based on the study of macrophytes, macrobenthic fauna and fish fauna (Biological Quality Elements), as required by the WFD 2000/60/EC, will allow to assess changes in the Ecological Status of the study sites. Preliminary results are encouraging in great part of the selected areas although some difficulties have been recorded in areas with high water turbidity and the presence of thionitrophilous macroalgae, especially Ulvaceae, favoured by the unexpected weather conditions of summer 2014. Information on the restoration effectiveness and the relationship between the angiosperm presence/growth and the environmental conditions can be employed for interventions in other lagoon areas and can be exported in other similar transitional environments.', u'Anxiety and stress-related disorders constitute a large global health burden, but are still poorly understood. Prior work has demonstrated clear impacts of stress upon basic cognitive function: biasing attention towards unexpected and potentially threatening information and instantiating a negative affective bias. However, the impact that these changes have on higher-order, executive, decision-making processes is unclear. In this study we examined the impact of a translational within-subjects stress induction (threat of unpredictable shock) on two well-established executive decision-making biases: the framing effect (N=83), and temporal discounting (N=36). In both studies, we demonstrate a) clear subjective effects of stress, and b) clear executive decision-making biases but c) no impact of stress on these decision-making biases. Indeed, Bayes factor analyses confirmed substantial preference for decision-making models that did not include stress. We posit that while stress may induce subjective mood change and alter low-level perceptual and action processes (Robinson et al., 2013b) , some higher-level executive processes remain unperturbed by these impacts. As such, although stress can induce a transient affective biases and altered mood, these need not result in poor financial decision-making.', u'The enzyme catalyzed synthesis of cephalexin (CEX) from 7-amino-3-deacetoxycephalosporanic acid (7-ADCA) and D-a-phenylglycine methyl ester (PGM) by Penicillin G acylase (PGA) is a model for kinetically controlled synthesis. The parallel hydrolysis of PGM, the activated acyl donor, is the principle competing pathway in this reaction, limiting the synthetic yield and reaction efficiency. To improve the performance of PGA catalyzed CEX synthesis, the biocompatibility and selectivity of various co-solvents were investigated. Polybasic alcohols such as ethylene glycol, glycerol and PEG400 did not cause deleterious changes to the enzyme, whereas monobasic alcohols, such as butyl alcohol, disrupted the PGA activity. Compared with the reaction in aqueous medium, the use of ethylene glycol as a co-solvent was found to have good selectivity in order to facilitate CEX synthesis and significantly minimize PGM hydrolysis. The pH of ethylene glycol medium was also optimized. The mechanism of the enhanced effect of polybasic alcohols as co-solvents on both biocompatibility and selectivity of enzymatic kinetically controlled synthesis is suggested.', u"Many studies have noted significant differences among human EEG results when participants or patients are exposed to different stimuli, undertaking different tasks, or being affected by conditions such as epilepsy or Alzheimer's disease. Such studies often use only one or two measures of complexity and do not regularly justify their choice of measure beyond the fact that it has been used in previous studies. If more measures were added to such studies, however, more complete information might be found about these reported differences. Such information might be useful in confirming the existence or extent of such differences, or in understanding their physiological bases. In this study I analysed publically-available EEG data using a range of complexity measures to determine how well the measures correlated with one another. The complexity measures did not all significantly correlate, suggesting that different measures were measuring unique features of the EEG signals and thus revealing information which other measures were unable to detect. Therefore, the results from this analysis suggests that combinations of complexity measures reveal unique information which is in addition to the information captured by other measures of complexity in EEG data. For this reason, researchers using individual complexity measures for EEG data should consider using combinations of measures to more completely account for any differences they observe and to ensure the robustness of any relationships identified.", u'Introduction. The phenomenon of increased and ubiquitous use of mobile handheld devices by medical students triggered the interest to explore how these students utilize their devices while learning. Methods. This study was conducted at the Medical College of University of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates during the period February to April 2012. A total of 463 students participated in the study. A mixed methodology was employed where an initial survey provided the necessary preliminary data and purposively sample the subjects, followed by two focus group discussions to explore this phenomenon in depth. Results. The survey results demonstrated that vast majority (95.9%) of students possess at least one type of mobile handheld device. Most of these students (90.1%) used their handheld device while learning. Students used these devices in different contexts, varying between Lectures, Problem-Based Learning (PBL) sessions, Hospitals and other contexts were identified (32.4%, 30.1%, 20% and 13% respectively). Majority of students (83.2%) use their handhelds when learning individually on their own time, whereas about half of them (48.3%) use it in learning with friends i.e. collaboratively. Focus group discussions revealed several aspects of how students utilized their mobile handheld devices while learning. Five themes were identified, which demonstrated the resources and accessed content, contexts of use, activities that involved learning, with whom students learned, and what made them learn or not learn while using these devices. Conclusion. Mobile handheld devices facilitated students learning \u201con-the-move\u201d on and off-campus in different ways. Students utilized their devices mostly to complement and augment their learning in different contexts. Students believed that a huge gap exists between themselves and their teachers in terms of mobile learning.', u'Insect pests in stored wheat cause significant losses and play an important role in the dispersal of viable fungal spores of various species including aflatoxin producing Aspergillus spp. The problems of insecticide resistance in stored insects and environmental hazards associated with fumigants and conventional grain protectants underscore the need to explore reduced risk insecticides to control stored insects and the ultimate effect on fungal infection inhibition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the insecticidal potential of four biorational insecticides: spinosad, thiamethoxam, imidacloprid and indoxacarb on wheat against Rhyzopertha dominica and Sitophilus oryzae and the subsequent effect of insects\u2019 mortality on Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus infection in grains. Spinosad and thiamethoxam were the most effective insecticides against R. dominica compared to S. oryzae followed by imidacloprid. Spinosad applied at 0.25, 0.5 and 1ppm and thiamethoxam at 2 and 4ppm concentrations resulted in complete mortality of R. dominica and >90% infection inhibition of A. flavus and A. parasiticus. However, indoxacarb was more toxic against S. oryzae compared to R. dominica. The mortality of R. dominica was directly related to the percent infection inhibition of A. flavus and A. parasiticus in all the treatments. Whereas, mortality of S. oryzae was only related to the percent infection inhibition of A. parasiticus in all the treatments. The results show that although both spinosad and thiamethoxam can provide protection against R. dominica and fungal infections in stored grains, more potent reduced risk insecticides and/or their combinations would be needed than either of these to provide broad spectrum protection of stored grains. In conclusion, the results of the present study provide baseline data for the management of aflatoxigenic fungi by controlling stored insects using biorational insecticides .', u'From etiologic, clinical or public health perspectives, differences in psychosocial stress responses remain a huge scientific and medical challenge. We address the customization of psychosocial stress responses in humans by considering our dual character of independent organisms and interdependent social group members as a source of intrapersonal conflicts.\nBy challenging our subjective representations on our social identity, psychosocial stress triggers or exhibits intrapersonal conflicts and may enhance divergence between physiologically-driven and psycho-sociologically-driven internal forces. In this perspective, our individual-specific brain development constitutes a major cause of interindividual variability since it impacts the overall stress-to-disease links.\nWe propose a two-step stress-to-disease etiological chain: i) stress perception and appraisal and ii) response to actually perceived stress. We argue that the first step of stress perception and appraisal is more affected by interindividual variability than the second step of response to actually perceived stress. A psychocognitive approach correlating symptoms with actually perceived stress is proposed to address the epidemiology of psychosocial stress effects. The ability of this approach to reduce interindividual variability biases is discussed.\nFrom this perspective, pathological effects of psychosocial stress might be questioned as possible conflict responses internally emerging as the lesser evil, thus corresponding to adaptation attempts.', u'Human serum albumin (HSA) is the most abundant protein in blood and has a 19-day in vivo half-life, the longest human blood protein. HSA has also been extensively studied as a drug carrier in a wide variety of clinical applications. HSA-binding, compared with HSA-fusion, is promising strategy for extending the plasma half-life of protein therapeutics. The construction of albumin-binding drugs requires assessment of a large enough quantity of HSA-binding peptide candidates for conjugation with therapeutic proteins. Here, we report a back-of-the-envelope assessment method to facilitate phage display selection of HSA-binding peptides. With an experimentally determined number of phage titers, we can calculate the specificity ratios and the recovery yields. The recovery yield is calculated using the titers of eluted phage divided by the titers of input phage. The specificity ratio is calculated using the titer of eluted phage from a target-coated plate divided by the titer of eluted phage from a blank-control plate. These parameters are defined as quantitative criteria for panning and characterization of binding phage clones. Consequently, this approach may enable more rapid and low-cost phage display screening of HSA-binding peptides, which could be used as candidates of HSA binders for conjugation with therapeutic proteins.', u'Introduction: The etiology of denial of pregnancy remains poorly understood. Neither necessary nor sufficient conditions can be synthesized from the risk factors identified from psychological analyses. Furthermore, the involvement of mother-fetus interactions cannot result only from psychology causes in the mother. Although instructive, the few available evolutionary and systemic explanations proposed remain insufficient. This article synthesizes and extends previous knowledge within a systemic model which is fully compatible with clinical observations.\nMethods: A systemic intrapersonal conflict theory opposing primitive, evolutionary-inherited forces to psycho-sociological forces embodied across individual\u2019s childhood is developed.\nResults: As members of a social species, human beings have a dual character of independent organisms and of social group members that is a source of customized intrapersonal conflicts. Authors explain denial of pregnancy as a standby-in-tension response to such an unresolved intrapersonal conflict between forand against-pregnancy forces. As long as the woman\u2019s brain is unable to renounce one option in favor of the other, denial of pregnancy offers a standby-in-tension means to postpone conflict resolution. It may thus be considered as temporarily adaptive response.\nConclusions: The proposed systemic psycho-evolutionary explanation of denial of pregnancy is fully consistent with clinical observations. It brings into agreement the previously reported models with the advantage of being more synthetic. It is thus compatible with a large diversity of causative events in accordance with the actual life story of each woman concerned.\nThe systemic intrapersonal conflict approach developed herein provides a new means of investigating body-mind problems, especially pseudocyesis.', u'Currently being a highly qualified medical specialist means to be a member of an international medical society. One of the major resources to enter the international medical field is excellent English skills, as the English language has become a lingua franca in Medicine. Thus, our aim is to enhance students\u2019 motivation to study English for professional purposes starting from the first year in the medical school. We organized the Internet competition in English skills among first-year students from two Russian medical schools (USMU in the Urals and KrasSMU in Siberia). The competition had three stages held during 30 days in November-December, 2014 via the Internet on the e-educational platforms of the universities. All tasks were related to medical profession. Overall 130 students took part in the competition doing the reading, listening and writing tasks at the first stage. The best 35 students continued their work at the second stage where they created a video on the topic \u201cHealth is not simply the absence of sickness\u201d. Then 10 students were selected to participate in the final, which was held as a teleconference between the universities. The evaluation of students\u2019 works was performed by competent English teachers. The results of the competition showed that medical students enthusiastically accepted new teaching methods developing their creativity. The first-year medical students expressed a desire for their involvement in unusual educational projects and were interested in studying English for professional purposes. Thus, we may include outstanding educational techniques in the studying process to keep medical students motivated and develop their individual skills and abilities. Moreover, such competitions promote better communication between the universities.', u'As Fish farming (Aquaculture) is the most efficient husbandry method for animal protein production, an assessment of catfish farming in Osogbo and Osun state was undertaken. An assessment was carried out among 53 catfish farmers between January and April, 2013 using questionnaires conducted via face-to-face interviews. The results revealed that there are large numbers of fish farms in and around the Osogbo area. Twenty (37.74%) of the fish farms are commercial farms while thirty-three (62.36%) are homestead. Results also showed that there were more males are than females working in these fish farms. The two prominent religious faiths, Islam and Christianity are both represented by the employees, indicating that it there are no religious restrictions. The semi-intensive system of fish farming with concrete and earthen ponds was being adopted by the farmers and there has been steady development over the last five years. Insufficient funds for expansion, unpredictable weather, fishseed mortality, irregular price of feed ingredients and pricing of products, among other factors, are the major challenges faced. Useful suggestions and recommendations are offered to address these challenges and sustain business growth.', u'Gut-associated microbes of many insects provide a variety of beneficial nutritive functions to their hosts such as the provisioning of essential amino acids (EAAs) to those that feed on diets limited in assimilable nitrogen (i.e., wood). We investigated this function by the gut microbiota of the eastern subterranean termite (Reticulitermes flavipes) using 13C-stable isotope analysis of EAAs in the diet and termite samples. Evidence of possible microbe input was revealed by 13C-depletion of termite carcass (-27.0 \xb1 0.43\u2030, mean \xb1 s.e.), and termite gut filtrate samples (-27.3 \xb1 0.58\u2030) relative to their wood diet (-26.0 \xb1 0.48\u2030) (F (2, 63) = 6.2, P < 0.004). An investigation of the identity of non-dietary EAA sources determined that termites predominantly incorporated EAAs derived from bacteria, with minor fungal input. The most likely means of EAA acquisition is through proctodeal trophallaxis (mouth-anus feeding), a well-established feature of termite colony nestmates, and subsequent digestion of the microbial fraction in the transferred food. Our study provides empirical data in support of the gut microbial EAA provisioning function in termites by using 13C-stable isotopes to determine the microbial origins of incorporated EAAs in termite tissues.', u'Background: As the use of social media creates huge amounts of data, the need for big data analysis has to synthesize the information and determine which actions is generated. Online communication channels such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc provide a wealth of passively collected data that may be mined for public health purposes such as health surveillance, health crisis management, and last but not least health promotion and education. Objective: We explore international bibliography on the potential role and perceptive of use for social media as a big data source for public health purposes. Method: Systematic literature review. Data extraction and synthesis was performed with the use of thematic analysis. Results: Examples of those currently collecting and analyzing big data from generated social content include scientists who are working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to track the spread of flu by analyzing what user searches, and the World Health Organization is working on disaster management relief. But what exactly do we do with this big social media data? We can track real-time trends and understand them quicker through the platforms and processing services. By processing this big social media data, it is possible to determine specific patterns in conversation topics, users behaviors, overall trends and influencers, sociodemographic characteristics, lifestyle behaviors, and social and cultural constructs. Conclusion: The key to fostering big data and social media converge is process and analyze the right data that may be mined for purposes of public health, so as to provide strategic insights for planning, execution and measurement of effective and efficient public health interventions. In this effort, political, economic and legal obstacles need to be seriously considered.', u'Ghost-tree is a bioinformatics tool that integrates sequence data from two genetic markers into a single phylogenetic tree that can be used for diversity analyses. Our approach uses one genetic marker whose sequences can be aligned across organisms spanning divergent taxonomic groups (e.g., fungal families) as a \u201cfoundation\u201d phylogeny. A second, more rapidly evolving genetic marker is then used to build \u201cextension\u201d phylogenies for more closely related organisms (e.g., fungal species or strains) that are then grafted on to the foundation tree by mapping taxonomic names. We apply ghost-tree to graft fungal extension phylogenies derived from ITS sequences onto a foundation phylogeny derived from fungal 18S sequences. The result is a phylogenetic tree, compatible with the commonly used UNITE fungal database, that supports phylogenetic diversity analysis (e.g., UniFrac) of fungal communities profiled using ITS markers. Availability: ghost-tree is pip-installable. All source code, documentation, and test code are available under the BSD license at https://github.com/JTFouquier/ghost-tree.', u'Bois Noir is a grapevine disease responsible for severe economic losses in wine production. Bois Noir is caused by Candidatus Phytoplasma solani, cell wall-less bacteria belonging to the taxonomic group 16Sr-XII-A. In Germany, they are known to be vectored from plant to plant by the cixiid Hyalesthes obsoletus, but so far the prevalence of the disease in the vector population, as well as its spatio-temporal distribution is poorly understood. We therefore analyzed infections of H. obsoletus collected in different vineyards in Baden (South-Western Germany) with quantitative real-time PCR. From 125 analyzed individuals, only five were infected with Ca. Phytoplasma solani. All infected individuals were colonized by Ca. Phytoplasma solani type I which is associated with the host plant Urtica dioica (stinging nettle). More research is needed to understand the reasons of this surprisingly low prevalence of Bois Noir in the population of H. obsoletus in South-West Germany.', u'The use of functional traits to explain how biodiversity affects ecosystem functioning has attracted intense interest, yet few studies have a priori altered functional diversity, especially in multitrophic communities. Here, we manipulated multivariate functional diversity of estuarine grazers and predators within multiple levels of species richness to test how species richness and functional diversity predicted ecosystem functioning in a multitrophic food web. Community functional diversity was a better predictor than species richness for the majority of ecosystem properties, based on general linear mixed effects models. Combining inferences from 8 traits into a single multivariate index increased prediction accuracy of these models relative to any individual trait. Structural equation modeling revealed that functional diversity of both grazers and predators was important in driving final biomass within trophic levels, with stronger effects observed for predators. We also show that different species drove different ecosystem responses, with evidence for both sampling effects and complementarity. Our study extends experimental investigations of functional trait diversity to a multilevel food web, and demonstrates that functional diversity can be more accurate and effective than species richness in predicting community biomass in a food web context.', u'Discoveries in modern science can take years and involve the contribution of large amounts of data, many people and various tools. Although good scientific practice dictates that findings should be reproducible, in practice there are very few automated tools that actually support traceability of the scientific method employed, in particular when various experimental environments are involved at different research phases. Data provenance tracking approaches can play a major role in addressing many of these challenges. These approaches propose ways to capture, manage, and use of provenance information to support the traceability of the scientific methods in heterogeneous environments. PROV is a W3C standard that provides a comprensive model for data and semantics representation with common vocabularies and rich concepts to describe provenance. Nevertheless, it is difficult for domain scientists to easily understand and adopt all the richeness provided by PROV. In this paper we describe the design and implementation of the provenance manager PROV-man, a PROV-compliant framework that facilitates the tasks of scientists in integrating provenance capabilities into their data analysis tools. PROV-man provides functionalities to create and manipulate provenance data in a consistent manner and ensures its permanent storage. It also provides a set of interfaces to serialize and export provenance data into various data formats, serving interoperability. The open architecture of PROV-man, consisting of an API and a configurable database, allows for its easy deployment within existing and newly developed software tools. The paper presents examples illustrating the usage of PROV-man. The first example illustrates how to create and manipulate provenance data of an online newspaper article using PROV-man. The second example demonstrates and evaluates the PROV-man implementation in a more complex case for collection of provenance data about biomedical data analysis activities that are carried out using a distributed computing infrastructure.', u"Choosing a model with too few parameters can involve making unrealistically simple assumptions and lead to high bias, poor prediction, and missed opportunities for insight. Such models are not flexible enough to describe the sample or the population well. A model with too many parameters can fit the observed data very well, but be too closely tailored to it. Such models may generalize poorly. Penalized-likelihood information criteria, such as Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC), the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC), the Consistent AIC, and the Adjusted BIC, are widely used for model selection. However, different criteria sometimes support different models, leading to uncertainty about which criterion is the most trustworthy. In some simple cases the comparison of two models using information criteria can be viewed as equivalent to a likelihood ratio test, with the different models representing different alpha levels (i.e., different emphases on sensitivity or specificity; Lin & Dayton 1997). This perspective may lead to insights about how to interpret the criteria in less simple situations. For example, AIC or BIC could be preferable, depending on sample size and on the relative importance one assigns to sensitivity versus specificity. Understanding the differences among the criteria may make it easier to compare their results and to use them to make informed decisions.", u'Background: In a region of Caribbean states with limited human and financial resources institutions of higher education must use the technology available to reach its students across the region and allow professionals in the Biomedical Sciences to teach, interact and follow students from first year to their professional registration. This paper shares the journey of our students\u2019 progression across island states using Social Networking and Social media academic delivery. Objective: Using Information Communication Technology to delivery and monitor students across. Collect the data of their academic success and monitor their the use of knowledge over the 4 years of training so see if there was a link between the success at board examinations and the use and participation of the technology. Method: Accounts were opened with groups of students from the different islands. The research team was made managers of the account. Lectures, tutorials and labs were discussed. After completion of the module clinical cases were discussed building on a student\u2019s foundation knowledge. Control group used Moodle and at the end of were allowed to progress without for the next cohort. Results: Students who remained active in a Social and Social Networking Group after completing their modules had a higher rate of success in their professional registration examinations. Conclusions: Social and Social Networking Media had a very positive and lasting effect in the learning process than the control group using Moodle who were allowed to progress after they completed each modules. The quality of performance in the registration/board examinations was also better.', u'Large-scale recovery of genomes from isolates, single cells, and metagenomic data has been made possible by advances in computational methods and substantial reductions in sequencing costs. While this increasing breadth of draft genomes is providing key information regarding the evolutionary and functional diversity of microbial life, it has become impractical to finish all available reference genomes. Making robust biological inferences from draft genomes requires accurate estimates of their completeness and contamination. Current methods for assessing genome quality are ad hoc and generally make use of a limited number of \u2018marker\u2019 genes conserved across all bacterial or archaeal genomes. Here we introduce CheckM, an automated method for assessing the quality of a genome using a broader set of marker genes specific to the position of a genome within a reference genome tree and information about the collocation of these genes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of CheckM using synthetic data and a wide range of isolate, single cell and metagenome derived genomes. CheckM is shown to provide accurate estimates of genome completeness and contamination, and to outperform existing approaches. Using CheckM, we identify a diverse range of errors currently impacting publicly available isolate genomes and demonstrate that genomes obtained from single cells and metagenomic data vary substantially in quality. In order to facilitate the use of draft genomes, we propose an objective measure of genome quality that can be used to select genomes suitable for specific gene- and genome-centric analyses of microbial communities.', u'Prions are infectious proteins where the same protein may express distinct strains. The strains are enciphered by different misfolded conformations. Strain-like phenomena have also been reported in a number of other amyloid-forming proteins. One of the features of amyloid strains is the ability to self-propagate, maintaining a constant set of physical properties despite being propagated under conditions different from those that allowed initial formation of the strain. Here we report a cross-seeding experiment using strains formed under different conditions. Using high concentrations of seeds results in rapid elongation and new fibrils preserve the properties of the seeding fibrils. At low seed concentrations secondary nucleation plays the major role and new fibrils gain properties predicted by the environment rather than the structure of the seeds. Our findings could explain conformational switching between amyloid strains observed in a wide variety of in vivo and in vitro experiments.', u'Antagonistic interactions such as competition and predation shape the structure and dynamics of ecological communities. Their combined effects can affect the species richness within a particular trophic level. Despite theory linking the complementarity of interactions across trophic levels and ecosystem functioning, there is a shortage of empirical tests of such predictions. We present an experimental investigation of these combined effects within a bacteria-phage interaction network. We measured the biomass yield of combinations of bacterial strains under increasing levels of bacteriophage richness. Our results show an increasing impact of phage on bacteria with increasing phage diversity. In contrast, no combination of phages significantly changed the overall productivity of bacterial mixed cultures when compared with expectations based on bacterial monocultures. Finally, we found that the addition of phages decreases the realized niche overlap among pair of bacterial species with the greatest reduction occurring when all phages were present. Our results show that the productivity of this system is the results from the combined effects of exploitative (shared resources between bacteria) and apparent (shared phages between bacteria) competition.', u'Force plates are a straightforward tool to assess human acceleration as an indicator of human performance. Understanding of the physical principle, and also of the test instruction is required to arrive at meaingful results and interpretations. Notably, performance and physiology levels can differ. A series of studies in healthy people has yielded that peak jumping power is a robust, ecological measure of performance and physiology. It shows a very pronounced decline with age. Morover, these studies reveal that sports is beneficial for muscles and bones. Some benefits by sports diminish with age (bone, muscle), but fracture reduction by sports extends into 10th decade of life.', u'The term Functional Behavioral Assessment (FBA) refers to a set of multiple assessment strategies aimed to identify specific antecedents and consequences that maintain a target behaviour (Du Paul, 1996). In the context of FBA, standards and protocols to support the data exchange between researchers, health professionals and therapist are under-represented. Moreover, there is a need for sharing common actions and assessment practices in order to improve the application of the FBA. To meet these goals, we propose the definition of an FBA ontology as a tool to describe three specific aspects related to individual, behavioural and assessment data in different contexts of everyday life such as school, family and social environments. The individual data include: diagnoses, medications, school information, discipline referrals and other events, thus providing a comprehensive overview of the individuals and the network of support people with specific roles that collaborates on the individual\u2019s care. The behavioural data include the description of an individual\xb4s target behaviour, and information about places and settings in which the behaviour occurs. The assessment gathers structural behavioural data collections, according to systematic direct observation, and in compliance to the ABC model (antecedents, behavior, and consequences) commonly used in the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) for identifying behavioural functions, and designing intervention plans. This data is relevant in supporting statistical analysis in order to evaluate the efficacy of the behavioural treatments. Moreover, the FBA ontology provides a complete model that enables integration and interlinking with other Linked Open Data datasets and repositories thus supporting the sharing of appropriate resources such as behavioural patterns, effective intervention strategies, and behavioural treatments. Finally, the ontology provides the basis for the designing of software applications to support the functional assessment processes. This ontology has been applied in the framework of the WHAAM (Web Health Application for ADHD Monitoring) project, aimed to promote the FBA approach to the behavioural treatment of ADHD children. References: DuPaul, G. J., & Ervin, R. A. (1996). Functional assessment of behaviors related to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Linking assessment to intervention design. Behavior Therapy, 27(4).', u'MicroView was made to make the connection between medicine and mobile technology reality, in order to achieve that we transform the widely used mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) into diagnostic tools. MicroView is a medical application that focuses on the diagnosis of diseases whose causes or results can be detected in biological fluids such as CSF, urine and blood. The diagnosis is achieved by innovative image processing algorithms that detect the presence and the number of the white blood cells in the biological sample. The app has been tested in 37 urine and 23 CSF samples. The accuracy of the app was 92%. In conclusion the app offers a quicker, easier and friendlier diagnosis to young scientists but also experienced professionals can be benefit from it, since all images are in electronic form and can provide a way of result confirmation.', u'Wild crop relatives are an important source of genetic diversity for crop improvement. However, gene flow from cultivated species into wild species may prove detrimental. Introgression may lead to changes in wild species by incorporating alleles from domesticated species, which may increase the likelihood of extinction. The objective of the present study is to analyze how genetic diversity is distributed within and among populations of the wild rice species Oryza glumaepatula in Costa Rica. We also evaluated if there is evidence of introgression between wild rice and commercial varieties of O. sativa since it is cultivated commonly in close proximity to wild rice populations. Individuals from all known O. glumaepatula populations in Costa Rica were collected. With the aid of 455 AFLP markers, we characterized the genetic diversity and structure among seven populations in northern Costa Rica. Given the dominant nature of our markers, Bayesian estimates of genetic structure were used. We also compared genetic diversity estimates between O. glumaepatula individuals and O. sativa commercial rice. Our results show that O. glumaepatula populations in Costa Rica have moderately high levels of genetic diversity, comparable to those found in South American populations. This is likely a result of large population size. Despite the restricted distributions of this wild species, in Costa Rica most populations are composed of several thousand individuals, thus reducing the effects of drift on genetic diversity. Our results also found low but significant structure (\\theta=0.03\xb10.001) among populations that are separated by ~10 Km within a single river. The position of the population along the river did not influence genetic diversity estimates or differences among populations. This river does not have a strong current and meadows or seeds may easily move upstream, thus homogenizing genetic diversity across populations regardless of river position. Ample gene flow through pollen, seeds or detached culms within the same river reduces genetic structure. A Bayesian structure analysis showed that individuals from two populations share a significant proportion of their genomes with O. sativa genome. These results suggest that the low levels of genetic structure found in these populations are likely the result of introgression from cultivated O. sativa populations. These results expose an important biohazard as recurrent hybridization may reduce genetic diversity of this wild rice species. Introgression may transfer commercial traits into the only populations of O. glumaepatula in Costa Rica, which in turn could alter genetic diversity and increase the likelihood of local extinction. These results have important implications for in situ conservation strategies of the only wild populations of O. glumaepatula in Costa Rica.', u'Methylation has previously been associated with allele specific expression in ants. Recently, we found methylation is important in worker reproduction in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris. Here we searched for allele specific expression in twelve genes associated with worker reproduction in bees. We found allele specific expression in Ecdysone 20 monooxygenase and IMP-L2-like. Although we were unable to confirm a genetic or epigenetic cause for this allele specific expression, the expression patterns of the two genes match those predicted for imprinted genes.', u'In this contribution a new comprehensive approach describing medical curriculum harmonisation will be introduced. Behind the whole concept stays original methodological background, which is trending towards an outcome-based paradigm, together with an engineering and development of new curriculum management system intended for for curriculum designers, guarantors and faculty management. It provides a clear and transparent composition of compulsory and optional courses, and easy identification of potential duplicities and overlaps across a domain of medical and healthcare education. For students, it means an absolutely new way of how to understand what is really taught during a learning period, including all necessary meta information such as type and range of teaching, related MeSH keywords and list of essential terms presented in particular lecture, seminar or clinical practice. Moreover it brings a new communication channel between all involved stakeholders including students at institution level. The broad overview shows that various existing curriculum management systems focus on the outcome-based paradigm only from a certain perspective offering the agenda together with selected functionalities. However, they are unable to cater all the needs on curriculum harmonisation of the today\u2019s higher education institutions. This is the reason why we decided to develop own web-based platform supporting guaranteed and more transparent building of curriculum including a control mechanisms in the form of deep inspection. Furthermore we will introduce a set of data mining and statistical methods in compliance with standardized and approved approaches, which are used for content analysis of a huge dataset extracted from a curriculum management system. These results may assist to identify potentially problematic areas and construct comprehensive overview of defined curriculum, because from the perspective of human cognition abilities, it is not possible to carefully read, verify and understand all learning units with all their linkages and co-dependencies.', u'Steganography is the art and science of concealing information in such a way that only the sender and intended recipient of a message should be aware of its presence. Digital steganography has been used in the past on a variety of media including executable files, audio, text, games and, notably, images. Additionally, there is increasing research interest towards the use of video as a media for steganography, due to its pervasive nature and diverse embedding capabilities. In this work, we examine the embedding algorithms and other security characteristics of several video steganography tools. We show how all feature basic and severe security weaknesses. This is potentially a very serious threat to the security, privacy and anonymity of their users. It is important to highlight that most steganography users have perfectly legal and ethical reasons to employ it. Some common scenarios would include citizens in oppressive regimes whose freedom of speech is compromised, people trying to avoid massive surveillance or censorship, political activists, whistle blowers, journalists, etc. As a result of our findings, we strongly recommend to cease any use of these tools, and to remove any contents that may have been hidden, and any carriers stored, exchanged and/or uploaded online. For many of these tools, carrier files will be trivial to detect, potentially compromising any hidden data and the parties involved in the communication. We finish this work by presenting our steganalytic results, that highlight a very poor current state of the art in practical video steganography tools. There is unfortunately a complete lack of secure and publicly available tools, and even commercial tools offer very poor security. We therefore encourage the steganography community to work towards the development of more secure and accessible video steganography tools, and make them available for the general public. The results presented in this work can also be seen as a useful resource for forensic examiners to determine the existence of any video steganography materials over the course of a computer forensic investigation.', u'Background. Liver segmentation from medical images produces high quality patient specific 3D liver models which are used for preoperative planning and intraoperative guidance. These 3D models can be manipulated and visualized in various ways and can be useful for residents\u2019 education. Objective. The aim of this study was to evaluate the implementation of a novel liver segmentation and hepatectomy simulation application as a tool for the residents\u2019 preoperative education. Method. We developed in MATLAB\xae 2013a a liver segmentation and preoperative planning application. Ten liver imaging datasets of a prospectively selected random sample of patients undergoing elective hepatectomies at our institution were used for liver segmentation and 3D modeling. Residents were asked to identify anatomical and pathological structures and propose liver resection plans. Intraoperatively, they could consult the computer models in real time. Their surgical scenarios were evaluated and discussed with specialized liver surgeons. Learning objectives were defined and their accomplishment was evaluated using the Kirkpatrick\u2019s four levels model. Results. The residents learned to 1) identify anatomical and pathological structures 2) calculate future liver remnant volume (FLR) from segmented liver images 3) propose liver resection plans based on FLR and liver vascular tree and tumor relations 4) consult liver medical images (CT and MRI) 5) understand the role of computer assisted surgery. They evaluated in-vivo their preoperative planning decisions and understood better the surgical operations. Conclusions. Our proposed liver segmentation and hepatectomy simulation application appears to be appropriate for the preoperative education of resident surgeons.', u'Intellectual Property (IP) Law constitutes the legal framework that ensures the protection of original creations of the mind against their illicit use and misappropriation. Providing the original creator with his rights constitutes a problem in cases such as traditional knowledge and cultural expressions since the rights over a practice cannot be traced back to specific individuals. Traditional Medical Knowledge (TMK) describes the practices and knowledge gained by native indigenous populations which is passed on from generation to generation and which is conducive towards the development of medicinal research. These forms of medical know-how are multidimensional and are often closely linked to the cultural practices and the national identity of many indigenous populations. The lack of a means of legal protection for this source of knowledge is an issue that touches both upon economic and moral grounds. The industrial exploitation of TMK native to a country may not only undermine that country\u2019s economy and facilitate misappropriation; it may also have a negative impact on matters of national identity. This is an issue of ongoing importance, which has not yet been adequately met. Patents (a significant IP protection in the medical field) have little application to TMK. Trade secrets and geographical indications are other such solutions of limited usefulness in the protection of TMK but have been used in some countries alongside with sui generis systems and customary laws or practices. A possible solution example can be examined at initiatives such as the Traditional Knowledge Digital Library, which aims at documenting traditional medical literature on ancient Indian therapeutic practices. It is necessary that based upon current IP resolution methods a new means of protection is provided for that will enable all nationalities to safeguard their cultural diversity whilst respecting medical knowledge dissemination within the framework of a digital era.', u'Background. High quality patient specific 3D liver models can be nowadays exported using computer liver segmentation algorithms. Specific 3D image editing tools can be used to manipulate the liver models and create virtual surgical cases. Objective. The aim of our study was to create virtual hepatic surgery scenarios using a novel liver segmentation and preoperative planning application and evaluating it as an educational tool. Method. A liver segmentation and preoperative planning application was developed on MATLAB\xae 2013a. Special image editing tools were designed to allow manipulation of the exported 3D liver models. Three pathological and two liver imaging datasets from healthy patients were used for the validation. The 3D liver models which have been created after liver segmentation were then manipulated by; 1) changing tumors\u2019 volumes, 2) adding tumors and 3) designing liver injuries. Addition fictitious clinical information were implemented. Residents were asked to study the virtual cases and propose resection plans. Their scenarios were evaluated and discussed with specialized liver surgeons. The Kirkpatrick\u2019s four levels model of learning evaluation was used. Results. Up to 30 different virtual liver surgical cases were created. The number of virtual scenarios that could be designed is theoretically unlimited. The residents quickly and effectively learned to evaluate critical anatomical and pathological structures and propose liver resection plans considering liver surgery principles. Conclusions. Virtual hepatic surgery scenarios allowed for a rapid education without the need to wait for similar real cases. The proposed liver segmentation and hepatectomy simulation application can be used for educational purposes.', u'Background. Sakya Bogachev, 1960 is a genus of geoemydid turtles with unusual scalation of the carapace consisting of 9\u201310 vertebrals and 8\u201310 pairs of pleurals. It is known from Neogene localities of Eastern Europe and includes two species: Sakya riabinini (Khosatzky, 1946) (= S. pontica Bogachev, 1960), from the late Miocene (MN13) to early Pleistocene of Eastern Europe (Moldova, Romania, Russia, and Ukraine) and Sakya kolakovskii Chkhikvadze, 1968 from the Pliocene of Abkhazia. Attribution of Melanochelys etuliensis Khosatzky and Redkozubov, 1986 from the early Pliocene of Moldova to Sakya is poorly corroborated. Here we report new material of Sakya from the late Miocene of Russia and Ukraine, which, probably, belongs to one or two new species of this genus and expands its stratigraphic distribution. Methods. We examined new material of Sakya, that includes posterior part of carapace and incomplete plastron from Morskaya 2 locality (MN 13, Rostov Province, Russia), incomplete carapace and plastron from Egorovka locality (MN 12, Odessa Province, Ukraine), and fragmentary shell remains from Fortepianka locality (MN 11, Republic of Adygea, Russia). For comparison we used published data and personal observations on other specimens of Sakya. Results. The specimens from Morskaya 2 and Egorovka are assigned to Sakya based on the presence of increased number of vertebrals and pleurals. Both specimens differ from the described species of Sakya by reduced number of vertebrals (seven in the Morskaya 2 specimen, and five in the Egorovka specimen), and extension of the posteriormost vertebral onto pygal. In addition, they differ from S. riabinini in the presence of eight neurals, longer than wide pleurals, and from S. kolakovskii in the presence of two suprapygals and serrated posterior edge of the carapace. The material from Fortepianka is too fragmentary for detailed comparison, but also differs from S. riabinini in the reduced number of vertebrals. Discussion. The reported material may represent one or two new species of Sakya. The reduced number of vertebrals in these forms probably represents a primitive condition, whereas the extension of the posteriormost vertebral onto the pygal may be a synapomorphy, which unites the new forms. Thus, the Morskaya 2 and Egorovka specimens of Sakya may represent a separate primitive lineage of this genus. In this case, S. kolakovskii and S. riabinini form a more advanced clade with increased number of carapacial scales. These issues as well as phylogenetic position of Sakya within Geoemydidae will be checked by future phylogenetic analysis. The Sakya material from Fortepianka (MN11, late Sarmatian) represents the earliest reliable record of this genus, known previously beginning from MN 12 (Meotic).', u'Background. Xinjiangchelyidae are a group of basal cryptodires from the Middle Jurassic \u2013 Early Cretaceous of Asia and Early Cretaceous of Europe. Recent studies show that xinjiangchelyids are rather uniform and conservative in their shell morphology and comparatively more variable in skull shape. Morphology and variability of cervical vertebra(e) (CV) of xinjiangchelyids remain poorly known. More or less complete series of CV were described for Xinjiangchelys qiguensis and X. tianshanensis, whereas for other xinjiangchelyids they are alternately unknown or often incomplete, deformed and need additional preparation. Methods. We examined several hundred isolated CV of a xinjiangchelyid Annemys sp. from the Middle Jurassic (Bathonian) Itat Formation of Berezovsk Quarry, Krasnoyarsk Territory, West Siberia, Russia. Some of these CV are well preserved and three-dimensional and allow reconstruction of the complete series of CV of Annemys. Results. The formula of CV is (2(3()4()5()6()7()8), although C8 is rarely amphicoelous. Previously, xinjiangchelyids were thought to have only amphicoelous CV. All CV are relatively short (similar to other forms of Annemys, shorter than in X. tianshanensis and much shorter than in X. qiguensis). The anterior and posterior central articulations are approximately on one level. The anterior central articulations form a wide triangle (C2), equilateral triangle (C3, C4), or wide oval (C5\u2013C8); the posterior central articulations form a narrow oval (C2\u2013C5, C8), roundish (C6) or wide oval (C7). The ventral keel is low on the anterior CV and high on C7 and C8, a condition similar to some sinemydids/macrobaenids and more advanced cryptodires. The parapophyses are located at the posteroventral edge of the centrum in C2\u2013C5, and at the anteroventral edge of the centrum in C6\u2013C8. The articular surfaces of the prezygapophyses face dorsolateral in C2 or dorsomedial in more posterior CV, forming an angle of about 20\xb0 from the horizontal in C3 and C4 and about 30\u201335\xb0 in C5\u2013C8. The postzygapophyses are widely separated, unlike X. qiguensis and similar to other forms of Annemys and X. tianshanensis. Isolated cervical ribs are present in the material, but their associations with CV are unclear. Discussion. Our study shows that xinjiangchelyids were more variable in the morphology of their CV than thought previously. They demonstrate three neck morphotypes: the short-necked (Annemys), medium-necked (X. tianshanensis) and long-necked (X. qiguensis). In addition to length of CV, these morphotypes differ in cervical formula, shapes of central articulations, and patterns of cervical rib attachment. Morphology of the CV of Annemys suggests the possibility of both vertical and lateral movements of the neck that agrees with recent studies on neck mobility of primitive turtles.', u'Background. This report reviews data on taxonomic diversity and paleobiogeography of Late Cretaceous (K2) non-marine turtles of Asia accumulated since latest reviews in 2000s. K2 non-marine turtles of Asia are known from four main geographical areas: Middle Asia-Kazakhstan (MAK), Mongolia (MO), China (CH) and Japan (JA). Methods. We critically reviewed composition of non-marine turtle assemblages of the K2 for each of the mentioned geographical area to make estimates of taxonomic diversity for different ages of the K2. Based on these data we analyzed temporal distribution of taxa of non-marine turtles and change in taxonomic diversity of turtle assemblages. Results. K2 turtles of MAK are represented by eight suprageneric taxa \u2013 Adocidae (Ad), Carettochelyidae (Ca), Lindholmemydidae (Li), Macrobaenidae (Ma), Nanhsiungchelyidae (Na), Trionychidae (Tr), Eucryptodira indet. (Eu), and Testudines indet. (Te), of which Ad, Li, Ma and Tr are known from the Cenomanian(CE) \u2013 early Campanian(CA), whereas other taxa only from the CE-early Turonian(TU). Taxonomic diversity changes from 10\u201312 species and genera, 6\u20138 suprageneric taxa in the CE to 7 species and genera, 4 families in the late TU early CA. K2 turtles of MO are represented by seven suprageneric taxa \u2013 Ad, Ca, Li, Ma, Meiolaniformes (Me), Na, and Tr, of which Li, Na and Tr are known from the CE-Maastrichtian(MA), Ad, Ca, and Ma, from the CE-Santonian(SA), and Me, only from the MA. Taxonomic diversity changes from 12 species, 10 genera, 6 families in the CE \u2013 SA, 8\u20139 species, 7\u20139 genera, 3 families in the CA, and 9 species, 7\u20138 genera, and 4 suprageneric taxa in the MA. K2 turtles of CH are represented by three suprageneric taxa (Li, Na, and Tr), but their precise temporal distribution is poorly known. Taxonomic diversity in the K2 is 12 species, 11\u201312 genera, and 3 families. K2 turtles of JA are represented by six suprageneric taxa (Ad, Ca, Na, Tr, Eu, and Te), of which Na are known from the CE-SA, Tr from the Coniacian(CO)-CA, and other taxa from the CO-SA. Taxonomic diversity changes from 1 species, genus, and family in the CE-TU to 7 species and genera, and 5\u20136 suprageneric taxa in the CO-SA. Discussion. In MAK, most significant transformation of turtle assemblages occurred in the CE-TU, whereas transformation in the SA-CA was less significant. On the contrary, in MO, most significant transformation occurred in the SA-CA, and less significant in the CA-MA.The patterns of transformation of the K2 turtle assemblages of CH and JA are not clear. The differences in the patterns of diversity and transformations of the K2 turtle assemblages in different geographical areas of Asia may be explained by different environmental conditions in these areas at that time and influence of such factors as transgressions in coastal areas (MAK and JA) and cooling and aridizations in inland areas (MO and CH).', u'Recently, survival ensembles have found more and more applications in biological and medical research when censored time-to-event data are often confronted. In this research, we investigate the plausibility of extending rotation forest, originally proposed for classification purpose, to survival analysis. Supported by the proper statistical analysis, we show that rotation survival forests are able to outperform the state-of-art survival ensembles on right censored data. We also provide a C-index based variable importance measure for evaluating covariates in censored survival data.', u'Plasmonic assays are an important class of optical sensors that measure biomolecular interactions in real-time without the need for labeling agents, making them especially well-suited for clinical applications. Through the incorporation of nanoparticles and fiberoptics, these sensing systems have been successfully miniaturized and show great promise for in-situ probing and implantable devices, yet it remains challenging to derive meaningful, quantitative information from plasmonic responses. This is in part due to a lack of dedicated modeling tools, and therefore we introduce PAME, an open-source Python application for modeling plasmonic systems of bulk and nanoparticle-embedded metallic films. PAME combines aspects of thin-film solvers, nanomaterials and fiber-optics into an intuitive graphical interface. Some of PAME\u2019s features include a simulation mode, a database of hundreds of materials, and an object-oriented framework for designing complex nanomaterials, such as a gold nanoparticles encased in a protein shell. An overview of PAME\u2019s theory and design is presented, followed by example simulations of a fiberoptic refractometer, as well as protein binding to a multiplexed sensor composed of a mixed layer of gold and silver colloids. These results provide new insights into observed responses in reflectance biosensors.', u'The Marchica lagoon is the single lagoon on the Mediterranean coast of Morocco. Beside its ecological and socio-economic values, the lagoon is under pressure of a complex mixture of human-mediated stressors (urbanization, pollution, overfishing, tourism, etc.). Nowadays, many institutional efforts have been undertaken to establish a sustainable management plan of the lagoon in the context of an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) approach. Thus, understanding how these stressors impact upon ecological status and ecosystem services is a sound step for any efficient integral management. Based on sampling performed on June 2014, the present work aimed at assessing the ecological quality status (ES) of the northern part of the lagoon using Cymodocea nodosa (Ucria) Ascherson meadows and benthic macrofauna. 16 stations (11 with C. nodosa and 5 on bare sediment) were sampled using a Van Veen grab. Preliminary results showed differences between stations. Shoots biomass fluctuated between 8.02 and 61.2 g dw m-2 while the roots-rhizomes biomass oscillated between 10.8 and 235.5 g dw m-2. The root-rhizome and leaf biomass ratio revealed high values (up to 10.8) in the central sector suggesting a potential nutrient enrichment.Benthic macrofauna revealed the presence of 90 species belonging to six zoological groups and dominated by crustaceans, molluscs and polychaetes. The assessment of the ecological quality status, based on benthic macrofauna, was evaluated using Biotic Indices (AMBI, M-AMBI, Benthix, BITS). The results showed partial agreement between single index-derived ES and underlined the dependency of these biotic indices on the habitat characteristics, on the one hand, and the necessity to define specific reference conditions to the Marchica lagoon.', u'Dopamine is a major neurotransmitter in the human brain and is associated with various diseases. Schizophrenia, for example, is treated by blocking the dopamine receptors type 2. In 2009, Shaner, Miller and Mintz stated that schizophrenia was the low fitness variant of a highly variable mental trait. We therefore explore whether the dopamine receptor 2 gene (DRD2) underwent any selection processes. We acquired genotype data of the 1000 Genomes project (phase I), which contains 1093 individuals from 14 populations. We included only single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a minor allele frequency (MAF) of over 0.05 in the analysis. This is equivalent to 151 SNPs for DRD2. We used two different approaches (an outlier approach and a Bayesian approach) to detect loci under selection. The combined results of both approaches yielded nine candidate SNPs under balancing selection. While directional selection strongly favours one allele over all others, balancing selection favours more than one allele. All candidates are in the intronic region of the gene and only one (rs12574471) has been mentioned in the literature. Two of our candidate SNPs are located in specific regions of the gene: rs80215768 lies within a promoter flanking region and rs74751335 lies within a transcription factor binding site. We strongly encourage research on our candidate SNPs and their possible phenotypic effects.', u'Background. Regardless using a rank-based or a phylogenetic nomenclature code, the use of Latinized binomens to describe the extant and extinct species has been essential. Ever since the times of Linnaeus, the use of Latinized Greek names has been a common practice both for neontologists and paleontologists.\nMethods. I critically analyzed the most common Greek words used as taxa names in the chelonian literature to establish their etymology and check whether the transliteration process has been done correctly. I also compared the current guidelines for the latinisation of Greek words recommended by the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, with other alternative systems for the transformation of names formed in the Greek alphabet into Latin-based languages.\nResults. The preliminary results show that some Greek words (e.g. Chelone, Emys) dominate the chelonian nomenclature, but the history of the application of many of those names is intriguing. The use of Greek words is quite common in turtle taxa names when the name describes physical properties of the animal (size, shape, colour). However, several unfortunate examples exist, as some quite successful and famous names contain misspellings or poor choice of words that resulted in meanings opposite from the ones intended by the authors.\nDiscussion. Naming species is an integral part of the research of both neontologists and palaeontologists, but the application of Greek words to life sciences is even far more extensive, applied to numerous terminologies as well. Forming a proper name for a taxon could aid significantly to the communication and interpretation of the scientific results. Publishing a new name requires a sense of responsibility as well, as the formation of a taxon name is a unique linguistic procedure. But in the end, to add a taxonomic side to the old shakespearean question, is not the name that is important, but the information it conveys. That which we call a turtle by any other name would be as unique.', u'Open-nesting birds use biological pigments in eggshell to camouflage their unhatched offspring, varying the colour to account for the nesting environment and location. The tetrapyrrolic pigments protoporphyrin (PP) and biliverdin (BV), which both participate in the haem metabolism, are responsible for the reddish brown of chicken eggs and the brilliant blue of robin and emu eggs. However, eggshell pigmentation correlates with the nest type in a wide range of avian species and suggests that coloured eggs are basal to the avian lineage, extending back to their non-avian dinosaur origins. Detecting preserved eggshell pigments could thus shed light on dinosaur nesting behaviour. Using HPLC separation coupled to ESI-Q-TOF mass spectrometry, we here provide the first record of the eggshell pigments PP and BV preserved in fossils from three different localities, in 66 million year-old oviraptorid eggshell (Macroolithus yaotunensis). These eggs were presumably laid in at least partially open nests by the oviraptorid Heyuannia huangi and camouflaged by an originally blue-greenish egg colouration. Such a blue-greenish eggshell pigmentation hints at increased paternal care in Heyuannia. Shell porosity measurements, preserved clutches and parental animals support an open nesting behaviour for oviraptorid dinosaurs. Furthermore, the detection of PP, together with supporting microscopic observations, represents the first evidence for cuticle preservation in fossil eggshell. Our study demonstrates that molecular biomarkers, such as preserved metabolites, can be used to trace the evolution of modern avian traits, and to provide insights into dinosaur reproductive biology and the preservation of endogenous organic matter in fossil vertebrates.', u'Introduction: To more fully understand the impact of specific language attributes on deception in corporate communication, we used a stratified random sample of tobacco industry documents to test a small number of individual potential automated linguistic indicators of corporate deception: cognitive-emotional verbs, allness and superlative terms, nonbinding verbs, and group mentality. Methods: Texts from the Tobacco Documents Corpus were categorized by audience addressed (industry internal/external) and company of origin, and compared for incidence of the deceptive language indicators. Results: Cognitive-emotional verbs were strongly associated with likely deception and most prevalent for external audiences and documents produced by the Tobacco Institute, an industry front group. Cognitive-emotional verbs include believe, think, seem, feel and realize, in opposition to action verbs (e.g. throw). Discussion: Linguistic measurements of cognitive-emotional verbs may help pinpoint deceptive and misleading corporate communication. Verb choice and the use of different classes of verbs may reflect corporate linguistic deception.', u'Species-area relationships (SAR) and species abundance distributions (SAD) are among the most studied patterns in ecology, due to their application to both theoretical and conservation issues. One problem with these general patterns is that different theories can generate the same predictions, and for this reason they cannot be used to detect different mechanisms of community assembly. A solution is to search for more sensitive patterns, for example by extending the SAR to the whole species abundance distribution. A generalized dimension ($D_q$) approach has been proposed to study the scaling of SAD, but to date there has been no evaluation of the ability of this pattern to detect different mechanisms. An equivalent way to express SAD is the rank abundance distribution (RAD). Here I introduce a new way to study SAD scaling using a spatial version of RAD: the species-rank surface (SRS), which can be analyzed using $D_q$. Thus there is an old $D_q$ based on SAR ($D_q^{SAD}$), and a new one based on SRS ($D_q^{SRS}$). I perform spatial simulations to examine the relationship of $D_q$ with SAD, spatial patterns and number of species. Finally I compare the power of both $D_q$, SAD, SAR exponent, and the fractal information dimension to detect different community patterns using a continuum of hierarchical and neutral spatially explicit models. The SAD, $D_q^{SAD}$ and $D_q^{SRS}$ all had good performance in detecting models with contrasting mechanisms. $D_q^{SRS}$, however, had a better fit to data and allowed comparisons between hierarchical communities where the other methods failed. The SAR exponent and information dimension had low power and should not be used. SRS and $D_q^{SRS}$ could be interesting methods to study community or macroecological patterns.', u'Within highly diverse ecosystems, the majority of bacterial taxa are present in low abundance as members of the rare biosphere. The rationale for the occurrence and maintenance of the rare biosphere, and the putative ecological role(s) and dynamics of its members within a specific ecosystem is currently debated. We hypothesized that in highly diverse ecosystems, a fraction of the rare biosphere acts as a backup system that readily responds to environmental disturbances. We tested this hypothesis by subjecting sediments from Zodletone spring, a sulfide- and sulfur-rich spring in southwestern OK, to incremental levels of salinity (1, 2, 3, 4, and 10% NaCl), or temperature (280, 300, 320, and 700C), and traced the trajectories of rare members of the community in response to these manipulations using 16S rRNA gene analysis. Our results indicate that multiple rare bacterial taxa are promoted from rare to abundant members of the community following such manipulations and that, in general, the magnitude of such recruitment is directly proportional to the severity of the applied manipulation. Rare members that are phylogenetically distinct from abundant taxa in the original sample (unique rare biosphere) played a more important role in the microbial community response to environmental disturbances, compared to rare members that are phylogenetically similar to abundant taxa in the original sample (non-unique rare biosphere). The results emphasize the dynamic nature of the rare biosphere, and highlight its complexity and non-monolithic nature.', u'Background. Podocnemis bassleri Williams, 1956 is the oldest definite record for Podocnemis, dating back to the Miocene of South America. However, the diagnosis of P. ba. is fragile, as assumed by Williams himself. Here we evaluated the hypothesis of P. ba. as a synonym of P. expansa by exploring the shape variation of the skull among Podocnemis spp. Methods. We collected 19 landmarks on the left side of the skull in ventral view from 33 Podocnemis spp. skulls. We included in the sample a new specimen of P. ba. from the Miocene of Acre, Brazil (MCT/RJ unnumbered) and the holotype (AMNH 1662) from the Miocene of Peru, along with: P. erythrocephala (n=3), P. ex. (n=9), P. lewyana (n=1), P. sextuberculata (n=9), P. unifilis (n=6), and P. vogli (n=3). The data was then Procrustes superimposed and a Relative Warps Analysis (RW) was performed to evaluate shape variation. Also, a multivariate regression of the Partial Warps (i.e.: the eigenvectors of the \u201cbending energy\u201d matrix) versus the log-transformed centroid size (the independent variable) was computed in order to evaluate the allometry in the data. All analyses were fulfilled using Rohlf\u2019s TPS softwares. Results. The two first RWs accumulated ~52% of shape variation. The individual projection of the specimens in RW1 and RW2 showed a structure partially explained by a phylogenetic signal. P. ex. and P. se., previously considered as sister-groups, were projected in the negative scores of RW1. Also, these two species were projected, respectively, in the positive and negative scores of the RW2. The two specimens of P. ba. were nested among P. ex. specimens. Furthermore, the multivariate regression revealed an effect of the size in the shape variation: larger skulls have wider maxillae and posterior region laterally extended. Discussion. According to the literature, P. ex. and P. ba. are nearly indistinguishable (besides the larger size of the second), and Williams seems to have used the Miocene age of the second as a criterion for differentiating the two taxa. Indeed, one of the diagnostic features pointed out by Williams \u2013 slightly shorter relative distance from snout tip to posterior borders of the orbits \u2013 seems to be a taphonomic outcome. Moreover, the second diagnostic character \u2013 internal palatal processes of the maxillae abruptly dorsally projected \u2013 is extended anteroposteriorly in the MCT/RJ P. ba. specimen, as in all recent taxa. So, this character is polymorphic or also results of a taphonomic outcome. As consequence, P. ba. lacks a suitable diagnosis. Our preliminary results revealed little differences in shape of P. ex. and P. ba. and a clear allometric effect in the shape variation. In conclusion, it seems reasonable to suggest that P. ba. is a junior synonym of P. ex., although we will wait to claim it after additional analyses.', u'Seagrass meadows exist in most shallow, sheltered, soft-bottomed marine coastlines and estuaries throughout the world and rank among the most productive systems in the ocean. Zostera noltei Hornemann is a small seagrass largely widespread in intertidal areas of Western Europe and North-West Africa, the Mediterranean Sea and in the Black Sea.\nIn Morocco, intertidal Zostera noltei meadows were identified at six coastal ecosystems across c.a. 2500 km of its Atlantic coast (Tahaddart estuary, Moulay Bousselham, Sidi Moussa, Oualidia, Khnifiss lagoons and Dakhla Bay). The present work aimed at assessing the spatial and latitudinal variation of Z. noltei meadows by measuring the density of shoots, leaf biomass, root-rhizome biomass, number of leaf /shoot and the average length and width of leafs. Samples were conducted between December 2014 and January 2015, using a hand PVC corer (12.5 of diameter). When possible, a downstream and upstream comparison is performed in each site.\nDensity of shoots fluctuated between 1972 and 9833 shoots m-2. Leaves biomass varied between 32 and 259 gDW/m2 and root-rhizome biomass oscillated between 21 and 314 gDW/m2. Number of leaves per shoot fluctuated between 2.47 and 3.4 leaf per shoot, the leaf length between 4.9 and 30.8 cm and the leaf width 0.6 and 2 mm. These results showed, on the one hand, a clear spatial variation across a downstream-upstream gradient in each site and, on the other hand, a latitudinal pattern in the biomass and morphometry of the Z. noltei meadows across the Atlantic coast of Morocco. Significant differences were evidenced for all variables (ANOVA, p<0.05). The root-rhizome biomass and density of shoots are higher southward while the number of leaves per shoot, leaf biomass and the average length and width of the leaves are greater northward.\nThese results are compared with literature data from the distribution range of Z. noltei. Further analysis regarding the genetics, the associated benthic invertebrates and the sediment contamination are being performed and will increase the knowledge on such ecosystems and help in understanding their interaction with environment conditions.', u'API methods are not used alone, but in groups and following patterns. However, despite being a key information for API users, most usage patterns are not described in official API documents. In this article, we report a study that evaluates the feasibility of automatically enriching API documents with information on usage patterns. For this purpose, we mine and analyze 1,952 usage patterns, from a set of 396 Android applications. As part of our findings, we report that the Android API has many undocumented and non-trivial usage patterns, which can be inferred using association rule mining algorithms. We also describe a field study where a version of the original Android documentation is instrumented with the extracted usage patterns. During 17 months, this documentation received 77,863 visits from professional Android developers.', u"The fan mussel Pinna nobilis is the largest bivalve of the Mediterranean Sea, declared protected since 1992. It is a sessile suspension feeder endemic of this basin which lives mainly on soft sediments colonized by seagrass meadows. This study considers a population living within a Posidonia oceanica bed in the Gulf of Oristano (W Sardinia, Italy), a site included within a Marine Protected Area and in two Sites of Community Importance. Based on field surveys conducted in 2007, 2009 and 2014 differences in density, size, and shell burial level of P. nobilis were investigated in relation to meadow's distribution and characteristics. Moreover, the spatial differences in density and orientation of P. nobilis were related to hydrological features. P. nobilis showed a mean density of 4.06\xb11.13 ind./100 m2 and a significant increase in population size was observed between 2009 and 2014. A high-resolution multibeam survey revealed that the P. oceanica bed was characterized by a striped structure. Toward the inner sheltered sector of Gulf, the meadow became hill-shaped. A comparison between meadow structure and P. nobilis distribution showed that specimens are mainly located at the edge of the channels within the striped meadow, whereas the edge effect resulted less noticeable within the hill-shaped meadow. The compactness of the seabed influences the shell stability: the burial level decreased with the increasing of fine sediments. Bottom current direction and speed are the main factors influencing shell orientation, whereas wave action is negligible. Where bottom current speed exceeded 0.07 m/s specimens resulted in line with the prevalent current direction with the ventral side exposed to incoming flow. These features suggest that feeding strategy is an important factor in determining shell orientation, possibly in addition to drag. Food availability could be the driving force in determining the patchiness distribution of P. nobilis population with higher values in those sites close to the mouth of the lagoons, in sedimentation area or in the meadow channels where the water flow is conveyed. These findings contribute to increase the knowledge on the P. nobilis-P. oceanica association and provide useful information for improving conservation measures.", u'The seagrass Posidonia oceanica meadows are scarcely studied in the Albanian coast. Data presented in this work have been collected during an assessment of benthic communities of Sazani Island, Albania, in May 2013. The P. oceanica meadow has a limited distribution around this island, covering a relatively small area on its eastern coast. Although this meadow seems to be under degradation, it is still a good shelter for high species number and high abundance of benthic macroinvertebrates. The highest species richness and abundance has been recorded for sponges, hydrozoans, gastropods, bivalves, polychaetes, echinoderms, bryozoans and ascidians. The sciaphilic and photophilic communities were clearly evident, associated respectively to the P. oceanica rhizomes and leaves. Referring to the species richness and abundance, a rapid assessment of ecological and environmental state of benthic macroinvertebrate community has been done. Other parameters used for the assessment of the state of P. oceanica meadow have also been recorded, and possible reasons for the degradation of the meadow have been highlighted. These assessments of the benthic macroinvertebrate community and the state of seagrass meadow are also important within the framework of monitoring, conservation and management of the only Marine Protected Area of Albania, where Sazani Island is a core area.', u'For tissues to carry out their functions, they rely on the right proteins to be present. Several high-throughput technologies have been used to map out which proteins are expressed in which tissues; however, the data have not previously been systematically compared and integrated. We present a comprehensive evaluation of tissue expression data from a variety of experimental techniques and show that these agree surprisingly well with each other and with results from literature curation and text mining. We further found that most datasets support the assumed but not demonstrated distinction between tissue-specific and ubiquitous expression. By developing comparable confidence scores for all types of evidence, we show that it is possible to improve both quality and coverage by combining the datasets. To facilitate use and visualization of our work, we have developed the TISSUES resource ( http://tissues.jensenlab.org ), which makes all the scored and integrated data available through a single user-friendly web interface.', u'Recent behavioral evidence suggests that dogs, like humans and monkeys, are capable of visual face recognition. But do dogs also exhibit specialized cortical face regions similar to humans and monkeys? Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in six dogs trained to remain motionless during scanning without restraint or sedation, we found a region in the canine temporal lobe that responded significantly more to movies of human faces than to movies of everyday objects. Next, using a new stimulus set to investigate face selectivity in this predefined candidate dog face area, we found that this region responded similarly to images of human faces and dog faces, yet significantly more to both human and dog faces than to images of objects. Such face selectivity was not found in dog primary visual cortex. Taken together, these findings: 1) provide the first evidence for a face-selective region in the temporal cortex of dogs, which cannot be explained by simple low-level visual feature extraction; 2) reveal that neural machinery dedicated to face processing is not unique to primates; and 3) may help explain dogs\u2019 exquisite sensitivity to human social cues.', u'We describe the close relationship between stride, cadence and velocity, as fundamental motion outcomes, in particular for the elderly. Stride (Length, Time, CoV) is a meaningful mobility outcome for clinical intervention trials. Stride variability while motor-cognitive dual-tasking is a sensitive mobility outcome for fall risk and cognitive disorders (e.g. Alzheimer\u2019s disease) at an early stage. Salsa proved to be a safe and feasible exercise programme for older adults accompanied with a high adherence rate', u'Adaptation to pollinators is a key factor of diversification in angiosperms. The Caribbean sister genera Rhytidophyllum and Gesneria present an important diversification of floral characters. Most of their species can be divided in two major pollination syndromes. Large-open flowers with pale colours and great amount of nectar represent the generalist syndrome, while the hummingbird-specialist syndrome corresponds to red tubular flowers with a less important nectar volume. Repeated convergent evolution toward the generalist syndrome in this group suggests that such transitions rely on few genes of moderate to large effect. To test this hypothesis, we built a linkage map and performed a QTL detection for divergent pollination syndrome traits by crossing one specimen of the generalist species Rhytidophyllum auriculatum with one specimen of the hummingbird pollinated R. rupincola. Using geometric morphometrics and univariate traits measurements, we found that floral shape among the second-generation hybrids is correlated with morphological variation observed between generalist and hummingbird-specialist species at the genus level. The QTL analysis showed that colour and nectar volume variation between syndromes involve each one major QTL while floral shape has a more complex genetic basis and rely on few genes of moderate effect. Finally we did not detect any genetic linkage between the QTLs underlying those traits. This genetic independence of traits could have facilitated evolution toward optimal syndromes.', u'The seagrass Posidonia oceanica is widely recognized as an effective bioindicator of the health status of Mediterranean coastal waters. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements, in particular through the Pulse Amplitude Modulated (PAM) fluorometry method, are performed to study aquatic plant ecology and vitality and to assess their responses to diverse stressful factors. However, the current understanding of P. oceanica photosynthetic responses to environmental stresses does only allow scientists to use the PAM-method as a complementary tool to other more-robust monitoring techniques. Consequently, a more in-depth knowledge of the natural causes of variability of P. oceanica photosynthetic responses are a prerequisite to any surveys relying on that time and cost-effective method. In the framework of the STARECAPMED project, this work aimed to determine the influence of several environmental (depth, daytime, season) and plant-specific characteristics (leaf age, leaf part analyzed, epiphytic coverage) on the photosynthetic responses (Y, ETR, RLC) of P. oceanica. Water temperature, irradiance and several biochemical parameters of the seagrass (chl.a, chl.b, C, N, P, micronutrients such as Fe, Cu) were measured as well. The field survey was performed in a pristine meadow in the Calvi Bay, Corsica. Environmental and plant-physiological characteristics deeply influenced P. oceanica photosynthetic responses. As an example, ETR decreased with depth, contrary to Y that mostly increased. ETR was lower in the basal part of leaf blade, and the epiphytic coverage of leaf tips slightly increased their ETR compared to leaf tips cleaned of epiphytes. Depth and leaf part-related variations in RLC were also observed. Because of this natural variability, it appears essential to develop a consensual protocol of chlorophyll fluorescence measurements to publish reliable and comparable results between studies. We therefore notably suggest to perform measurements close to midday, when photosynthetic responses are the highest; at 10-15 m depth in order to avoid, among others, low depth light irradiance variability; on the middle part of the 3rd-4th external leaf, well developed, highly photosynthetic, and little epiphyted. Finally, because P. oceanica fluorescence was correlated with N, P and chl.b leaf contents, the PAM-method could afterwards be used as bioindicator technique, according to the protocol proposed.', u'Human activities generate large volumes of waste that supply marine coastal environments in pathogens, organic matter, nutrients and toxicants. Among the wide range of toxicants are trace elements. Since the latter are toxic for aquatic organisms from threshold levels and as they are therefore likely to cause multiple damage to the population, the community and the ecosystem levels, their environmental occurrence has to be accurately monitored in order to guarantee appropriate environmental management of coastal zones and to preserve marine coastal ecosystems and the goods and services they provide. In the framework of the STARECAPMED project, the present study aimed to monitor, for the first time, the coastal contamination of the entire Mediterranean by As, Ag, Cd, Cu, Hg, Ni and Pb, using Posidonia oceanica as bioindicator species. But sustainable coastal management also requires the development of appropriate contamination classification systems intended, among other purposes, for environmental managers and policy makers. The combined utilization of several complementary monitoring tools, i.e. water quality scale, pollution index (TEPI and TESVI) and spatial analysis (PCA, CA, correlation analysis and GIS mapping) successfully led to the development of an operational classification system of this kind. In particular, the mapping of the trace element contamination according to a new proposed 5-level water quality scale using the quantile method precisely outlined the contamination severity along Mediterranean coasts and facilitated interregional comparisons. The reliability of the use of P. oceanica as bioindicator species was further again demonstrated through several global, regional and local detailed case studies. In conclusion, holistic approaches such as developed in the present study should be privileged to accurately monitor the contamination rate of coastal waters and to transfer relevant information on this composite problem to environmental managers and policy makers.', u'The green alga  Caulerpa cylindracea  has rapidly spread throughout the Western Mediterranean during the last 20 years. Compared with other native benthic communities,  Posidonia oceanica  meadows seems to be highly resistant to the colonization by the alga. Nonetheless, it is suggested that in the long-term  C. cylindracea  could affect the seagrass altering its vitality, structure and functions, however little is known about the interactive effects between these two structuring species. To this end, the abundance of both macrophytes was quantified and monitored in invaded and non-invaded localities of the South Eastern coast of Spain (Murcia Region) over an 8-year period (2007-2014). Results indicate that no differences were highlighted between invaded and no invaded meadows and all the monitored meadows showed stable or progressive trends in shoot density, meadow cover and net population growth. Regardless of the depth, in all of the invaded localities  C. cylindracea  biomass present inside the seagrass leaf canopy was about 10 to 50\u2013fold lower than that measured just outside the leaf canopy. In summary, our results do not support the existence of a long-term competitive interaction between the invasive alga and the native seagrass, at least in the studied meadows and at the meadow level.  C. cylindracea  forms huge biomass gradients associated to the seagrass meadow edges that are stable with time, which suggests the existence of highly limiting conditions for algal growth and survival under the  P. oceanica  leaf canopy. Future research on such limiting factors could help us to understand the invasive capacity of the alga and the factors involved in the resistance of native habitats to bioinvasions.', u'Biological indicators have the capacity to integrate the temporal changes of contaminants, concentrations or fluxes over various time-scales, and are thus considered as interesting tools for water quality biomonitoring. Since the mid-70ies, French programs have developed water monitoring approaches based on the use of bivalve molluscs; and recently the natural background and the extent of water contamination were bioassessed at the scale of the whole western Mediterranean. But even if bivalve molluscs are viewed as reliable bioindicators, their use is not always made easy as a result of their absence in numerous coastal regions that force their transplantation (cages) during several months before their sampling and analysis. This weakness led several scientists to evaluate the bioindicator abilities of other marine organisms. Seagrasses, whose ability to bioaccumulate contaminants proportionally to environmental contamination levels has been clearly demonstrated, have thus been proposed as an appropriate alternative tool for coastal water quality assessment. Very little studies have however so far considered the combined utilization of these two groups of bioindicator organisms, i.e. caged bivalve molluscs and seagrasses. In the framework of the STARECAPMED project, we therefore compared and discussed the bioaccumulation of trace elements in the Neptune grass Posidonia oceanica and in caged Mediterranean mussels Mytilus galloprovincialis. The sampling was performed at the scale of the western Mediterranean. The two species told two contamination stories which, although sometimes different, showed to be complementary. P. oceanica and M. galloprovincialis bioaccumulated dissolved trace elements from the water column and thus provided information regarding trace element contamination severity integrated over several days to a few months. Seagrasses, strongly rooted in the sediments, reflected the long-term exposure to trace elements since sediments offer a degree of time integration over several years to decades. Caged mussels, as filter feeder artificially maintained in the water column, bioaccumulated trace elements from their particulate phase, and therefore gave valuable information regarding continental-terrigenous inputs to coastal waters. In conclusion, seagrasses and mussels should neither supplant, nor substitute, but rather complement each other in order to provide the full time- and space-integrated coastal contamination story of the Mediterranean.', u'The Mar Menor (135 km2 ) is one of the most important hypersaline coastal lagoons in the Western Mediterranean Sea, its bottoms were originally colonized by monospecific meadows of the seagrass  Cymodocea nodosa. However, since the 1970\u2019s, drastic hydrographic changes caused by various human activities has seen the expansion of a number of species common in the adjacent Mediterranean waters, of which development had been limited up to now due to high salinities and temperatures. Among these species, the seaweed  Caulerpa prolifera  and the endangered fan mussel  Pinna nobilis  are those experiencing a broader spread in the lagoon and with a great potential to interact through both bottom-up and top-down processes have, as a result of which they have become key species of the lagoon ecosystem. In fact, previous maps of benthic vegetation suggest a huge decline of seagrass populations as  C. prolifera  has expanded. Moreover, both the algae and the filter feeder could play a key role in the control of planktonic communities, which development in the lagoon waters could have been accelerated in the last decades due to the great enhancement of eutrophication and pollution processes. Therefore, quantification of benthic vegetation communities, in particular  C. nodosa  meadows, and  P. nobilis  populations are crucial for the understanding of the Mar Menor ecosystem, but overall for the management of human activities and the implementation of conservation actions given its current protection status and the urgent need to obey European Directives (Habitats, Water Framework and Marine Strategy). In this context, precise maps of the distribution and abundance of benthic vegetation and  P. nobilis  in the Mar Menor was obtained during the spring-summer of 2014 by means of direct measurements (macrophytes cover, density and biomass and  P. nobilis  density) performed on 57 sampling points and qualitative observations (presence/absence) performed on 189 additional points as well as on 155.5 km of lineal transects using a trawled videocamera. Data obtained suggests that seagrass abundance in the lagoon is much higher than that reported in some previous studies and does not support the hypothesis of a long-term decline.  P. nobilis  has spread over a surface area 56.8% of the lagoon seafloor with a mean density of 2.17 ind.\xb7100 m-2 and maximum values (up to 22.5 ind.\xb7100 m-2) located in the northern part of the lagoon under the maximum influence of the Mediterranean waters.', u'Seagrass meadows are highly productive and key ecosystems that undergo widespread loss due to \u2018climate-related\u2019 and human-mediated stressors as well as natural causes. Therefore, basic information about the distribution, abundance, and characteristics of seagrass meadows and their environment is critical for managers to assess and monitor the resource. Such knowledge is lacking for Morocco and there is a clear need to acquire baseline data for monitoring and protecting these important habitats. The present review summarizes the state of the research and the knowledge on seagrass meadows of the Mediterranean coast of Morocco. Data were assessed using a compilation of historical data compared to recent confirmed observation and field surveys conducted within the framework of several projects (MedMPAnet, Medkeyhabitats, etc.). Of the five species of strictly marine Magnoliophyta found in the Mediterranean Sea, four are also currently identified along the Mediterranean coast of Morocco (Posidonia oceanica, Cymodocea nodosa, Zostera marina and Zostera noltii); the Lessepsian immigrant Halophila stipulacea has not been recorded yet. Apart from C. nodosa, that showed large distribution, the other species remain spatially localized and their distribution has been declining since they have disappeared from many localities. This is the case of Zostera marina that has probably disappeared from many localities (e.g. Cap des Trois Fourches, Marchica lagoon). However, some previous citations, such as the presence of Posidonia oceanica in the Marchica lagoon, seem to be a systematic confusion. Moreover, quantitative data on the characteristics of seagrass meadows are very scarce and many areas of knowledge gaps were identified along the Mediterranean coast of Morocco. An in-depth study of seagrass meadows occurring in Morocco is strongly required and would substantially increase the knowledge on such habitats and help in their conservation.', u'The occurrence of sexual reproduction and flowering synchronization of angiosperms has been widely studied and may be induced by external or internal cues. Although factors such as predator satiation and pollination efficiency may explain why synchronization can increase individual fitness, the actual mechanisms of synchronization are obscure for the majority of plant species. In this study we aimed to assess the importance of ecological and genetic factors in shaping flowering heterogeneity of  Posidonia oceanica  at the small spatial scale (metres), where shoots and patches were subjected to similar levels of the major potential external drivers such as temperature and light availability. We assessed four external ecological factors (vegetative tissue production, leaf nitrogen and carbon content and herbivory) and three genetic factors (heterozygosity, relatedness and clonality). We sampled six patches with contrasting flower abundances at three different localities and analysed whether spatial heterogeneity in the abundance of flowers was due to (1) clone identity and clone synchronization, (2) variation in nutrient availability per individual, potentially caused by spatial heterogeneity in herbivory rates (or nutrient re-location  via  clonal integration) or (3) kin selection and sibling synchronization. Moreover, we also investigated if levels of genetic diversity, specifically observed heterozygosity as a proxy for individual fitness, differ between flowering patches and patches with low flower abundance. We show that genetic factors play a major role: Both internal relatedness and heterozygosity have a significant positive interaction with the abundance of flowers. Moreover, vegetative tissue production and the number of clones per patch were negatively correlated with the number of flowers, although at a low level of significance. Sharing of clones within localities was almost exclusively among patches with high flower abundance and patches with low flower abundance, respectively. Our results support the kin selection hypothesis and indirectly the resource-budget hypothesis, as well as an interaction between genetic factors and environmental factors as cause for the observed heterogeneous flowering patterns. Overall, the results shed new light onto the mechanisms explaining flowering synchronization in  P. oceanica.', u'Studies on stress genes are fundamental to understand how marine organisms maintain or re-estabilish a normal metabolism in face of physical or chemical disturbances. Aquatic organisms are in fact constantly exposed to environmental stimuli and natural and/or dissolved anthropogenic variables/compounds, including both physical (e.g. cold, heat, salinity and pH) and chemical (e.g. heavy metals, hydrocarbons and other pollutants) stressors. Human activities have intensified in coastal area, increasing the number of stressors that act simultaneously over natural systems (e.g. ocean acidification and eutrophication). In this study, Reverse Transcription-Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-qPCR) was used to characterize metabolic processes at the cellular level in response to natural CO2-enrichment and artificial nutrient-enrichment in proximity of a volcanic vent located in the Ischia island (Gulf of Naples, Tyrrhenian Sea). We evaluated the differential expression of selected stress genes in the seagrass Posidonia oceanica collected in a control site and in the vicinity of the CO2 vents. In each location, plants experienced three different nutrient concentrations: natural (without adding any nutrient), low- and high- enrichments. Results show that nutrient addition mainly induced an over-expression of genes codifying for antioxidant proteins, in sites not influenced by CO2-enrichment. In particular, we observed an increase in the activity of glutathione synthase, responsible of the synthesis of the antioxidant protein glutathione. In addition, we also observed the up-regulation of glutathione peroxidase, catalase, ascorbate reductase and cythocrome P450. When analysing the effects of nutrients in the acidified site, trends in expression changes were similar, but expression levels were notably lower. Interestingly, the over-expression of the above mentioned genes was always higher at low nutrient exposure, while other antioxidant enzymes (i.e. glutathione S-transferase and glutathione reductase) were more activated in high nutrient conditions. The difference in response between acidified and control site and in different nutrient conditions seems to derive from the combined affect of multiple stressors, in a way that still remains obscure. Effects of different stressors should be disentangled in order to identify stress-specific genes as early indicators of stressful conditions at sea and during laboratory experiments.', u'The aim of the present study was to determine tolerance to ocean warming of the two main Mediterranean seagrass species Posidonia oceanica and Cymodocea nodosa. To this end, photophysiological and transcriptomic responses of shallow (5m) and deep (25m) plants were studied during a 5-d exposure to heat (32\xb0C) and after a 5-d recovery to ambient temperature (24\xb0C). Observed responses evidenced interspecific differences in heat tolerance in accordance with the biological attributes and ecological strategies of the species, but also intraspecific differences in relation to the depth origin of plants. The smaller and fast-growing species C. nodosa, was able to maintain unaltered leaf carbon budget along heat exposure, thanks to proportionally similar increments in photosynthesis and respiration. Along with this, the lack of alterations at the photochemical and photoprotective levels point to a high tolerance of the species to heat stress. Contrarily, the higher increment in respiration than in photosynthesis showed by the long-lived and slow-growing P. oceanica provoked leaf carbon imbalance after 24h of heat exposure, evidencing its higher sensitivity to heat. Interestingly, shallow plants displayed a higher acclimation capacity and after 5d of exposure their photosynthetic and respiratory rates converged to control conditions, whereas deep plants still evidenced symptoms of heat stress. The progressive photochemical efficiency reduction observed in deep plants, reinforced the idea that deeps plants are less able to tolerate heat. In any case, plants from both depths were able to recover their physiological status after a recovery period, indicating that they did not suffer lethal injury under the experimental conditions here tested. An analysis of gene expression (both RT-qPCR and RNA-seq) is ongoing, to dig into the molecular and physiological mechanisms involved in seagrass tolerance to heat stress. In conclusion, the study suggests that warming caused by human-induced climate change will likely have significant negative effects mainly on P. oceanica populations. The sensibility of the species to heat will finally depend on the local environmental conditions where plants grow (e.g. different depths or latitudes), a fact that must be taken in to account for the establishment of suitable management and conservation strategies.', u'Plants developed several mechanisms to sense light and to cope with its natural diel and seasonal fluctuation. Many species use an endogenous clock to predict signals from the environment and to anticipate circadian light change. Changes in circadian clock genes allow plants to synchronize their physiology with local light and temperature conditions and to adapt to changes in light regimes occurring across environmental gradient (e.g. across latitudes). Understanding the genetic and physiological basis of plants response to the seasonal and daily variation in environmental conditions, could allow to predict the effects on plant physiology of environmental perturbations that could happen in the future, due to anthropogenic pressure and climatic changes. Most of the recently identified genes, associated with endogenous clock in plants, are themselves circadian regulated, with expression peaks phased to occur at a specific time of the day. Here we explore daily variations in the expression of clock genes in the marine angiosperm Posidonia oceanica along its bathymetric distribution, where plants are exposed to a natural cline of light and temperature. To do that, we measured genes expression (by RT-qPCR) of photoreceptors and components of the plant clock at two target depths (5 and 25 meter depth) and at six time points during the day. Sampling was performed in a continuous meadow located in the Bay of Calvi, Corsica (thanks to the ESF Cost Action 0906). We discuss the effects of the influence of the distinct light environments on the peak expression occurring at a specific time of the day between the two depths. Further, we discuss the potential adaptive relevance of these results on P. oceanica fitness and survival.', u'Global climate changes are imposing multiple pressures to marine organisms. The rising atmospheric CO2 concentration is causing substantial changes in ocean physics, chemistry and biology. At least three synergic environmental stressors have been recognized as primary driven by CO2 emissions: ocean warming, oxygen loss and ocean acidification. The effects of CO2-driven ocean acidification on seagrass metabolism remain largely understudied. A few studies have been conducted near submarine volcanic vents, which mimic the future ocean acidification scenarios, allowing researchers to investigate the performance of marine organisms under long-term exposure to high-CO2 levels. Apart from these, some mesocosm-based experiments have investigated growth and physiological responses to high CO2. For this work, we built an outdoor mesocosm facility at the Centre of Marine Sciences\u2019 field station in Algarve, Portugal, to experimentally manipulate CO2 levels and investigate the effects of high-CO2/low pH on seagrass metabolism and underlying molecular mechanisms. Cymodocea nodosa plants were collected in Cadiz Bay at the end of January 2014 and transported to the mesocosm facility. After a one week acclimation period, C. nodosa were either kept under normal (400 ppm) or elevated (1200 ppm) CO2 concentration for 12 days. Water physico-chemical parameters, irradiance, and chlorophyll-fluorescence-derived photosynthetic parameters were monitored on a daily basis. Here we present, for the first time in this species, results obtained using Illumina RNAseq technology and de-novo transcriptome assembly. Using C. nodosa RNAs extracted at the beginning and the end of the experiment, we assembled more than 70 thousands unique transcripts and were able to annotate more than 90% of them using the Annocript pipeline. Differential expression analysis revealed about 500 transcripts significantly differentially regulated between plants kept under control and high-CO2 conditions. Pathways showing largest changes in gene expression included isoprenoid and amino-acid biosynthesis, porphyrin-containing compound metabolism, amine and polyamine biosynthesis, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. Transcriptome sequencing also significantly increases the molecular resources available for C. nodosa, almost completely absent before this study.', u'Seagrass meadows are among the most productive ecosystems, with Posidonia oceanica being the most important species along the Mediterranean coastline. This species forms extensive mono-specific meadows that are extremely sensitive to medium-high levels of disturbance and are being threatened by fast environmental changes caused by global warming and increasing human activities. The impact can either reflect in higher turbidity along the water column and in increased UV radiation, making the light availability one of the most important factors affecting P. oceanica distribution. Plants developed mechanisms of adaptations at multiple levels to track and cope with fluctuations and changes in the light environment. At molecular level, the modulation of gene expression in response to environmental changes allows plants to optimize the utilization of light energy for growth and to prevent damages due to its excess. To detect the relevant molecular adaptation strategies evolved by P. oceanica and to assess the plasticity showed in the acclimation under different light regimes, we are employing studies both in natural and controlled conditions. Here, we describe the differences in photo acclimation of plants living along the bathymetric cline observed in field and in a common garden experiment in mesocosms, after the exposition to contrasting light regimes. Using a transcriptional approach (both RT -qPCR and RNA-seq) coupled with a physiological one, we are also testing potential divergences existing among populations and individuals related to light sensitivity. These data should supply new insights for the management of seagrasses ecosystems, for the development of most successful transplantation strategies and ultimately for conservation of biodiversity of these precious ecosystems.', u'Pinna nobilis spatial distribution have been analysed trough a video - photographic approach in a Posidonia oceanica meadow in the Gulf of Oristano (Sardinia, Italy). In situ visual censuses and 2D/3D georeferenced vertical photographic survey were conducted by SCUBA diving in different sampling transect. The experimental procedure was carried out in the summer of 2014. Data have been processed using the photogrammetric techniques, in particular, in this work we presented the procedure and processing techniques to realize the orthographic planar micro cartography mosaics from photo sequences. Results of this study, although preliminary, showed the time-cost effectiveness of this approach to map the benthic species.', u'Acacia mangium is a fast growing evergreen tree species with average height 30 m, native to the humid tropical forests of Australia, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. In Malaysia, A. mangium is widely propagated for erosion control, fire break and afforestation programs especially in area of degraded forests resulting from logging and shifting agriculture. It is a valuable of tree products namely; timber, pulp, and tannins. The high rate of (LLA) leaf litter accumulation (8,940 kg/ha/yr) serves provides a rich source of crude protein for livestock. However, the high LLA rate results in the deposition of large quantities of lignocellulosic waste materials on the forest floors creating waste disposal management problems. This has been attributed to the increase in forest fires, air pollution and greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions. Therefore novel techniques are urgently required to manage A. mangium leaf litter (AML2). This is study aimed at characterizing the solid biofuel properties of AML2 as a feedstock for biomass energy conversion systems by determining its calorific value, proximate and ultimate analysis as well as its thermal decomposition behaviour using a thermogravimetric (TG) analysis. The results indicate that the elemental content of C ( > 50 %), H ( > 5 %), O ( > 40 %), N ( < 5 %), S ( < 5 %); proximate analysis was M (< 10 %), VM (> 60 %), FC (< 20 %) and A (< 5 %). The calorific value of AML2 is 21.11 MJ/kg which is higher than A. mangium wood (20.58 MJ/kg). In addition, AML2 completely decomposed under pyrolysis conditions from 30 - 800 \xb0C at 5 \xb0C/min. Overall, AML2 possesses outstanding solid biofuel properties which can be exploited for the production of clean energy fuels for the future.', u'Posidonia oceanica  meadows contain huge numbers of shoots and their dynamics are strictly related to spatial distribution patterns of those shoots. In order to investigate the structure of  P. oceanica  meadows at very small spatial scale (i.e. in the 1 cm 2 -1 m 2 range), patterns in shoot distribution were analyzed. Spatial distribution of shoots was recorded by cutting all the leaves and by digitizing shoot location from images of 10 square frames (1 m 2 ), sampled in seemingly uniformly dense meadows at two sites in Southern Italy. Spatial point patterns have been explored testing the sensitivity and robustness through different spatial indices, based on i) nearest neighbour analysis, ii) quadrat counts analysis, iii) fractal dimension. Clark & Evans nearest neighbour distance index has been proved to be the most suitable for aim of the work and it has been selected for the further analysis. Data analysis of the 10 square frames (1 m 2 ) highlighted regular spatial point patterns (R>1; p<0.0001) in most cases (8 frames), while aggregated (R<1; p<0.01) and random (R=1) spatial point patterns were rare. In addition, mean value of nearest neighbour distance of shoots in each square frame analyzed has been shown to be always close to 2 cm (min: 1.73 cm; max: 2.21 cm). The potential implications of this type of data set were highlighted. Both nearest neighbour distance of shoots and spatial point pattern typology (aggregated, random or regular) could provide useful and integrative information for the study of  P. oceanica  macrostructure (e.g. implementation of shoot growth models, development of new descriptors). The raw data, provided by the authors as supplementary material, are currently the first and the only information available about shoot spatial micro-distribution. In this regard, although our data set cannot represent the whole spectrum of variability in  P. oceanica  meadows, it certainly shed some light on the small scale patterns of  P. oceanica  meadows and it prompts us many questions, some of which are still unanswered.', u'In the last decades Posidonia oceanica meadows have been undergoing a strong regression phenomena mainly due to a rapid and high overexploitation of coastal zones (e.g. urban encroachment, waste dumping), that significantly altered their natural characteristics and heavily affected marine ecosystems in the whole Mediterranean Basin. As P. oceanica meadows are protected as priority habitat according to Habitat Directive 1992/43/CEE and Barcelona Convention (16.02.1976) and play an important role within some European Directives (WFD: 2000/60/EC and MSFD: 2008/56/EC) each type of human pressure that potentially produces impacts or changes on Posidonia meadows must be deeply assessed to avoid any negative effect on this sensitive habitat. In this contest, transplant of P. oceanica plants may be necessary to reduce meadow regression or to facilitate meadow recovery, reducing the sacrifice of those portions of meadows destroyed by infrastructural works. The Italian National Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) published the technical volume \u201cPreservation and management of coastal-marine ecosystems: The transplanting of Posidonia oceanica" (in Italian language) with the aim to provide a useful tool for operators and Public Administrators involved in this topic at different levels. The manual contains all available information on transplant of P. oceanica derived from a critical analysis of the existing technical and scientific literature and reports, the legal aspects of this issue as well as the main biological characteristics of P. oceanica meadows. Moreover specific details about different transplant techniques and their results over time in some case studies in Italy, have been presented in specific datasheets enclosed to the manual.', u'Transplantation of seagrasses is considered a useful method to favour the recovery of degraded meadows. Hence, many projects have been carried out worldwide and a manifold of techniques have been applied. However, the choice of transplantation procedures remains a main problem to be assessed. In order to optimize efforts and to minimize risks of plants loss, the applied methodologies should take into account typology of hosting substratum, hydrodynamic conditions, depth and seagrass species. Due to their fundamental ecological role in the Mediterranean coastal system, many restoration projects aiming to preserve Posidonia oceanica meadows took place in the last decades. Several transplantation techniques have produced different results. In fact the same transplanting methodology may originate diverse results under different environmental conditions. Recently, naturalistic engineering techniques developed on land, have been used for transplantations of P. oceanica. Pilot projects concerning small surfaces were carried out between 2006 and 2010. More recently, a large-scale program (0.1 km2) was realized in 2012 at Civitavecchia (Roma, Thyrrenian Sea). The applied technique consists basically of mattresses filled with sand coupled with a net covering able to hold steady in situ the plant rhizomes. These structures have been variously modified in time to be adapted to the different type of substratum and various hydrodynamic conditions of the transplanting sites. Following the results of these transplantation experiences, we analyzed pros and cons of the techniques in order to improve the methodology. Firstly, these techniques may be considered suitable to large-scale projects allowing to minimize transplantation times. Secondly, the rhizomes may be successfully fixed to the structures; the majority of the transplanted shoots was not damaged showing a very good vegetative vitality with the production of new rhizomes, leaves and roots few months after transplanting. Finally, this procedure is flexible, as the basic technique can be modified and tailored to the various environmental conditions of the different receiving site. However, the results obtained in different areas are highly heterogeneous suggesting that a careful selection of the hosting site is a focal point. To this aim, a pilot study before the beginning of large-scale project seems mandatory, providing a fundamental support to guarantee successful results.', u'Almost all extant land turtles are highly associated with terrestrial habitats and the few tortoises with high affinity to aquatic environment are found within the genus Manouria. Manouria belongs to a clade which forms the sister taxon to all remaining tortoises and is suitable to be used as a model for studying evolutionary transitions from water to land within modern turtles. We analysed the feeding behaviour of M. emys and due to its phylogenetic position, we hypothesise that the species might have retained some ancestral characteristics associated to aquatic lifestyle. We tested whether M. emys is able to feed both in aquatic and terrestrial environments as mud turtles do. In fact, M. emys repetitively tried to reach submerged food items in water, but always failed to grasp them and no suction feeding mechanism was applied. When feeding on land, M. emys showed another peculiar behaviour; it grasped food items by its jaws \u2013 a behaviour typical for aquatic or semiaquatic turtles \u2013 and not by the tongue as in the typical feeding mode in all tortoises studied so far. In M. emys, the hyolingual complex remained retracted during all food uptake sequences, but the food transport was entirely lingual based. The kinematical profile significantly differed from those described for other tortoises and from those proposed from the general models on the function of the feeding systems in lower tetrapods. We conclude that the feeding behaviour of M. emys might reflect a remnant of the primordial condition expected in the aquatic ancestor of tortoises.', u'Malaysian black fighting fish Betta persephone Schaller (Teleostei: Osphronemidae) is economically and ecologically important fish in South East Asia notably in Malaysia. The locals keep this fish as ornemental fish as well as biocontrol for mosquitoes larvae. But due to rapid deterioriration of its habitats and economy activities, hence this fish population is decreasing at an alarming level. If this goes unnoticed, the fish may face the risk of extinction. In this review, the author performed a systematic approach to analyse the issues, and propose the ways forward to preserve and sustain this fish both in captivity as well as in its natural habitat.', u'Posidonia oceanica meadows are the preferential habitat for many plant and animal protected species including the mollusc bivalve Pinna nobilis. In this study, we evaluated the importance of the substrate structure for the distribution of the species in the Capo Carbonara Marine Protected Area (Sardinia south east), recognized as a Specially Protected Area of Mediterranean Importance (SPAMI) and Site of Community Importance (SCI ITB040020) of the Natura 2000 network. For this purpose four study areas, exposed to the North West and South East of the Capo Carbonara promontory, and characterized by P. oceanica meadows on both sandy and rocky substrates, with a total area of about 20ha, have been investigated. Visual sightings were conducted in situ during the months of September and October 2013 and 2014 along linear transects at depths between 1 and 10 meters to collect information on the presence, morphometric characteristics and depth of specimens of P. nobilis. A total of 139 individuals were recorded, 126 of them were alive (90.6%) and 13 were dead (9.4%); 51 individuals (36.7%) were found on rocky substrates, with a mortality rate of 6.2%, an average height of 34.4\xb19.9 cm, and at an average depth of 4.7\xb11.7 m. On sandy substrates, the number of individuals was 88 (63.3%), with a mortality rate of 11.4% and average height of 39.65\xb114.3 cm, at the average depth of 5.8\xb12.1 m. This study confirmed the importance of P. oceanica for the distribution of P. nobilis, which showed a preference for P. oceanica meadows set on sandy substrate. Therefore, for the management purposes of the Capo Carbonara Marine Protected Area, it would be interesting to understand which are the main causes of the greater mortality registered on sandy substrate and if these causes are related to environmental (i.e. sedimentation, predation) and/or anthropogenic (i.e. anchoring, collecting) factors.', u'There is an ethical and scientific need for objective, well-validated measures of low mood in captive chimpanzees. We describe the development of a novel cognitive task designed to measure \u2018pessimistic\u2019 bias in judgments of expectation of reward, a cognitive marker of low mood previously validated in a wide range of species, and report training and test data from three common chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). The chimpanzees were trained on an arbitrary visual discrimination in which lifting a pale grey paper cone was associated with reinforcement with a peanut, whereas lifting a dark grey cone was associated with no reward. The discrimination was trained by sequentially presenting the two cone types until significant differences in latency to touch the cone types emerged, and was confirmed by simultaneously presenting both cone types in choice trials. Subjects were subsequently tested on their latency to touch unrewarded cones of three intermediate shades of grey not previously seen. Pessimism was indicated by the similarity between the latency to touch intermediate cones and the latency to touch the trained, unreinforced, dark grey cones. Three subjects completed training and testing, two adult males and one adult female. All subjects learnt the discrimination (107-240 trials), and retained it during five sessions of testing. There was no evidence that latencies to lift intermediate cones increased over testing, as would have occurred if subjects learnt that these were never rewarded, suggesting that the task could be used for repeated testing of individual animals. There was a significant difference between subjects in their relative latencies to touch intermediate cones (pessimism index) that emerged following the second test session, and was not changed by the addition of further data. The most dominant male subject was least pessimistic, and the female most pessimistic. We argue that the task has the potential to be used to assess longitudinal changes in sub-clinical levels of low mood in chimpanzees, however further work with a larger sample of animals is required to validate this claim.', u'Hibernation is a key life history feature that can impact many other crucial aspects of a species\u2019 biology, such as its survival and reproduction. I examined the timing of hibernation and reproduction in the federally endangered New Mexico meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius luteus), which occurs across a broad range of latitudes and elevations in the American Southwest. Data from museum specimens and field studies supported predictions for later emergence and shorter active intervals in montane populations relative to low-elevation populations. A low-elevation population located at Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge (BANWR) in the Rio Grande valley was most similar to other populations of Z. hudsonius: the first emergence date was in mid-May and there was an active interval of 162 days. In montane populations of Z. h. luteus, the date of first emergence was delayed until mid-June and the active interval was reduced to ca 130 days, similar to some populations of the western jumping mouse (Z. princeps). Last date of immergence into hibernation occurred at about the same time in all populations (mid to late October). Evidence suggests that females may have a single litter per year in montane populations. At BANWR two peaks in reproduction were expected based on similarity of active season to Z. h. preblei, but the population exhibited little detectable above-ground activity in August, which could stem from a failure of the population to produce early litters. Recommendations are made with respect to appropriate timing of surveys for Z. h. luteus.', u'As species become rare and approach extinction, purported sightings can be controversial, especially when scarce management resources are at stake. We report a Bayesian model where we consider the probability that each individual sighting is valid. Obtaining these probabilities clearly requires a strict framework to ensure that they are as representative as possible. We used a process, which has proven to provide accurate estimates from a group of experts, to obtain probabilities for the validation of 35 sightings of the Barbary lion. We considered the scenario where experts are simply asked whether a sighting was valid, as well as when we asked them to score the sighting based on distinguishablity, observer competence, and verifiability. We find that asking experts to provide scores for these three aspects resulted in each sighting being considered more individually. Additionally, since the heavy reliance on the choice of prior can often be the downfall of Bayesian methods, we use an informed prior which changes with time.', u'Sponges are one of the main components of Mediterranean benthic ecosystems. Aim of this work was to perform a preliminary survey of conspicuous sponges in the Marine Protected Areas of Capo Caccia \u2013 Isola Piana and Asinara (North-Western Sardinia) harbouring wide Posidonia oceanica meadows. Specimens were photographed in vivo, collected along linear transects in shallow water by snorkeling and SCUBA diving, preserved (dry and/or ethanol) and identified at species level. Preliminary results show notable values of taxonomic richness when compared to previous papers confirming that P. oceanica meadows represent a suitable habitat for sponges. Some sponge species preferentially colonize rhizomes, others are found mainly in inter-mattes areas; only a few species are able to settle on leaves. Rhizomes offer a steady, permanent and shaded substratum, while leaves represent an unsteady substrate been smooth, short-lived, more exposed, and constantly moving. Sponges perform different key functional roles in the meadows: a) they host diversified invertebrate associations providing also refuge for sciaphilous invertebrates and nursery for juveniles at body surface and within canals of the aquiferous system; b) they are able to recycle particulate and dissolved organic matter acting as biofilters (active filter feeders); c) they contribute to improve circulation by pumping activity in the water column producing microcurrents particulary effective in lentic conditions. On the other side, to live in the meadows is very advantageous for sponges, gaining protection against storm surges. However data suggest the need of continuous monitoring to assess the impact of invasive algae such as those belonging to the genus Caulerpa and contribute to shed light on the problem of diversity loss by alien species.', u'Over the last decades, the interest in mapping Posidonia oceanica beds has increased along with the improvement of the equipment\u2019s precision of data acquisition. In Calvi Bay (Corsica, France) the meadows cover an area of about 5 km\xb2 and are found at a depth ranging from 3 m to 37 m. The availability of three distinct datasets for 1997, 2002 and 2010 allowed to assess changes in the patchiness of the meadows in the bay and to investigate evolution of maps precision through a surface analysis via GIS software. Thus, three maps were elaborated combining aerial photographs and side scan sonar images. The meadows percentage of cover through time was assessed using four bathymetric sections: 0-10 m, 11-20 m, 21-30 m and 31-40 m. Differences in the patchiness of P. oceanica meadows between 1997 and 2010 appear to be moderate (less than 3 %) in the sections 0-10 m and 11-20 m and then greatly increase with depth: 24 % at 21-30 m and 39 % at 31-40 m. This amazing regression seems hardly natural and unlikely given the slight quantity of human activities that can cause damages on the P. oceanica meadows of the Calvi Bay. These results are likely to be mainly due to the improvement of precision and resolution of the aerial photographs (5 m in 1997, 0.8 m in 2002 and 0.5 m in 2010) and sonar images (5 m in 1997, 3 m in 2002 and 0.5 m in 2010). An issue of habitat determination (human vs instrumental) linked with the method adopted for mapping can also cause differences in the percentage of cover. Given the different accuracy among the three maps, the real regression and fragmentation of P. oceanica meadows could be hardly assessed. However, in several areas where the human activities are important, a clear regression or even a disappearance of the meadows has been observed. It is obvious that the last maps are more accurate than the previous ones and, thus, the former can be used for management purpose as well as for study on the patchiness; however, they still keep uncertainty no matter which method is used to create them.', u'The marine Site of Community Importance (SCI ITB040020) of the network Natura 2000 is included almost entirely within the perimeter of the Marine Protected Area Capo Carbonara (South East Sardinia, Italy) which is characterized by a high biodiversity, with 720 species and 30 marine habitats reported. Hence, it is recognised as a Specially Protected Area of Mediterranean Importance (SPAMI). During the summer the area is affected by anthropogenic impacts due to recreational activities (e.g. fishing, pleasure boating, swimming, diving) that represents potential threats to some species and protected habitats. This study is part of the project LIFE+ RES MARIS (LIFE13 NAT / IT / 000 433), addressed to the restoration and conservation of marine and terrestrial ecosystems included in the SCI under Habitats Directive 92/43/EEC. The aims is to evaluate the conservation status of the priority habitat 1120 \u201cPosidonia beds\u201d through mapping and characterization of the Posidonia oceanica meadow in areas that previous studies have identified as the most affected by anchoring, for a total surface of about 400 ha. Acoustic methods (Side Scan Sonar), direct visual surveys in SCUBA diving and underwater towed camera are applied. Assessments of coverage of P. oceanica, types of substrate, continuity of the meadow, presence of dead matte, Cymodocea nodosa and benthic alien species (e.g. Caulerpa cylindracea) are reported. Results are crucial for enhancing the knowledge of the current distribution and status of the priority habitat 1120 and is basic for planning further concrete conservation and monitoring measures.', u'In 2014, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) experienced an outbreak of Ebola virus disease (EVD) with 69 reported cases. I fitted an EVD transmission model to data of this outbreak and estimated the basic reproduction number R0 = 5.2 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 4.0-6.7). The model suggests that the net reproduction number Rt fell below unity 28 days (95% CI: 25-34 days) after the onset of symptoms in the index case. This illustrates that early outbreak detection and rapid implementation of control interventions are crucial for preventing wider spread of EVD in rural areas.', u'Technological developments open up new opportunities for collaboration between biodiversity researchers and the general public. Three exemplary case studies were reviewed from literature: digitizing museum specimens, text-mining archived expedition journals and handling environmental monitoring data. Data management principles were applied to refine the ensuing requirements. Specific requirements were found to exist in three areas: collecting data, sharing data and improving data quality. Implications for data governance and quality control are discussed.', u'In October 2014, the UK regional student group of the International Society for Computational Biology, held an inaugural meeting at the University of South Wales, UK. The meeting was targeted at the next generation of computational biologists in the UK, namely the post graduate students and post-doctoral researchers working in the UK. Delegates from 24 British institutes attended the event. This short report summaries the scientific content and activities of this student-led event and a short background of the initiative.', u'Context dependency is a key challenge emerging in metacommunity ecology, which is hindering the development of general ecological theories. River networks and other dendritic systems provide unique systems for examining variation in the processes shaping biodiversity between different metacommunities. We examined biodiversity patterns in five benthic invertebrate datasets, from two drainage basins in central Germany, with the aim of exploring context dependency in these systems. We used variance partitioning to disentangle the variation explained in three biodiversity metrics, including the local contribution to beta diversity (LCBD; a measure of the uniqueness of a site), by proxies of network position (i.e. catchment size and elevation) and local environmental conditions. Contrary to expectation, we found no evidence of a decline in LCBD downstream in our study. Local habitat conditions and catchment land use played a much stronger role than catchment size and elevation in explaining biodiversity metrics. Observed patterns were highly variable between different datasets in our study. These findings suggest that factors shaping biodiversity patterns in these systems are highly context dependent and less related to their position along the river network than local habitat conditions. Given the clear context dependency between datasets, we urge researchers to focus on disentangling the factors driving the high levels of variability between individual systems through the simultaneous study of a number of replicate metacommunities.', u'Background. The recent data on Panchelonioidea\u2019s phylogeny suggested the family level relationships as (Toxochelyidae, (Cheloniidae, (Protostegidae, Dermochelyidae))). Despite the similarity between their limbs, it is known that the flippers morphology on marine turtles evolved independently in these clades. A remarkable feature is the presence of phalangeal condyles in Toxochelyidae and basal Protostegidae, a plesiomorphic state that allows the movement of the hand. On the other hand, the apomorphic state of having a rigid paddle is found in modern turtles (Cheloniidae and Dermochelyidae). Also, living Chelonioidea (Cheloniidae and Dermochelyidae) has the longest length of the hand and the shortest length of the humerus compared to other Testudines, as analyzed by Joyce and Gauthier (2004, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B, 271). Methods. We took measurements of the forelimb (the length of humerus, ulna and digit III) from five Panchelonioidea fossil species (Protostega gigas, Toxochelys latiremys, Allopleuron hoffmanni, Eochelone brabantica and Archelon ischyros) using ImageJ 1.48v. The percentages of the length of the hand and the humerus with respect to the whole limb were then calculated. The percentages of the five species were added to the two-dimension ternary diagram made by Joyce and Gauthier (2004) in order to evaluate the plot of these species and compare them to other turtles. Results. Archelon ischyros was plotted near Toxochelys latiremys. The Toxochelidae are the sister group of Chelonioidea and they are known to have a poor development of the limbs into flippers and a preference for shallow and benthic habitat. Both were located near non-marine turtle species, showing that they had the relatively shortest hand within Panchelonioidea, whereas Protostega gigas, Allopleuron hoffmanni and Eochelone brabantica was plotted close to the recent Cheloniidae. Discussion. The results suggest a less pelagic habitat for Protostega gigas and Archelon ischyros, resembling a hypothesis formulated by Hay (1905, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., 21) that Archelon was not as pelagic as Dermochelys and by Wieland (1909, Am. Jour. Sci., 27) that this species did not have a powerful type of muscular insertion, maybe indicating a less strong swimming power. These results together with the fact that basal species of Protostegidae retain the phalangeal condyles, suggests that after the split between these families, the flippers retained the primitive length of limbs. It also brings back a Zangerl\u2019s hypothesis (1980, Amer. Zool., 20) of a Chelydra-like ancestor for Panchelonioidea, with unspecialized limbs. As conclusion, we suggest that Panchelonioidea ancestor flipper condition would last in stem Toxochelyidae and stem Chelonioidea and then get independently specialized in Cheloniidae and Dermochelyidae.', u'Over the last decade, the emergence of high-throughput sequencing has led to an increase in both the size and scope of genome sequencing projects. Although genome sequencing and analysis has changed dramatically during this time, the way read alignments are visualised has remained largely unchanged. To address the problem of visualising growing sequencing datasets, we have developed DiscoPlot, a tool for visualising read alignments using a two-dimensional scatterplot. DiscoPlot allows the user to quickly identify genomic rearrangements, misassemblies and sequencing artefacts by providing a scalable method for visualising large sections of the genome. It reads single-end or paired read alignments in SAM, BAM or standard BLAST tab format and creates a scatter plot of opaque crosses representing the alignments to a reference. DiscoPlot is freely available (under a GPL license) for download (Mac OS X, Unix and Windows) at https://mjsull.github.io/DiscoPlot.', u'Contiguity is an interactive software for the visualization and manipulation of de novo genome assemblies. Contiguity creates and displays information on contig adjacency which is contextualized by the simultaneous display of a comparison between assembled contigs and reference sequence. Where scaffolders allow unambiguous connections between contigs to be resolved into a single scaffold, Contiguity allows the user to create all potential scaffolds in ambiguous regions of the genome. This enables the resolution of novel sequence or structural variants from the assembly. In addition, Contiguity provides a sequencing and assembly agnostic approach for the creation of contig adjacency graphs. To maximize the number of contig adjacencies determined, Contiguity combines information from read pair mappings, sequence overlap and De Bruijn graph exploration. We demonstrate how highly sensitive graphs can be achieved using this method. Contig adjacency graphs allow the user to visualize potential arrangements of contigs in unresolvable areas of the genome. By combining adjacency information with comparative genomics, Contiguity provides an intuitive approach for exploring and improving sequence assemblies. It is also useful in guiding manual closure of long read sequence assemblies. Contiguity is an open source application, implemented using Python and the Tkinter GUI package that can run on any Unix, OSX and Windows operating system. It has been designed and optimized for bacterial assemblies. Contiguity is available at http://mjsull.github.io/Contiguity .', u'Epiphytes cover on Posidonia oceanica leaves in the area affected by Costa Concordia wreck (Giglio Island, Tuscany, Italy) have been assessed as indicator of environmental quality within the integrated monitoring plan set up after the accident. Bryozoans have wide habitat distribution and are one of the most common sessile organisms in the epiphytic community of P. oceanica, have large species diversity and so are potential indicators of environmental factors and changes. The samples were taken from shortly after the sinking of the ship until just before the removal of the wreck in July (2012, 2013 and 2014). Three sampling sites were selected according to an asymmetric hierarchical experimental design. Three sampling areas of approximately 5 \xd7 5 m and tens of meters apart from each other were randomly selected in each site. Five orthotropic shoots were collected haphazardly for each area. The sites were differently related to the influence of the wreck; one impact and two control sites. Percentage cover of bryozoan species was evaluated on the whole internal face of the four outer leaves per shoot. The analysis of the epiphyte community allowed us to identify most species normally present on these substrates. Besides a high natural spatio-temporal variability, feeble differences in the bryozoan assemblages were detected between the site near the wreck and the control sites, probably as a consequence of several synergic effects, firstly to the physical presence of the wreck and of the wreck removal yard.', u'Seagrass meadow characteristics, including distribution, shape, size, and within-meadow architectural features may be influenced by various physical factors, including hydrodynamic forces. However, such influence has hardly been assessed for meadows of the ecologically important and endemic Mediterranean seagrass Posidonia oceanica. Estimates of wind- generated wave energy and the energy attenuated by depth were computed by a hydrodynamic model, WEMo (Wave Exposure Model), for five sites on the north-eastern coast of the Maltese Islands which each supported patchy, reticulate and continuous bed types of Posidonia oceanica. The distribution of P. oceanica meadows at these sites were mapped to a depth of circa 15m using a combination of aerial photography and SCUBA diving surveys. Data on meadow architectural attributes were collected for each of the three P. oceanica bed types at each of the five study sites. Metrics for P. oceanica landscape features were calculated via FRAGSTATS v4 for replicate 2500m2 subsamples that were extracted from the seagrass habitat maps. The results indicate that landscape and architectural features of relatively deep P. oceanica meadows are significantly influenced by the hydrodynamic setting. P. oceanica meadows tend to be patchier with lower overall cover, more complex patch shapes and reduced architectural complexity along a wave exposure gradient from low to high energy. The findings from the present study highlight the importance of understanding the influence of hydrodynamic factors on the natural dynamism of seagrass meadow landscape and architecture for the conservation and management of P. oceanica habitat.', u'Studies investigating changes in community composition in response to recent climate warming are mostly restricted to one-dimensional (e.g. latitudinal) gradients, whereas species movements are in reality three dimensional. Based on 3,245 benthic invertebrate samples from Central European streams over large altitudinal, latitudinal and longitudinal gradients, and covering the period 1986-2009, we have developed an advanced community temperature index (CTI). This CTI enables the analysis of three-dimensional community range shifts not only in freshwater but also in marine and terrestrial environments. Overall, and in contrast to terrestrial species, benthic invertebrate communities have been able to keep up with recent climate warming. However, their ability to track temperature shifts differed grossly between the three spatial dimensions, with the strongest response to elevation. Nevertheless, the price these communities had to pay was high, as total benthic invertebrate abundance and richness in low-temperature dwelling species have already declined by 21% and 52.5%, respectively. Our approach has emphasized the complex reaction of species towards increasing temperatures, allowing a more complete picture of the subtle community shifts in response to climate change.', u'Conservation initiatives to protect valued species communities in human-dominated landscapes face challenges linked to their potential costs. Conservation covenants on private land may represent a cost-effective alternative to land purchase, although many questions on the long-term monitoring and enforcement costs of covenants and the risk of violation or legal challenges remain unquantified. We explore the cost-effectiveness of conservation covenants, defined here as the fraction of the high-biodiversity landscape potentially protected via investment in covenants versus land purchase. We show that covenant violation and dispute rates substantially affect the estimated long-term cost-effectiveness of a covenant versus land purchase strategy. Our results suggest the long-term cost-effectiveness of conservation covenants may outperform land purchase as a strategy to protect biodiversity as long as disputes and legal challenges are low, but point to a critical need for monitoring data to reduce uncertainty and maximize conservation investment cost-effectiveness.', u'Mobility is one of the most important bodily functions of persons with Multiple Sclerosis. Cross-sectional data as well as preliminary findings from a short baseline to treatment studies indicate a poor ecological validity of clinical gait tests. Real-life use of accelerometer should be used to assess mobility in MS. Advanced MRI techniques such as probabilistic tractography might help to narrow the gap between structural imaging as a marker of neurodegeneration and real-life performance in Multiple Sclerosis.', u"A major problem in the field of Parkinson's disease (PD) is that there is no objective assessment tool for PD symptoms to date. At the moment data are mostly collected with questionaires, interviews, or clinical scales. This makes the assessment of changes in the course of the disease, due to training or due to medication very difficult for patients and medical staff. A way to solve this issue is the objective measurement of movements (in patients with PD) with (small) body-worn sensor units containing accelerometers, gyroscopes and magnetometers.\nThere are four main fields of applications of these sensor units in PD:\n1) Measuring symptoms and instrumented clinical scales;\n2) Instrumented functional assessments;\n3) Quantification of daily activity;\n4) Technology-assisted neurorehabilitation;\nIn the talk examples of these four fields of applications have been discussed.", u'An overarching goal of biology is to understand how evolutionary and ecological processes generate and maintain biodiversity. While evolutionary biologists interested in biodiversity tend to focus on the mechanisms controlling rates of evolution and how this influences the phylogenetic relationship among species, ecologists attempt to explain the distribution and abundance of taxa based upon interactions among species and their environment. Recently, a more concerted effort has been made to integrate some of the theoretical and empirical approaches from the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology. This integration has been motivated in part by the growing evidence that evolution can happen on \u201crapid\u201d or contemporary time scales, suggesting that eco-evolutionary feedbacks can alter system dynamics in ways that cannot be predicted based on ecological principles alone. As such, it may be inappropriate to ignore evolutionary processes when attempting to understand ecological phenomena in natural and managed ecosystems. In this chapter, we highlight why it is particularly important to consider eco-evolutionary feedbacks for microbial populations. We emphasize some of the major processes that are thought to influence the strength of eco-evolutionary dynamics, provide an overview of methods used to quantify the relative importance of ecology and evolution, and showcase the importance of considering evolution in a community context and how this may influence the dynamics and stability of microbial systems under novel environmental conditions.', u'Vibrio variabilis strain T01 was isolated from the coastal waters in Hulu Selangor, Malaysia and its genome sequenced. This curved gram-negative bacterium shows cell-to-cell communication properties. The characteristics of the sequenced genome and its annotation processes are described here. The finished assembled whole genome of T01T exhibits genome size of 4,529,728 bp in 83 contigs with 46.22% G+C content, 4053 protein coding genes and 94 RNA genes. The whole genome analysis revealed the presence of quorum sensing signalling molecule synthase gene (luxM) which is crucial to understand the quorum sensing dependent phenotypes in this isolate.', u'Rothschild (2014) argues that many tyrannosaurid tooth marks left on isolated dinosaur bones cannot be attributable to their feeding behavior but instead, can be attributable to their play behavior. However, the evidence suggested by Rothschild (2014) are very weak. Carnivores do consume parts like pes, which claimed to be not attractive to carnivores. Also, isolated bones do not suggest that the part was already isolated when the animal bit it and carnivores do not always consume bones even if they have the ability to do so. This suggests that tyrannosaurid bite marks on isolated bones, do represent feeding behavior.', u'The Elements of Metacommunity Structure (EMS) framework gives rise to important ecological insights through the distinction of metacommunities into several different idealised structures. We examined the EMS in assemblages occupying a low-mountain river system in central Germany, sampled over three consecutive years. We compared the idealised distributions of assemblages in both the riparian floodplain zone (carabid beetles and spiders) and the benthic instream environment (benthic invertebrates). We further grouped instream organisms into taxonomic and trait groups to examine whether greater competition signal emerges in more similar species groups. We found little evidence of strong competition, even for trait-modality groups, and nestedness was almost non-existent. In addition to random distributions, Gleasonian distributions (indicating clear, but individualistic turnover between sites) were the most commonly identified structure. Clear differences were apparent between different trait groups, particularly between within-trait modalities. These were most evident for different dispersal modes and life cycle durations, with strong dispersers showing possible signs of mass effects. While random distributions may have partly reflected small sample sizes, clearly coherent patterns were evident for many groups, indicating a sufficient gradient in environmental conditions. The prevalence of random distributions suggests many species are responding to a variety of environmental filters in these river-floodplain metacommunities in an anthropogenically-dominated landscape, whereas Gleasonian distributions indicate species are responding idiosyncratically to a primary environmental gradient. Our findings further emphasise the prevalence of context dependency (spatio-temporal variability) in metacommunity studies and emphasise the need to further disentangle the causes of such variation.', u'The origin of mammalian endothermy has long been held to reside within the early therapsid groups. However, shared histological characteristics have been observed in the bone matrix and vascularity between Ophiacodontidae and the later therapsids (Synapsida). Historically, this coincidence has been explained as simply a reflection of the presumed aquatic lifestyle of Ophiacodon or even a sign of immaturity. Here we show, by histologically sampling an ontogenetic series of Ophiacodon humeri, as well as additional material, the existence of true fibrolamellar bone in the postcranial bones of a member of \u2018Pelycosauria\u2019. Our findings have reaffirmed what previous studies first described as fast growing tissue, and by proxy, have disproven that the highly vascularized cortex is simply a reflection of young age. This tissue demonstrates the classic histological characteristics of true fibrolamellar bone (FLB). The cortex consists of primary osteons in a woven bone matrix and remains highly vascularized throughout ontogeny providing evidence to fast skeletal growth. Overall, the FLB tissue we have described in Ophiacodon is more derived or \u201cmammal-like\u201d in terms of the osteonal development, bone matrix, and skeletal growth then what has been described thus far for any other pelycosaur taxa. Ophioacodon bone histology does not show well-developed Haversian tissue. With regards to the histological record, our results remain inconclusive as to the preferred ecology of Ophiacodon, but support the growing evidence for an aquatic lifestyle. Our findings have set the evolutionary origins of modern mammalian endothermy and high skeletal growth rates back approximately 20 M.Y. to the Early Permian, and by phylogenetic extension perhaps the Late Carboniferous.', u'Background:  The somatic mutation theory as the origin of cancer (carcinogenesis) was born some 100 years ago, when Theodor Boveri 1914 suggested that a combination of chromosomal defects may result in cancer. This was followed by Karl-Heinrich Bauer in 1928 suggesting that mutations could cause cancer. Subsequently, in 1953 Carl Nordling proposed that a number of mutated genes could cause cancer. Alfred Knudson in 1971 proposed that one hit (one mutation) would result in a clone of cancerous cells. This was modified to a 2-hit-theory later and it seems that cancer biology has continued to try to bolster the somatic mutation theory by recently suggesting that \u2018driver\u2019 and \u2018passenger\u2019 mutations were necessary and when this proved insufficient, others proposed the hyper-mutation theory in 2014. In the attempt to clothe the Emperor, it was forgotten that mutations found in advanced cancers are either late events or epiphenomena that occur after carcinogenesis (cancer development) and especially after the appearance of a pre-cancerous niche. Reality: Fewer than 10% of cancers are proven to be hereditary (i.e., causally related to germline mutations) and this ratio is even lower in cancers of the stomach (<1%), the colorectum (3-8%) and breast (8%). Infection-triggered cancers constitute some 15% of all cancers and the remaining about some 80% cancers are sporadic, meaning their cause is unknown. New cancer paradigm: Findings from the plant and animal kingdoms, molecular and clinical data over the last 250 years were critically reviewed and gave rise to a new cancer hypothesis containing a multi-step process of 6 sequences. These include, (1) a pathogenic biological or chemical stimulus is followed by (2) chronic inflammation, from which develops (3) fibrosis with associated changes in the cellular microenvironment. These remodeling changes result in a (4) pre-cancerous niche, which triggers the deployment of (5) a chronic stress escape strategy, and when this fails to resolve, (6) a transition of a normal cell to a cancer cell occurs. Consequences: This recently proposed cancer model explains the origins of the vast majority of cancers which are until now were referred to as \u2018sporadic\u2019 cancers. Furthermore, this theory points out the need to establish preventive measures long before a cancer becomes clinically apparent. The epistemology of the origin of cancer is reviewed and presented.', u'Metabarcoding is an emerging genetic tool to rapidly assess biodiversity in ecosystems. It involves high-throughput sequencing of a standard gene from an environmental sample and comparison to a reference database. However, no consensus has emerged regarding laboratory pipelines to screen species diversity and infer species abundances from environmental samples. In particular, the effect of primer bias and the detection limit for specimens with a low biomass has not been systematically examined, when processing samples in bulk. We developed and tested a DNA metabarcoding protocol that utilises the standard cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) barcoding fragment to detect freshwater macroinvertebrate taxa. DNA was extracted in bulk, amplified in a single PCR step, and purified, and the libraries were directly sequenced in two independent MiSeq runs (300-bp paired-end reads). Specifically, we assessed the influence of specimen biomass on sequence read abundance by sequencing 31 specimens of a stonefly species with known haplotypes spanning three orders of magnitude in biomass (experiment I). Then, we tested the recovery of 52 different freshwater invertebrate taxa of similar biomass using the same standard barcoding primers (experiment II). Each experiment was replicated ten times to maximise statistical power. The results of both experiments were consistent across replicates. We found a distinct positive correlation between species biomass and resulting numbers of MiSeq reads. Furthermore, we reliably recovered 83% of the 52 taxa used to test primer bias. However, sequence abundance varied by four orders of magnitudes between taxa despite the use of similar amounts of biomass. Our metabarcoding approach yielded reliable results for high-throughput assessments. However, the results indicated that primer efficiency is highly species-specific, which would prevent straightforward assessments of species abundance and biomass in a sample. Thus, PCR-based metabarcoding assessments of biodiversity should rely on presence-absence metrics.', u'The metabolic syndrome (MS) affects 21-53% of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with a higher prevalence in the early stages of COPD, with results being highly variable between studies. MS may also correlate with disease characteristics. The aim of the study is to examine the prevalence of MS and its correlation with comorbidities and COPD characteristics in patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation. 152 patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation were studied for presence of MS. All of them were also assessed for vitamin D status and diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM). Data were gathered for smoking status and exacerbations during the last year. All patients completed CAT (COPD assessment test) and mMRC (Modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea scale) questionnaires and underwent spirometry. Duration of current hospital stay was recorded. 25% of patients have MS. 23,1% of the male and 29,5% of the female patients have MS (p>0.05). The prevalence of MS in this study is significantly lower when compared to a national representative study (44,6% in subjects over 45 years). 69,1% of all patients and 97,4% from MS patients have arterial hypertension. The presence of MS is associated with significantly worse cough and sleep (1st and 7th CAT questions; p=0.002 and p=0.001 respectively) and higher total CAT score (p=0.017). Average BMI is 27,31. None of the patients have MS and BMI <25. There is a correlation between the presence of MS and DM (p=0.008) and with the number of exacerbations in the last year (p=0.015). There is no correlation between the presence of MS and the pulmonary function. This study among hospitalized COPD patients finds comparable but relatively low prevalence of MS (25%) compared to previously published data (21-53%) and lower prevalence compared to general population (44,6%). MS may impact natural course and the number of exacerbations of COPD. Having in mind that MS is more common in the early stages and decreases with COPD progression, the COPD patients admitted for exacerbation may be considered as having advanced COPD.', u'Objective:  Bringing together genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and other \u2013omics technologies is an important step towards developing highly personalized medicine. However, instrumentation has advances far beyond expectations and now we are able to generate data faster than it can be interpreted. Materials and Methods:  We have developed PANDA ( P athway AND A nnotation) Explorer, a visualization tool that integrates gene-level annotation in the context of biological pathways to help interpret complex data from disparate sources. PANDA is a web-based application that displays data in the context of well-studied pathways like KEGG, BioCarta, and PharmGKB. PANDA represents data/annotations as icons in the graph while maintaining the other data elements (i.e. other columns for the table of annotations). Custom pathways from underrepresented diseases can be imported when existing data sources are inadequate. PANDA also allows sharing annotations among collaborators. Results  : In our first use case, we show how easy it is to view supplemental data from a manuscript in the context of a user\u2019s own data. Another use-case is provided describing how PANDA was leveraged to design a treatment strategy from the somatic variants found in the tumor of a patient with metastatic sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma. Conclusion  : PANDA facilitates the interpretation of gene-centric annotations by visually integrating this information with context of biological pathways. The application can be downloaded or used directly from our website http://bioinformaticstools.mayo.edu/research/panda-viewer/.', u'Colonial pinnipeds may be subject to substantial consumptive competition because they are large, slow-moving central place foragers. We examined possible mechanisms for reducing this competition by examining the diving behaviour of harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) after equipping 34 seals (11 females, 23 males) foraging from three locations; R\xf8m\xf8, Denmark and Lorenzenplate and Helgoland, Germany, in the Wadden Sea area with time-depth recorders. Analysis of 319,021 dives revealed little between-colony variation but appreciable inter-sex differences, with males diving deeper than females, but for shorter periods. Males also had higher vertical descent rates. This result suggests that males may have higher overall swim speeds, which would increase higher oxygen consumption, and may explain the shorter dive durations compared to females. Intersex variation in swim speed alone is predicted to lead to fundamental differences in the time use of three-dimensional space, which may help reduce consumptive competition in harbour seals and other colonial pinnipeds.', u'Marine coastal ecosystems are facing compositional and functional changes due to the increasing human footprint worldwide, and the assessment of their long-term changes becomes particularly challenging in this new "Anthropocene Epoch". Measures of change can be done by comparing the present ecosystem status to a defined baseline representing the reference condition. The "syndrome" of the sliding (or shifting) baselines, which describes the incremental lowering of ecological standards, has become a major concern when long-term changes have to be assessed because an already degraded environment status could be accepted as reference. The challenge of delineating ecosystems change in the context of sliding baselines is particularly relevant along highly anthropized coasts, as the case of the Liguria (NW Mediterranean Sea), where pristine coastal areas could not be expected anymore. The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD, 2008/56/EEC) suggests three approaches to define reference conditions: i) comparison with the status in Marine Protected Areas (MPAs); ii) use of historical information; iii) modelling. Here we report recent applications of these three approaches in Liguria to assess the status of seagrass meadow ecosystem. Ligurian MPAs are too recent and often insufficiently enforced, so that Posidonia oceanica meadows developing in MPAs are far from the expected good ecological status. Available historical information on seagrass distribution was sometime unreliable. Models are promising but face intellectual difficulties (e.g., choice of descriptors). Validating historical data with predictive models showed effective in delineating the trajectory of change experienced by the Ligurian seagrass meadows. Many meadows have been lost and most are showing structural degradation, which favoured the substitution by alien green algae of the genus Caulerpa and triggered a phase shift in the seagrass ecosystems, with the consequent loss of biodiversity, functioning and economic value of the ecosystem services provided by healthy meadows.', u'Continuous measurements of sap flow have been widely used to estimate water flux through tree stems and branches. However, stem-level measurements lack the resolution necessary for accurately determining fine-scale, leaf-level responses to environmental variables. We used the heat ratio method to measure sap flow rates through leaf petioles and leaflet petiolules of saplings of the tropical tree Tabebuia rosea (Bignoniaceae) to determine how leaf and leaflet sap flow responds to variation in photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and vapor pressure deficit (VPD). In the morning sap flow rates to east-facing leaves increased 26 minutes before adjacent west-facing leaves. Integrated daily sap flow was negatively correlated with daily mean VPD, and sap flow declined when VPD exceeded 2.2 kPa whether this occurred in the morning or afternoon, consistent with a feedforward response to humidity. Indeed, changes in VPD lagged behind changes in sap flow. In contrast, changes in PAR often preceded changes in sap flow. The sap flow-VPD relationship was characterized by two distinct patterns of hysteresis, while the sap flow-PAR relationship displayed three types of hysteresis, and the type of VPD hysteresis that occurred on a given day was correlated with the type of PAR hysteresis occurring on that day. These patterns highlight how multiple environmental drivers interact to control leaf sap flux and that the development of sap flow sensors capable of measuring individual leaves could drastically influence the amount of data recordable for these structures.', u'The International Marine Park of the Strait of Bonifacio and the National Park of La Maddalena have started a series of investigations in the marine areas under their jurisdiction. Through the European project, GECT (European Group of Territorial Cooperation), studies have been carried out to define the type, the structural characteristics of the Posidonia oceanica seagrass and to evaluate the impact of dropping anchors. The study, carried out by a team of experts from the institutions named above, used shared methodologies in relation to the same type of challenges and problems. The study areas on the Sardinian side were Passo Asinelli pass, Porto della Madonna harbor and Cala Portese cove. For each site two stations were identified, a monitoring and a control one. The type of meadow, its morphological and structural characteristics (matte, rocks, degree of fragmentation, height of matte, etc.) and the possible presence of marks/signs caused by the dropping of anchors were assessed in selected areas. The compactness of the matte, estimated using a penetrometer, the percentage of seabed covered by the plant and density were assessed by direct method by divers. The results for the leaf density show the meadows are in regression; however, there are better conditions in Porto Madonna where the monitoring and control stations show density near to normal values. Particularly low values were measured in Passo Asinelli where, despite prohibitions, the high pressure of tourism generates stress to the plant formation. The leaf standing crop, the leaf area index and measures penetrometric lead to conclusions almost similar indicating best ecological conditions in Porto Madonna, confirming previous results. The indicators used show an ecological status of lesser quality for the sites of both Passo Asinelli and, more visible, of Cala Portese. Porto Madonna, on the other hand, shows values equal to the minimum requirements for a meadow surface.', u'The aim of this study is to quantize mental stress by integrating different physiological markers like reaction time, photoplethysmograph (PPG), heart rate variability (HRV) and subjective markers like questionnaire. The study included 10 subjects of age between 22 and 26 years. Study materials include the results of PSS questionnaire, simple reaction time, PPG data, HRV data during a stress inducing stroop test. The study suggests that mental stress can be quantized when stress is induced acquisitively and more accurate quantification of stress can be achieved by integrating many physiological parameters.', u'Aging has been defined as the loss of function and ability to interact with the environment. The social perception of aging involves the inability to live independently due to loss of mobility, cognition, and sensory functions. Aging is a risk factor for pathology including cancer, cardiovascular disease, metabolic disease, and neurodegenerative disease. Due to these accompanying conditions, the esteem and respect once regarded for old age has been replaced by efforts to postpone, stop, or even reverse the aging process. Anti-aging medicine has gained popularity through media and marketing as companies have promoted an approach to delaying the side effects of aging through diet, exercise, supplements and hormonal therapy. The following is a comprehensive review of current research into potential strategies for anti-aging therapy and longevity, supported by current scientific and clinical research.', u'Coastal areas are characterized by several disturbances due to the presence of numerous anthropic activities that may alter the health status and ecological functioning of Posidonia oceanica meadows. The reduction of seawater transparency and the increase of sedimentation rate are among the main causes of their regression. This work is focused on the northern Latium coast (Central Tyrrhenian Sea), from Marina di Tarquinia to Santa Severa. Over time, alteration of river run-off (change in land use, captation along rivers, etc.) and dredging activities carried out within the Civitavecchia harbour, have led to the dispersion of a large amount of fine materials in the marine environment. In this area, four Sites of Community Importance were identified according to the Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC), due to the presence of P. oceanica beds. Meadows are fragmented and discontinuous also because the high geomorphological heterogeneity. The aim of this work has been to evaluate the effects of the reduction of seawater transparency and the alteration of sedimentation rate on the meadows due to dredging activities. The evaluation of meadows health status from 2002 to 2013 was performed by structural (shoot density and coverage) and functional (leaf biometry) standard descriptors analysis. In the same period, the water transparency and the sedimentation rate have been analysed using numerical models able to distinguish between river and dredging contributions. The simulations of dredged sediments transport have highlighted as the plume is transported mainly to the north, with high concentration values near the shoreline; for this reason the evaluations of shoot density of P. oceanica meadows located near the harbour and far from the coast have not shown a decrease over the years. In the meadow further north, where the concentration of dredged suspended materials is decreasing, the reduction in shoot number is mainly due to the sediment plumes of the Marta and Mignone rivers.', u'Here we share a rich gait data set collected from fifteen subjects walking at three speeds on an instrumented treadmill. Each trial consists of 120 seconds of normal walking and 480 seconds of walking while being longitudinally perturbed during each stance phase with pseudo-random fluctuations in the speed of the treadmill belt. A total of approximately 1.5 hours of normal walking (>5000 gait cycles) and 6 hours of perturbed walking (>20,000 gait cycles) is included in the data set. We provide full body marker trajectories and ground reaction loads in addition to a presentation of processed data that includes gait events, 2D joint angles, angular rates, and joint torques along with the open source software used for the computations. The protocol is described in detail and supported with additional elaborate meta data for each trial. This data can likely be useful for validating or generating mathematical models that are capable of simulating normal periodic gait and non-periodic, perturbed gaits.', u'After the year 1869, a major change in the Mediterranean marine ecosystem occurred. A pathway called Suez Canal was created allowing the passage of alien invasive species from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, which is currently harboring over 900 introduced marine species. About 54% of these established non-native species reached through the Suez Canal. Whilst most of the studies dealing with marine invasive species focused on the Mediterranean, very few were done in the Suez Canal itself. The goal of this study is to review the distribution and current status of two invasive marine plants in the Suez Canal, specifically the Bitter Lakes area. This area was selected because of its special environmental conditions and its importance as a major fishing ground in the entire canal. Visual observations of the marine vegetation in the study sites were carried out starting year 2001.  Halophila stipulacea  , a tropical seagrass distributed along the coasts of the western Indian Ocean and the Red Sea, has migrated and is widely found around the Mediterranean. It was recorded in the Suez Canal by the Cambridge Expedition in 1924 and is known to occur in the shallow sandy-muddy bottom areas along its western coast. Since 2000, different studies along the Bitter Lakes have shown total disappearance of seagrass meadows caused by another invader that have replaced the seagrass plants and reached a percentage cover of nearly 100% in some of the studied sites. A new intruder was the green seaweed  Caulerpa prolifera, a Mediterranean algal species that was recorded in the Gulf of Suez in 1984, among few species migrated from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea. It has rapidly colonized different locations in the Suez Canal replacing  H. stipulacea  meadows. However, in 2004, a dramatic change took place in the study area where  C. prolifera  began diminishing allowing the previously found  H. stipulacea  to inhabit the seafloor. While salinity reduction from hypersaline conditions \u2013 due to growing of coastal communities along the Bitter Lakes with more fresh water discharge \u2013 may cause the expansion of  C. prolifera  in the study area, the reasons why it declined and disappeared are still unclear.', u'Objective measurement of real-world fall events by using body-worn sensor devices can improve the understanding of falls in older people and enable new technology to prevent, predict, and automatically recognize falls. However, relative to the required recording time, these events are rare and hence challenging to capture. Therefore, the FARSEEING (FAll Repository for the design of Smart and sElf-adapaive Environments prolonging INdependent livinG) consortium and associated partners established a meta-database of signals from real-world falls. Until the end of 2014, 397 falls were measured and reported. This includes falls data from several settings and disease groups, mainly geriatric rehabilitation, Parkinson\u2019s disease, cerebellar and sensory ataxia. Seventy-five per cent of the falls were measured with a sampling rate of 100 Hz with devices including at least accelerometers and gyroscopes. To date more than 100 of these real-world falls have been validated and finally processed for data analyses. The observed signal patterns showed a high heterogeneity and differed considerably from those of simulated falls. Preliminary analyses of the available real-world falls data with two different fall-detection approaches using wavelets as well as temporal and mechanical thresholds considerably improved the detection performance. The FARSEEING consortium will continue to increase the number of measured real-world falls in the meta-database beyond the end of the project. External users can request data access on the FARSEEING website.', u"Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are acknowledged globally as effective tools for the protection and management of the marine environment; however, to get effective results it is necessary to set up a proper and continuous mapping of the marine territory, in order to gain detailed knowledge of its different aspects. Therefore, the implementation and maintenance of a modern GIS (Geographic Information System) has become an indispensable task for the MPA of Tavolara - Punta Coda Cavallo to collect, aggregate, classify, and track the conducted mapping activities.\nBetween 2011 and 2012 the sea bottom of the MPA was surveyed using different methods: by means of a multi-beam echo sounder and of a side scan sonar, as well as conducting fast scientific scuba divings with re-breathers and underwater position system technologies. High resolution geodatasets, characterized by a significantly high quality in representing and describing the sea bottom and its habitats, were produced in both feature (scale up to 1:1.250) and raster formats (up to 30cm/pixel for sonar images and 1m/pixel for bathymetry) and they currently constitute the basis of the MPA's GIS, including its 3D applications and its web map services for desktop and mobile devices (iPhone & Android).\nTo update the above described geodatasets during time, acquiring new data on the conservation targets considered in monitoring activities, among which the status of P. oceanica meadows is of the most important ones, a long term mapping plan was realized on the basis of an innovative methodology elaborated by the MPA considering both the wideness of the area and the limited funds available at present. The whole MPA was divided in territorial units by means of a regular grid of square cells having a 100m side with the logic of starting the mapping activities from the mainly important areas and then to spread the surveys up to fill the whole mosaic. All the new data acquired with this methodology could then be mixed, compared and indexed within the same cell and/or in the many already available geodatases, starting from those dated 2006 having a regular grid with square cells of 500m per side.", u'OBJECTIVE: A single PAN scan may provide more radiation to a patient than is felt to be safe within a one-year period. Our objective was to determine how many patients admitted to the trauma service following a PAN scan had prior CT imaging within our six-hospital system. METHODS: We performed a secondary analysis of a prospectively collected trauma registry. The study was based at a level-two trauma center and five affiliated hospitals, which comprise 70.6% of all Emergency Department visits within a twelve county region of southern Texas. Electronic medical records were reviewed dating from the point of trauma evaluation back to December 5, 2005 to determine evidence of prior CT imaging. RESULTS: There were 867 patients were admitted to the trauma service between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012. 460 (53%) received a PAN scan and were included in the study group. The mean age of the study group was 37.7 +/- 1.54 years old, 24.8% were female, and the mean ISS score was 13.4 +/- 1.07. The most common mechanism of injury was motor vehicle collision (47%). 65 (14%; 95% CI = 11-18%) of the patients had at least one prior CT. The most common prior studies performed were: CT head (29%; 19-42%), CT Face (29%; 19-42%) and CT Abdomen and Pelvis (18%; 11-30%). CONCLUSION: Within our trauma registry, 14% of patients had prior CT imaging within our hospital system before their traumatic event and PAN scan.', u'Background. Cryptodires represent the largest group of living turtles (Testudines) with a wide range of habitat preferences from terrestrial through freshwater to marine. Their origin and early evolution can be traced back to the extinct pancryptodires of the Middle to Late Jurassic and particularly to the Early Cretaceous of East Asia. In the last two decades, plenty of turtle fossils have been discovered in the Jehol Biota of Northeast China but very few of them have been described. Until now, only four taxa have been reported from western Liaoning and adjacent areas including Manchurochelys manchoukuoensis; Ordosemys liaoxiensis; Liaochelys jianchangensis; and the soft-shelled turtle Perochelys lamadongensis. Here we recognize that the Jehol Biota opens an important window into the origin and early evolution of Cryptodiran turtles. Results. Based on our preliminary study, two more taxa can be added to this list, implying a high diversity of the turtle assemblage in these areas. The first is from the Yixian Formation of Ningcheng, Inner Mongolia and diagnostic by an unusual combination of features: midline contact of prefrontals; elongated supraoccipital crest; fourth cervical vertebra biconvex; preneural absent; eight neurals; two subequal suprapygals; pygal present; third costals with parallel anterior and posterior sides; narrow distal ends of posterior costals; closed costoperipheral, lateral and central plastral fontanelles. The second taxon is from the Jiufotang Formation of Lingyuan, western Liaoning and distinct with its hyperphalangy in pedal digit V. Phylogenetic analysis places the first taxon as the basal most member of Sinemydidae that in turn furthermore includes L. jianchangensis and Ordosemys leios (which are sister taxa) and a clade consisting of M. manchoukuoensis, Dracochelys bicuspis and Sinemys spp. Discussion. The new phylogeny confutes recent tentative hypotheses that consider Sinemyididae and closely allied taxa as stem-turtles or stem-chelonioid sea-turtles. Instead, they populate the diverse stem-lineage of Cryptodira together with other Jurassic and Cretaceous Asian and North American taxa including at least xinjiangchelyids, Judithemys sukhanovi and Kirgizemys spp. The addition of two more taxa further increases the taxonomic diversity of the turtle assemblages in the Jehol Biota. Moreover, turtles appear to show a complex paleobiogeographical and stratigraphic distribution in the area with some taxa that appears to be endemic for local basins. Although these patterns are poorly documented at present, they hold the potential for a new biostratigraphic tool for correlating faunas and sedimentary basins within the Jehol Biota. Funding statement. Funded in part by the Public Science and Technology Research Funds Projects of Land and Resources ( 201311120) and Liaoning BaiQianWan Talents Program ( 2014Q110)', u'Background. While Computed Tomography scanning is a powerful non-invasive tool for the study of paleoneurology, the neuroanatomy of turtles remains unexplored in comparison to other higher taxa. I herein present data on the morphology of intracranial structures of Chedighaii hutchisoni based on CT scan generated endocasts. Methods. The CT scan of C. hutchisoni (KUVP 14765, holotype) was virtually manipulated using software Mimics (Materialise) v.10.01, with manual correction and preparation of internal structures in coronal view. Results. The endocast presents poorly demarcated flexures and cartilaginous rider, and cerebral hemisphere region larger than medulla. The abducens nerve (CNVI) canal is slightly curved and thinner than the internal carotid canal (cci). The semicircular canals are approximately the same caliber as the cci. The anterior (csa) and posterior (csp) semicircular canals form an angle of 80\xb0 and are equally elevated. The facial nerve (CNVII) canal is short and extends posterolaterally into the prootic; the junction with the cci happens at mid-length of the CNVII canal. One ramus of the statoacustic nerve (CNVIII) is visible. In the ophistotic there is one paired foramina for the glossopharyngeal nerve (CNIX). Discussion. The endocast of C. hutchisoni is in many aspects similar to the other bothremydids Galianemys whitei and G. emringeri, with some particularities. The canal of CNVI shows an intermediate condition between G. whitei (shorter, thinner than cci and rounded, handle-shaped) and G. emringeri (longer, thicker than cci and almost rectilinear). The semicircular canals are slightly thicker than in other studied pelomedusoids and chelids (e.g. Chelus fimbriatus and Elseya dentata), and the bony labyrinth is similar to that of G. emringeri, although in both Galianemys species the csa is more elevated than the csp in the common crus. The angle between csa and csp is also similar to G. emringeri and other pelomedusoids such as Podocnemis unifilis, P. expansa, Caninemys tridentata and Peltocephalus dumerillianus. C. hutchisoni presents one paired foramina for CNIX, not visible in both Galianemys species. Compared to an endocast of C. barberi (originally misidentified as Bothremys sp.), C. hutchisoni presents greater cerebrum/medulla width proportion, the cci of C. barberi is thicker and enters the sella turcica in a acuter angle, and CNVI is visible in ventral view in C. barberi, whereas in C. hutchisoni it hides beneath the cci. Further studies will help elucidate the variation of intracranial structures in Bothremydidade and in the remaining pleurodires families.', u'In the last decade a number of algorithms and associated software were developed to align next generation sequencing (NGS) reads to relevant reference genomes. The results of these programs may vary significantly, especially when the NGS reads are contain mutations not found in the reference genome. Yet there is no standard way to compare these programs and assess their biological relevance. We propose a benchmark to assess accuracy of the short reads mapping based on the pre-computed global alignment of closely related genome sequences. In this paper we outline the method and also present a short report of an experiment performed on five popular alignment tools .', u'Ocean acidification (OA) is today considered one of the most pervasive stressors for marine biota at the level of species, communities and ecosystems. Naturally acidified systems, such as the CO2 vents, represent suitable laboratories to study the effects of OA on benthic organisms. An analysis of the colonization pattern of epibionts settled on artificial leaves (mimics) of Posidonia oceanica in relation to ocean acidification at the shallow CO2 vents off the island of Ischia, is here presented. Mimics of Posidonia oceanica artificial leaves (dark green flexible PVC stripes 1 cm wide x 36 cm long) were placed from September 2009 to September 2010 along a gradient of OA of the Ischia vent\u2019s system at six stations (3 on the south and 3 on the north side of the study area), located at extreme low pH (mean pH 7.5), low pH (7.8), and control, normal pH conditions (8.12). Six artificial leaves per station were collected every three months and analysed for taxa identification and estimates of coverage (algae and sessile clonal invertebrates) and number of individuals (not clonal taxa). Patterns of colonization in control stations showed a progressive increase in time in coverage values of many organisms, mainly calcifying forms as coralline algae, which represent the dominant taxon, spirorbids and bryozoans. Colonization of artificial leaves located in low pH stations followed a similar temporal pattern as control conditions, but with lower coverage and higher patchiness of calcareous forms at 12 months of colonization. Epibionts in extreme low pH conditions were dominated by filamentous green/brown algae, with the occurrence of a few coralline algae, spirorbids and bryozoans, especially in the early months of colonization (3 and 6 months). Colonization at 9 and 12 months showed the disappearance of even these rare calcareous organisms and occurrence only of filamentous turf and fleshy algae, with a very simplified epibiont assemblage, remaining at an early, young colonization stage. These results indicate a strong selection of calcareous forms and the lack of successional stages in extreme low pH conditions, while the few calcifiers settled at short exposure time (3-6 months) do not seem to survive at longer exposure to critical values of OA.', u'Polychaetes represent one of the most diversified and abundant taxa associated with seagrass meadows. These organisms show various feeding habits at different levels of the complex seagrass food web, representing suitable bioindicators of meadow structure and environmental status and disturbances. Ocean acidification (OA) is today considered one of the most pervasive stressors for marine biota at the level of species, communities and ecosystems. Naturally acidified systems, such as CO2 vents, represent suitable natural laboratories to study the effects of OA on benthic organisms. An analysis of polychaetes associated with Posidonia oceanica meadows located around shallow CO2 vents off the island of Ischia, is presented here. Polychaetes were collected in November 2011 with an air-lift sampler (40x40 cm; 4 replicates per station) along a gradient of OA at the Castello\u2019s vent system at six stations (3 on the south and 3 on the north side), ranging from extreme low pH conditions (mean pH 7.5 occurring only on the south side) to control, normal pH conditions (8.12); a further control station was considered, 600 m from the Castello in similar environmental conditions and ambient pH (S. Anna meadow). A total of 99 taxa and about 4200 individual polychaetes were collected. Taxa richness showed higher values in the acidified stations, especially on the south side; similarly abundances were from two- to four-fold higher under low and extreme low pH conditions, in respect to control ones, due to relatively few dominant taxa. These are represented by Amphiglena mediterranea, Syllis gerlachi, S. prolifera, Exogone dispar, Sphaerosyllis pirifera, Polyophthalmus pictus and Kefersteinia cirrata. Multivariate analysis showed a separation between control and low pH assemblages and a separation between low pH and the extreme low pH site on the south side. Control stations showed higher variability among replicates, while acidified stations, especially those under extreme low pH conditions, showed a more homogeneous assemblage structure. These results demonstrate that many species of polychaetes are robust to OA, however, the high seagrass shoot density, occurring at acidified stations, may buffer the negative effect of this stressor on the biota, and explain both the high diversity and abundance observed there.', u'Most people consider walking to be a natural and self-evident activity of everyday life. However, this familiarity turns out to be fragile in the face of the question "Do you know how you walk?" The mechanism of walking has puzzled scientists, doctors and writers for a long time. In my book Wissenschaft vom Gehen (Fischer, 2013), I have tried to provide a historical account of those forms of investigations of the human gait, some of the famous, others marginal and largely forgotten, that emerged at the intersection of a variety of disciplines (physiology, neurology, orthopedic surgery, anthropology, psychiatry) since the late 18th century. In my paper, I retrace \u2013 in five steps \u2013 the historical career of the sciences of walking throughout the 19th century.', u'The governing nonlinear steady equations for oxygen transport in a microfluidic channel are solved analytically. The Lagrange inversion theorem is used which admits complete integrable solutions in the channel. Considering a cell-rich and cell free region with RBCs and blood plasma, we obtain results showing clearly that there is a significant decrease in oxygen tension in the vicinity of an oxygen permeable membrane placed on the upper channel/tube wall and to the right side of it in the downstream field. The purpose of the membrane is to cause a rapid change in oxygen saturation as RBC\u2019s flow through channel/tube. To the right of the membrane downstream the greatest amount of ATP is released. The method of solution is compared to numerical results. The analytical results obtained could prove useful for the corresponding time dependent problem in future studies.', u'Background: An estimated of 800,000 people worldwide are occupationally exposed to welding-fumes. Previous studies show that the exposure to such fumes is associated with damage to genetic material and increased cancer risk. In this study, we evaluate the genotoxic effect of welding-fumes using the Micronucleus Test on oral mucosa cells of Mexican welders. Material and Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional, matched case-control study of n = 66 (33 exposed welders, and 33 healthy controls). Buccal mucosa smears were collected and stained with acridine orange, observed under 100x optical amplification with a fluorescence lamp, and a single-blinded observer counted the number of micronuclei and other nuclear abnormalities per 2000 observed cells. We compared the frequencies of micronuclei and other nuclear abnormalities, and fitted generalised linear models to investigate the interactions between nuclear abnormalities and the exposure to welding-fumes, while controlling for smoking and age. Results: Binucleated cells and condensed-chromatin cells showed statistically significant differences between cases and controls. The frequency of micronuclei and the rest of nuclear abnormalities (lobed-nuclei, pyknosis, karyolysis, and karyorrhexis) did not differ significantly between the groups. After adjusting for smoking, the regression results showed that the occurrence of binucleated cells could be predicted by the exposure to welding-fumes plus the presence of tobacco consumption; for the condensed-chromatin cells, our model showed that the exposure to welding-fumes is the only reliable predictor. Conclusions:  Our findings suggest that Mexican welders who are occupationally exposed to welding-fumes have increased counts of binucleated and condensed-chromatin cells. Nevertheless, the frequencies of micronuclei and the rest of nuclear abnormalities did not differ between cases and controls. Further studies, should shed more light on this subject.', u'Introduction: All the plants of a maize population or hybrid PP (plant population) do not dehisce anthers and do not emerge silk simultaneously. Generally, male flowering or anther dehiscence (anthesis) is leading and female flowering (silk emergence or silking) is lagging under both optimum and stressful environment. Enough and timely pollen availability is indispensable when silks come out of maize ears for largest number of kernel set. So; study of flowering and reproductive behavior of newly bred maize hybrids are indispensable to confirm high grain yielding hybrid with traits of synchrony in anthesis and silking, coming out of all silks and enough pollen availability in short duration. Materials and methods: Flowering and reproductive behaviors of fifteen newly bred single cross hybrids of yellow maize have been examined growing them in an RCBD trial planting their seeds on October 3, 2012 to expose flowering to the natural winter in subtropical foot plain of Himalaya. For flowering behavior; emergence of tassel, anthesis, silking, silk senescence, tassel-anthesis interval, anthesis-silking interval, silking-silk senescence interval of the hybrids have been examined dissecting the PP into four equal parts (percent) as the first earliest, second earliest, third earliest and terminal 25% of the hybrid PP denominated as 25, 50, 75 and 100% respectively of the each of the fifteen hybrids. So, whether third earliest 25% and terminal 25% silk emerging PP of each of the hybrids (SILK75 and SILK100%) respectively received enough pollen from the PP of the same hybrid can be determined through ASI 75 and ASI 100 of the hybrid PP. Results and discussion: Among some polynomial regression equations (PREs) discovered based on floral traits, a grain yield estimating PRE (t ha-1) Y = - 11922 + 507.3*(TSS25)1 - 7.183*(TSS25)2 + 0.03387*(TSS25)3 with r2 value 66% has been discovered from days taken for TSS25. Similarly, high r2 bearing PREs were from days for anthesis and silking. PREs with the lowest r2 were for the days required for the silk senescence (S SEN). Reasons of the low r2 are: the observation of silk browning or withering could not be precise for naked eye since the silks looked fresh longer in high humidity, well-irrigated state, low temperature, low sun-shine and foggy or cloudy day although the silks lost receptivity earlier in the winter. In addition, interval duration from SILK INI to S SEN cannot be the duration of silk receptivity in the winter of subtropical Nepalese Himalayan foot plain. For reproductive behavior; number of functional egg cells that became successful zygotes to pull assimilates for complete kernel development can reflect aroma about reproductive strength (RS) of the hybrid. Accordingly, hybrids 8 and 5 have been found of the highest RS.', u'Movement ecology of arboreal monkeys in Central America involves the action of diverse body postures to address challenges in rain forests, where scattered resources and complex habitat structure demand that a primate frequently employ extreme physical finesse to survive. What is not clearly understood about this area of study is the connection between primate body postures as responses to specific types of forest architecture and how forest structure may influence a monkey\u2019s continued capacity for wide-ranging mobility over time. We studied tree canopy structure and branch connectivity associated with the movement ecology of black-handed spider monkeys (Ateles geoffroyi), mantled howling monkeys (Alouatta palliata), Geoffroy\u2019s tamarins (Saguinus geoffroyi), and white-faced capuchins (Cebus capucinus) in Panama and Costa Rica. Laboratory study of primate cadaver pelvises was done at UC Davis, Oregon Osteology Lab, and the Denver Museum. Rain forests appear to induce wide-ranging leg movements in wild neotropical monkeys that were not observed in the same species of monkeys inhabiting artificial environments. We also found that a wild primate employs frequent wide-ranging leg movement that result in widely dispersed contacts between the articulating surfaces within the hip, potentially maintaining cartilage and contributing to the longevity of that joint. Thus, a connection may exist between rain forests, the leg action of wild monkeys, and the continued capacity to move over time in this group of long-lived animals.', u'Biological containment is a genetic technique to program dangerous organisms to grow only in the laboratory and to die in the natural environment. Auxotropy for a substance not found in the natural environment is an ideal biological containment. Here, we constructed an Escherichia coli strain that cannot survive in the absence of the unnatural amino acid 3-iodo-L-tyrosine. This synthetic auxotrophy was achieved by conditional production of the antidote protein against the highly toxic enzyme colicin E3. An amber stop codon was inserted in the antidote gene. The translation of the antidote mRNA was controlled by a translational switch using amber-specific 3-iodo-L-tyrosine incorporation. The antidote is synthesized only when 3-iodo-L-tyrosine is present in the culture medium. The viability of this strain rapidly decreased with less than a 1 h half-life after removal of 3-iodo-L-tyrosine, suggesting that the decay of the antidote causes the host killing by activated colicin E3 in the absence of this unnatural amino acid. This containment system can be constructed by only plasmid introduction without genome editing, suggesting that this system may be applicable to other microbes carrying toxin-antidote systems similar to that of colicin E3.', u'Geographical patterns in body size have been described across a wide range of species, leading to the development of a series of fundamental biological rules. However, shape variables are less well-described despite having substantial consequences for organismal performance. Wing aspect ratio (AR) has been proposed as a key shape parameter that determines function in flying animals, with high AR corresponding to longer, thinner wings that promote high manoeuvrability, low speed flight, and low AR corresponding to shorter, broader wings that promote high efficiency long distance flight. From this principle it might be predicted that populations at range edges would exhibit low AR wings. I test this hypothesis using the riverine damselfly, Calopteryx maculata, sampled from 34 sites across its range margin in North America. Nine hundred and seven male specimens were captured from across the 34 sites (mean=26.7 \xb12.9 SE per site), dissected and measured to quantify the area and length of all four wings. Geometric morphometrics were employed to investigate geographical variation in wing shape. The majority of variation in wing shape involved changes in wing aspect ratio, confirmed independently by geometric morphometrics and wing measurements. There was a weak positive relationship between wing aspect ratio and temperature, in line with work on other insects. However, there was a strong longitudinal pattern in which western populations exhibited lower wing aspect ratio. This longitudinal pattern may be related to increasing variability in precipitation from east to west in North America. I discuss my findings in light of research of the functional ecology of wing shape across vertebrate and invertebrate taxa', u'An emerging conceptual framework suggests that communities are composed of two main groups of species through time: core species that are temporally persistent, and transient species that are temporally intermittent. Core and transient species have been shown to differ in spatiotemporal turnover, diversity patterns, and importantly, survival strategies targeted at local vs. regional habitat use. While the core-transient framework has typically been a site-specific designation for species, we suggest that if core and transient species have local vs. regional survival strategies across sites, and consistently differ in population-level spatial structure and gene flow, they may also exhibit different life-history strategies. Specifically, core species should display relatively low movement rates, low reproductive effort, high ecological specialization and high survival rates compared to transient species, which may display a wider range of traits given that transience may result from source-sink dynamics or from the ability to emigrate readily in a nomadic fashion. We present results from 21 years of capture-mark-recapture data in a diverse rodent community, evaluating the linkages between temporal persistence, local abundance, and trade-offs among life-history traits. Core species at our site conservatively supported our hypotheses, differing in ecological specialization, survival and movement probabilities, and reproductive effort relative to transient species. Transient species exhibited a wider range of characteristics, which likely stems from the multiple processes generating transience in local communities, such as source-sink dynamics at larger regional scales or nomadic life history strategies. We suggest that trait associations among core-transient species may be similar in other systems and warrants further study.', u'Biological invasion represent one of the major threats to global biodiversity as alien species often displace indigenous species. However, knowledge of the mechanisms behind such displacements and the driving factors of the competitive superiority of the alien species still remain rare. In our study we combined analysis of field data and laboratory experiments examining species interactions, to investigate the impact of temperature in the case of the alien freshwater snail Physa acuta that is held responsible for the decline of indigenous snail Physa fontinalis in Europe. From field data, we identified higher temperature as the most important difference between sites populated by alien P. acuta and those where indigenous P. fontinalis occurred. Results of the species interaction experiment conducted at 15, 20, and 25\xb0C confirmed the hypothesis that the competitive superiority of P. acuta over P. fontinalis increases at warmer temperatures. In single species treatments, increasing temperature stimulated both species to grow faster and reach greater shell heights. Coexistence treatments revealed an asymmetric competitive interaction between the two snail species. In both species, the density of conspecifics did not affect snail growth; however, density of heterospecifics affected the growth. At 15\xb0C, the presence of heterospecifics stimulated the growth of both species, while at higher temperatures the presence of heterospecifics stimulated the growth in P. acuta, but inhibited in P. fontinalis. Our study shows that temperature can be a powerful driver of the outcomes of alien and indigenous species\u2019 competition by driving asymmetric interaction. Further our results point up that the environmental context cannot be disregarded when investigating the interaction between alien and indigenous species, and predict alien species success and impact.', u'We present a new embedded instrument, with discussion on the challenges of developping embedded instruments, and the practice and theory of NIME evaluation and design. The Shake Stick is a Raspberry Pi-based embedded instrument using SuperCollider for granular synthesis. In our analysis and design, we explore the MINUET design framework, dimension space analysis for inter-instrument comparison, and learning curves. Furthermore, we discuss lessons learned from using the instrument in group improvisation, as well as challenges and prospects for the creation of sound palettes used in the granular synthesis.', u'In this study, we propose a logistic regression model to classify deleterious missense mutation from a list of nonsynonymous SNPs (nsSNPs) \u2013 where multiple features (i.e. rank scores of 18 classifiers e.g. SIFT, PolyPhen2, MutationTaster, MutationAssessor, FATHMM, VEST 3.0, RadialSVM, LR, CADD, etc. from dbNSFP v2.5) are combined for 44,702 UniProt human polymorphisms and disease mutations (19,033 disease and 25,669 neutral). The model is trained and validated on 80% of the data (15,226 disease + 20,535 neutral nsSNPs), and tested on remaining 20% (3,807 disease + 5134 neutral nsSNPs); and finally applied to a neurodegenerative disease-specific dataset (NeuroTest) from UniProt. The ROC AUC of the model is 0.97 on test set and 0.92 on NeuroTest dataset, with an accuracy of 0.91 and 0.86, respectively. Our model outperforms SIFT, PolyPhen2, MutationTaster, MutationAssessor, and the two ensemble classifiers of dbNSFP v2.5, on both the testing sets.', u'Background: Cultural differences and language barriers may adversely impact patients with respect to understanding the risks/benefits of medical testing. Objective: We hypothesized that there would be no difference in Hispanic vs. non-Hispanic patients\u2019 knowledge of radiation risk that results from CT of the abdomen/pelvis (CTAP). Methods: We enrolled a convenience sample of adults at an inner-city ED. Patients provided written answers to rate agreement on a 10-point scale for two correct statements comparing radiation exposure equality between: CTAP and 5 years of background radiation (question 1); CTAP and 200 chest x-rays (question 3). Patients also rated their agreement that multiple CT scans increase the lifetime cancer risk (question 2). Scores of > 8 were considered good knowledge. Multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to estimate the independent effect of the Hispanic variable. Results: 600 patients in the study group; 63% Hispanic, mean age 39.2 +/- 13.9 years. Hispanics and non-Hispanics whites were similar with respect to good knowledge-level answers to question 1 (17.3 vs 15.1%; OR=1.2; 95 % CI=0.74- 2.0), question 2 (31.2 vs. 39.3%; OR=0.76; 95% CI=0.54 - 1.1), and question 3 (15.2 vs. 16.5%; OR =1.1; 95% CI= 0.66 - 1.8). Compared to patients who earned < $20,000, patients with income > $40,000 were more likely to answer question 2 with good knowledge (OR =1.96; 95% CI=1.2 \u2013 3.1). Conclusion: The study group\u2019s overall knowledge of radiation risk was poor, but we did not find significant differences between Hispanic vs. non-Hispanic patients.', u'Cloud computing potentially ushers in a new era of computer music performance with exceptionally large computer music instruments consisting of 10s to 100s of virtual machines called a Cloud Orchestra. Cloud computing allows for the rapid provisioning of resources, but to deploy such a complicated and interconnected network of software synthesizers in the cloud requires a lot of manual work, system administration knowledge, and devops (developer-sysop) skills. This is a barrier to computer musicians whose goal is to produce and perform music, and not to sysadmin 100s of computers. This work discusses the issues facing cloud orchestra deployment and offers an abstract solution and a concrete implementation. The abstract solution is generate cloud orchestra deployment plans by allowing computer musicians to model their network of synthesizers and to describe their resources. A model optimizer will compute near-optimal deployment plans to synchronize, deploy, and orchestrate the start-up of a complex network of synthesizers deployed to many computers. This model driven development approach frees computer musicians from much of the hassle of deployment and allocation. Computer musicians can focus on the configuration of musical components and leave the resource allocation up to the modelling software to optimize.', u'Larger benthic foraminifera (LBF) are an important tool for the biostratigraphy of (sub)tropical shallow marine deposits. In Paleogene the genus Nummulites is an important genus for biostratigraphical zonation schemes. However, classification is Europe centered and based on external characters and equatorial thin sections. New results from regions outside the northern Tethys shows that a more rigid framework for the classification of nummulites is needed.\nHere we present a new tool for achieving this goal. We visualise 3D chamber shape of Nummulites djodjokartae and compare these to traditional morphometrical characters. To achieve this goal we use computed microtomography of well preserved Nummulites tests.\nWe find that despite the regular shape in equatorial and axial thin section 3D chamber shape is not predicted by these sections. We argue that 3D reconstructions of Nummulites tests will be a great aid in improving our understanding lineages within the genus Nummulites, and to elucidate its evolutionary and biogeographical history.', u'In exploratory (N>100) and confirmatory samples (N>600), we compared big-five personality traits between individuals who do or do not regularly wear a traditional wristwatch. Alongside lower levels of extraversion and openness, significantly higher levels of conscientiousness were observed in participants who wear a watch. In a third study (N=85), we observed that watch wearers arrive significantly earlier to appointments in comparison to controls. These results are discussed in relation to the rise of wearable technology including smartwatches.', u'Due to alternative splicing the human ACTN1 gene codes for three different transcripts of \u03b1\u2011actinin; one isoform that is expressed only in the brain and two with a more general expression pattern. The sequence difference is located to the C-terminal domains and the EF-hand motifs. Therefore any functional or structural distinction should involve this part of the protein. To investigate this further, the calcium affinities of these three isoforms of \u03b1\u2011actinin1 have been determined by isothermal calorimetry.', u'Overcoming drug-resistance is one of the major challenges to control tuberculosis (TB). The up-regulation of efflux pumps is one common mechanism that leads to drug-resistance. Therefore, immunotherapy targeting these efflux pump antigens could be promising strategy to be combined with current chemotherapy. Considering that CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) induced by antigenic peptides (epitopes) could elicit HLA-restricted anti-TB immune response, efflux pumps from classical ABC family (Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mtb) were chosen as target antigens to identify CTL epitopes. HLA-A2 restricted candidate peptides from Rv2937, Rv2686c and Rv2687c of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were predicted, synthesized and tested. Five peptides could induce IFN-\u03b3 release and cytotoxic activity in PBMCs from HLA-A2+ PPD+ donors. Results from HLA-A2/Kb transgenic mice immunization assay suggested that four peptides Rv2937-p168, Rv2937-p266, Rv2686c-p151, and Rv2686c-p181 could induce significant CTL response in vivo. These results suggested that these novel epitopes could be used as immunotherapy candidates to TB drug-resistance.', u'Background. Phrynops present four valid species, including P. geoffroanus that might represents a complex of cryptic species. Here, we provide a preliminary analysis of the taxonomy and phylogenetic affinities within Phrynops, with special reference to the taxonomic status of populations of P. geoffroanus and P. tuberosus, and the recognition of a new species from Southern Brazil. Methods. We studied populations from ten Brazilian river basins. A linear morphometric analysis was performed in order to define taxonomically distinct populations. Also, a phylogenetic analysis using morphology and molecular data (sequenced for the genes R35, RAG2, c-mos, cytb, ND4, and 12S) were carried out. Three distinct sets of phylogenetic analyses were performed: parsimony to morphological and combined data, and maximum likelihood to molecular data. Results. The combined analysis shows that Phrynops represents a well supported clade. The set of skeletal data supports Mesoclemmys as the sister group of Phrynops, whereas the molecular and combined data sets show Phrynops as the sister group of a clade composed by all the remaining genera of Chelidae, except Hydromedusa. Our morphological analyses suggest that P. hilarii is the sister group of P. geoffroanus, but in both molecular and combined analyses, P. hilarii appears nested within the clade formed by the populations of P. geoffroanus. Futhermore, P. tuberosus and P. geoffroanus are not distinguishable by the set of osteological and morphometric data. On the other hand, both morphometric and osteological data show that the population of P. geoffroanus from the Paran\xe1 river basin is a distinct species. Discussion. The sister group relationships of Phrynops could not be clearly defined due to the different topologies achieved. Phrynops hilarii is included within of P. geoffroanus in both molecular and combined data, but this position has little statistical support and therefore does not express a clear position of P. hilarii within the genus Phrynops. Besides, we were not able to distinguish P. geoffroanus and P. tuberosus. However, a sampling of specific locations are still needed to objectively define the taxonomic status of P. tuberosus. Finally, the population of P. geoffroanus from the Paran\xe1 basin is clearly distinct from the remaining populations of this species. Qualitative osteological characters and morphometric results seem to demonstrate that this population is a new species of Phrynops.', u'A unifying theme of many ongoing trends in software engineering is a blurring of the boundaries between building and operating software products. In this paper, we explore what we consider to be the logical next step in this succession: integrating runtime monitoring data from production deployments of the software into the tools developers utilize in their daily workflows (i.e., IDEs) to enable tighter feedback loops. We refer to this notion as feedback-driven development (FDD). This more abstract FDD concept can be instantiated in various ways, ranging from IDE plugins that implement feedback-driven refactoring and code optimization to plugins that predict performance and cost implications of code changes prior to even deploying the new version of the software. We demonstrate existing proof-of-concept realizations of these ideas and illustrate our vision of the future of FDD and cloud-based software development in general. Further, we discuss the major challenges that need to be solved before FDD can achieve mainstream adoption.', u'In Mediterranean benthic ecosystems of shallow water local-scale predation maintains a main control on both sea urchin population and the ecological structure of macrophyte community. The use of the habitat by local predator guild in dependence on the regional context shapes prey distributions across the environment. On rocky habitat, the sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus is widely known as prey of apex fish predators that indirectly shape the structure of benthic assemblages whereas, in structured Posidonia oceanica, P. lividus can find shelter from predators. In this study, we assessed survival rates of P. lividus in a Marine Protected Area (Sardinia) at the aim to evaluate the role of composition and configuration of landscape on its predation risk. Sites of different landscapes were selected in function of their heterogeneity estimated according to the different proportions and spatial interspersion of four classes of habitats defined on the basis of P. oceanica meadows arrangement: (1) continuous, (2) fragmented and (3) patchy meadows and (4) absence of seagrass (i.e. rocky bottom with macroalgae communities). In order to capture the domain of the ecological process a sampling grain 5x5 meters was used as minimal spatial resolution at which information is assessed. Specifically continuous sampling units in a grid of 7x7 cells yield landscape quadrats of 35 \xd7 35 m and allowed a finer description of the spatial pattern. For each cell we also estimated structural variables of seagrass habitats such as unburied mat, shoot density, canopy height, cover percent, roughness and the natural abundances of prey and predators. After placing the tagged sea urchins, we daily observed the survival rates for twenty days. Predation risk was significantly higher in continuous and fragmented seagrass habitats and predator marks were typically produced by gastropod\u2019s attacks. Landscape indices are used to correlate the amount of available habitat for gastropods movements with sea urchin\u2019s predation risk. Interestingly, estimated predation rate also was negatively correlated with natural sea urchins density across grid cells. Results suggest that, although fishes are considered among the most important pressures on sea urchin population, especially in effective MPAs, bottom predators\u2019 control can be relevant in structurally complex environment such as seagrasses.', u'The fluid in the extracellular space around the neurons and glial cells is enclosed within the brain, kept separate from the circulation and the rest of the body-fluid. This brain interstitial fluid forms a distinct compartment; a sponge-like \u201cinverse cell\u201d that surrounds all the cells. During neuronal resting and action potentials, sodium and potassium ions shuttle into, and out of, this \u201cReciprocal Domain\u201d within the brain. This localised flux of ions is the counterpart to all the neuronal electrochemical activity (having the same intensity and duration, at the same sites in the brain), so a complementary version of all that potential information is integrated into this space within the brain. This flux of cations in the Reciprocal Domain may indirectly influence neuronal activity in the brain, creating immensely complex feedback. This Reciprocal Domain is unified throughout the brain, and exists continuously throughout life. This model identifies which species have such Reciprocal Domains, and how many times similar systems evolved. This account of the Reciprocal Domain of the brain may have clinical implications; it could be vulnerable to disruption by chemical insult, traumatic injury or pathology. These are key characteristics of our core selves; this encourages the idea that this Reciprocal Domain makes a crucial contribution to the brain. This hypothesis is explored and developed here.', u'INTRODUCTION:  Diabetic retinopathy affects majority (70% to 90%) of diabetic patients, causes visual impairment which leads to severe psycho-social disruption in life. Our objective was to study the patients of diabetic retinopathy, co-relate between the types of diabetic retinopathy and the extent of psychosocial impairment in these patients.    MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Data of the diabetic patients attending the Retina Clinic of C.H. Nagri Eye Hospital, Ahmedabad was collected using a pretested questionnaire. It included ocular history, history related to diabetes, data of ocular examination and type of retinopathy (if present). For psycho-social assessment, the patients were made to fill the validated Gujarati language version of \u201cGeneral Health Questionnaire -28 (GHQ 28).\u201d Self-scoring was done ranging from 0-1-2-3 (lower to higher disability respectively). Analysis of significance was carried out by Mann-Whitney Test using statistical software.    RESULTS:  Total 308 patients were studied. The subjects were divided into 3 groups: (A) Diabetes Mellitus Type-2 (DM-2) patients without retinopathy. (B) DM-2 patients having Non-Proliferative Retinopathy (C) DM-2 patients having Proliferative Retinopathy. According to the accepted scoring pattern of GHQ-28 (cut of point 25), it was observed that 80.26% of patients having non proliferative retinopathy in both eyes and 93.75% patients having proliferative retinopathy in both eyes were psychosocially impaired. The impairment was found to be more severe in proliferative retinopathy patients as compared to non-proliferative retinopathy patients. (p value <0.005) (Mean GHQ score in PDR=41.88 > NPDR = 35.74). It was also found that in DM-2 patients without retinopathy the average mean score was 25.22 which showed less impairment (p value <0.005). Detailed analysis showed that there was more impairment in the field of social dysfunction.    CONCLUSION:  Patients of Diabetic Retinopathy had more psychosocial impairment which shows its significant impact on quality of life and overall health. Psychiatric counselling must be given to the impaired patients to decrease the impact of the disease on the psychosocial aspect of health. It is necessary to decrease the psychosocial suffering along with the control of disease.', u"Rothschild (2013) suggested that many of the facial and postcranial scars in tyrannosaurid specimens are in fact caused by claws of the other tyrannosaurids. However, the evidences suggested by Rothschild (2013) are very weak. Tooth marks can have very different shapes with real tooth sections or shapes, and multi-ton giants like tyrannosaurids would have been impossible to kick each others' faces. Also, the very short, range limited tyrannosaurid forelimbs would be impossible to hit the opponents' faces.", u'Three-taxon analysis in it canonical form can always successfully recognize groups based on putative reversals if latter are coded as separate states before three-taxon permutations are derived from conventional matrices. This way of coding removes incongruence from either conventional multistate or three-taxon matrices and makes the discussions about symplesiomorphy as a putative homology unnecessary. The ability of conventional parsimony to recognize reversal-based clades is technically nothing more than grouping by plesiomorphic values. Therefore this solution cannot be accepted as a Cladistic approach to data and must be correctly classified as \u201cpost-Hennigian\u201d or \u201cphenetic\u201d. The ability of three-taxon analysis to recognize groups based on the putative reversals may be viewed as a heuristic cladistics attempts to prevent this \u201cphenetic\u201d approach affecting the analysis of the data.', u'This paper suggests a knew approach for analysing inactive phases in long term measurements using mobile accelerometry attached to a human body. The goal of the work is to provide a commandline tool to automaticaly parse a timestamped list of acceleration data in order to extract the phases that represent the sleeping periods. Justified on the fact that the data collection is motivated more in a healthcare environment than in a detailed sleeping research the methods do not concentrate on getting exact differentiation between real sleeping and awake lying periods. Detecting a significant long period with an inactivity pattern that permits the assumption that the received recovery quality is similar to the effects of sleeping on the human body will be enough to classify it as restphase. Furthermore the algorithm is not designed to find the exact amount of time that can be related to this classification. Finding enough of the relevant periods to provide a good view on the quantity and quality of inactive rest the observed human body gets should satisfy the task.', u'Many people prefer running to keep in shape. In recent years many self-tracking and self-optimization gadgets has become popular especially for running. We are interested in the quality of running because individual running style has an impact on the running performance as well as on the running injury risk. Hence, in order to increase the performance and lower the injury risk, runners should be educated towards a healthy running technique. Before making an advice, it is crucial to distinguish between different running styles.', u'The American brine shrimp Artemia franciscana is invasive in the Mediterranean region where it has displaced native species (the sexual A. salina, and the clonal A. parthenogenetica) from many salt pond complexes. Artemia populations are parasitized by numerous avian cestodes whose effects have been studied in native species. We present a study from the Ebro Delta salterns (NE Spain), in a salt pond where both A. franciscana and native A. salina populations coexist, providing a unique opportunity to compare the parasite loads of the two sexual species in syntopy. The native species had consistently higher infection parameters, largely because the dominant cestode in A. salina adults and juveniles (Flamingolepis liguloides) was much rarer in A. franciscana. The most abundant cestodes in the alien species were Eurycestus avoceti (in adults) and Flamingolepis flamingo (in juveniles). The abundance of E. avoceti and F. liguloides was higher in the A. franciscana population syntopic with A. salina than in a monospecific population sampled at the same time in another pond where the native brine shrimp was absent, possibly because the native shrimp provides a better reservoir for parasite circulation. Infection by cestodes caused red colouration in adult and juvenile A. salina, and also led to castration in a high proportion of adult females. Both these effects were significantly stronger in the native host than in A. franciscana with the same parasite loads. However, for the first time, significant castration effects (for E. avoceti and F. liguloides) and colour change (for six cestode species) were observed in infected A. franciscana. Avian cestodes are likely to help A. franciscana outcompete native species. At the same time, they are likely to reduce the production of A. franciscana cysts in areas where they are harvested commercially.', u'Background: Blindness and severe visual impairment render affected individuals, families and communities economically, socially and physically disadvantaged. The number of adults \u2265 40 years with severe visual impairment and blindness in Nigeria is projected to increase from 1.02 million (2008) to 1.4 million (2020). Utilization of available eye care services improves quality of life, but uptake is generally unsatisfactory. Empowering individuals, including children, to identify, motivate and appropriately refer them improves utilization. Children, because of their peculiar roles in families and communities, could be important change agents. This study was designed to determine if primary school pupils aged 9-14 years can be satisfactorily trained, using the child-to- parent approach, to assess vision, refer and motivate people to attend screening eye camps. Methods: Ninety pupils aged 9-14 years attending two purposively-selected primary schools were selected by simple random sampling. Using the child-to-parent approach and Snellens 6/60 illiterate E-chart, participants had a 2-day knowledge and skill-based training followed by 2 days of community-based vision assessment and referral of those assessed. The adequacy and success of the training were assessed by comparing pre- and post-test scores. Results: Three hundred and thirty-six persons were referred and examined; of these, 142 (42.3%) persons were reviewed. Overall there was significant improvement in knowledge. The accuracy of assessments was 82.1% for Right Eyes (RE), 83.3% for Left Eyes (LE) and 72.1% for presbyopia. The sensitivities for the RE, LE and presbyopia were 84.8%, 86.1% and 76.3% respectively. Similarly, the specificities were 44.4% for RE, 50.0% for LE and 68.6% for presbyopia. The performances were not significantly influenced by age, sex and locality. Conclusion: Children aged 9-14 years in primary schools can be empowered, using the child-to-child approach, to assess vision and motivate members of their communities to utilize available eye care services.', u'Background. Crown-Pleurodira (i.e.: Cheloides and Pelomedusoides) possess a side-necked retraction mode with specialized cervical vertebrae (CV) anatomy. Moreover, there are distinctive ecological features among its lineages, as the convergent long neck in species of Chelidae and in the extinct pelomedusoid Araripemydidae. Also, the CV5-CV6 articulation is the major point of flexure in neck retraction and reflects a key point for the evolution of Pleurodira. Here we evaluated CV5 shape variation within some Pleurodira groups with emphasis on some Brazilian fossil species. Methods. We analyzed the fifth CV of eight species and 14 specimens comprising four pleurodiran clades (Chelidae, Araripemydidae, Bothremydidae and Podocnemididae) in order to assess the shape variation via geometric morphometry. All specimens were photographed in caudal view under the same protocol, and eight landmarks (LM) were picked at the left side of each vertebrae using TPSDig2. Data were Procrustes superimposed and a Relative Warps Analysis (RWA) was performed using TPSRelw v1.49. Results. RW1 and RW2 summarized 68.63% of the shape variance. The scatter of the specimens revealed distinctiveness between Podocnemidoidea (Podocnemididae+Bothremydidae) and Araripemys+Chelidae paraphyletic group. Such variation is due to (1) a medial contraction of the surface of the postzygapophysis, (2) a taller neural spine and (3) a more rounded vertebral condile towards Podocnemidoidea. Podocnemididae showed greater variation: a Podocnemis sextuberculata specimen (MZSP3218) is more alike to Cearachelys placidoi (Procrustes Distances, PD=0.17) than other podocnemidids and Bauruemys elegans resembles P. unifilis (PD=0.11). Also, other P. sextuberculata specimen (MZSP3217) is more alike to the Araripemys-Chelidae group. Discussion. Previous works have noticed the anatomical similarities between both longnecked chelids and A. barretoi, considering it as a convergence since they are from different clades. Our data showed the same pattern and, assuming the current phylogenetic relationships of Pleurodira, this might indicates similar feeding behavior between living Hydromedusa and Chelus and Araripemys. The Podocnemidoidea morphospace variation is consistent with the phylogeny, since C. placidoi is nested among Podocnemis spp., and this might indicate a more specialized CV5 for the former and a possible convergence with some Podocnemis species. Also, the resemblance of P. unifilis CV5 with B. elegans seems to indicate a morphotype similar to the podocnemidid ancestor for this living species. Despite our scanty sample, it shows a notable variation in Podocnemis spp. and at least two convergences among CV5 within Pleurodira. Further studies with additional sampling might shed light on a more complex evolution of CV specializations in side-necked turtles than previously assumed.', u'Objective: Chronic nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus (SA) increases the risk of relapse while Rituximab (RTX) is an effective agent for inducing and maintaining remission in patients with Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA). We investigated whether B cell depletion and hypogammaglobulinemia that occur during RTX treatment increase the risk of chronic SA nasal carriage and subsequent disease flares, in GPA patients on long-term RTX maintenance therapy. Methods: Retrospective cohort study from a disease registry involving 29 GPA patients receiving RTX maintenance (median RTX dose of 9 g) during a median period of 49 months. Nasal swabs were collected prior and during RTX for a median of 3 and 9 swabs respectively. Persistent SA nasal carriage was defined with the presence of SA in more than 75 % of nasal swabs. Results: SA nasal carriage did not change during RTX (p=0.297). Persistent SA nasal carriage did not increase the risk of relapses (p=0.844) and of severe infections (p=0.144), but reduced the risk of chronic infections (p=0.044). Non-SA carriers were more prone to discontinue RTX due to hypogammaglobulinemia (p=0.122), since they had more profound decline of serum total Ig both after the first 2 g of RTX (p=0.079) and during RTX maintenance (p=0.063). Conclusion: Long-term RTX maintenance therapy in GPA patients did not significantly influence SA nasal carriage status. Persistent SA carriage during long-term RTX treatment did not increase the risk of relapses and was associated with a lower risk of hypogammaglobulinemia associated chronic infections.', u'Bone pain is a common and severe symptom in cancer patients. The present study employed a mouse model of leukemia bone pain by injection K562 cells into tibia of mouse to evaluate the analgesia effects of Lappaconitine. Our results showed that the lappaconitine treatment at day 15, 17 and 19 could effectively reduce the spontaneous pain scoring values, restore reduced degree in the inclined-plate test induced by injection of K562 cells, as well as restore paw mechanical withdrawal threshold and paw withdrawal thermal latency induced by injection of K562 cells to normal group levels. Additionally, the molecular mechanisms of lappaconitine\u2019s analgesia effects may be related to affect the expressive levels of endogenous opioid system genes (POMC, PENK and MOR), as well as apoptosis-related genes (Xiap, Smac, Bim, NF-\u03baB and p53). Our present results indicated that lappaconitine may become a new analgesia agent for pain management induced by leukemia cells.', u'The pyfaidx Python module provides memory and time-efficient indexing, subsetting, and in-place modification of subsequences of FASTA files. pyfaidx provides Python classes that expose a dictionary interface where sequences from an indexed FASTA can be accessed by their header name and then sliced by position without reading the full file into memory. pyfaidx includes an extensive test suite to ensure correct and reproducible behavior. A command-line program (faidx) is also provided as an alternative interface, with significant enhancements to functionality, while maintaining full index file compatibility with samtools. The pyfaidx module is installable from PyPI (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyfaidx), and development versions can be found at Github (https://github.com/mdshw5/pyfaidx).', u"It is well understood that a vast spectrum of RNA virus types is undergoing rapid genetic reassortment and evolution in large-scale animal monoculture facilities, increasingly likely to entrain newer pathogens from neoliberally 'developing' areas to produce a massively fatal human pandemic that will overwhelm even the best possible health system responses. In such a pandemic -- that a mathematical model suggests can penetrate far more deeply than the 1918 event -- the USA and the PRC, which are parallel in animal monoculture structures, could lose a significant fraction of their populations to direct disease. Here, we examine powerful but less understood mechanisms of social amplification that can greatly raise the ultimate loss of life, roughly similar to the impact of the 'stabbed in the back' myth that emerged in Germany after WW I. It is obvious that effective programs to contain these threats must include -- or even begin with -- establishment of a close collaboration between interests in the USA and the PRC, where most large-scale animal monoculture is either located or from which it is managed.", u'The study of concepts in animals is complicated by the possibility that performance reflects reinforcement learning of discriminative cues, which might be used to categorize of stimuli. To minimize that possibility, we trained seven rhesus macaques to respond, in a specific order, to four simultaneously presented exemplars of different perceptual concepts. These exemplars were drawn at random from large banks of images; in some conditions, the stimuli changed on every trial. Subjects nevertheless identified and ordered these stimuli correctly. Three subjects learned to correctly order ecologically relevant concepts; four subjects, to order close-up sections of paintings by four artists with distinctive styles. All subjects classified stimuli significantly better than that predicted by chance, and outperformed a feature-based computer vision algorithm, even when the exemplars were changed on every trial. Furthermore, six subjects (three using ecological stimuli and three using paintings) transferred these concepts to novel stimuli. Our results suggest that monkeys possess a flexible ability to form class-based perceptual concepts that cannot be explained as the mere discrimination of physical features.', u'Objectives: The current study investigated mental health literacy in an Australian sample to examine the influence sex has in the identification of and attitudes towards various aspects of mental illness.\nMethod: An online questionnaire was completed by 373 participants (267 female, M = 34.87). Participants were randomly assigned a vignette depicting an individual exhibiting the symptoms of one of three types of mental illness and asked to answer questions relating to aspects of mental health literacy.\nResults: Males exhibited poorer mental health literacy skills compared to females. Males were less likely to correctly identify the type of mental illness, more likely to rate symptoms as less serious and to perceive the individual as having greater personal control over such symptoms.\nConclusion: Generally, the sample was relatively proficient at correctly identifying mental illness but overall males displayed poorer mental health literacy skills than females.', u'The three-dimensional form of a coral reef develops through interactions and feedbacks between its constituent organisms and their environment. Reef morphology therefore contains a potential wealth of ecological information, accessible if the relationships between morphology and ecology can be decoded. Traditionally, reef morphology has been attributed to external controls such as substrate topography or hydrodynamic influences. Little is known about inherent reef morphology in the absence of external control. Here we use reef growth simulations, based on observations in the cellular reefs of Western Australia\u2019s Houtman Abrolhos Islands, to show that reef morphology is fundamentally determined by the mechanical behaviour of the reef-building organisms themselves\u2014specifically their tendency to either remain in place or to collapse. Reef-building organisms that tend to remain in place, such as massive and encrusting corals or coralline algae, produce nodular reefs, whereas those that tend to collapse, such as branching Acropora, produce cellular reefs. The purest reef growth forms arise in sheltered lagoons dominated by a single type of reef builder, as in the branching Acropora-dominated lagoons of the Abrolhos. In these situations reef morphology can be considered a phenotype of the predominant reef building organism. The capacity to infer coral type from reef morphology can potentially be used to identify and map specific coral habitat in remotely sensed images. More generally, identifying ecological mechanisms underlying other examples of self-generated reef morphology can potentially improve our understanding of present-day reef ecology, because any ecological process capable of shaping a reef will almost invariably be an important process in real time on the living reef.', u'Higher education courses with large student enrollments are commonly offered in multiple sections by multiple instructors. Monitoring consistency of teaching activities across sections is crucial in achieving equity for all students, and in developing strategies in response to emerging patterns and outliers. To address this need, we present an approach to analyze the multivariate data of sections, assignments and student submissions collected by a learning management system (LMS) using a new data exploration framework that we call linked data summaries. Data summaries are a unit of exploration with uncluttered, analytical, comprehensible visualizations of aggregations of data records attributes. Data browsers link multiple summaries and record lists, and enable flexible and rapid data analysis through tightly coupled interaction. Our analysis approach, developed in collaboration between analytics researchers and university instructors, reveals patterns across many aspects, including assignment and section structures, submission grading and timeliness. We present findings from an analysis of three semesters of an introductory oral communication course with over 1,750 students and 90 sections per semester.', u'Because the shapes and forms of many coral reefs resemble karst (erosion landforms created by dissolution of limestone), it is widely believed that those reefs have grown on karst foundations, and that Holocene growth perpetuates the underlying topography. However, this concept has become difficult to reconcile with the growing amount of seismic and coring evidence demonstrating that several karst-like reef features are entirely constructional. Here I use cellular automata simulations to show that coral reefs resemble karst limestones not because they are built on karst foundations, but because reef growth and limestone erosion are fundamentally the same process, running in opposite directions. Coral reef landscapes are in fact inverse karst\u2014the basic spectrum of reef growth forms mirrors the basic spectrum of limestone erosion forms. In both growth and erosion, the development of form is a self-organised phenomenon emerging from the cumulative action of small-scale processes. The essential morphological control in both cases is slope stability, which depends on the composition of each system: coral type in reefs and lithology (rock type) in limestones. Solid, well cemented reefs and limestones, which can maintain steep slopes without collapsing, produce nodular reefs and pinnacle karst respectively, whereas unconsolidated, friable reefs and limestones, which frequently collapse, produce cellular reefs and cone karst.The growth forms produced in the model should theoretically apply to all modular skeleton-building organisms growing in a fluid medium, and may therefore provide useful templates in the search for extraterrestrial life. While none of the model forms can be considered unequivocally diagnostic of life, because all could conceivably arise through inanimate crystallisation, the model\u2019s seemingly accurate rendition of biogenic carbonate morphology on earth suggests that it may provide a useful foundation for evaluating and exploring the range of macroscale self-organised biogenic structures that could arise on other planets.', u'Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may trigger risk of chronic illness, reduce life expectancy, and affect quality of life. Body Mass Index (BMI), which relates the body\u2019s weight with height, has been widely used and accepted as a simple method to classify medical risk by weight status. Several variables are thought to be correlated with obesity in Canadian children, adolescents, and adults. The objective of this project is to investigate the effect of sleep duration, leptin levels, and ghrelin levels on the prevalence of obesity in Canada. The number of hours spent sleeping per night and self-reported BMI data from the 2011-2012 Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS) are analyzed. The CCHS covers approximately 98% of the Canadian population aged 12 and over. It is hypothesized that a lack of sleep and later bed times are associated with a greater daily energy intake, lower leptin levels, and higher ghrelin levels, ultimately leading to obesity. Data analysis indicates a negative correlation, thus the hypothesis is accepted.', u'Background. The genus Megalochelys is the largest known testudinid (family Testudnidae) found from the upper Miocene to lower Pleistocene of India to Indonesian Islands. The maximum length of the shell in this genus has been estimated as up to about 2 m long based on a specimen from the lower Pleistocene of Java Island, Indonesia. Recently, joint paleontological expeditions of Japan and Myanmar led by M. Takai have unearthed abundant fossils of this genus from the Neogene since 2003. These materials shed new light on this unique gigantic tortoise. Methods. All materials of Megalochelys were found from the Lower Irrawaddy Beds in poor preservation except for one nearly complete shell. The shell lengths from the fragmentary materials were estimated by using those of medium to large\u2013sized testudinids. Results. Postcranial materials, including twenty-five epiplastra, one cervical vertebra, appendicular skeletons, and one nearly complete shell (about 180 cm long) have been discovered from the Lower Irrawaddy Beds in narrow area near Pauk Township. They are associated with terrestrial mammals such as Stegodon, suggesting that the age of the fossil bearing beds are attributed to the late Miocene to the early Pliocene. Of these, the epiplastra in two morphological states appear to be derived from sexual dimorphism of this genus as seen in several testudinids and noted previously by second author on the relevant materials. A huge distal portion of the humerus (ca. 31 cm long) suggests that its original length was about 75 cm. Discussion. A nearly complete shell is about 180 cm long, although this seems a rather young male individual of Megalochelys based on its rather slender epiplastral morphology, which is nearly as large as given estimation of the maximum shell length from Java material. On the other hand, the largest humerus, estimated as 75 cm in original length, suggests its shell was about 270 cm long. This estimation seems to be supported by other isolated materials such as the nuchal plate, largest epiplastron, and the pectoral girdle. Hitherto, Stupendemys geographica (from the Pliocene of Venezuela) and Archelon ischyros (from the Lower Cretaceous of North America) were regarded as largest known turtles with about 220 cm long shell. However, Megalochelys from Myanmar involves much larger specimens, suggesting this is a true largest known turtle.', u'The Atlantic Goliath Grouper, Epinephelus itajara, is critically-endangered throughout its range but has begun to show initial signs of recovery in Florida state waters. As the population continues to rebound, researchers face a pressing need to fill the knowledge gaps about this iconic species. Here, we examined the \u03b415N isotopic records in fin rays collected from Atlantic Goliath Grouper, and related changes of isotopic ratios over time to life history characteristics. Fin-ray analysis was used as a non-lethal technique to sample individuals from two locations at similar latitudes from the west and east coasts of Florida, U.S.A. \u03b415N data were acquired by mechanically separating the annuli of each fin ray and then analyzing the material in an Irradiance Elemental Analyzer Mass Spectrometer. The \u03b415N values were consistent among individuals within populations from each coast of Florida, and mirrored the expected changes over the lives of the fish. Overall, differences were found between \u03b415N values at juvenile life history phases versus adult phases, but the patterns associated with these differences were unique to each coastal group. We demonstrated, for the first time, that \u03b415N values from fin rays can be used to assess the life histories of Atlantic Goliath Grouper. The non-lethal strategies outlined here can be used to acquire information essential to the management of species of concern, such as those that are threatened or endangered.', u'Background. Moroccan phosphates bed includes fossils of Sauropterygia, Testudines and mosasaurs from the latest Cretaceous (Maastrichitian) to Eocene. Family Bothremydidae (Podocnemidoidea), an extinct side-necked turtle group, has broad diversity in cranial morphology as shown by the genus Bothremys (Bothremydini). This genus is known from the Cretaceous and Paleogene of North America, Europe, Africa and middle east Asia, uniquely characterized by a pair of pits on the triturating surface of upper and lower jaws. Hitherto, four species have been recognized in Bothremys; B. cooki, B. kellyi, B. maghrebiana, and B. arabicus. Compared to the diversity of cranial morphology, little difference is known in the shell morphology in bothremydids. Also little is known about the limb morphology of bothremydini turtles, because of poor association of skull and postcranial skeleton. A new excellently preserved specimen of Bothremys is reported from the Upper Cretaceous of Morocco.\nMethods. The WSILS-RHg519 specimen stored in Waseda University is a large bothremydid skull associated with lower jaw and several postcranial elements including left humerus and peripherals.\nResults. The pair of pits on the triturating surfaces of upper and lower jaws in WSILSRHg519 specimen is a distinct autoapomorphic characters of the genus Bothremys. With the skull width 171mm, B. arabicus from the Santonian age of Jordan had been the largest species of genus Bothremys. The WSILS-RHg519 reaches the skull width 220mm and would be the largest member of Bothremys. Also, comparing the bone composition of the ventral surface of skull of the WSILS-RHg519 specimen to all other known Bothremys, the palatine-pterygoid contacts and pterygoid-pterygoid contact are quite unique. The left humerus is associated with the skull, partly damaged. The distal end of humerus is wide and the shaft is nearly straight, showing the first morphological evidence of aquatic/marine adaptation different from that of Chedighaii, the sister taxon of Bothremys.\nDiscussion. The marine habitat of bothremydid turtles had been roughly discussed on the basis of the association of shallow marine animals such as shark teeth. Morphological evidence has not suggested yet partly because of the difficulty of bothremydid taxonomy which is just based on the cranial morphology. The WSILS-RHg519 specimen will hopefully shed light on the mysterious habitats of bothremydid turtles.', u'This paper takes a scientometric approach to examining one of Chinese Interpreting Studies\u2019 (CIS) most productive sources of research, MA theses, with the aim of answering the following questions: How has the discipline changed over time? What fields and theories influence it? And what are its most common research themes? The study\u2019s comprehensive corpus of nearly 1,300 Chinese-language theses addresses a data-based limitation faced by earlier scholars. A range of state-of-the-art statistical techniques have made it possible to detect patterns in CIS that are difficult to tease out by human hand and eye alone. The field has grown rapidly in recent years and is now producing a steady and consistent stream of research: the majority of students in China draw inspiration from theories within Translation Studies, but no particular theories or topics have grown more popular over time. Despite this consistency, CIS remains a complex and dynamic field of academic enquiry.', u'The Pan I locus in Atlantic cod lies in a genomic island of divergence extending over a large genomic region. The locus has two divergent alleles, defined by a single DraI restriction site, that have been related to behavioral differences of habitat selection by depth and temperature. The Pan I locus is known to be under an unusual mix of balancing selection and selective sweeps within the functional types. Here we study nucleotide variation in a 12.5 kb region inside the genomic island harboring Pan I and neighboring loci for sortilin 1 (Sort1) and ataxin 7-like 2 (Atxn7l2) which we partially covered. Variation of the 31 gene copies throughout the region falls into two divergent haplogroups that correlate with the 25 copies of A and six copies of B alleles of Pan I. The unfolded site frequency spectrum for the part with Pacific cod used as the outgroup is trimodal with a mode at singletons and two high frequency modes at 6/31 and 25/31 representing the two genealogical lineages. The folded site frequency spectrum for the entire region similarly has a high frequency mode of mutations that have accumulated on the two lineages. The high frequency of singletons is accounted for by multiple merger coalescent models. Parameter estimates using these models indicate sweepstakes reproduction. The high frequency modes of the spectrum is evidence for balancing selection. Analysis of non-synonymous changes shows that Pan I is at least one focus of selection within the genomic island. There may be multiple sites of selection and epistatic interactions. There is extensive linkage disequilibrium throughout the region. We suggest that the genomic island of divergence is a supergene of co-adapted complexes possibly locked together by structural variation.', u'Transitive inference (the ability to infer that \u201cB>D\u201d given that \u201cB>C\u201d and \u201cC>D\u201d) is a widespread characteristic of serial learning, observed in dozens of species. Despite these robust behavioral effects, reinforcement learning models reliant on reward prediction error or associative strength routinely fail to perform these inferences. We propose an algorithm called betasort, inspired by cognitive processes, which performs transitive inference at low computational cost. This is accomplished by (1) representing stimulus positions along a unit span using beta distributions, (2) treating positive and negative feedback asymmetrically, and (3) updating the position of every stimulus during every trial, whether that stimulus was visible or not. Performance was compared for rhesus macaques, humans, the betasort algorithm, and Q-learning (an established RPE model). Of these, only Q-learning failed to respond above chance during critical test trials. Implications for cognitive/associative rivalries, as well as for the model-based/model-free dichotomy, are discussed.', u'Sikkim is an Indian state with unique cultural and natural landscape. Being rich in bioresources, earlier biodiversity explorations have led to enumeration of varied flora and fauna. However, fungi being an important biodiversity component, and especially, the fungal phytopathogens having potential of impacting human economy and food security, present understanding is needed to make vision for the future. In this regard, past works (1877-2011) on phytopathogenic fungi reported from Sikkim were surveyed. In this manuscript, 98 species of plant pathogenic fungi (including anamorphs) under 76 genera are enlisted. The alphabetical checklist of the species is provided herewith. Further updates will be added in the subsequent versions of the publication.', u'There is no denying that the growth of interpreting as an industry in China has been an explosive one. The increasing need for economic and political cooperation has spurred the demand for interpreters to bridge the linguistic and cultural divides that exist between China and the West. With the creation of master\u2019s and bachelor\u2019s degrees in Interpreting and Translation all over China, students from various universities have produced a wealth of literature in Interpreting Studies. However, owing to the lack of exchange of information and cooperation on the part of universities, to date there have been only a few systematic studies of MA theses, which represent years of work by aspiring interpreters. Using the latest statistical techniques and an exhaustive corpus, this paper is an objective examination of the differences and similarities between the choices of topic and theoretical inspirations of MA students at various Chinese universities, and of how their choices of topic and advisor affect their likelihood of pursuing careers in academia. This research indicates that Chinese Interpreting Studies cannot be considered a homogenous entity, even though universities tend to be influenced in similar ways and coincide on the most important research themes. This paper discusses the increasingly non-academic career paths of MA-level interpreting students.', u'The steps of the DNA replication process remains to be clarified. Transcription factors are supposed to find their specific binding-sequence driven by epigenetic modifications and GpC islands. But then how can the replication machinery be able to find the promoters of exactly the genes that the cell needs to transcribe in that moment? Here we hypothesize a role of DNA conductance and electrical induction to give an explanation to this unsolved problem. Our hypothesis goes in accordance with the fact that many authors identified 3D loops in the genomes.', u'Background. The Trionychoidea were dominant turtles in the Late Cretaceous of Asia and North America. Although Early Cretaceous trionychoids are quite important to reveal their origin and the early evolution, their fossil records are very poor so far. The Lower Cretaceous Kitadani Formation of the Tetori Group is one of the most productive dinosaur-bearing beds of Japan, and has yielded a lot of turtle remains. Trionychid, adocid, and nanhsiungchelyid were published as the oldest records by Hirayama (2002). Herein, we report new information about trionychid and adocid turtles from the Kitadani Formation. Methods. We examined and morphologically described more than 700 materials (mostly isolated shell fragments) from the Kitadani Formation (late Barremian to Aptian) of the Tetori Group in Katsuyama City, Fukui Prefecture, central Japan. All specimens have been collected in the paleontological excavations by Fukui Prefectural Dinosaur Museum since 1988. Results. The turtle fauna consists of four trionychoid taxa and two other eucryptodires. About 80 % are assigned to the Trionychoidea including a trionychid, two taxa of adocids, and a nanhsiungchelyid. Shell and skeletal assemblages of a soft-shelled turtle (FPDM-V9487, 9489) were newly discovered. These have the following synapomorphies as the Trionychidae; vermiculated shell sculpturing, loss of scale sulci, lack of peripheral bones, reduction of plastron, no osseous bridge between carapace and plastron. Furthermore, a reduction of eighth costal, and an indistinct sculpture and callosity on the hypoplastron are common characters in Perochelys, Gobiapalone, and Apalonina. The Adocidae, an extinct semi-aquatic turtle, is the most dominant among turtles in this locality and is composed of two different taxa. Nearly complete shell materials of Adocus sp. have been recovered based on hundreds of fragmentary shell materials and the newly collected shell assemblage of one individual (FPDM-V9173). Another adocid, gen. et sp. indet., is newly recognized on the basis of costals, peripherals, and a hypoplastron. This adocid is distinguished from Adocus sp. by the possession of the marginal scales limited within peripherals, and thinner shells. Discussion. Trionychoids from the Kitadani Formation were composed of dominant families in the Late Cretaceous of Asia and North America. Trionychoids from underlying Kuwajima and Akaiwa formations (Hauterivian to Barremian) of the Tetori Group are quite different. More primitive trionychoids such as \u201cTrionychoidea indet.\u201d and Kappachelys okurai have been unearthed from these formations. This stratigraphical succession suggests that morphological and paleoecological diversification among trionychoid turtles began during the Barremian or Aptian in East Asia. Fossil turtles from the Tetori Group could shed light on the early evolution of trionychoid families.', u'Background. Testudines is a reptilian order with unique morphological features among vertebrates. This order is currently divided into two suborders: Pleurodira and Cryptodira; which comprises approimately 14 extant families with 95 genera, about 320 species. Phylogenetic affinities below the family level remain largely unresolved. The main discrepancies among previous studies concern the position of the superfamily Trionychoidea and the families Chelydridae and Platystenidae. The recent improvement in combined phylogenetic inference and divergence time estimates, as well as the increased taxon sampling available in databases, prompted us to investigate their evolutionary relationships. Methods. In order to clarify the phylogenetic relatioships of Testudines, we inferred phylogenies from two datasets: (1) molecular dataset based on 12 genes, including 294 species; and (2) total evidence based on 12 genes plus 235 morphologic caracteres from the matrix of Sterli et al. (2013), including 28 extant and 69 extinct taxa. Maximum likelihood phylogenetic inference was performed with the data set partitioned into: (1) molecular nuclear data under GTR model of substitution, and (2) morphological data under Mk model. Statistical support for clades was assessed with 2000 nonparametric bootstrap replicates (BT). Results. Our results supported a split between Pleurodira and Cryptodira (BT > 97). In Cryptodira, we inferred an early split between Trionychoidea and all other Cryptodira, known as Durocryptodira (BT = 100). The monophyly of all families and superfamilies were recovered with high support (BT=100), except for the family Podocnemididae (BT=59). In both analyses, Chelydridae was recovered as sister-group to the superfamily Kinosternoidae (BT=99). With regard to Platysternidae, this monotypic asian family would split from Emydidae in the molecular phylogeny (BT = 81), whereas in the total analysis this split was between Emydidae and all remaining Testudinoidea: Emydidae + Geomydidae + Testudinidae. Discussion. All 14 families were represented in both analyses, although the molecular analysis contains 294 species-level taxa and total-evidence one has only 29 genus-level taxa. Pleurodira and Cryptodira were recovered as monophyletic as in most previous works. Trionychoidea was recovered as a clade within Cryptodira, in contrast to previous hypotheses, which placed this superfamily either as sister to Pleurodira or Cryptodira, or as sister group of all Testudines altogether. Chelydridae was recovered as sister-group of Kinosternoidae, whereas Platysternidae, a monotypic Asian family, was recovered as a member of Testudinoidae; although his position within the group was conflicting. This position of Platysternidae was the only conflict between crown groups found between our datasets.', u'Human activities are changing the global environment in numerous ways, including increasing concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide, alteration of biogeochemical cycles and changing land cover types. These changes are increasing stresses on ecosystem goods and services, driving climate change and thus creating a few grand challenges for sustainability of the human society. Improving our understanding of these profound changes and grand challenges will help us in developing better predictive capabilities for the future. As these changes are expected to be long-lasting and we still do not have a complete understanding of their causes and consequences, the next generation of scientists needs to be properly trained in knowledge, methods and techniques in order to meet the research needs to tackle future challenges in global change ecology research. Here we discuss the challenges and opportunities in preparing the next-generation global change researchers according to four key aspects of training.', u'Background: HIV disclosure from parent to child is challenging. While disclosure is expected to be emotional for parents and children, the total disclosure experience has not been described. The purpose of this study was to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children in Kenya during the disclosure process. Methods: Phenomenological qualitative data were collected using in-depth semistructured interviews. Thirty four participants consisting of HIV-positive parents, children (infected and uninfected), and healthcare professionals (HCPs) were enrolled. Data analysis was performed using NVivo 8 and the Van Kaam method. Results: Pre-disclosure, parents were plagued with fear/worry of stigma, judgment, rejection, blame; and the reaction/consequences of disclosure on their children. Guilt and shame for bringing the illness into the home abounded. Children sensed, wondered, and worried about secrets within their homes. During disclosure, parents experienced catharsis, guilt, confusion, and panic when children reacted negatively. Children experienced shock, disbelief, anger, sadness, worry, depression, confusion, and catharsis from finally knowing what was wrong. Post-disclosure parents alternated between relief, guilt, and depression as their children\u2019s behavior changed due to disclosure. Children experienced unhappiness, depression, hopelessness, self-hate, and withdrawal. Recovery time varied lasting from a few hours to four months later; some children ultimately felt relief and self-acceptance. However, stress exposure caused disclosure emotions to reappear. Conclusion: HIV disclosure process is accompanied by alternating negative and positive feelings for both parents and children. To ease the process, HCPs should provide support services such as disclosure practice sessions/training, counseling, peer support groups, and stress management.', u'As the discipline of Translation and Interpreting Studies (TIS) has continued to expand rapidly over the past twenty years, scientometric research has been increasingly applied to analyze its trends and patterns. Drawing inspiration from Social Network Analysis, this study aims to quantify academic research impact and identify patterns of influence at an institutional and regional level in Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS), by seeking answers to the following questions: Which are the most influential publications? Which institutions and regions carry the most weight? How have their respective levels of influence evolved over time? By analyzing a near-exhaustive corpus of 59,303 citations from CIS literature, the study reveals that most of the influential publications are monographs and theoretical in nature, though many Chinese textbooks on interpreting are also highly influential. It also finds that an institution\u2019s ranking in research productivity does not necessarily translate into high academic influence, and geographical proximity does not determine whether neighboring regions belong to the same research community.', u'In a recent study, Murrell et al. (2015) compared the performance of several branch-site models of codon evolution. Their interpretation of results published by Lu & Guindon (2014) suggests that the stochastic branch-site model implemented in the software fitmodel is anti-conservative altogether, i.e., positive selection is detected more often than expected when analyzing sequences evolving under a mixture of neutrality and negative selection. I argue here that this presentation of the performance of fitmodel is misleading and should not deter evolutionary biologists from using this approach in exploratory analyses of selection patterns at the molecular level.', u'Background.  Knowledge about mixed-methods perspectives that examine anxiety, depression, social support, mental health and the phenomenon of suffering among cognitively intact NH residents is scarce. We aimed to explore suffering and mental health among cognitively intact NH residents.   Methods.  This study used a mixed-methods design to explore different aspects of the same phenomena of interest to gain a more comprehensive understanding. The qualitative core component comprised a qualitative interview from 18 nursing home residents (\u226565 years) about experiences related to pain, grief and loss. The supplementary component comprised interview from the same respondents using the SF-36 Health Survey subscales , the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the Social Provisions Scale. Results.  The individual descriptions reveal suffering caused by painful experiences during life. The quantitative results indicated that symptoms of anxiety and depression were related to mental health and symptoms of anxiety were related to bodily pain and emotional role limitations. Attachment and social integration were associated with vitality and social functioning. Discussion.  To improve the situation, more attention should be paid to the residents\u2019 suffering related to anxiety, depression and psychosocial relations.', u'Blood has a complex proteome with a huge span of protein abundances, and we are currently exploring sample preparation strategies addressing this potential challenge. We first evaluated the possibility to simply reduce complexity by fractionating blood samples (prior to targeted proteomics), using combinations of centrifugal filters that are promoted as having differing molar mass (M M ) selectivity. However, systematic fractionation was not possible, as the units had surprisingly unpredictable M M  filtration profiles. Hence, labeling implying M M selectivity of centrifugal filters shouldn\u2019t be taken literally. One filter combination (100+50K) however appeared to reduce human serum albumin (HSA) compared with much of the proteome (assessed using gel electrophoresis and staining). However, for our target protein beta-catenin, a \u201cdilute-and-shoot\u201d approach (without any attempt to remove high abundant proteins) was what enabled identification of beta-catenin in blood with nano liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS). Thus, minimal sample preparation can be an option in targeted blood proteomics. All blood samples prepared and analyzed (using ultrafast nano-LC-MS) were of considerable complexity, and we document the importance of using external standard spiking and minimum three MS/MS transitions to confirm the presence of target proteins.', u'Diabetes mellitus (DM) affects 2-37% of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with results being highly variable between studies. DM may also correlate with disease characteristics.The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of DM and its correlation with comorbidities and COPD characteristics in patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation. 152 patients were studied for presence of DM. All of them were also assessed for vitamin D status and metabolic syndrome (MS). Data were gathered for smoking status and exacerbations during the last year. All patients completed CAT (COPD assessment test) and mMRC (Modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea scale) questionnaires and underwent spirometry. Duration of current hospital stay was recorded. 13.2% (20/152) of patients are taking medications for DM. Additional 21.7% (33/152) have newly discovered DM and 30.9% (47/152) have prediabetes. Only 34.2% of the studied patients do not have DM or prediabetes. 37% (40/108) of males have DM vs. 29,5% (13/44) of females (p=0.379). The prevalence of DM in this study is significantly higher when compared to an unselected Bulgarian population (12,8% in subjects over 45 years). 91% of patients with newly discovered diabetes had glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c)\u22656,5% suggesting prolonged hyperglycemia. There is a correlation between the presence of DM and MS (p=0.008). The presence of DM is associated with more severe exacerbations (hospitalizations) during the previous year (p=0.003) and a longer hospital stay (p=0.006). DM is not associated with reduced quality of life and worse pulmonary function. The patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation are at great risk for impaired glucose metabolism which is associated with worse COPD characteristics. The majority of the patients in this study are unaware of having DM.', u'Regression analyses of results from the Times Higher Education (THES)-Ranking and Shanghai University\u2019s Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU)-Ranking from 2010-2014 show fluctuations in the rank and score for lower scoring universities (below position 50) which lead to inconsistent \u201cup and downs\u201d in the total results, especially in the THES-Rankings. Furthermore year-to-year results do not correspond in THES- and ARWU-Rankings for universities below rank 50. We conclude that the observed fluctuations in the THES do not correspond to actual university performance and ranking results are thus of limited conclusiveness for the university management of lower scoring universities. We suggest that THE and ARWU alter their ranking procedure insofar as universities below position 50 should be ranked summarized only in groups of 25 or 50. The year to year changes in the ARWU scores are very small, so essential changes from year to year could not be expected, so therefore we argue to publish the ranking less frequently. Additionally, we argue for introducing a standardization process for ranking data in both rankings by using common suitable reference data to create calibration curves represented by non-linearity or linearity.', u'The obesity epidemic is a worldwide problem. Studies from the late 20th century show a consistent trend of increasing obesity prevalence on a global scale (Popkin & Doak, 1998). The OECD reports that overweight and obese people are now a majority amongst OECD countries, with Mexico having one of the highest obesity rates: as of 2012, 32.4% of the adult population was obese (Wilson, Devaux, & Cecchini, 2014). Obesity, in turn, is a risk factor to many of the most widespread chronic diseases: diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and even cancer. We propose that a preventive strategy towards obesity will result in long-term and high impact results. Our strategy focuses on changing two significant lifestyle factors: diet and physical activity. The former is achieved by a comprehensive health education and habit-forming program; the latter, by personalized goal setting based on activity measurements with the use of mobile accelerometry. This work presents the physical activity results of a pilot study realized with Mexican youth. Within this study, we explore the use of the motivational package \u201cMove-your-health\xae\u201d alongside a series of workshops to validate the hypothesis that personalized goal setting leads to a measurable increase in physical activity.', u'Collaboration forms an integral aspect of global research endeavors, where co-authorship derived from bibliographic records provides the building block for mapping research collaboration networks. Bibliometric techniques and social network analysis tools were applied to measure the scope and depth of collaboration in biomedical research in Southeast Asia during the period 2005-2009. In particular, centrality scores and draw network maps were calculated for both country and institutional levels of aggregation. In the field of biomedical research, Thailand and Singapore are the most productive and collaborative countries in Southeast Asia during the period studied. Using network analysis, there was strong correlation of research productivity by a country or institution with the number of collaboration and its group influence, and weak correlation with maximal data flow within the research network. There were specific clusters of connected institutions in subnetworks for neoplasm, diabetes, and tuberculosis research. Given the observed frequency of regional collaboration in Southeast Asia, in comparison to foreign collaboration, it is argued that increasing the number of collaborations within Southeast Asia will help advance the region\u2019s efforts on domestic and regional health issues.', u'It is important to quantify patterns of morphological diversity to enhance our understanding of variation in ecological and evolutionary traits. Here, we present a quantitative analysis of morphological diversity in a family of small mammals, the tenrecs (Afrosoricida, Tenrecidae). Tenrecs are often cited as an example of an exceptionally morphologically diverse group. However, this assumption has not been tested quantitatively. We use geometric morphometric analyses of skull shape to test whether tenrecs are more morphologically diverse than their closest relatives, the golden moles (Afrosoricida, Chrysochloridae). Tenrecs occupy a wider range of ecological niches than golden moles so we predict that they will be more morphologically diverse. Contrary to our expectations, we find that tenrec skulls are only more morphologically diverse than golden moles when measured in lateral view. Furthermore, similarities among the species-rich Microgale tenrec genus appear to mask higher morphological diversity in the rest of the family. These results reveal new insights into the morphological diversity of tenrecs and highlight the importance of using quantitative methods to test qualitative assumptions about patterns of morphological diversity.', u'Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a dreadful, devastating and incurable motor neuron disease. Aetiologically, it is a multigenic, multifactorial and multiorgan disease. Despite intense research, ALS pathology remains unexplained. After the literature review, this paper posits a new integrative explanation. This framework proposes that ammonia neurotoxicity is a main player in ALS pathogenesis. According to this explanation, a combination of impaired ammonia removal\u2014 mainly because of impaired hepatic urea cycle dysfunction\u2014and increased ammoniagenesis\u2014 mainly because of impaired glycolytic metabolism in fast twitch skeletal muscle\u2014causes chronic hyperammonia in ALS. In the absence of neuroprotective calcium binding proteins (calbindin, calreticulin and parvalbumin), elevated ammonia\u2014a neurotoxin\u2014damages motor neurons. Ammonia-induced motor neuron damage occurs through multiple mechanisms such as macroautophagy-endolysosomal impairment, ER-stress, CDK5 activation, oxidative/nitrosative stress and neuroinflammation. Furthermore, the regional pattern of calcium binding proteins\u2019 loss, owing to either ER stress and/or impaired oxidative metabolism, determines clinical viabilities of ALS. Most importantly, this new framework can be generalised to explain other neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington\u2019s disease.', u'A biosurvey was conducted in Samendu Lake and its surrounding wetlands of Eastern Himalayan Hill region of Mirik in Darjeeling in West Bengal, India. In the study, endemic and locally rare bird species Zapornia bicolor (Walden, 1872) was studied with point transect method regarding its population and habitat. Very low population (only 21 individuals) and habitat degradation (encroachment, pollution, invasive plant species) was observed at the study sites. Conservation measures for this species have been suggested.', u'Triassic vertebrate tracks are known from the beginning of the 19th century and have a worldwide distribution. Several Triassic track ichnoassemblages and ichnotaxa have a restricted stratigraphic range and are useful in biochronology and biostratigraphy. The record of Triassic tracks in the Iberian Peninsula has gone almost unnoticed although more than 25 localities have been described since 1897. In one of these localities, the naturalist Longinos Nav\xe1s described the ichnotaxon Chirotherium ibericus in 1906.The vertebrate tracks are in two sandy slabs from the Anisian (Middle Triassic) of the Moncayo massif (Zaragoza, Spain). In a recent revision, new, previously undescribed vertebrate tracks have been identified. The tracks considered to be C. ibericus as well as other tracks with the same morphology from both slabs have been classified as Chirotherium barthii. The rest of the tracks have been assigned to Chirotheriidae indet., Rhynchosauroides isp. and undetermined material. This new identification of C. barthii at the Nav\xe1s site adds new data to the Iberian record of this ichnotaxon, which is characterized by the small size of the tracks when compared with the main occurrences of this ichnotaxon elsewhere. As at the Nav\xe1s tracksite, the Anisian C. barthii-Rhynchosauroides ichnoassemblage has been found in other coeval localities in Iberia and worldwide. This ichnoassemblage belongs to the upper Olenekian-lower Anisian interval according to previous biochronological proposals. Analysis of the Triassic Iberian record of tetrapod tracks is uneven in terms of abundance over time. From the earliest Triassic to the latest Lower Triassic the record is very scarce, with Rhynchosauroides being the only known ichnotaxon. Rhynchosauroides covers a wide temporal range and gives poor information for biochronology. The record from the uppermost Lower Triassic to the Middle Triassic is abundant. The highest ichnodiversity has been reported for the Anisian with an assemblage composed of Dicynodontipus, Procolophonichnium, Rhynchosauroides, Rotodactylus, Chirotherium, Isochirotherium, Coelurosaurichnus and Paratrisauropus. The Iberian track record from the Anisian is coherent with the global biochronology proposed for Triassic tetrapod tracks. Nevertheless, the scarcity of track occurrences during the late Olenekian and Ladinian prevents analysis of the corresponding biochrons. Finally, although the Iberian record for the Upper Triassic is not abundant, the presence of Eubrontes, Anchisauripus and probably Brachychirotherium is coherent with the global track biochronology as well. Thus, the Triassic track record in the Iberian Peninsula matches the expected record for this age on the basis of a global biochronological approach, supporting the idea that vertebrate Triassic tracks are a useful tool in biochronology.', u'In this Opinion piece, I argue that the dynamics of viruses and the cellular immune response depend on the body size of the host. I use allometric scaling theory to interpret observed quantitative differences in the infection dynamics of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) in mice (Mus musculus), simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in humans. There are indications that viral replication and the proliferation of CD8+ T cell responses are slower in larger animals. Whether this influences the ability of the cellular immune responses to eradicate viruses during the acute phase of an infection remains unclear, however.', u'Eight years of octopus fishery records from southwest Madagascar reveal significant positive impacts from 36 periodic closures on: (a) fishery catches and (b) village fishery income, such that (c) economic benefits from increased landings outweigh costs of foregone catch. Closures covered ~20% of a village\u2019s fished area and lasted 2-7 months. Fishery catches from each closed site: Octopus landings and catch per unit effort (CPUE) significantly increased in the 30 days following a closure\u2019s reopening, relative to the 30 days before a closure (landings: +718%, p<0.0001; CPUE: +87%, p<0.0001; n=36). Open-access control sites showed no before/after change when they occurred independently of other management (\u201cno ban\u201d, n=17/36). On the other hand, open-access control sites showed modest catch increases when they extended a 6-week seasonal fishery shutdown (\u201cban\u201d, n=19/36). The seasonal fishery shutdown affects the entire region, so confound all potential control sites. Fishery income in implementing villages: In villages implementing a closure, octopus fishery income doubled in the 30 days after a closure, relative to 30 days before (+132%, p<0.001, n=28). Control villages not implementing a closure showed no increase in income after \u201cno ban\u201d closures and modest increases after \u201cban\u201d closures. Villages did not show a significant decline in income during closure events. Net economic benefits from each closed site: Landings in closure sites generated more revenue than simulated landings assuming continued open-access fishing at that site (27/36 show positive net earnings; mean +$305/closure; mean +57.7% monthly). Benefits accrued faster than local fishers\u2019 time preferences during 17-27 of the 36 closures. High reported rates of illegal fishing during closures correlated with poor economic performance. We discuss the implications of our findings for broader co-management arrangements, particularly for catalyzing more comprehensive management.', u'Across landscapes, riparian plant communities assemble under varying levels of disturbance, environmental stress, and resource availability, leading to the development of distinct riparian life-history guilds. Identifying the environmental filters that exert selective pressures and favor specific vegetation guilds within riverscapes is a critical step in setting baseline expectations for how riparia may respond to the environmental conditions anticipated under future global change scenarios. In this study, we ask (1) what functional riparian plant guilds exist across two major North American river basins? (2) What environmental filters shape riparian guild distributions? (3) Does resource partitioning between guilds influence guild distributions and co-occurrence? We identified riparian plant guilds, examining relationships between regional climate and watershed hydrogeomorphic characteristics, stream channel form, and co-occurring riparian guilds. Woody species composition was measured at 703 streams and each species\u2019 traits were extracted from a database in five functional areas: life form, persistence and growth, reproduction, and resource use. We clustered species into guilds by morphological characteristics and attributes related to environmental tolerances, modeling guild distributions as a product of environmental filters (stressors and resources) and guild co-existence. We identified five guilds, i) a tall, deeply rooted, long-lived, evergreen tree guild, ii) a xeric disturbance tolerant shrub guild, iii) a hydrophytic, thicket-forming shrub guild, iv) a low-statured, shade-tolerant, understory shrub guild and v) a flood tolerant, mesoriparian shrub guild. Guilds were most strongly discriminated by one another species\u2019 rooting depth, canopy height and potential to resprout and grow following biomass-removing disturbance. Hydro-climatic variables including precipitation, watershed area, water table depth, and channel form attributes reflective of hydrologic regime were predictors of guilds whose life history strategies had affinity or aversion to flooding, drought, and fluvial disturbance. Biotic interactions excluded guilds with divergent life history strategies and/or allowed for the co-occurrence of guilds that partition resources differently in the same environment. We conclude that riparian guilding provides a useful framework for assessing how disturbance and bioclimatic gradients shape riparian functional plant diversity. Multiple processes should be considered when the riparian response guilds framework is to be used as a land-use decision-support tool framework', u'National maize productivity is very low in Nepal. To increase its productivity, hybrid maize breeding and their cultivation are indispensible. For it, fifteen newly bred single cross hybrids of yellow maize were examined to select superior high GYHs (grain yielding hybrids) from the standpoint grain yielding potentiality. In addition, dynamics of chl, N conc and red light absorbance-transmittance (RAT) have also examined from the standpoint of chl, N conc and RAT measure and their effects on grain yield (GY). For it, a trial of RCBD experiment was conducted in open field in winter in subtropical region in Nepal. Seeds were sown on October 3, 2012 plot in two row plot area of 1.4 x 3.0 m2. After anthesis, observations of chl and N conc implying RAT (red light absorbance-transmittance) SPAD (Soil Plant Analysis and Development) measures were taken from the topmost ear (e0 or E0) and third (e3 or E3) leaf above the e0 leaf in ten days interval during entire grain filling (GF). SPAD measures were transformed to total chl and N conc. E0 leaf has been found more grain yield determining than e3 leaf and terminal GF has been found more determining than early GF from the standpoint of correlation coefficients (r ) of GYs with chl, N conc and SPAD measure. From pooled variance analysis; SPAD and chl conc were not significant different in the two leaves and among the hybrids (Hybrids x Leaves x Ages). But, the SPAD and chl conc were significant different among the two leaves and ages (Leaves x Ages) irrespective of the hybrids. Different to the SPAD and chl conc, N conc was significant different in the leaves among the hybrids with respect to ages of the plants among the fifteen hybrids (Hybrids x Leaves x Ages). Thirteen top high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 13, 5, 6, 10, 1, 7, 14, 2, 9 and 15 were non-significant different from the standpoint of GY. The SPAD measures were in the non-significant range of 51-55 in e0 leaf in the duration from 95 to 125 d among the fifteen hybrids (FHs). Among the top four high GYHs 8, 12, 11 and 13; hybrid 11 lost chl and N from e0 leaf significantly on 135th d relative to the most of the hybrids. It means that the hybrid 11 could efficiently degrade N containing soluble protein and chl even on e0 leaf relatively. Top listed five high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 5 and 6 (except 13) constantly maintained chl and N conc implying SPAD on the e0 leaf up to the 135th d. In addition, it implies that these five hybrids sent newly up-taken N to kernels without degradation of the proteins and chl from the e0 leaf till the age of 135 d. High GYH 8 had degraded soluble proteins and enzymes and chl conc on e3 leaf and mobilized the degraded N to the kernels more efficiently from the e3 leaf. It is not necessary that maize hybrids must constantly maintain soluble proteins and chl conc during most of early to mid GF for high GY. Instead, diagnostic decline of the soluble protein and chl conc during early to mid GF also accelerate GF phenomena.', u'Overgrazing is considered one of the key disturbance factors that results in alpine grassland degradation in Tibet. Grazing exclusion by fencing has been widely used as an approach to restore degraded grassland s in Tibet since 2004. Is the grazing exclusion management strategy effective for the vegetation restoration of degraded alpine grasslands? Three alpine grassland types were selected in Tibet to investigate the effect of grazing exclusion on plant community structure and biomass. Our results showed that species biodiversity indicators, including the Pielou evenness index, the Shannon-Wiener diversity index, and the Simpson dominance index, did not significantly change under grazing exclusion conditions. In contrast, the total vegetation cover, the mean vegetation height of the community, and the aboveground biomass were significantly higher in the grazing exclusion grasslands than in the free grazed grasslands. These results indicated that grazing exclusion is an effective measure for maintaining community stability and improving aboveground vegetation growth in alpine grasslands. However, the statistical analysis showed that the alpine grassland type plays a more important role than grazing exclusion in which influence on vegetation in alpine grasslands because the alpine grassland type had a significant effect on vegetation indicators but grazing exclusion not. In addition, because the results of the present study come from short term (5-7 years) grazing exclusion, it is still uncertain whether these improvements will be continuable if grazing exclusion is continuously implemented. Therefore, the assessments of the ecological effects of the grazing exclusion management strategy on degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet are still need long term continued research.', u'Background. The clade Chelidae (Testudines, Pleurodira) is a group of fresh water turtles with representatives in Australasia and South America. Its diversity of extant and fossil species is characterized by two recognized morphotypes: the long-necked and the short-necked chelids. So far, the phylogenies constructed over Chelidae differ depending on the information source. While morphology recovers one monophyletic group of long-necked chelids (with South American and Australasian species), the molecular data split the group into South American and Australasian chelids, both as monophyletic sister groups and containing long-necked species. The consequences of this conflict imply the emergence of long-necked chelids (i) one time before the final breakup of Southern Gondwana (\u2245 35 Mya) or (ii) independently after this event.\nMethods. Using BEAST, a set of molecular clock analyses was performed. Seven of these analyses correspond to the molecular hypothesis and thirteen to the morphological hypothesis. So, ten fossils were used as calibration points in different combinations for each hypothesis. The results were statistically compared performing ANOVA and the global similarity was inspected by a hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA).\nResults. Molecular hypothesis: all the analyses produced an age of the origin of Chelidae, and rising of long neck, older than 35 Mys. Divergence times in the South American clade were generally older than the observed in the Australasian clade. The result of the HCA was: analyses 2, 4 and 5 form a group and the analyses 3, 6 and 7 form another group; the analysis 1 is close related to this last. Morphological hypothesis: the origin of the clade of long-necked chelids predated the 35 Mys in all the analyses except one; however the Chelodina group resulted younger than this age in all the analyses. The HCA yielded two main groups of molecular clock analyses (1, 3, 7, 8, 9, 13 and 2, 4, 6, 10, 11, 12) and one analysis (5) clearly separated of these two. The ANOVA resulted in significant differences for all estimated nodes in both phylogenetic hypotheses.\nDiscussion. Our set of molecular clock analyses suggests an early diversification of the chelid turtles and the raising of the long-necked chelids before the final breakup of Southern Gondwana. However, the appearance of this trait one time or as evolutionary convergence still depends on which phylogenetic scenario is taken into account. Furthermore, our results indicate that the number of calibration points not necessarily improve the precision of estimated nodes. Instead the \u201cquality\u201d of the fossils used as calibrations and its position in the phylogeny, have appreciable impact not only over this parameter, but also over the global evolutionary rate along the tree.', u'Mobile accelerometry is more and more being used in clinical trials as a tool to measure outcomes related to physical activity. However, it is still difficult to integrate exercise therapy in controlled clinical trials. We want to explore the option to use a unified platform to both measure outcome and prescribe and monitor exercise therapy using the actibelt technology platform. We present a prototype based on the actibelt platform that allows to use the wearable device as a mouse controller for a large set of potentially interesting games. Playing an exergame a person is encouraged to increase its level of daily motion while engaging in an activity that is perceived as interesting and fun, thus, providing an intrinsic motivation. Studies suggest that exergaming can be compared to light or moderate physical activity considering the heart rate, oxygen consumption and energy expenditure.', u'The \u201dGait-&Balance-Box\u201d suggests a standardization for clinical walk and balance tests with the aim to improve quality, applicability and comparability. Heart of the patient monitoring is the actibeltblue, an autonomous wireless accelerometer that is worn like a belt. The actibelt sends the acceleration data via blue-tooth to a tablet that provides direct analysis of the human motion. The box can be quickly unfolded into a mobile gait lab using 2 light barriers to perform walking test. The acceleration measurement plus the duration for the fixed walking distance are combined to an enhanced 4-meter walk test.', u'The increasing availability of phylogenetic information facilitates the use of evolutionary methods in community ecology to reveal the importance of evolution in the species assembly process. However, while several methods have been applied to a wide range of communities across different spatial scales with the purpose of detecting non-random phylogenetic patterns, the spatial aspects of phylogenetic community structure have received far less attention. Accordingly, the question for this study is: can point pattern analysis be used for revealing the phylogenetic structure of multi-species assemblages? We introduce a new individual-centered procedure for analyzing the scale-dependent phylogenetic structure of multi-species point patterns based on digitized field data. The method uses nested circular plots with increasing radii drawn around each individual plant and calculates the mean phylogenetic distance between the focal individual and all individuals located in the circular ring delimited by two successive radii. This scale-dependent value is then averaged over all individuals of the same species and the observed mean is compared to a null expectation with permutation procedures. The method detects particular radius values at which the point pattern of a single species exhibits maximum deviation from the expectation towards either phylogenetic aggregation or segregation. Its performance is illustrated using data from a grassland community in Hungary and simulated point patterns. The proposed method can be extended to virtually any distance function for species pairs, such as functional distances.', u'We developed a new global turtle matrix using morphological characters to test the age of the turtle crown and to assess the origin and phylogeny of various controversial clades along the turtle stem and within Pan-Cryptodira.\nWe significantly increased both character and taxon sampling relative to earlier global matrices with special emphasis on Jurassic and Cretaceous stem-cryptodires. Further improvements included the complete, observation-based re-scoring of all previously sampled taxa and the reduction of subjective character assignments with the help of consensusbuilding between the members of our working group for each scoring.\nWe confirm the previous conclusion that the turtle crown has an extensive phylogenetic stem and that the age of the crown is approximately Middle Jurassic in age. The addition of new fossils allows reinterpreting purported Laurasian meiolaniforms as part of a paraphyletic grade of Mesozoic Laurasian basal turtles, including Solemydidae, Sichuanchelyidae, and Kallokibotion bajazidi. A paraphyletic Cryptodira with a deeply nested Pleurodira (as signaled by some recent morphological and molecular analyses) is not recovered when only stem-pleurodires are included in the analysis. This demonstrates conclusively that the false signal is caused by marked morphological convergences between crown cryptodires and pleurodires. We find little or no support for the chelydrid affinities of Platysternon megacephalum which had previously been inferred by morphological analyses, in conspicuous contrast with molecular results. Similarly, little support remains for a Trionychia-Kinosternoidea clade, which had been consistently recovered in earlier morphological studies, again in contrast with molecular phylogenies. Contrary to previous hypotheses, our analysis advocates sea turtle monophyly and argue for a diverse Cretaceous stem, including bizarre, giant forms belonging to the extinct clade Protostegidae. Derived members of Protostegidae nevertheless show remarkable similarities with dermochelyids as a result of parallel evolution.\nDespite increased taxon and character sampling, we are still unable to fully replicate the molecular phylogeny of turtles. This is frustrating because the stratigraphic distribution of fossil turtles is more consistent with molecular results. The likely reason for this disparity comes from the high degree of homoplasy in turtles, notable gaps in the fossil record, and the rapid and early diversification of extant turtle lineages soon after the appearance of the turtle crown. The latter is also suggested by the overall good support at the end of the branches and low resolution at the nodes connecting their stem. Future fossil discoveries, particularly from the Jurassic of Gondwana and Southeast Asia, will likely help resolve these issues. In the meantime, we support employing the consensual molecular scaffold for global morphological analyses of turtles.', u"Natural selection, the most important force in evolution, comes in three forms. Negative purifying selection removes deleterious variation and maintains adaptations. Positive directional selection fixes beneficial variants, producing new adaptations. Balancing selection maintains variation in a population. Important mechanisms of balancing selection include heterozygote advantage, frequency-dependent advantage of rarity, and local and fluctuating episodic selection. A rare pathogen gains an advantage because host defenses are predominantly effective against prevalent types. Similarly, a rare immune variant gives its host an advantage because the prevalent pathogens cannot escape the host's apostatic defense. Due to the stochastic nature of evolution, neutral variation may accumulate on genealogical branches, but trans-species polymorphisms are rare under neutrality and are strong evidence for balancing selection. Balanced polymorphism maintains diversity at the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in vertebrates. The Atlantic cod is missing genes for both MHC-II and CD4, vital parts of the adaptive immune system. Nevertheless, cod are healthy in their ecological niche, maintaining large populations that support major commercial fisheries. Innate immunity is of interest from an evolutionary perspective, particularly in taxa lacking adaptive immunity. Here, we analyze extensive amino acid and nucleotide polymorphisms of the cathelicidin gene family in Atlantic cod and closely related taxa. There are three major clusters, Cath1, Cath2, and Cath3, that we consider to be paralogous genes. There is extensive nucleotide and amino acid allelic variation between and within clusters. The major feature of the results is that the variation clusters by alleles and not by species in phylogenetic trees and discriminant analysis of principal components. The three groups show trans-species polymorphism that is older than speciation and that is evidence for balancing selection maintaining the variation. Using Bayesian and likelihood methods positive and negative selection is evident at sites in the conserved part of the genes and, to a larger extent, in the active part which also shows episodic diversifying selection, further strengthening the argument for balancing selection.", u'Background: The dengue fever is a mosquito-borne viral disease and a regular epidemic in Thailand. The peak of the dengue epidemic period is around June to August during the rainy season. It is believed that the climate is an important factor for dengue transmission.Method: A mathematical model for vector-host infectious disease was used to calculate the impacts of climate to the transmission of dengue virus. In this study, the data of climate and dengue fever cases were derived from Chiang Mai during 2004-2014, Thailand. The value of seasonal reproduction number was calculated to evaluate the potential, severity and persistence of dengue infection.Results: The mosquito population was increasing exponentially from the start of the rainy season in early May and reached its the peak in late June. The simulations suggest that the greatest potential for the dengue transmission occurs when the temperature is 28.7\xbaC. The seasonal reproduction numbers were larger than one from late March to end of August and reaching the peak in June. The highest incidences occurred in August due to the delay of transmission humans-mosquito-humans. Increasing mean temperature by 1\xbaC, the number of incidences increases 30%. However, a very high or very low temperature reduces the number of infection.Discussion and Conclusion: The results show that the dengue infection depends on the seasonal variation of the climate. The rainfall provides places for the mosquitoes to lay eggs and develop to adult stage. The temperature plays an important role in the life cycle and behavior of the mosquitoes. A very high or very low temperature reduces the risk of the dengue infection.', u'Background. Severe obesity is a risk factor for lower participation in paid work, but whether employment increases and sick leave decreases after obesity surgery is not well documented. Methods. We assessed 224 Norwegian patients with severe obesity (mean age: 40; mean BMI: 49; 61% female) regarding employment status (working versus not working) and the number of days of sick leave during the preceding 12 months, before and five years after obesity surgery (75% follow-up rate). Logistic regression analysis was used to study preoperative predictors of employment status after surgery. Results. There were no change in the employment rate over time (54% versus 58%), but the number of days of sick leave per year was significantly reduced, from a mean of 63 to a mean of 26, and from a median of 36 to a median of 4. Most of this change was attributable to patients with zero days of sick leave, which increased from 25% to 41%. Being female, older, having low education level, receiving disability pension and not being employed before obesity surgery were important risk factors for not being employed after obesity surgery. The type of obesity surgery, BMI and marital status were not useful predictors. Conclusions. Our findings suggest that that undergoing obesity surgery is not associated with a higher rate of employment, although it may reduce the number of days of sick leave. Additional interventions are likely needed to influence the employment status of these patients. The significant preoperative predictors of not being employed in this study provide suggestions for further research .', u'Currently, monomeric fluorescent proteins (FP) are ideal markers for protein tagging. The prediction of oligomeric states is helpful for enhancing live biomedical imaging. Computational prediction of FP oligomeric states can accelerate the effort of protein engineering to create monomeric FPs by saving time and money. To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the first computational model for predicting and analyzing FP oligomerization directly from their amino acid sequences. An exhaustive dataset consisting of 397 unique FP oligomeric states was compiled from the literature. FP were described by 3 classes of protein descriptors including amino acid composition, dipeptide composition and physicochemical properties. The oligomeric states of FP was predicted using decision tree (DT) algorithm and results demonstrated that DT provided robust performance with accuracies in ranges of 79.97-81.72% and 80.76-82.63% for the internal (e.g. 10-fold cross-validation) and external sets, respectively. This approach was also benchmarked with other common machine learning algorithms such as artificial neural network, support vector machine and random forest. A thorough analysis of amino acid sequence features was conducted to provide informative insights into FP oligomerization, which may aid in engineering novel monomeric fluorescent proteins. The following differentiating characteristics of monomeric and oligomeric fluorescent proteins were derived from DT: (i) substitution of any amino acid to Glu led to the reduction of aggregated proteins and (ii) oligomerization of FP appears to be stabilized by several hydrophobic contacts. Datasets and R source code are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1348575.', u'This article provides an overview of the literature on the use of internet-based testing to address questions in perception research. Internet-based testing has several advantages over in-lab research, including the ability to reach a relatively broad set of participants and to quickly and inexpensively collect large amounts of empirical data. In many cases, the quality of online data appears to match that collected in laboratory research. Generally speaking, online participants tend to be more representative of the population at large than laboratory based participants. There are, though, some important caveats, when it comes to collecting data online. It is obviously much more difficult to control the exact parameters of stimulus presentation (such as display characteristics) in online research. There are also some thorny ethical considerations that need to be considered by experimenters. Strengths and weaknesses of the online approach, relative to others, are highlighted, and recommendations made for those researchers who might be thinking about conducting their own studies using this increasingly-popular approach to research in the psychological sciences.', u'Background. The Santana Group of Araripe Basin has an important turtle fauna in which five monotypic genera are formally described, all from the Albian Romualdo Formation. Araripemys barretoi is the unique identified species that has been found in the Crato and Romualdo formations of the Santana Group. Herein, we report two juvenile araripemydid provided from the light-beige colored laminated limestone from the Crato Formation: AMNH 30651 and MN 4893-V. Methods. The specimens have been analyzed through traditional paleontological methods. For taxonomic and morphological identification were realized comparisons with living and extinct taxa, moreover, specialized bibliography and photos. Results. The small size of the specimens (among 40-50 mm) and its poor degree of ossification with costal bones not fused suggest that both are juvenile individuals. AMNH 30651 is identified as Araripemys cf. barretoi and can be distinguished to other turtles from Araripe Basin based on the follow characteristics: (1) long vertebral body; (2) long neck; (3) the angle of curvature of the axillary and inguinal buttress; (4) mesoplastron absent; and (5) arrow-shaped unguals. MN 4893-V is also identified as Araripemys cf. barretoi and can be distinguished from the other turtles from Araripe based on characteristics 2, 3, and 5 (described above) plus (6) a nearly oval skull in dorsal view with closely spaced orbits; and (7) a long vertebral body. Discussion. Juvenile turtles are rare in the fossil record. Although the description of these two incomplete specimens does not completely elucidate the ontogeny of this taxon, the analysis of these specimens yield relevant information about taxonomic characters such as: skull with nearly oval shape in dorsal view with closely spaced orbits; long vertebral body; long neck; the angle of curvature of the axillary notch; and unguals arrow-shaped. The small size of the specimens (40-50 mm) and its poor degree of ossification of unfused costal bones indicates that both are very young individuals. Some researchers postulate that the paleoenvironment of the Crato Formation was similar to mangroves, which is corroborated by the presence of juvenile turtles and fishes, anurans and insects. Araripemys barretoi was also recorded in the Romualdo Formation, which represents a lagoon. The fact that this turtle is found in those quite distinct paleoenvironments suggests that this species could be tolerant to distinct salinities levels.', u'Background. Pelomedusoides turtles are an important group in extant fauna of northern South America, Africa and Madagascar, which have a long fossil record, with numerous records through the Cretaceous, Paleogene, and Neogene in South America. One of high- diversified clade of this linage is Bothremydidae, and its record extends from Early Cretaceous (Barreminan) to Eocene. So far, no named species from the Paleocene of Brazil were described. The single Paleocene record is a peripheral bone associated to pelomedusoid turtle from the Maria Farinha Formation (Danian), of Pernambuco State. Herein we present an almost complete shell (DGM 1310LE) from the Maria Farinha Formation, Para\xedba Basin, which is the first early Paleocene South American bothremydid turtle. Methods. The new specimen have been analyzed through traditional paleontological methodology. We performed a CT scan in DGM 1310LE in search for internal bones and structures. In addition, we scored DGM 1310LE in a modified data matrix of Pelomedusoides, with 43 taxa and 175 characters, and the phylogenetic analysis were performed in TNT. Branch supports were provided using bootstrap and Bremer support. Results. The new specimen is the most complete turtle coming of Maria Farinha Formation. DGM 1310LE has seven neurals, and an incomplete neural series to suprapygal, as the most Podocnemidoidae turtles. Our preliminary phylogeny resulted in 4 most parsimonious trees of 428 steps. The strict consensus tree places DGM 1310LE as a member of Bothremydidae, which was recovered in a polytomy together with early Cretaceous turtle Galianemys. 5th Turtle Evolution Symposium Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil | July, 2015 Discussion. Despite of the almost complete nature of the DGM 1310LE, we were unable to determine if DGM 1310LE is a new species due to the lack of diagnostic characteristics. However, this new Paleocene specimen is important because it expands the record of Bothremydidade to the Cenozoic of Brazil; up to date only the Early Cretaceous genera Cearachelys and Atolchelys were recognized. Moreover, Bothremydidae shows a great diversification, occupying marine environments as well as diverse freshwater environments. Since the depositional context of the Maria Farinha Formation is considered a shallow marine environment (continental shelf), including the presence of marine taxa such as lamniforms sharks (e.g. Cretolamna appendiculata) and the dyrosaurid crocodyliform Guarinisuchus munizi, the presence of a Bothremydidae in these strata confirm the great paleoecological diversification of this family, varying from near-shore marine to freshwater environments.', u'Objectives: The hand is commonly injured in boxing but it is not clear why some athletes sustain hand injuries while others do not. It is possible that there are differences in the distribution of impact forces at the knuckle during punching between athletes and that certain distribution patterns may be predictive of increased injury risk. We developed a method of analysing the distribution of impact forces at the knuckle during punching using pressure film. Pressure film allows a calculation of the distribution and magnitude of pressure and force between any two surfaces that come into contact. Methods: Pressure film was inserted into the gloves of three male subjects prior to punching a stationary target. After each punch, the pressure film was removed and analysed to determine the distribution of the impact force during each punch across each of the four knuckles. Punches were repeated multiple times for each subject. The proportional distribution of the impact force during punches was compared between knuckles and within subjects. Results: The proportional distribution of the impact force exerted during punches was significantly different between knuckles and within subjects (p < 0.05). Knuckle 2 displayed the largest proportion of impact forces while knuckle 3 displayed the smallest proportion of impact forces. Conclusions: Pressure film inserted into boxing gloves can be used to analyse the distribution of impact forces across the knuckles during punching. Further work is needed to confirm the reliability and validity of the technique and establish whether there is an association between the impact forces at the individual knuckles and hand injury risk during boxing.', u'There has been limited involvement of HIV-negative children in HIV disclosure studies; most studies conducted on the effects of disclosure on children have been with HIVpositive children and HIV-positive mother-child dyads. Seven HIV-positive and five HIVnegative children participated in a larger study conducted to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. In this study, the experiences of these 12 children after receiving disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses respectively are presented. Each child underwent an indepth qualitative semi-structured digitally recorded interview. The recorded interviews were transcribed and loaded into NVivo8 for phenomenological data analysis. Five themes emerged from the data, indicating that HIV-positive and negative children appear to have differing post-disclosure experiences revolving around acceptance of illness, stigma and discrimination, medication consumption, sexual awareness, and use of coping mechanisms. Following disclosure, HIV-negative children accepted their parents\u2019 illnesses within a few hours to a few weeks; HIV-positive children took weeks to months to accept their own illnesses. HIV-negative children knew of high levels of stigma and discrimination within the community; HIV-positive children reported experiencing indirect incidences of stigma and discrimination. HIV-negative children wanted their parents to take their medications, stay healthy, and pay their school fees so they could have a better life in the future; HIV-positive children viewed medication consumption as an ordeal necessary to keep them healthy. HIV-negative children wanted their parents to speak to them about sexual-related matters; HIV-positive children had lingering questions about relationships, use of condoms, marriage, and childbearing options. All but one preadolescent HIV-positive child had self-identified a person to speak with for social support. When feeling overwhelmed by their circumstances, most children self-withdrew and performed positive activities (e.g., praying, watching TV, listening to the radio, singing, dancing) to help themselves feel better. Many HIV-affected families have a combination of HIV-positive and negative siblings within the household. Pending further studies conducted with larger sample sizes, the results of this study should assist healthcare professionals to better facilitate disclosure between HIV-positive parents and their children of mixed HIV statuses.', u'Protein phosphorylation is one of the most important protein post-translational modifications and plays a role in numerous cellular processes including recognition, signaling and degradation. It can be studied experimentally by various methodologies, like employing western blot analysis, site-directed mutagenesis, 2 D gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry etc. A number of in silico tools have also been developed in order to predict plausible phosphorylation sites in a given protein. In this review, we conducted a benchmark study including the leading protein phosphorylation prediction software, in an effort to determine which performs best. The first place was taken by GPS 2.2, having predicted all phosphorylation sites with a 83% fidelity while in second place came NetPhos 2.0 with 69%.', u"All objects on the Earth's surface absorb and reflect portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Depending on the composition of the material, every material has its characteristic spectral profile. The characteristic spectral profile for vegetation is often used to study how vegetation patterns at large spatial scales affect ecosystem structure and function. Analysis of spectroscopic data from the laboratory, and from various other platforms like aircraft or spacecraft, requires a knowledge base that consists of different characteristic spectral profiles for known different materials. This study reports on establishment of an online and searchable spectral library for a range of plant species and landcover types in the Arctic, Antarctic and Chihuahuan desert ecosystems. Field data were collected from Arctic Alaska, the Antarctic Peninsula and the Chihuahuan desert in the visible to near infrared (IR) range using a handheld portable spectrometer. The data have been archived in a database created using postgre sql with have been made publicly available on a plone web-interface.", u'In response to environmental and genetic perturbations, micro-organisms may regulate their metabolism both metabolically \u2013 via metabolite-enzyme interactions \u2013 and hierarchically \u2013 via modulating enzyme capacities. In this report, we develop a combined metabolic and genetic regulatory model of E. coli that may be used to test this multi-scale response.', u'Here we investigate relationships between NDVI, Biomass, and Leaf Area Index (LAI) for six key plant species near Barrow, Alaska. We explore how key plant species differ in biomass, leaf area index (LAI) and how can vegetation spectral indices be used to estimate biomass and LAI for key plant species. A vegetation index (VI) or a spectral vegetation index (SVI) is a quantitative predictor of plant biomass or vegetative vigor, usually formed from combinations of several spectral bands, whose values are added, divided, or multiplied in order to yield a single value that indicates the amount or vigor of vegetation. For six key plant species, NDVI was strongly correlated with biomass (R2 = 0.83) and LAI (R2 = 0.70) but showed evidence of saturation above a biomass of 100 g/m2 and an LAI of 2 m2/m2. Extrapolation of a biomass-plant cover model to a multi-decadal time series of plant cover observations suggested that Carex aquatilis and Eriophorum angustifolium decreased in biomass while Arctophila fulva and Dupontia fisheri increased 1972-2008.', u'Kisspeptin receptor (KISS1R) agonists with increased half-life and similar efficacy to kisspeptin in vitro may provide beneficial applications in breeding management of many species. However, many of these agonists have not been tested in vivo. These studies were designed to test and compare the effects of a KISS1R agonist (FTM080) and kisspeptin on luteinizing hormone (LH) in vivo. In experiment 1 (pilot study), sheep were treated with FTM080 (500 pmol/kg BW) or sterile water (VEH) intravenosuly. Blood was collected every 15 min before (1 hr) and after (1 hr) treatment. In experiment 2, sheep were treated with KP-10 (human Metastin 45-54; 500 pmol/kg BW), one of three dosages of FTM080 [500 (FTM080:500), 2500 (FTM080:2500), or 5000 (FTM080:5000) pmol/kg BW], or VEH intravenously. Blood was collected every 15 min before (1 hr) and after (4 hr) treatment. In experiment 1, FTM080:500 increased (P < 0.05) plasma LH concentrations when compared to VEH. The area under the curve (AUC) of LH following FTM080:500 treatment was also increased (P < 0.05). In experiment 2, plasma LH concentrations increased (P < 0.05) following treatment with KP-10 and FTM080:5000 when compared to VEH and FTM080:500. The AUC of LH following KP-10 was greater than (P < 0.05) all other treatments and the AUC of LH following FTM080:5000 was greater than (P < 0.05) all treatments except KP-10. These data provide evidence to suggest that FTM080 stimulates the gonadotropic axis of ruminants in vivo. Any increased half-life and comparable efficacy of FTM080 to KP-10 in vitro does not appear to translate to in vivo in sheep.', u'Objective: Relationship, vitality, and conscientiousness are three fundamental virtues that have been identified recently, which are important individual differences to health, well being, and positive development. This cross-sectional study attempted to explore the relationship between the three constructs and post-traumatic growth (PTG) in three directions, including indirect trauma samples without post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), direct trauma samples without PTSD, and direct trauma samples with PTSD. Methods: A total of 340 community participants from Sichuan Province, Mainland China involved in the study, most of which experienced Wenchuan and Lushan Earthquake. Participants were required to complete the self-reported questionnaire packages at one time point for obtaining their scores on virtues (Chinese Virtues Questionnaire), PTSD (PTSD Checklist-Specific), and PTG (Post-traumatic Growth Inventory-Chinese). Results: Significant and positive correlations between the three virtues and PTG were identified (r = .39 to .56; p < .01). Further regression analysis by stepwise method reveled that: in the indirect trauma samples, vitality explained 32% variance of PTG. In reference to the direct trauma sample without PTSD, both relationship and conscientiousness explained 32% variance of PTG; whereas in the direct trauma sample with PTSD, only conscientiousness accounted for 31% the variance in PTG. Conclusion: This cross-sectional investigation partly revealed the roles of different virtues in trauma context. Findings suggest important implications for strengths-based treatment.', u'Bacterial populations present in Hg-rich environments have evolved biological mechanisms to detoxify methylmercury and other organometallic mercury compounds. The most common resistance mechanism relies on the H+-assisted cleavage of the Hg-C bond of methylmercury by the organomercurial lyase MerB. Although the initial reaction steps which lead to the loss of methane from methylmercury have already been studied experimentally and computationally, the reaction steps leading to the removal of Hg2+ from MerB and regeneration of the active site for a new round of catalysis have not yet been elucidated. In this paper, we describe an MP2/CBS//B3PW91/6-31G(d) study of the final steps of the reaction catalyzed by MerB. While conceptually simple, these reaction steps occur in a complex potential energy surface where several distinct pathways are accessible and may operate concurrently. The only pathway which clearly emerges as forbidden in our analysis is the one arising from the sequential addition of two thiolates to the metal atom, due to the accumulation of negative charges in the active site. Addition of two thiols, in contrast, leads to two feasible mechanistic possibilities. The most straightforward pathway proceeds through proton transfer from the attacking thiol to Cys159 , leading to its removal from the mercury coordination sphere, followed by a slower attack of a second thiol, which removes Cys96. The other pathway involves Asp99 in an accessory role similar to the one observed earlier for the initial stages of the reaction and affords a lower activation enthalpy, around 14 kcal.mol-1, determined solely by the cysteine removal step rather than by the thiol ligation step. Addition of one thiolate to the intermediates arising from either thiol attack occurs without a barrier and produces an intermediate bound to one active site cysteine and from which Hg(SCH3)2 may be removed only after protonation by solvent-provided H3O+. Thiolate addition to the active site (prior to any attack by thiols) leads to pathways where the removal of the first cysteine becomes the rate-determining step, irrespective of whether Cys159 or Cys96 leaves first. Comparisons with the recently computed mechanism of the related enzyme MerA further underline the important role of Asp99 in the energetics of the MerB reaction.', u'The perilipins are lipid droplet surface proteins that contribute to fat metabolism by controlling the access of lipids to lipolytic enzymes. Perilipins have been identified in organisms as diverse as metazoa, fungi, and amoebas but strikingly not in nematodes. Here we identify the protein encoded by the W01A8.1 gene in Caenorhabditis elegans as the closest homologue of metazoan perilipin. We demonstrate that nematode W01A8.1 is a cytoplasmic protein residing on lipid droplets. Human perilipins 1 and 2 localize in transgenic C. elegans on the same structures as proteins expressed from W01A8.1 gene. Inhibition and elimination of W01A8.1 affects the appearance of lipid droplets especially visible as the formation of large lipid droplets localized around the dividing nucleus during the early zygotic divisions. This phenomenon disappears in later stages of embryogenesis indicating the existence of an additional mechanism of lipid regulation in C. elegans. Our results demonstrate that perilipin-related regulation of fat metabolism is conserved in nematodes and provide new possibilities for functional studies of lipid metabolism.', u'The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of different levels of Vitex agnus-castus (VAC) on in vitro gas production (GP), organic matter digestibility (OMD) and net energy lactation (NEL) using an in vitro gas-production method. Two rumen-fistulated sheep were used in the experiment. The sheep were fed 60% alfalfa hay and 40% concentrate feed twice daily. Five different levels of VAC were added to the concentrate (CON) to produce 200 mg DM (CON - without VAC; 1 - 2 mg VAC+198 mg CON; 2 - 4 mg VAC+196 mg CON; 3 - 6 mg VAC+194 mg CON; 4 - 8 mg VAC+192 mg CON; 5 - 10 mg VAC+190 mg CON). The volume of gas produced was recorded at 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 h after incubation. The results showed GP, OMD and NEL contents with no significant changes even as the level of VAC were added to the CON. VAC groups affected the rapidly degraded fractions; however, did not affect the slowly degraded fractions.', u'Partible paternity refers to the conception belief that children can have multiple fathers (\u201cco-fathers\u201d) and is common to indigenous cultures of lowland South America. The nature of social relationships observed between co-fathers reveals information about the reproductive strategies underlying partible paternity. Here we analyze clan, genealogical, and social relationships between co-fathers for the Suru\xed, an indigenous horticultural population in Brazil. We show that co-fathers roughly assort into two separate categories. In the affiliative category, co-father relationships are amicable when they are between close kin, namely brothers and father-son. In the competitive category, relationships are more likely of avoidance or open hostility when between more distant kin such as cousins or unrelated men of different clans. Results therefore imply multiple types of relationships, including both cooperative and competitive contexts, under the rubric of partible paternity. These complexities of partible paternity institutions add to our knowledge of the full range of cross-cultural variation in human mating/marriage arrangements and speak to the debate on whether or not humans should be classified as cooperative breeders.', u'The complex, phylogenetically diverse, and specific microbial communities associated with marine sponges are a key aspect of the ecology and evolution of the metazoan host and the endosymbiotic microbes. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) methods, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T RFLP), and functional gene probing via PCR, the current study investigates the microbial associations in the common Caribbean fire sponge, Tedania ignis. Sponge and water samples were collected from different sites around Bermuda from 2012 to 2014 in order to assess their respective microbial communities. Using FISH, SAR202 (Chloroflexi) (5.82% \xb1 0.59%) and Crenarchaea (7.97% \xb1 1.08%) were identified as the most abundant contributors to the microbial assemblage of T. ignis while the Alphaproteobacterium SAR11 (30.68% \xb1 1.68%) was identified as the most dominant species in the surrounding seawater. Due to the presence of Crenarchaea, the Archaeal gene for ammonia oxidation (amoA) was probed via PCR and found to be present. T RFLP identified the most abundant fragment length present in the sponge as 336 bp (>60% of T RFLP peak abundance). The sponge community was consistent and markedly distinct from that of the ambient seawater as identified by both FISH and T RFLP. Epifluorescent microscopy with DAPI staining also identified T. ignis as a high microbial abundance (HMA) sponge, in contrast to previous studies. Together, these data characterize the microbiome of T. ignis in much further detail than has previously been described.', u'Information about everyday emotional experiences is integrated into internal scripts (e.g. Shaver et al., 1987). Script content provides a context within which to compare and subsequently interpret newly experienced, emotional stimuli, such as facial expressions and behaviours. We explore whether this internal context may also be used to interpret emotional words. In particular, we argue that the \u2018meaning\u2019 of emotional verbs may be strongly context-dependent (e.g. Schacht & Sommer, 2009). Harnessing previous context-based methods, we define verb meaning by the degree of association between the behaviours to which they refer and discrete emotional states (e.g. \u2018fear\u2019), within emotional scripts (Stevenson, Mikels & James, 2007). We used a self-generation method to derive a set of verbs that participants associated with six universal, emotional states (study 1; see full list in appendix A). Emotion labels acted as script anchors. For each verb, degree of emotionality and discrete association were measured by the number of participants who generated that word. As expected, a different modal exemplar was generated for each discrete emotion. In study 2 we used a rating task to assess the stability of the relationship between modal, or typical, verbs and the emotion label to which they had been generated. Verbs and labels were embedded in a sentence and participants were invited to reflect on their emotional attributions in everyday life to rate the association (\u2018If you are feeling \u2018sad\u2019 how likely would you be to act in the following way?\u2019 e.g. \u2019cry\u2019). Findings suggest that typical relationships were robust. Participants always gave higher ratings to typical vs. atypical verb and label pairings even when (a) rating direction was manipulated (the label or verb appeared first in the sentence), and (b) the typical behaviours were to be performed by themselves or others ( \u2018If someone is sad, how likely are they to act in the following way?\u2019 e.g. \u2019cry\u2019). Our findings suggest that emotion scripts create verb meaning, and therefore provide a context within which to interpret emotional words. We provide a set of emotion verbs that are robustly associated with discrete, emotional labels/states. This resource may be used by a variety of researchers, including those interested in categorical processing of emotional words and language-mediated facial mimicry.', u'Background:  Summertime dips in blood pressure (BP), both in normotensive and hypertensive subjects, are well known. However, the dips are small and are not related to particular forms or doses of antihypertensive medication. Nevertheless it is the practice in some quarters to decrease antihypertensive medication in summer, and/or to increase in winter. Large scale studies being inconclusive, there are calls for long-term examination of the relationship between environmental temperature and blood pressure in single individuals under medication.\n  Case presentation:  While analyzing data from a subject whose BP had been controlled for a decade with the angiotensin-II receptor blocker losartan, an extreme, dosage-dependent, summertime dip came to light. Downward dosage adjustment appeared essential and may have prevented hypotension-related pathology.\n  Conclusion:  The benefits of aggressive medication (the "J curve" phenomenon) being debated, the possibility of seasonal hypersensitivity, explicable in terms of differential signaling by countervailing receptors, should be taken into account when considering dosage adjustments in hypertensive subjects.', u'The growing number of genotyped populations, the advent of high-throughput phenotyping techniques and the development of GWAS analysis software has rapidly accelerated the number of GWAS experimental results. Candidate gene discovery from these results files is often tedious, involving many manual steps searching for genes in windows around a significant SNP. This problem rapidly becomes more complex when an analyst wishes to compare multiple GWAS studies for pleiotropic or environment specific effects. To this end, we have developed a fast and intuitive interactive browser for the viewing of GWAS results with a focus on an ability to compare results across multiple traits or experiments. The software can easily be run on a desktop computer with software that bioinformaticians are likely already familiar with. Additionally, the software can be hosted or embedded on a server for easy access by anyone with a modern web browser.', u'Despite the long debate of whether or not multiple mating benefits the offspring, studies still show contradicting results. Multiple mating takes time and energy. Thus, if females fertilize their eggs with a single mating, why to mate more than once? We investigated and inferred paternal identity and number of sires in 12 clutches (240 hatchlings) of green turtles (Chelonia mydas) nests at Tortuguero, Costa Rica. Paternal alleles were inferred through comparison of maternal and hatchling genotypes, and indicated multiple paternity in at least 11 of the clutches (92%). The inferred average number of fathers was three (ranging from 1 to 5). Moreover, regression analyses were used to investigate for correlation of inferred clutch paternity with morphological traits of hatchlings fitness (emergence success, length, weight and crawling speed); and size of the mother; and an environmental variable (incubation temperature). We suggest and propose two different comparative approaches for evaluating morphological traits and clutch paternity, in order to infer greater offspring survival. First, clutches coded by the exact number of fathers and second by the exact paternal contribution (fathers who gives greater proportion of the offspring per nest). We found significant differences (P < 0.05) in clutches coded by the exact number of fathers for all morphological traits. A general tendency of higher values in offspring sired by two to three fathers was observed for the length and weight traits. However, emergence success and crawling speed showed different trends which unable us to reach any further conclusion. The second approach analysing the paternal contribution showed no significant difference (P > 0.05) for any of the traits. We conclude that multiple paternity does not provide any extra benefit in the morphological fitness traits or the survival of the offspring, when analysed following the proposed comparative statistical methods.', u'Background:  The aims of this study were to translate the Obesity-Related Problem scale (OP scale) into the Norwegian language and test its reliability, validity and responsiveness in a Norwegian sample.   Method:  The questionnaire (OP scale) was translated from the original language (Swedish) into Norwegian. Patients completed the questionnaire prior to and one year after sleeve gastrectomy. Internal consistency was evaluated using Cronbach`s \u03b1. Floor and ceiling effect were calculated as percentages. Construct validity was tested by correlating the OP-scale with the SF-36 and the Cantril Ladder using the Pearson correlation coefficient. Exploratory factor analysis, using principal component analysis with varimax rotation, was used to test the unidimensionality of the OP scale. Responsiveness was tested by assessing changes in the OP scale from baseline to one year post-surgery using the paired sample t-test.   Result:  A total of 181 patients (123 women) accepted for bariatric surgery was included in the study. The mean age was 43.1 \xb1 12.5 years, and mean body mass index (BMI) before surgery was 45 \xb1 6.9. The mean value of the OP scale at baseline was 63.30 \xb1 24.43 (severe impairment) and 21.01 \xb1 20.98 at one year follow-up (mild impairment). Cronbach`s \u03b1 was high at baseline (0. 91), as well as one year after surgery (0.88). The floor effect was small at baseline and moderate at one year. The ceiling effect was small at baseline and at one year.  Exploratory factor analysis showed one factor with a high percent of explained variance (baseline and post-surgery). Correlations between OP scale at baseline, SF-36, Cantril Ladder and BMI were statistically significant and in the predicted direction to support validity of the Norwegian OP scale . After one year correlations between the change in OP scale and the change in SF-36 scores, Cantril Ladder and BMI were also statistically significant, except for the change in the Role Physical-scale. The OP scale showed greater responsiveness than either the SF-36 or Cantril Ladder.   Conclusion:  These results confirm that the Norwegian version of the OP scale is a valid and reliable instrument for measuring psychosocial functioning in patients with clinically severe obesity.', u'Communication is of great importance in cells: it is matter of survival. Cells communicate each other in many ways. Inside the cell, the information proceeds through the form of signal transduction pathways. We consider a possible role of the nucleus in the regulation of the flow of information at the last step of signal transduction pathways. In particular, we evaluate the importance of clarity for the report about the environmental conditions and the relative response of cells using over-estimating and under-estimating probabilities concepts.', u'Summary: HapFlow is a python application for visualising haplotypes present in high-throughput sequencing data. HapFlow identifies nucleotide variant profiles in raw read sequences and creates an abstract visual representation of these profiles to make haplotypes easier to identify. Availablity: HapFlow is freely available (under a GPL license) for download (for Mac OS X, Unix and Microsoft Windows) from github (http://mjsull.github.io/HapFlow).', u'Background. The lower section of the Loncoche Formation (Late Campanian-Early Maastrichtian) outcropping at Ranquil-C\xf3 locality (Mendoza province, Argentina) has yielded a rich assemblage of vertebrates that was studied in 1995 by Gonzalez Riga. According to this author these vertebrate remains were found in a tidal paleoenvironment, resulting from transportation, mixing and deposition of continental remains mixed with those from near costal environments. Previously to these findings Jose F. Bonaparte recovered in 1990 a large turtle from the same locality and horizon. Methods. Remains of basicranium (basioccipital and basisphenoid), fragments of both quadrates, left opisthotic, a lower jaw, cervical vertebrae, one caudal vertebra, appendicular skeleton, a partial carapace and one almost complete plastron are preserved in MACN Pv M2. In order to explore the phylogenetic relationships of MACN Pv M2, this specimen was included in a data matrix built up by 48 characters and 17 taxa. One fragmentary costal plate was sampled for histological analysis. The bone microstructure of the thin sections was studied under light microscopy using normal and polarized lights. Results. The preliminary phylogenetic analysis suggests that MACN Pv M2 is nested in a clade also including Phrynops hilarii + Mesoclemmys nasuta + long-necked chelids. The pelvic girdle attached by suture to the shell in MACN Pv M2 and the synapomorphic characters such as splenial bone in the lower jaw, ilium extending over the eight costal and anterior margin of the suprapygal bones allow us to assign this specimen to Pleurodira Chelidae. The microanatomy of MACN Pv M2 shows a diploe structure as in other turtles. The internal cortex is equal or slowly thinner than the external one, and the cancellous bone occupy the main proportion (50-60%). The external cortex is composed of structural fibre bundles that extend parallel to the external surface and orient longitudinally and transversally to the progression of the elements. The cancellous bone is mostly well developed. The internal cortex consists of parallel-fibred bone that locally can grade into lamellar bone. Discussion. The unique combination of plesiomorphies (such as lateral mesoplastra, area articularis mandibularis concave, a short midline epiplastral suture, an anterior peripherals bones shorter than posterior ones) and autapomorphies (such as both rami of the lower jaw fused, extremely wide anterior plastral lobe, and a slightly epiplastral notch) recovered in this phylogenetic analysis allow to assigned MACN Pv M2 as a new species of short-necked chelid taxa. The histology of MACN Pv M2 shows features that suggest adaptation to the aquatic lifestyle (i.e., well vascularized external cortex, the vascularization of the internal cortex composed of scattered vascular canals and primary osteons of longitudinally orientation).', u'Background. The relationships among cryptodiran turtles often appear controversial depending on the approach followed (morphology vs. molecules). One controversy concerns the placement of the Trionychia (Carettochelys insculpta Ramsay, 1886 + Trionychidae), which usually is treated as sister taxon of Kinosternidae and thereby nested well within Cryptodira (morphology), or as sister taxon of all remaining cryptodirans (molecules). The aim of the present study is to introduce new data on the respiratory apparatus to this discussion.\nMethods. Lungs and associated structures (extrapulmonary airways, coelomic integration, respiratory musculature), of C. insculpta and that of several Trionychidae were examined macroscopically. The excised lungs were dried, opened and photographed, or imaged using a \xb5CT device.\nResults. The lungs show a characteristic separation from the viscera by the post-pulmonary septum (PPS), which varies in its extent from highly incomplete to complete. The primary respiratory musculature is composed of the musculus transversus thoracis, m. t. abdominis and m. obliquus abdominis. The lungs of C. insculpta superficially resemble that of the Trionychidae, but differ markedly from them and all other turtles studied so far in that they exhibit a medially located, almost sac-like and elongated, huge additional chamber. The right extrapulmonary bronchi of all trionychians examined are shorter than the left ones, causing a dislocation of the trachea to the right side of the cervical region.\nDiscussion. The principal coelomic compartmentalization by the PPS agrees with previous studies on turtles, but indicates the convergent development of a completely separated pleural cavity in Trionychidae. The presence and anatomy of the respiratory musculature is in agreement with that recently inferred for turtles as a whole. Our data confirm the evolutionary distinctiveness of the taxon Carettochelyidae with its sole extant member C. insculpta based on their pulmonary autapomorphy. The monophyly of the Trionychia, as defined above, is supported by several potential synapomorphies of the respiratory system. Most important, however, is that our data, especially on the extrapulmonary airways, provide morphological support for the predominantly molecular-based hypothesis of an early split of the Cryptodira into the Trionychia and the remaining lineages. The displacement of the trachea to the right side contrasts with the situation found in all remaining cryptodirans, in which the trachea lies to the left of the esophagus (or an extreme reduction of tracheal length as in Testudinidae). This anatomical dichotomy could be related to the evolution of the specialized mechanism of neck retraction in cryptodirans. Our study points up the importance of so-called soft-tissue characters in inferring the evolutionary relationships of organisms in general, and of turtles in particular.', u'Background. A well preserved skull reported from the London Clay of the Walton on the Naze in Essex, UK adds an additional record to a rich turtle assemblage from the Eocene (Ypresian-Lutetian) of several depositional basins across NW Europe and North Africa including the London and Belgian Basins. The London Clay and age equivalent formations are dated as c.50 million years by the analysis of the microfossils, vertebrates, volcanic ash beds found throughout the sequence. The London Clay in the area of Walton on the Naze, Essex is comprised of fine grained, clay-rich deposits that yield a host of invertebrates, fossil plant debris, including seeds, together with mostly disarticulated skeletons of fish, birds, mammals and reptiles; the better specimens being enclosed in septarian nodules. The biostratigraphy of the various levels is confirmed by Chistopher King (deceased). Methods. In 1977 a fossil rich calcareous nodule was presented to the NHM, London, UK and the preparatory work was undertaken the same year by Ron Croucher of the former NHM, Palaeontology Conservation Unit and produced a complete 3 dimensional skull and lower jaw, complete limb and girdle material plus hyoid bones and numerous vertebrae and the incomplete presentation of a small delicate shell. Several years elapsed before the specimen was ready for study but its research potential has only recently been recognised. Results. The published discoveries of primitive cheloniids in Russia and North Africa have provided evidence for the global distribution of the cheloniids. The shell material seemingly belongs to a juvenile whereas the skull is comparable to the largest specimens of either Puppigerus or Argillochelys found in the London Clay of the Isle of Sheppey, Kent, UK or the Eocene sediments of the Belgian Basin. The excellent preservation of this \u2018Walton\u2019 skull (NHMUK R14375) enables the authors to draw comparisons with the exceptional material housed in The Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelles in Bruxelles. A detailed description of the skull NHMUK R1437 will be presented. Discussion. In an earlier study Moody (1974) examined an endocranial cast taken from the skull of Puppigerus camperi (IRSNB. IG 8402) that showed the principal flexures of the brain and so to extend this study we include an analysis of recent CT scans of several skulls of Puppigerus and Argillochelys. The cranial characteristics are almost identical to the skull of the Moroccan specimen described by Tong et al 2012 but there is a definitive lack of the \u2018spatulate\u2019 palatines found in Puppigerus camperi. The development of the spatulate palatine is found in both juvenile and adult specimens of P. camperi whereas flatter less developed palatines are characteristic throughout the growth cycle in other species.', u'The present study evaluated the level of support and satisfaction among parents of stillborn babies in Australian hospitals. One-hundred and eighty-nine mothers and fathers completed an online survey designed by the researcher based on the guidelines designed by the Perinatal Society of Australia and New Zealand. Support was inconsistent with guidelines implemented only 55% of the time, on average. Areas of support regarding creating memories, birth options and autopsy were most problematic. A significant positive correlation was found between support and satisfaction and there is indication that there has been some increase in support and satisfaction over time. There has been a significant increase in both support and satisfaction since the release of the guidelines in 2009. Creating memories was regarded by parents as the most influential to their grief. It is recommended that health professionals review guidelines and seek feedback from parents as to how they can improve the support they provide.', u'We present a semi-streaming algorithm for k-mer spectral analysis of DNA sequencing reads, together with a derivative approach that is fully streaming. The approach can also be applied to genomic, transcriptomic, and metagenomic data sets. We develop two tools for short-read analysis based on these approaches, a method for semi-streaming k-mer-based error trimming, and a method for the analysis of error profiles in short reads using a streaming sublinear approach. These tools are implemented in the khmer software package, which is freely available under the BSD License at github.com/ged-lab/khmer/.', u'Originally identified as an ornithischian dinosaur, Crosbysaurus harrisae has been found in New Mexico, Arizona, and its type locality in Texas, as well as in North Carolina. The genus has been reassessed by other workers in light of reinterpretations about the postcrania of another putative Triassic ornithischian, Revueltosaurus. The understanding of Triassic dental faunas has become more complicated by the extreme convergence between pseudosuchian archosaurs and ornithischian dinosaur dental morphologies. We report here on a new specimen of Crosbysaurus (MNA V10666) from the Chinle Formation at Comb Ridge in southeastern Utah. This new specimen is assigned to Crosbysaurus sp. on the basis of the unique compound posterior denticles, labiolingual width, and curvature. While MNA V10666 does not help resolve the affinities of Crosbysaurus, it does represent the extension of the geographic range of this taxon for approximately 250 kilometers. This is the first record of the genus Crosbysaurus in Utah and as such it represents the northernmost known record of this taxon. This indicates that Crosbysaurus was not limited to the southern area of the Chinle/Dockum deposition but instead was widespread across the Late Triassic paleoriver systems of western Pangea. The reported specimen was found in close association with a typical Late Triassic Chinle fauna, including phytosaurs, metoposaurs, and dinosauromorphs.', u'Silene ciliata Pourr. (Caryophyllaceae) is a species with a highly disjunct distribution that inhabits the alpine mountains of the Mediterranean Basin. We investigated the phylogeny and phylogeography of the species in an attempt to a) clarify the long suggested division of S. ciliata into two subspecies, b) evaluate its phylogenetic origin and c) assess whether the species\xb4 diversification patterns were affected by the Mediterranean relief. For this purpose, we collected DNA from 25 populations of the species that inhabit the mountains of Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, FYROM, Bulgaria and Greece and studied the plastid regions rbcL, rps16 and trnL. Major intraspecific variation was supported by all analyses, while the possibility of existence of more varieties or subspecies was not favoured. Plastid DNA evidence, especially in the cases of rps16 and trnL markers, was in accordance with the division of S. ciliata into the two subspecies, one spreading west (Iberian Peninsula and Central Massif) and the other east of the Alps region (Italian and Balkan Peninsula). The present study proposes that this vicariance has probably derived from the Alps acting as a barrier to the species dispersal. The monophyletic origin of the species is highly supported. Plastid DNA patterns may have resulted from a combination of geographic factors providing links and barriers, climatic adversities and evolutionary processes that took place during Quaternary glaciations. The latter might include hybridization events for the western subspecies and mutational accumulation for the eastern ones.', u'Background. Condorchelys antiqua is a stem turtle previously described from the Queso Rallado Locality, Ca\xf1ad\xf3n Asfalto Formation (Early-Middle Jurassic), Chubut, Argentina. In 2014 a skull (MPEF-PV 10900) and an articulated shell with associated postcranial remains (MPEF-PV 10884) of C. antiqua were discovered in the mentioned locality.\nMethods. The new specimens have been prepared by L. Reiner (technician at the Museo Egidio Feruglio) and then studied using the regular paleontological methodology (e.g., direct observations and under the microscope, photography, and drawings). The new data provided by these two specimens, plus some other isolated remains that were re-prepared, allowed us to score a 25% more of the characters of C. antiqua in the most complete up to date matrix for Mesozoic turtles. The matrix was build in Mesquite and analyzed under maximum parsimony in TNT. We performed two rounds of Tree Bisection Reconnection and calculated a strict consensus. Branch supports were provided using bootstrap, jackknife, and Bremer support.\nResults. We regard the specimen MPEF-PV 10900 as represented by the basicranium and some previously unknown skull bones like the maxilla, frontal, parietal, and postorbital. This specimen also shows that there were no teeth in the pterygoid of C. antiqua. On the other hand, specimen MPEF-PV 10884 is an almost complete carapace and plastron with 4 thoracic vertebrae and ribs, scapular and pelvic girdles, humerus, left radius, femur, tibia, fibula, 2 metatarsal/carpals, 2 phalanges, 1 ungual phalanx and 1 chevron bone. The preliminary cladistic analysis resulted in 750 most parsimonious trees of 893 steps. The result of the analysis corroborates the position of C. antiqua as a stem turtle more derived than the Triassic and Australochelys africanus. Condorchelys antiqua is recovered in a polytomy together with other early-middle Jurassic turtles (e.g., Kayentachelys aprix and Indochelys spatulata) and the clade formed by the remaining turtles.\nDiscussion. Although many new characters have been scored for C. antiqua in the phylogenetic analysis, this new information did not resolved the phylogenetic position for this taxon. We consider that more information about I. spatulata and K. aprix could help to better understand the relationships among these basal taxa. On the other hand, these new specimens of C. antiqua bring valuable information to decipher the anatomy of the poorly known non-shell postcranial elements of these Early to Middle Jurassic stem turtles. In light of the recently suggested aquatic preferences of C. antiqua, the next step on this research would be to explore other adaptations to the aquatic environment using postcranial elements, particularly the limb bones.', u'Humanitarian and public institutions are increasingly relying on data from social media sites to measure public attitude, and provide timely public engagement. Such engagement supports the exploration of public views on important social issues such as gender-based violence (GBV). In this study, we examine Big (Social) Data consisting of nearly fourteen million tweets collected from the Twitter platform over a period of ten months to analyze public opinion regarding GBV, highlighting the nature of tweeting practices by geographical location and gender. The exploitation of Big Data requires the techniques of Computational Social Science to mine insight from the corpus while accounting for the influence of both transient events and sociocultural factors. We reveal public awareness regarding GBV tolerance and suggest opportunities for intervention and the measurement of intervention effectiveness assisting both governmental and non-governmental organizations in policy development', u'The aim of this investigation is to evaluate a new method for blur elimination caused by rotational motion of any object, assuming that the center and the angle of the rotation are known. In this new method, which is called Enhanced Rotational De-convolution Conjugate Gradient (ERD-CG), first we enhanced the RD method for the blurred images, and then we combined the ERD method with the CG method (which is the reconstruction of iterative method). The experimental results are promising and show that the proposed method outperforms both RD and CG, significantly.', u'Alternative splicing enables a single gene to produce multiple mRNA isoforms by varying splice site selection. In animals, alternative splicing of mRNA isoforms between cell types is widespread and supports cellular differentiation. In plants, at least 20% of multi-exon genes are alternatively spliced, but the extent and significance of tissue-specific splicing is less well understood, partly because it is difficult to isolate cells of a single type. Pollen is a useful model system to study tissue-specific splicing in higher plants because pollen grains contain only two cell types and can be collected in large amounts without damaging cells. Previously, we identified pollen-specific splicing patterns by comparing RNA-Seq data from Arabidopsis pollen and leaves. Here, we used semi-quantitative PCR to validate pollen-specific splicing patterns among genes where RNA-Seq data analysis indicated splicing was most different between pollen and leaves. PCR testing confirmed eight of nine alternative splicing patterns, and results from the ninth were inconclusive. In four genes, alternative transcriptional start sites coincided with alternative splicing. This study highlights the value of the low-cost PCR assay as a method of validating RNA-Seq results.', u'Multidisciplinary treatment of cerebral aneurysms includes endovascular coiling and open neurosurgical clipping techniques, however our understanding of long-term outcomes after coiling of large cerebral aneurysms remains limited. We present a case involving the development of a previously coiled posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm in a 64-year-old man with lesion enlargement and symptomatic mass effect. CT angiogram demonstrated a 3.9\xd72.6\xd72.4-cm partially thrombosed aneurysm adjacent to the left vertebral artery. The patient underwent resection to relieve the compressive effect. We discuss the efficacy of endovascular coiling and surgical clipping in this case as well as review the relevant literature.', u'There is evidence to suggest that impulsivity is predicted by socioeconomic background, with people from more deprived backgrounds tending to be more impulsive, and by current mood, with poorer mood associated with greater impulsivity. However, impulsivity is not a unitary construct, and previous research in this area has focused on measures of \u2018waiting\u2019 impulsivity rather than behavioural disinhibition. We administered a standard measure of behavioural disinhibition, the stop-signal task, to 58 adult participants from a community sample. We had measured socioeconomic background using participant postcode at age 16, and assigned participants to receive either a neutral or a negative mood induction. We found no effects of mood on behavioural disinhibition, but we found a significant effect of socioeconomic background. Participants with more deprived postcodes at age 16 showed longer stop-signal reaction times, and hence greater behavioural disinhibition. The pattern was independent of participant age and overall reaction time. Greater behavioural disinhibition may be a consequence of experiencing childhood socioeconomic deprivation, and could play a role in maintaining social gradients in outcomes such as addiction.', u'Many animals, including fish, can utilize both vision and the chemical senses in intra-specific communication. However, the relative influence of these sensory modalities on behavioral and physiological responses in social interactions is not well understood. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the relative effects of visual and chemical stimuli from dominant individuals on the behavioral and physiological responses of subordinate rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). External electrodes were used to detect ECG signals from free-swimming fish. This method allowed the simultaneous recording of behavioral and physiological responses, and possible sex differences in these responses were also investigated. The results suggest that, in this context, visual cues are more important than chemical cues in settling the social hierarchy in rainbow trout because a combination of chemical and visual exposure generally yielded a response in focal fish that was similar to the response elicited by visual exposure alone. Both activity and physiological responses were most pronounced during the first ten seconds after exposure, with subordinate fish moving closer to the dominant, accompanied by a strong bradycardic response. Furthermore, females acted more boldly and moved closer to the dominant fish than males, but here the effect of the modes was additive, with a stronger effect of the combined visual and chemical exposure. Overall, the extra information furnished to the fish in the form of chemical cues did not change either the behavioral or the physiological response. This result suggests that visual cues are more important than chemically mediated ones for social communication and individual recognition in rainbow trout.', u'The popularity of domain-specific programming languages has implications on how we test software in these domain industries. For example for programmable logic controllers five standard languages were defined and used in practice. Detailed data on popularity of these languages should show some implications on what languages to target when testing. We suggest that massive new data sources resulting from programmers may offer a new perspective on how we test domain-specific languages. By analyzing Google query volumes for search terms related to programmable logic controllers languages, we find patterns that may be interpreted as signs of actual usage in practice. Comparing with the current test generation approaches proposed by researchers our results illustrate both potentials and threats on what is needed in reality when testing programmable logic controllers.', u'A distinguishing characteristic of genes that code for the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is that alleles often share more similarity between, rather than within species. There are two likely mechanisms that can explain this pattern: convergent evolution and trans-species polymorphism (TSP), in which ancient allelic lineages are maintained by balancing selection and retained by descendant species. Distinguishing between these two mechanisms has major implications in how we view adaptation of immune genes. In this study we analyzed exon 2 of the MHC class IIB in three passerine bird species in the genus Corvus: jungle crows (Corvus macrorhynchos japonensis) American crows (C. brachyrhynchos) and carrion crows (C. corone orientalis). Carrion crows and American crows are recently diverged, but allopatric, sister species, whereas carrion crows and jungle crows are more distantly related but sympatric species, and possibly share pathogens linked to MHC IIB polymorphisms. These patterns of evolutionary divergence and current geographic ranges enabled us to test for trans-species polymorphism and convergent evolution of the MHC IIB in crows. Phylogenetic reconstructions of MHC IIB sequences revealed several well supported interspecific clusters containing all three species, and there was no biased clustering of variants among the sympatric carrion crows and jungle crows. The topologies of phylogenetic trees constructed from putatively selected sites were remarkably different than those constructed from putatively neutral sites. In addition, trees constructed non-synonymous substitutions from a continuous fragment of exon 2 had more, and generally more inclusive, supported interspecific MHC IIB variant clusters than those constructed from the same fragment using synonymous substitutions. These phylogenetic patterns suggest that recombination, especially gene conversion, has partially erased the signal of allelic ancestry in these species. While clustering of positively selected amino acids by supertyping revealed a single supertype shared by only jungle and carrion crows, a pattern consistent with convergence, the overall phylogenetic patterns we observed suggest that TSP, rather than convergence, explains the interspecific allelic similarity of MHC IIB genes in these species of crows.', u'Genomic imprinting is the differential expression of alleles, with the expression being dependent upon the sex of the parent from which it was inherited. Hymenopteran insects (ants, bees and wasps) are emerging as potential models for genomic imprinting and epigenetics. As a first step in establishing the possibility of genomic imprinting in the bumblebee, Bombus terrestris, we search for allele specific expression in twelve genes associated with worker reproduction. We found that the patrigene (allele from the father) is more expressed than the matrigene (allele from the mother) in Ecdysone 20 monooxygenase. This enzyme catalyses the reaction which turns the ecdysteroid ecdysone into 20-hydroxyecdysone, also an ecdysteroid. Both of these ecdysteroids are important for worker reproduction in the bumblebee.', u"Background. Interpretation is the process through which humans attribute meanings to every input they grasp from their natural or social environment. Formulation and exchange of meanings through natural language are basic aspects of human behaviour and important neuroscience subjects; from long ago, they are the object of dedicated scientific research. Two main theoretical positions (cognitivism and embodied cognition) are at present confronting each other; however, available data is not conclusive and scientific knowledge of the interpretation process is still unsatisfactory. Our work proposes some contributions aimed to improve it. Methodology. Our field research involved a random sample of 102 adults. We presented them a real world-like case of written communication using unabridged message texts. We collected data (written accounts by participants about their interpretations) in controlled conditions through a specially designed questionnaire (closed and opened answers). Finally, we carried out qualitative and quantitative analyses through some fundamental statistics. Principal Findings. While readers are expected to concentrate on the text\u2019s content, they rather report focusing on the most varied and unpredictable components: certain physical features of the message (e.g. the message\u2019s period lengths) as well as meta-information like the position of a statement or even the lack of some content. Just about 12% of the participants' indications point directly at the text's content. Our data converge on the hypothesis that the components of a message work at first like physical stimuli, causing readers' automatic (body level) reactions independent of the conscious attribution of meaning. So, interpretation would be a (learned) stimulus-reaction mechanism, before switching to information processing, and the basis of meaning could be perceptual/analogical, before propositional/digital. We carried out a first check of our hypothesis: the employed case contained the emerging of a conflict and two versions (\u201cH\u201d and \u201cS\u201d, same content, different forms) of a reply to be sent at a crucial point. We collected the participants\u2019 (independent) interpretations of the two versions; then, we asked them to choose which one could solve the conflict; finally, we assessed the coherence between interpretations and choice on a 4-level scale. The analysis of the coherence levels' distribution returned that, with regards to our expectations, incoherence levels are over-represented; such imbalance is totally ascribable to \u201cH\u201d choosers. \u201cH\u201d and \u201cS\u201d choosers show significant differences (p<<0.01) in the distributions of coherence levels, what is inconsistent with the traditional hypothesis of a linear information processing resulting in the final choice. In the end, with respect to the currently opposing theories, we found out that our hypothesis has either important convergences or at least one critical divergence, joined with the capacity to encompass they both.", u'The current study highlights some knowledge on the diversity and structure of insect communities and trophic groups living in Sabkha Djendli (semi-arid area of Northeastern Algeria). The entomofauna was monthly sampled from March to November 2006 using pitfall traps at eight sites located at the vicinity of the Sabkha. Structural and diversity parameters (species richness, Shannon index, evenness) were measured for both insect orders and trophic guilds. The canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was applied to determine how vegetation parameters (species richness and cover) influence spatial and seasonal fluctuations of insect assemblages. The catches totalled 434 insect individuals classified into 75 species, 62 genera, 31 families and 7 orders, where Coleoptera and Hymenoptera were the most abundant and constant over seasons and study stations. Spring and autumn presented the highest values of diversity parameters. Individual-based Chao-1 species richness estimator indicated 126 species for the total individuals captured in the Sabkha. Based on catch abundances, the structure of functional trophic groups was predators (37.3%), saprophages (26.7%), phytophages (20.5%), polyphages (10.8%), coprophages (4.6%); whereas in terms of numbers of species, they can be classified as phytophages (40%), predators (25.3%), polyphages (13.3%), saprophages (12%), coprophages (9.3%). The CCA demonstrated that phytophages and saprophages as well as Coleoptera and Orthoptera were positively correlated with the two parameters of vegetation, especially in spring and summer. While the abundance of coprophages was positively correlated with species richness of plants, polyphage density was positively associated with vegetation cover. The insect community showed high taxonomic and functional diversity that is closely related to diversity and vegetation cover in different site stations and seasons.', u'Background: U.S. adolescents face the reality that engaging in one risky health behavior facilitates co-occurring risky behaviors. Moreover, adolescents may change their behaviors to develop new friendships or to match the behavior of existing friends. These relationships among friends can lead to increase in risk-taking. Methods: Utilizing a nationally representative saturated sample (n=901) with friendship network data from two large schools in the Wave I of the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health), this study examined the influence of friendship network structure upon adolescents\u2019 sexual intercourse and alcohol consumption in tandem. Results: Findings highlighted that, in one school, adolescents in denser and smaller friendship networks were at higher risk for engaging in sexual intercourse and drinking alcohol simultaneously. Additionally, in this school, network attributes (i.e., out-degree and betweeness) and adolescents\u2019 age were associated with an increased risk of sexual intercourse and drinking behaviors. In the other school, more diffused friendship networks seemed to pose less risk of engaging in these two risk behaviors in tandem. Moreover, engagement in risky behaviors was significantly predicted by teens\u2019 age and gender, but there were no effects of network attributes on adolescents\u2019 risky behaviors. Conclusion: The influence of friendships on adolescents\u2019 sexual intercourse and drinking alcohol may play out in different ways, depending on the size and composition of the friendship networks and adolescents\u2019 characteristics. Therefore, structural features of friendship networks, such as denser and smaller networks, and characteristics of adolescents (i.e., age and gender) should be considered in developing intervention programs to reduce adolescents\u2019 risky behaviors.', u'Background. Most studies on pleurodiran turtles are about the behavior and/or feeding habits analyzes, description of new taxa or specimens (both extinct and extant), or phylogenetic analyzes of one of its subclades with extant taxa: Chelidae, Pelomedusidae or Podocnemididae. With the exception of some molecular phylogenies, there are no phylogenetic analyses of extant and extinct representatives of Pleurodira including all of its lineages. A broader understanding of the evolutionary history of Pleurodira requires a phylogenetic hypothesis based on more extensive taxonomic and character samplings.Methods. We constructed a taxon-character matrix including 227 morphological characters and 87 taxa from all the Pleurodira lineages, plus one stem Pan-Pleurodira, Notoemys laticentralis, and one stem-Testudinata, Proganochelys quenstedti, as outgroups. The resulting matrix was analyzed using parsimony, Tree Bisection and Reconnection (TBR) algorithms, with 5000 replicates, and a hold of 20. The obtained strict consensus tree was used as the basis of a diversification analysis using topology-based methods. A nestedgrowing tree approach was employed to create a corresponding tree for different intervals of the geological history of the group. Six distinct time bins were created for periods in which members of Pleurodira occur: Early Cretaceous, Late Cretaceous, Paleocene, Eocene, Miocene, and Recent.\nResults. All main pleurodiran clades were recovered in the strict consensus tree, but with some changes in their relationship compared to previous analyses, e.g. the inclusiveness of both Pelomedusoides and Bothremydidae. The diversification analysis shows that, after the establishment of the two major lineages (i.e. Chelidae and Pelomedusoides) in the Early Cretaceous, these subgroups diversified in distinct rates along their evolutionary history. Two main diversification shifts were identified: one at the early evolution of Podocnemoidea, during the Late Cretaceous, and another during the Miocene, deep nested in the Podocnemididae clade.\nDiscussion. The resulting strict consensus tree is the largest exclusive phylogenetic hypothesis for Pleurodira, including both extant and extinct taxa. Based on morphological data, it allows more inclusive inferences on the general morphological and diversification patterns of the group. The diversification pulses analysis suggests variation on the rates of diversification on the different pleurodiran clades. The first shift detected is related to the great radiation of Bothremydidae and Podocnemoidae in the Late Cretaceous; the second shift, detected in the Miocene, is related to a diversification within the Stereogenyina, a Podocnemididae clade. Ongoing analysis will determine which factors could enforce those different diversification rates in the evolution of Pleurodira.', u'Purpose: This study tested the null hypothesis that different classes of direct restorative dental materials (silorane-based resin, low-shrinkage and conventional (non-flowable and flowable) resin-based composite (RBC)) do not differ from each other with regard to polymerization shrinkage, depth of cure, or microhardness. Methods: 140 RBC samples were fabricated and tested by one calibrated operator. Polymerization shrinkage was measured using a gas pycnometer both before and immediately after curing with 36 J/cm2 light energy density. Depth of cure was determined, using a penetrometer and the Knoop microhardness was tested from the top surface to a depth of 5 mm. Results: Considering polymerization shrinkage, the authors found significant differences (p<0,05) between different materials: non-flowable RBCs showed lower values, compared to flowable RBCs, with the silorane-based resin presenting the smallest shrinkage. The low shrinkage flowable composite performed similarly to non-flowable, with significant statistical differences compared to the two other flowable RBCs. Regarding to depth of cure, low-shrinkage flowable RBC were most effective compared to other groups. Microhardness was generally higher for the non-flowable vs. flowable RBCs (p<0.05). However, the values for low-shrinkage flowable did not differ significantly from those of non-flowable, but were significantly higher than those of the other flowable RBCs. Clinical Significance: RBCs have undergone many modifications as they have evolved and represent the most relevant restorative materials in today\u2019s dental practice. This study of low-shrinkage RBCs, conventional RBCs (non-flowable and flowable) and silorane-based composite \u2013 by in vitro evaluation of volumetric shrinkage, depth of cure and microhardness \u2013 reveals that although filler content is an important determinant of polymerization shrinkage, it is not the only variable that affects properties of materials that were tested in this study.', u'Background. Neochelys franzeni (Schelich, 1993) is the only pleurodire or side-necked turtle from the middle Eocene, Messel Pit (the first UNESCO, World Natural Heritage Site in Germany, since 1995). The original description of the species is based on two specimens SMF ME 1091 (Holotype) and 715 (Paratype) housed at the Senckenberg Museum Frankfurt. The excellent preservation of complete and articulated skeletons of this species makes it a key taxon for understanding the evolution and phylogeny of the European Neochelys genus and its relationships with South American and African-Madagascar podocnemidids. Methods. Seven specimens of Neochelys franzeni, including hatchlings, juveniles, and adults were studied, and the information obtained for this species was included in a new compiled character-taxon matrix of Pleurodira, built from previous studies and new observations. Phylogenetic analyses were run using Parsimony algorithm on PAUP version 4.0a136 obtaining strict consensus trees after 10000 random replicates, boostrap values and Decay indices were also calculated to support the topology of obtained clades. Results. A revised diagnosis for the species is defined here, indicating that Neochelys franzeni differs from other members of the genus by the presence of a basisphenoid with a very acute anterior tip; an interparietal scute with a heart-like shape with a deep concave anteromedial margin; and a ridge running along the neural series of the carapace. Discussion. The phylogenetical analysis indicates that Neochelys spp. group is better resolved as closer to Erymnochelys madagascariensis-Peltocephalus dumerilanus inside Podocnemididae.', u'Background. A new podocnemidid taxon from the Adamantina Formation (Campanian to Maastrichtian), Bauru Group - Paran\xe1 Basin (southeastern Brazil) is presented. Some multifragmented specimens were discovered near 30 years ago, in the region of \xc1lvarez Machado (State of S\xe3o Paulo) on the farm of Mr. Yoshitoshi Myzobuchi (a.k.a "Myzobuchi Site"), and they were mounted piece by piece of a huge puzzle. The remains comprise two incomplete carapace, 4 fragmented plastra, some cervical vertebrae, scapular and pelvic girdles, and limb bones of at least 4 specimens. The sauropod Gondwanatitan faustoi was described from this same site that also provided some crocodile remains. Methods. This new Adamantina taxon was codified according Gabriel S. Ferreira\u2019s pleurodire dataset (unpublished MSc thesis) which comprises an extensive taxonomic sampling (85 taxa, 226 characters, some multistate), including fossil and recent taxa from all pleurodiran lineages. Three software packages (PAUP*, WinClada and TNT) were used to evaluate its phylogenetic position. Results. All searches resulted on most parsimonious trees of same lenght (1011 steps), and similar strict consensus topology. The new Adamantina taxon is in Bairdemys-Stereogenys lineage, after the Podocnemis split and sequentially between the eocenic Egyptian fossil Neochelys fajumensis and the recent South American Peltocephalus dumerilianus. Discussion. The plastral bones of this new taxon are relatively thick and the most striking feature is the ankylosed suture between the pubis and the xiphiplastron. In any other pleurodire the articular faces between the pubis and the xiphiplastron have several osseous lamellae but in the new taxon this ankylosed articulation is simply broken (to the contrary, the articular faces between the ischium and xiphisplastron are preserved and have these lamellae). This apparently is also the case for Podocnemis harrisi Pacheco, 1910, which is considered a nomen dubium by several authors. It also has a thick xiphiplastron, which is the only holotypic bone preserved (but lost long time ago) and shows the pubic articular face apparently with no lamellae, but the ischiadic one clearly showing them, as illustrated in Pacheco (1910). It also shows some minor differences in the morphology with an intumescence mainly in the region of the pubic articular face which is absent in the present specimens. Podocnemis harrisi is also from Adamantina Formation, but from the City of Colina away 300 km NE from the City of \xc1lvarez Machado, and the ankylosed puboxiphiplastral suture suggest a close phylogenetic relationship between both that is here expressed as a new combination with the \xc1lvarez Machado new nominative genus.', u'The association of species distribution and environmental variables is often complex, with nonlinear and interacting effects. Bayesian hierarchical models can quantify linear and high order effects of the variables, as well as their interaction effects. Their strength is to take into account the uncertainties in observation, models, and parameters. However, the model selection process is usually time-consuming, especially when the number of environmental variables is large. Random forest, an efficient machine learning algorithm, can rank the environmental variables so as to facilitate the model selection process. We analyzed the nest site selection of the crested ibis (Nipponia nippon) at watersheds in its distribution range. The crested ibis has attracted much attention in the past 30 years due to its extremely low population level, and now it has recovered to over 1,000 individuals in the wild. We built Bayesian hierarchical models to quantify the association between the number of nests in 95 watersheds and nine environmental variables of these watersheds. We applied random forest to check the effect of every variable and removed the unimportant variables from the hierarchical models. Unlike our previous studies, we found that the interaction between the area of rice paddy and the area of water bodies (i.e. rivers, lakes and ponds) had most contribution to the nest site selection, whereas the linear terms of either rice paddy or water body had little effects. The detection probability of the nests during the surveys was inversely associated with elevation and the standard deviation of elevation (i.e. roughness of the landscape) in the watershed. Our models provide the insight that the crested ibis need both rice paddies and water bodies in their annual life cycle. Habitat protection practices should cover not only rice paddies, but also water bodies to ensure long term survival of this endangered bird.', u'Background. Studies on the geographic variation of the matamata, Chelus fimbriatus, have previously demonstrated differences between carapace shape, plastral pigmentation and the ventral coloration of the neck between populations from the Amazon and Orinoco river basins, but did not discuss whether these populations should be considered different species. The aim of this study is to evaluate the taxonomic status of C. fimbriatus and to describe its intraspecific and ontogenetic variability and sexual dimorphism based on morphology and osteology. Methods. We analyzed 277 morphological characters and 138 osteological characters of the skull and shell of 82 matamatas from the four known populations (Amazon, Orinoco, Guyana and Tocantins) and performed the Population Aggregation Analysis (PAA) species delimitation test in searching for character states that are exclusive to and fixed between populations. The t Student test was also performed in order to observe sexual dimorphism. Results. Considerable overlap in character states between different populations prevents the recognition of these populations as independent species. Chelus fimbriatus has a high level of polymorphism, particularly among morphological and color pattern characters. Unlike what have been stated on previous studies, we recognise four different carapace shapes, of which the anteriorly larger oval shape is the most common one. Two coloration patterns can be found both for the plastron and the carapace that are strongly correlated with one another, but no such correlation was observed with geographic distribution. We furthermore recognise three states of neck coloration pattern. Ontogenetic variability was observed in the coloration of the carapace, plastron, and the underside of the neck, in that juveniles have a stronger pigmentation than adults. Sexual dimorphism was established for six morphometric variables of the shell and 20 variables of the skull. As expected, females are significant larger than males for all these variables, such as carapace, plastron and skull length. New osteological characters, such as the presence of a serrated medial process in the palatine and a pair of anterolateral tubercles in the basioccipital were observed. Discussion. This is the first study to confirm the presence of sexual dimorphism in C. fimbriatus using morphological and morphometric variables and to document infraspecific variation in detail. The possible presence of two subspecies has been discussed since the 19th century based on alleged geographic variation in coloration patterns. However, this hypothesis could not be confirmed in the context of this study and the matamata should therefore still be considered a single species with a wide distribution range.', u'Background  : After menopause women experience a markedly increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the loss of estrogen. As estrogen replacement is associated with negative side effects, a more attractive alternative to help maintain a good cardiovascular and metabolic health status may be regular physical activity. In this ongoing study, our aim is to elucidate the beneficial effects of a period of physical activity on a number of health related parametres in pre- and post-menopausal women. Methods  : The study has been approved by the ethics committee of Capitol Region of Denmark (H-1-2012-150). Informed consent was given by the participants prior to inclusion in the study. Pre and post menopausal women, between the age of 45 and 57 years of age are recruited. The women are sedentary non-smokers with no known chronic diseases. The women undergo a three month training program with spinning training three times per week. Before and after the training period they are characterized with regard to daily activity level by use of accelerometry ( actibelt  \xae  ), food intake, body composition, fitness level, cardiac function, platelet function, and vascular function. Results  : As the study is ongoing, results are preliminary. Based on our practical experience so far we can conclude that actibelt  \xae  is an effective and well-functioning means of determining daily activity. Moreover, the preliminary data indicate that post-menopausal women have reduced vascular and platelet function compared to pre-menopausal women. The study also shows that aspects of both vascular and platelet function appear to be improved by the three month training period. Both pre and post-menopausal women experience improved fitness levels and plasma lipid profile. Discussion/conclusion  : The preliminary data from this study show that already soon after menopause impairments occur in cardiovascular health status and that these impairments may be more related to the loss of estrogen than to age. Exercise training by spinning is an effective mean to improve fitness and a number of health related parametres in middle aged women. We propose that physical activity can be a valuable alternative to estrogen replacement.', u'Software piracy is the most significant and burning issue in the age of the internet. Software piracy has been a direct threat for software vendors in terms of revenue and, therefore, a number of effective and efficient techniques have been employed for the detection and prevention of software piracy. One very important technique is software watermarking and using registration keys. This paper proposes the Server-side algorithms for registration and embedding the watermark into the software using the WHLK (Watermark, Hardware Parameters and License Key) approach. We have tested the algorithms and the analysis of the proposed algorithms proves that these registration algorithms are more reliable and efficient in comparison to other techniques.', u'Jellyfish are highly topical within studies of pelagic food-webs and there is a growing realisation that their role is more complex than once thought. Efforts being made to include jellyfish within fisheries and ecosystem models are an important step forward, but our present understanding of their underlying trophic ecology can lead to their over-simplification in these models. Gelatinous zooplankton represent a polyphyletic assemblage spanning >1,400 species that inhabit coastal seas to the deep-ocean and employ a wide variety of foraging strategies. Despite this diversity, many contemporary modelling approaches include jellyfish as a single functional group feeding at one or two trophic levels at most. Recent reviews have drawn attention to this issue and highlighted the need for improved communication between biologists and theoreticians if this problem is to be overcome. We used stable isotopes to investigate the trophic ecology of three co-occurring scyphozoan jellyfish species (Aurelia aurita, Cyanea lamarckii and C. capillata) within a temperate, coastal food-web in the NE Atlantic. Using information on individual size, time of year and \u03b413C and \u03b415N stable isotope values we examined: (1) whether all jellyfish could be considered as a single functional group, or showed distinct inter-specific differences in trophic ecology; (2) Were size-based shifts in trophic position, found previously in A. aurita, a common trait across species?; (3) When considered collectively, did the trophic position of three sympatric species remain constant over time? Differences in \u03b415N (trophic position) were evident between all three species, with size-based and temporal shifts in \u03b415N apparent in A. aurita and C. capillata. The isotopic niche width for all species combined increased throughout the season, reflecting temporal shifts in trophic position and seasonal succession in these gelatinous species. Taken together, these findings support previous assertions that jellyfish require more robust inclusion in marine fisheries or ecosystem models.', u'Bacterial populations transition between growing and non-growing phases, based on nutrient availability and stress conditions. The hallmark of a growing state is anabolism, including DNA replication and cell division. In contrast, bacteria in a growth-arrested state acquire a resistant physiology and diminished metabolism. However, there is little knowledge on how this transition occurs at the molecular level. Here, we provide new evidence that a multi-element genetic regulatory circuit might work to maintain genetic control among growth-phase transitions in Escherichia coli. This work contributes to the discovering of design principles behind the performance of biological functions, which could be of relevance on the new disciplines of biological engineering and synthetic biology.', u'Little is known about mechanisms promoting the diversity of antipredation strategies found in nature. In this study I explore how habitat heterogeneity may have profound effects on predator\u2013prey communication. Habitat heterogeneity inevitably increases background noise in communication systems. Therefore, as habitat heterogeneity increases, an organism must produce more signal in order to convey the same amount of information (signal\u2013to\u2013noise ratio; S/N). Therefore, all else equal, strategies maximizing S/N (e.g. aposematism, sexually\u2013selected traits) should become more exacerbated as habitat heterogeneity increases, whereas strategies minimizing S/N (e.g. crypsis) should show the opposite trend. A test of this hypothesis is provided based on information on detection-avoidance strategies of Ghanaian preying mantids. If this hypothesis is widely applicable, it can provide a parsimonious explanation for the origin of aposematism, given that the same organisms can become more cryptic or aposematic simply by shifting their habitats and the corresponding levels of background noise.', u"Comparing inferences among datasets generated using short read sequencing may provide insight into the concerted effects of evolutionary processes across organisms, but comparisons are complicated by biases introduced during dataset assembly. Sequence similarity thresholds allow the de novo assembly of short reads into loci for analysis, but the resulting datasets are sensitive to both the similarity threshold used and to the variation naturally present in the organism under study. Stringent thresholds as well as highly variable species may result in datasets in which divergent alleles are lost or divided into separate loci ('over-splitting'), whereas liberal thresholds increase the risk of paralogous loci being combined into a single locus (\u2018under-splitting\u2019). Comparisons among datasets or species are therefore potentially biased if different similarity thresholds are applied or if the species differ in levels of genetic variation. We examine the impact of a range of similarity thresholds on assembly of empirical short read datasets from populations of four different non-model bird lineages (species or species pairs) with different levels of genetic divergence. We find that, in all species, stringent similarity thresholds result in fewer alleles per locus than more liberal thresholds, which appears to be the result of high levels of over-splitting at stringent thresholds. The frequency of putative under-splitting, conversely, is low at all thresholds. Inferred genetic distances between individuals, gene tree depths, and estimates of the ancestral mutation-scaled effective population size (\u03b8) differ depending upon the similarity threshold applied. Relative differences in inferences across species differ even when the same threshold is applied, but may be dramatically different when datasets assembled under different thresholds are compared. We suggest some best practices for assembling short read data to maximize comparability, such as using more liberal thresholds and examining the impact of different thresholds on each dataset.", u'Background. Solemydidae is an enigmatic clade of stem turtles, which is primarily represented by fragmentary shell material found in Upper Jurassic and Cretaceous deposits of Europe and North America. Specimens are typically identified by a distinct surface ornamentation comprised of tall, narrow tubercles, which are often incompletely preserved due to taphonomic processes. The only currently recognized North American species of Solemydidae, Naomichelys speciosa was erected in 1908 on the basis of a nearly complete entoplastron from the Lower Cretaceous Cloverly Formation of Montana; however, a far more complete specimen from the Lower Cretaceous Antler Formation of Texas (FMNH PR273) was recently referred to this species and has shed light on the morphology of Naomichelys. Here, I describe a partial skeleton (MOR 941) that was discovered in 1995 near the type locality in Montana, which allows for the first look at variation in many of the skeletal elements of the genus. Methods. Morphological variation of Naomichelys was determined by comparison of MOR 941 to the holotype specimen and FMNH PR273 from the literature. Results. MOR 941 is referable to Solemydidae based on a large, diamond shaped entoplastron, which exhibits the distinctive solemydid surface ornamentation and an entoplastral scute, and is referable to Naomichelys because of its near identical morphology to that of the holotype. This specimen consists of the carapace, plastron, four cervical vertebrae, both shoulder girdles, and the right femur. Preserved carapacial elements are the right costals and peripherals in articulation, albeit somewhat crushed, disarticulated left costals, and a single neural. Using peripheral and costal sutures as well as marginal sulci as landmarks, peripherals 1 \u2013 4 are identified, which indicates that the nuchal notch is either reduced or lacking completely. The plastron is well preserved with only portions of the left bridge and xiphiplastra missing and a central plastral fontanel is completely lacking. Cervical vertebrae 5 \u2013 8 are preserved and show varying states of completeness with C7 being the most complete. Cervical 5 preserves a ventral keel on the centrum that is well developed and projects well beyond the central articulations. The shoulder girdle elements are similar to FMNH PR273 but are less well preserved and are not sutured together. The femur is complete and almost identical to FMNH PR273; however, the distal condyles are equally developed. Discussion. The morphological differences between MOR 941 and the Texas material suggest two plausible conclusions. 1) They demonstrate two different ontogenetic stages of development, with MOR 941 representing a skeletally more mature, albeit smaller individual; or 2) there are two distinct species of Naomichelys from the Lower Cretaceous of North America.', u'Background. Large-sized testudinids had a long evolutionary history in Europe during the last 50 million years before becoming extinct in the beginning of the Pleistocene. Despite a 150-year long history in research and a decent fossil record, the European large testudinids have received limited attention so far. Methods. New excavations, descriptions of new specimens from Greece, Spain and Germany, revisions of previously published European taxa and comparative studies with extant testudinids now provide a major advancement in understanding the anatomy and evolutionary history of these turtles. This contribution aims to provide an updated summary of the accumulated knowledge on European large tortoises and to explore in detail their phylogenetic relationships in a global context (including small-sized extinct and extant taxa). The phylogenetic analysis is based on a new character/taxon matrix of morphological characters. Parsimony analysis was performed both with and without molecular backbone constraints. Results. We describe new material of large testudinids from Greece, Spain and Germany and revise most of the available material that has been previously published. Our morphology-based results are promising since they are consistent with recent molecular studies in identifying large testudinids traditionally referred to the Geochelone complex as polyphyletic. Furthermore, we were able to reproduce the molecular phylogeny of Mediterranean tortoises (Testudona). Discussion. The phylogenetic framework presented here allows addressing several open questions of the history of testudinids. First of all, it hints to a more complex biogeographic history of European testudinids than previously recognized. Although the early Paleogene history of testudinids cannot be accurately traced at the moment it seems probable that, besides Asia and North America, Europe also played a major role in the early diversification of Testudinidae. We demonstrate that large European testudinids do not form a monophyletic lineage. The widely recognized genus Cheirogaster should only include the Eocene type species, and exclude other large Paleogene or giant Neogene taxa so far known. Our analysis reveals that large size evolved independently in several clades and in several continents during warmer parts of the Cenozoic. Besides this general scheme other factors might have played a role regionally (e.g. changes in vegetation, island isolation).', u'There is no agreement on the etiology of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), and the main theories (behavioural and viral/immune) do not satisfactorily explain all findings. A growing body of evidence shows that CFS appears to be a dysfunction of the stress system\u2014and the hypothalamic\u2013pituitary\u2013adrenal (HPA) axis in particular\u2014as a result of chronic stress. CFS shares many similarities to occupational burnout, including similar symptoms, physiological abnormalities and triggers. After a review of the available evidence, I hypothesize that CFS is a state of persistent burnout that remains after the initial stressors have been removed. This persistence may be due to a combination of a dysregulation of the HPA axis and behavioural factors.', u'Background. Previous quantitative studies about Bauruemys elegans (Su\xe1rez, 1969) shell variation, as well as the taphonomy interpretation of its type locality, have suggested that all specimens collected in this locality may have belonged to the same population. We rely on this hypothesis in a morphometric study of the skull. Also, we tried to assess the eating preference habits differentiation that might be explained as due to ontogenetic changes.Methods. We took 29 linear measurements from 21 skulls of B. elegans. First, a Principal Components Analysis (PCA) was performed using 27 measurements (excluding total length and width characters) in order to plot the overall individual dispersion in PCs to visualize patterns of scattering based on the form variance. Secondly, PCA was carried out using ratios of length and width of each original measurement to assess shape variation among individuals. Finally, original measurements were log-transformed to describe allometries along the ontogenetic development.Results. The first three PCs of the first analysis comprising 70.2% of the variance. PC1 was related to size variation and all others related to shape variation. MCZ4123 and MN7071-V have been plotted outside the 95% ellipse in PC1xPC2 axes. The first three PCs of the second analysis comprising 64% of the variance. When considering PC1xPC2 and PC2xPC3, all specimens have been plotted inside the 95% ellipse, which is in contrast to PC1xPC3 in which two individuals (MCT1753- R and MN6750-V) are outliers. In the third analysis, five measurements were positively allometric, 18 were negatively allometric and four represent truly negatively allometry. All bones of the posterior and the lateral emarginations, as well as the squamosal, lengthen due to size increasing, different from the jugal and the quadratojugal which decrease in width.Discussion. Some specimens show small differences in form (MCZ4123 and MN7071-V) and shape (MCT1753-R and MN6750-V). Form differences were already detected in a shell morphometry study, but interpreted as due to ontogeny, which might be the case of the present data. Moreover, all outlier specimens are crushed and/or distorted, thus the form/shape differences might be partially due to taphonomy. The allometric lengthen of parietal, quadrate, squamosal, maxilla, associated with the narrowing of jugal and quadratojugal may be related to changes in feeding habit between different stages of development. This change in shape might represent a progressive skull stretching and enlargement of posterior and lateral emargination during ontogeny, and consequently, the increment of the feeding-apparatus musculature. Smaller individuals may have fed of softer diet whereas bigger ones probably have had a harder diet, as seen in some living species of Podocnemis. We conclude that the skull variation is higher than expected and might be related to differences in feeding habits along the ontogeny of B. elegans.', u'Background. The origin of turtles, their earliest evolution and the homologies of the elements building their shell are still enigmatic and remain an object of ongoing discussion and research. Although the oldest fully shelled turtle \u2013 Proterochersis robusta from the Lower Stubensandstein (Norian) of Germany \u2013 was described more than a century ago, until recently it was mostly ignored by researchers. This is surprising, not only because of its notable stratigraphic position, but also due to the critical significance of this taxon in two competing hypotheses of turtle interrelationships. The divergence time of two main branches of Testudines crown group depends on whether Proterochersis is a basal pleurodire or a stem turtle. Methods. A detailed study of the German material of Proterochersis and Murrhardtia was performed by the author and the available specimens were compared with still growing collection of proterochersid remains from the Norian location in Por\u0119ba (Poland). Results. Two controversial taxa from Germany, Proterochersis intermedia and Murrhardtia staeschei are proved to be the synonyms of P. robusta. Establishment of another two proterochersid taxa is proposed and new primitive postcranial characters are recognized, supporting the stem position of Proterochersidae on the turtle phylogenetic tree. Discussion. Two general hypotheses concerning the split time of Cryptodira and Pleurodira are functioning in the literature, and Proterochersis plays a crucial role in these considerations. According to traditional view, this taxon is the oldest side-necked turtle, based on the sutural connection between its pelvis and shell. Numerous recent analyses tended to allocate the Pleurodira much higher on the tree, resulting in stem position of Proterochersis, though such placement usually lacked a strong support. This was caused by an incompletness of Proterochersis material (only shells) and errors in interpretation of some characters. New data, gathered mostly from the Polish \u2013 much more complete and well preserved \u2013 specimens, supports the basal position of Proterochersidae and provides new insights in the ancestral structure of the turtle shell.', u'In 2011, I proposed a new hypothesis for the evolution and development of the five-rayed structure of echinoderms, the Hexamer Hypothesis (Lussanet, 2011). According to this hypothesis, the five-rayed structure develops by reduction from a six-rayed Bauplan. Crinoids (sea lilies) are unique as the only extant clade with stalked representatives, reaching back at least to the early Ordovician. Their extraordinary rich fossil record and the known embryology of recent forms make them ideal to test the Hexamer Hypothesis. It is concluded that the plating of the calyx and the stalk can be explained by the new hypothesis.', u'Severe gaps and biases in digital accessible information (DAI) of species distributions hamper prospects of safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystem services and reliably addressing central questions in ecology and evolution. Accordingly, governments have agreed on improving and sharing biodiversity knowledge by 2020 (United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity\u2019s Aichi target 19). To achieve this target, gaps in DAI must be identified, and actions prioritized to address their root causes. We take terrestrial vertebrates, an iconic and comparatively well-studied group, as a model and present the first globally comprehensive assessment of patterns and drivers of gaps in DAI, based on an integration of 157 million validated point records with 21,170 expert-based distribution maps. We demonstrate that outside a few well-sampled regions, DAI provides a very limited and spatially highly biased inventory of actual biodiversity. Coarser spatial grains result in more complete inventories, but provide insufficient detail for conservation and resource management. Surprisingly, large emerging economies are particularly under-represented in global DAI, even more so than species-rich, developing countries in the tropics. Multi-model inference reveals that completeness is mainly limited by distance to researchers, locally available research funding, and political participation in data-sharing networks, rather than transportation infrastructure, or size and funding of Western data contributors as often assumed. Our study provides an empirical baseline to advance strategies of enhancing the global information basis of biodiversity. In particular, our results highlight the need for targeted data integration from non-Western data holders and intensified cooperation to more effectively address societal biodiversity information needs.', u'Translation of target gene transcripts in Escherichia coli harboring UAG amber stop codons can be switched on by the amber-codon-specific incorporation of an exogenously supplied unnatural amino acid, 3-iodo-L-tyrosine. Here, we report that this translational switch can control the translational efficiency at any intermediate magnitude by adjustment of the 3-iodo-L-tyrosine concentration in the medium, as a tunable translational controller. The translational efficiency of a target gene reached maximum levels with 10-5 M 3-iodo-L-tyrosine, and intermediate levels were observed with suboptimal concentrations (approximately spanning a 2-log10 concentration range, 10-7 to 10-5 M). Such intermediate-level expression was also confirmed in individual bacteria.', u'Background. Over the course of the last decades, much effort has gone into unraveling the biogeographic history of turtles, but while much progress has been achieved in resolving post- Jurassic dispersal events, traditional phylogenetic hypotheses have yielded incongruous results in regards to the early history of the group. Methods. We re-evaluate the fossil record of turtles in context of recent phylogenetic analyses and fossil finds, including the extensive record of fragmentary but diagnostic remains. Given that near-coastal and marine turtles readily disperse across aquatic barriers, a broad set of neritic to pelagic groups were disregarded from consideration. Significant disagreement still exists among current phylogenetic hypotheses and we therefore place much effort into tracing the fossil record of unambiguously monophyletic groups. We finally employed molecular backbone constraints, given that the molecular phylogenies are more consistent with the fossil record than current, morphological phylogenies. Results. Among derived, aquatic turtles, we recognize four clades that can be traced back to discrete biogeographic centers: Paracryptodira in North America and Europe, Pan- Cryptodira in Asia, Pan-Pelomedusoides in northern Gondwanan landmasses and Pan- Chelidae in southern Gondwanan landmasses. This pattern is partially mirrored by three clades of primarily terrestrial, basal turtles: Solemydidae in North American and Europe, Sichuanchelyidae in Asia, and Meiolaniformes sensu stricto in southern Gondwanan landmasses. Although the exact interrelationships of these clades remain unclear, most can be traced back to the Middle Jurassic. Discussion. The conclusion that the two primary lineages of pleurodires and paracryptodires can be traced back to mutually exclusive land masses is not novel, but the realization that the early history of pan-cryptodires is restricted to Asia has not been realized previously, because traditional phylogenies implied an early, global presence of pan-cryptodires. The timing of the origin of the three primary clades of derived turtles (i.e., Pan-Pleurodira, Pan-Cryptodira, and Paracryptodira) correlates with the opening of the central Atlantic and the formation of the Turgai Strait in the Middle Jurassic, somewhat later than predicted by molecular calibration studies. The primary diversity of extant turtles therefore appears to have been driven by vicariance. A similar hypothesis could also be formulated for the three clades of basal turtles that survive at least into the Late Cretaceous, but given that their combined monophyly remains uncertain, it is unclear if their diversity was also driven by vicariance, or if they emulate a vicariance-like pattern. Although most groups remained within their primary geographic range throughout their evolutionary history, the dominant vicariance signal was thoroughly obfuscated by rich dispersal from littoral to marine turtles and crown cryptodires.', u'Background: Establishing health-related causal relationships is a central pursuit in biomedical research. Yet, the interdependent non-linearity of biological systems renders causal dynamics laborious and at times impractical to disentangle. This pursuit is further impeded by the dearth of time series that are sufficiently long to observe and understand recurrent patterns of flux. However, as data generation costs plummet and technologies like wearable devices democratize data collection, we anticipate a coming surge in the availability of biomedically-relevant time series data. Given the life-saving potential of these burgeoning resources, it is critical to invest in the development of open source software tools that are capable of drawing meaningful insight from vast amounts of time series data.\nResults: Here we present CauseMap, the first open source implementation of convergent cross mapping (CCM), a method for establishing causality from long time series data (> ~25 observations). Compared to existing time series methods, CCM has the advantage of being model-free and robust to unmeasured confounding that could otherwise induce spurious associations. CCM builds on Takens\u2019 Theorem, a well-established result from dynamical systems theory that requires only mild assumptions. This theorem allows us to reconstruct high dimensional system dynamics using a time series of only a single variable. These reconstructions can be thought of as shadows of the true causal system. If the reconstructed shadows can predict points from the opposing time series, we can infer that the corresponding variables are providing views of the same causal system, and so are causally related. Unlike traditional metrics, this test can establish the directionality of causation, even in the presence of feedback loops. Furthermore, since CCM can extract causal relationships from times series of, e.g. a single individual, it may be a valuable tool to personalized medicine. We implement CCM in Julia, a high-performance programming language designed for facile technical computing. Our software package, CauseMap, is platform-independent and freely available as an official Julia package.\nConclusions: CauseMap is an efficient implementation of a state-of-the-art algorithm for detecting causality from time series data. We believe this tool will be a valuable resource for biomedical research and personalized medicine.', u'In this paper, I comment on Porfiri et al. (2014), "Juvenile specimen of Megaraptor (Dinosauria, Theropoda) sheds light about tyrannosauroid radiation". Though Porfiri et al. provided numerous coelurosaurian characters on the Megaraptor specimen, their referral of the taxon to tyrannosauroidea is based on some problematic characters. Also, the specimen bears a feature which does not correspond to tyrannosauroidea. All things considered, the suggested evidences supporting the position of Megaraptora within tyrannosauroidea are weak.', u'In this paper, I comment on Larson\'s 2013 paper "The case for Nanotyrannus". All the osteological differences proposed by Larson (2013) seem to be due to ontogeny and individual variation. Therefore, Larson\'s claim that "Nanotyrannus lancensis" is not a juvenile Tyrannosaurus rex is incorrect. And based on their striking anatomical similarities, it is more parsimonious to assume that "Nanotyrannus lancensis" is the junior synonym of Tyrannosaurus rex and represents a juvenile stage of the taxon.', u'The biggest cost of computing with large matrices in any modern computer is related to memory latency and bandwidth. The average latency of modern RAM reads is 150 times greater than a clock step of the processor (Alted, 2010). Throughput is a little better but still 25 times slower than the CPU can consume. The application of bitstring compression allows for larger matrices to be moved entirely to the cache memory of the computer, which has much better latency and bandwidth (average latency of L1 cache is 3 to 4 clock steps). This allows for massive performance gains as well as the ability to simulate much larger models efficiently. In this work, we propose a methodology to compress matrices in such a way that they retain their mathematical properties. Considerable compression of the data is also achieved in the process. Thus allowing for the computation of much larger linear problems within the same memory constraints when compared with the traditional representation of matrices.', u'The Kayenta Formation has yielded numerous tetrapod fossils, including, amphibians, theropods, prosauropods, ornithischians, crocodylomorphs, sphenodonts, tritylodonts, pterosaurs, turtles, and rare mammals. Despite the phylogenetic diversity of the preserved animals, virtually all of the vertebrate fossils have come from the Ward Terrace area of north-central Arizona, on the Navajo Nation Reservation. Here we describe the first remains of a tetrapod found in the Kayenta Formation of Washington County, Utah. Tetrapod body fossils from the Kayenta Formation in southwestern Utah are proving to be very rare however, in contrast to common vertebrate tracks. The specimen described herein is likely the remains of a sphenosuchian crocodylomorph.', u'Previous studies using the Golgi technique have demonstrated alterations in the dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex of mice inoculated with the rabies virus. However, knowledge about the fine structure of dendrites in rabies infection is scarce. This work had the aim of studying the ultrastructure of dendrites in cortical pyramidal neurons of rabies-infected mice. Mice were inoculated intramuscularly with a street rabies virus of canine origin. The animals that showed an advanced stage of disease were fixed by perfusion with glutaraldehyde and paraformaldehyde. Brains were removed and cut on a vibratome to obtain coronal slices of 200 micrometers of thickness. Vibratome slices were subjected to the following treatment: postfixation, dehydration, embedding in epoxy resin and polymerization between glass slides. Ultrathin sections of oriented tissue fragments from the cerebral cortex were obtained and observed under electron microscope. The most significant ultrastructural findings were located within distal dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons: loss of mitochondria, disorganization and loss of microtubules, formation of vacuoles interrupting the continuity of the cytoplasm and formation of myelin-like figures. These strange myelin figures, which apparently had not been reported in previous studies of rabies, were the most noticeable ultrastructural feature. They also differ from the best known myelin figures formed by concentric lamellae. The possible origin of these myelin figures as result of mitochondrial degeneration is discussed.', u'Background. At least a fifth of tropical forests have been logged in the recent past. This practice is an important source of timber but there are concerns about its long-sustainability and impacts on biodiversity and carbon storage. However, there is wide variation in the impacts of logging, making generalisation, and thus policy implementation, difficult. Recent syntheses of animal biodiversity have indicated that differences in logging intensity \u2013 the volume of wood removed per hectare \u2013 may help explain some of these differences. In addition there have been suggestions that reduced impact logging (RIL) may reduce some of the negative effects of logging.\nMethods. We aimed to test these hypotheses using meta-analyses to explore differences in the impacts of logging on (1) residual tree damage, (2) aboveground biomass and (3) tree species richness. To do this we used a mixture of unweighted mixed models and weighted meta-regression\nResults. Our results indicate that RIL may reduce residual tree damage when compared to conventional methods, but that at higher logging intensities this effect is negated. Changes in aboveground biomass were negatively related to logging intensity, but any effect of RIL was obscured by it being carried out at relatively low intensities. Tree richness appeared to initially increase at low intensities but was reduced at higher intensities.\nDiscussion. Our results give only weak support to the hypothesis that RIL reduces the negative impacts of logging on tree damage, and do not support suggestions that RIL reduces loss of biomass or species richness. However, we do not think this is because there is no difference between the impacts of RIL and conventional logging but rather that better evidence is needed to assess these differences. We suggest that studies that take account of plot-level differences in logging intensity are likely to provide a solution to this knowledge gap.', u'One of the major limiting factors in aquaculture production is poor water quality which can negatively affect the yield from aquaculture venture. There is therefore the need to study the rate of interrelationship among key water quality parameters in relation to water quality management and productivity. The level of interaction among dissolved oxygen, ammonia, pH, and temperature in two culturing facilities (Earthen and Concrete ponds) was therefore investigated. Water samples were collected from concrete and earthen fish ponds in a commercial fish farm in Ibadan. The concrete tanks and earthen ponds used for the experiment have the same stocking rate; number of stocked fish; water source and feeding rate and frequency. Water samples were collected randomly from 4 different points in each of the rearing facilities with a sampling bottle in the morning (8.00-8.30am) and evening (5.00-5.30pm) immediately after feeding; this is done weekly for 6weeks. Also the mortality of fish in the studied facilities was recorded. Four different physico-chemical parameters (Temperature, pH, Dissolved oxygen and Ammonia) were analyzed and measured using HATCH analysis water testing kit model FF-1A immediately after water sample collection. Data collected were analysed using ANOVA and correlation and were test for significance at p=0.05. The result showed that, the mean values of pH was (8.15\xb10.17; 8.69\xb10.17); temperature (27.95\xb11.88; 30.21\xb11.880C) and dissolved oxygen (4.79\xb13.98; 11.38\xb13.98mg/l) were obtained in the morning and evening respectively. Mean dissolved oxygen was (7.04\xb13.98; 9.12\xb13.98mg/l); pH (7.9\xb10.17; 8.9\xb10.17mg/l); and ammonia (0.5\xb10.24; 2.09\xb10.24) in concrete tanks and earthen ponds respectively. The highest values of temperature (33.000C); dissolved oxygen (13.00mg/l) were obtained in the evening. The values obtained for dissolved oxygen and temperatures showed significant variations between the time of the day. Mean mortality recorded was (1.2\xb11.07); (2.6\xb11.07) in concrete and earthen ponds respectively. Mortality recorded shows positive correlation with temperature and ammonia with correlation coefficient (r=0.18) and (r=0.54) respectively, however, ammonia level had direct significant relationship with mortality. It is concluded that there exist interrelationship among the key water quality parameters examined, and there values varies with time of the day and between different culture facilities.', u'A traditional random variable X is a function that maps from a stochastic process to the real line. Here, "real line" refers to the structure (R,<=,|x-y|), where R is the set of real numbers, <= is the standard linear order relation on R, and d(x,y)=|x-y| is the usual metric on R. The traditional expectation value E(X) of X is then often a poor choice of a statistic when the stochastic process that X maps from is a structure other than the real line or some substructure of the real line. If the stochastic process is a structure that is not linearly ordered (including structures totally unordered) and/or has a metric space geometry very different from that induced by the usual metric, then statistics such as E(X) are often of poor quality with regards to qualitative intuition and quantitative variance (expected error) measurements. For example, the traditional expected value of a fair die is E(X)=(1/6)(1+2+...+6)=3.5. But this result has no relationship with reality or with intuition because the result implies that we expect the value of [ooo] (die face value "3") or [oooo] (dice face value "4") more than we expect the outcome of say [o] or [oo]. The fact is, that for a fair die, we would expect any pair of values equally. The reason for this is that the values of the face of a fair die are merely symbols with no order, and with no metric geometry other than the discrete metric geometry. On a fair die, [oo] is not greater or less than [o]; rather [oo] and [o] are simply symbols without order. Moreover, [o] is not "closer" to [oo] than it is to [ooo]; rather, [o], [oo], and [ooo] are simply symbols without any inherit order or metric geometry. This paper proposes an alternative statistical system, based somewhat on graph theory, that takes into account the order structure and metric geometry of the underlying stochastic process.', u'Background. Blacklegged ticks (Ixodes scapularis) are important disease vectors in the United States, known to transmit a variety of pathogens to humans, including bacteria, protozoa, and viruses. Their importance as a disease vector necessitates reliable and comparable methods for extracting microbial DNA from ticks. Furthermore, to explore the population genetics or genomics of this tick, appropriate DNA extraction techniques are needed for both the vector and its microbes. Although a few studies have investigated different methods of DNA isolation from ticks, they are limited in the number and types of DNA extraction and lack species-specific quantification of DNA yield. Methods. Here we determined the most efficient and consistent method of DNA extraction from two different developmental stages of I. scapularis \u2013 nymph and adult - that are the most important for disease transmission. We used various methods of physical disruption of the hard, chitinous exoskeleton, as well as commercial and non-commercial DNA isolation kits. To gauge the effectiveness of these methods we quantified the DNA yield and confirmed the DNA quality via PCR of both tick and microbial genetic material. Results. DNA extraction using the Thermo GeneJET Genomic DNA Purification kit resulted in the highest DNA yields and the strongest, most consistent PCR amplification. We also found that physical disruption of the tick exoskeleton was most effective using cross-sectional cutting compared to any type of bead-beating matrices used. Storing ticks at -80\xb0C resulted in considerably higher DNA yields than those from ticks stored in ethanol. Discussion. We contrasted a variety of readily available methods of DNA extraction from single individual blacklegged ticks and presented the results through a quantitative and qualitative assessment.', u'Introduction. A number of epidemiological studies on various diseases have drawn attention to relationships between fetal life events, as measured by health indicators and pathological events later in life. This accounts for the renewed interest in fetal health indicators. The objective of this retrospective study is to investigate the relationship between the sex of conceptuses of the mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies and the gestation length of the current pregnancy. Methods. A population of 7773 neonates were divided into cohorts, according to the sex of the current neonate and number and sex of the mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies. Average gestation lengths for each cohort were measured and compared between different configurations of preceding pregnancies. Results. There a positive association between the length of gestation of the neonate and its mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies of same sex as its own. Gestation length increases with the number of conceptuses of same sex among the preceding pregnancies. Likewise, there is a negative association between the length of gestation of the neonate and its mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies of opposite sex to its own. Gestation length decreases with the number of conceptuses of opposite sex among the preceding pregnancies. Discussion. The results of our study are compatible with the immunological hypothesis, based on the sex-linked concepto-gravidic antigenic dissimilarity, proposed to explain the association between preceding pregnancy and fetal development. The influence of the preceding pregnancy is significant enough to be taken into account for effective management of current pregnancies as well as for efficient clinical trial analysis.', u'GPT (Global Positioning Trees) is a web-server that maps phylogenetic trees on a virtual globe. The minimum requirements are a phylogenetic tree and geographical coordinates of leaves to generate a Keyhole Markup Language (KML) file that can be viewed on Google Earth. An advantage of GPT is the results may be pre-visualized directly on the web. This web-server also implements several tools to display geolocation and geotrack data. GPT has been designed to be an easy-to-use tool to track evolutionary processes and will be useful for phylogeographical and spatial epidemiological studies. It covers a wide-range of visualizations divided in three components increasingly complex: geolocation, geotrack and GPT. This web-server is freely available at http://ppuigbo.me/programs/GPT and only requires Internet access, a web browser, and an earth browser able to read KML files. Several examples and a tutorial are accessible from the web-server\u2019s home page.', u'One necessary step of metagenome analysis is to assign sequences to classes according to their taxonomic origins. Unsupervised binning method is one of the two binning categories. However existing unsupervised binning methods yield to estimate the species number automatically and accurately. In this paper, a new unsupervised binning method based on an improved fuzzy c-means method (iFCM) is presented for metagenomic dataset. First, a range of the number of bins is obtained by the relationship among sequencing depth, number of reads and average read length. Secondly, iFCM algorithm is implemented several times with the initial number of bins in this range. Finally, the number of bins is determined by a clustering validity, modified partition coefficient. Experimental results show that this method is an effective unsupervised binning method for metagenomic dataset and could estimate the species number more accurately than MetaCluster3.0 and AbundanceBin.', u'In the summer of 1878, American paleontologist Edward Drinker Cope published the discovery of a sauropod dinosaur that he named Amphicoelias fragillimus. What distinguishes A. fragillimus in the annals of paleontology is the immense magnitude of the skeletal material. The single incomplete dorsal vertebra as reported by Cope was a meter and a half in height, which when fully reconstructed, would make A. fragillimus the largest vertebrate ever. After this initial description Cope never mentioned A. fragillimus in any of his scientific works for the remainder of his life. More than four decades after its description, a scientific survey at the American Museum of Natural History dedicated to the sauropods collected by Cope failed to locate the remains or whereabouts of A. fragillimus. For nearly a century the remains have yet to resurface. The enormous size of the specimen has generally been accepted despite being well beyond the size of even the largest sauropods known from verifiable fossil material (e.g. Argentinosaurus). By deciphering the ontogenetic change of Diplodocoidea vertebrae, the science of gigantism, and Cope\u2019s own mannerisms, we conclude that the reported size of A. fragillimus is most likely an extreme over-estimation.', u"The whale shark (Rhincodon typus) has by far the largest body size of any elasmobranch (shark or ray) species and is therefore also the largest extant species of the paraphyletic assemblage commonly referred to as \u201cfishes\u201d. As both a phenotypic extreme and a member of the group basal to the remaining gnathostomes, which includes all tetrapods and therefore also humans, its genome is of substantial comparative interest. Whale sharks are also listed as a \u201cvulnerable\u201d species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)'s Red List of threatened species and are of growing popularity as both a target of ecotourism and as a charismatic conservation ambassador for the pelagic ecosystem. A genome map for this species would aid in defining effective conservation units and understanding global population structure. We characterised the nuclear genome of the whale shark using next generation sequencing (454, Illumina) and de novo assembly and annotation methods, based on material collected from the Georgia Aquarium. The data set consisted of 878,654,233 reads, which assembled into 11,347,816 contigs and 3,606,038 scaffolds. The estimated genome size was 3.44Gb. As expected, the proteome of the whale shark was most closely related to the only other complete genome of a cartilaginous fish, the Holocephali Elephant shark. The whale shark contained a novel Toll-like-receptor protein with sequence conservation to both the TLR4 and TLR13 proteins of mammals. The data are publicly available on a Galaxy bioinformatic server (http://whaleshark.georgiaaquarium.org). This represents the first shotgun elasmobranch genome and will aid studies of molecular systematics, biogeography, genetic differentiation, and conservation genetics in this and other shark species, as well as providing comparative data for studies of evolutionary biology and immunology across the jawed vertebrate lineages.", u'Consumer-mediated indirect effects at the community-level are difficult to demonstrate empirically. Here, we show an explicit indirect effect of overfishing on competition between sponges and reef-building corals from surveys of 69 sites across the Caribbean. Removal of sponge-eating angelfishes and parrotfishes resulted in > 3 fold increase in overgrowth of corals by sponges, with coral-sponge contact increasing from 11.0% to 25.6%, and these sponges were mostly species palatable to sponge predators. Palatable species have faster rates of growth or reproduction than defended sponges, which instead make metabolically expensive chemical defenses. On average, overfished sites had lower macroalgal cover, contrary to prevailing assumptions about seaweed control by herbivorous fishes. Coral-sponge competition provides an additional and unambiguous justification for marine protected areas (MPAs) in the Caribbean, where the conceptual model of sponge community ecology and defense trade-offs is notable for the clarity of top-down control and indirect effects across a broad geographic region.', u'Accelerated loss of sea ice in the Arctic is opening routes connecting the Atlantic and Pacific oceans for longer periods each year. These changes will increase the ease and frequency with which marine birds and mammals are able to move between the Pacific and Atlantic ocean basins. Indeed, recent observations of birds and mammals suggest these movements are already occurring. Reconnection of the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean basins will present both challenges to marine ecosystem conservation and an unprecedented opportunity to examine the ecological and evolutionary consequences of faunal exchange in real time. To understand these changes and implement effective conservation of marine ecosystems, we need to further develop modeling efforts to predict the rate of dispersal and consequences of faunal exchange. These predictions can be tested by closely monitoring wildlife dispersal through the Arctic Ocean and using modern methods to explore the ecological and evolutionary consequences of these movements.', u'Background: A major goal of RNA-Seq data analysis is to reconstruct the full set of gene transcripts expressed in a biological sample in order to quantify their expression levels. The process typically involves multiple steps including mapping short sequence reads to a reference genome, and estimating expression levels based on these mappings. Multiple algorithms and approaches for each processing step exist, and the impact of different methods on estimation of gene expression is not entirely clear.\nMethods: We evaluated the impact of three common mapping algorithms on differential expression analysis in an RNA-Seq dataset describing the lung response to acute neonatal hyperoxia. RNA-Seq data generated using the Illumina platform were mapped and aligned using CASAVA, TopHat, and SHRiMP against the mouse genome. Significance Analysis of Microarrays and Cuffdiff were used to identify differentially expressed genes between hyperoxia-challenged and age matched control mice.\nResults: 1403 genes were detected as differentially expressed by least one mapping and gene selection method. A majority of genes (>65%) were identified by all three mapping methods, regardless of the gene selection approach. Expression patterns for 52 genes were examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Importantly, we found different validation rates for genes selected by each method; 72% for CASAVA, 69% for TopHat and 63% for SHRiMP. Surprisingly, the validation rate for genes selected by all three mapping methods was no greater than the best single method.\nConclusion: The choice of mapping strategy impacts the reliability of gene selection for RNA-Seq data analysis.', u'Data are the foundation of empirical research, yet all too often the datasets underlying published papers are unavailable, incorrect, or poorly curated. This is a serious issue, because future researchers are then unable to validate published results or reuse data to explore new ideas and hypotheses. While data files may be securely stored and accessible, they must also be accompanied by accurate labels and identifiers. To assess how often problems with metadata or data curation affect the reproducibility of published results, we attempted to reproduce Discriminant Function Analyses (DFAs) from the field of organismal biology. DFA is a commonly used statistical analysis that has changed little since its inception almost eight decades ago, and therefore provides an excellent case study to test reproducibility. Out of 100 papers we initially surveyed, fourteen were excluded because they did not present the common types of quantitative result from their DFA, used complex and unique data transformations, or gave insufficient details of their DFA. Of the remaining 86 datasets, there were 16 cases for which we were unable to confidently relate the dataset we received to the one used in the published analysis. The reasons ranged from incomprehensible or absent variable labels, the DFA being performed on an unspecified subset of the data, or incomplete data sets. We focused on reproducing three common summary statistics from DFAs: the percent variance explained, the percentage correctly assigned and the largest discriminant function coefficient. The reproducibility of the first two was high (20 of 25 and 43 of 59 datasets, respectively), whereas our success rate with the discriminant function coefficients was lower (15 of 36 datasets). When considering all three summary statistics, we were able to completely reproduce 46 (66%) of 70 datasets. While our results are encouraging, they highlight the fact that science still has some way to go before we have the carefully curated and reproducible research that the public expects.', u'Weed management is a primary concern in direct seeded rice (DSR) cropping because weed growth becomes a major constraint on crop yield. A two year field study was set up to evaluate the effect of various weed control measures on crop growth, grain yield and grain quality of DSR. The dry seeded non flooded rice experiment involved five different weed control measures: hand weeding, hoeing, inter-row tine cultivation, inter-row spike hoeing and herbicide treatment (Nominee 100 SC). The extent of weed control (compared to a non-weeded control) ranged from 50-95%. The highest crop yield was obtained using hand weeding. Hand weeding, tine cultivation and herbicide treatment raised the number of fertile rice tillers formed per unit area and the thousand grain weight. Tine cultivation provided an effective and economical level of weed control in the DSR crop.', u'Arable soils are frequently subjected to contamination with copper as the consequence of imbalanced fertilization with manure and organic fertilizers and/or extensive use of copper-containing fungicides. In the present study, the exposure of Stone-head cabbage (Brassica oleracea Var. capitata) to elevated Cu2+ levels resulted in leaf chlorosis and lesser biomass yield at \u2265 2 \xb5M. Root nitrate content was not statistically affected by Cu2+ levels, although it was substantially decreased at \u2265 5 \xb5M Cu2+ in the shoot. The decrease in nitrate contents can be related to lower nitrate uptake rates because of growth inhibition by Cu-toxicity. Shoot sulfate content increased strongly at \u2265 2 \xb5M Cu2+ indicating an increase in demand for sulfur under Cu stress. Furthermore, at \u2265 2 \xb5M concentration, concentration of water-soluble non-protein thiol increased markedly in the roots and to a smaller level in the shoot. When exposed to elevated concentrations of Cu2+ the improved sulfate and water-soluble non-protein thiols need further studies for the evaluation of their direct relation with the synthesis of metal-chelating compounds (i.e. phytochelatins).', u'Fisheries bycatch is one of the most significant marine conservation issues as valuable fish are wasted and protected species harmed with potential negative ecological and socio-economic consequences. Even though there are indications that the small-scale handline fishery of the Galapagos Marine Reserve has a low selectivity, information on its bycatch never has been published. We therefore assessed the bycatch of the Galapagos handline fishery by estimating the bycatch ratio, determining species compositions of landings and bycatch, and identifying fishers\u2019 reasons for discarding certain individuals using onboard monitoring and interview data. Moreover, we used interview surveys to reveal historical trends in the bycatch ratio. The estimated bycatch ratio of 0.40 confirmed a low selectivity of this fishery. Characterisation of the catch resulted in a total of 19 target species which were dominated by groupers, and 53 non-target species, with grunts and groupers being most prominent. Most individuals were not landed for economic motivations, either because species (77.4%) or sizes (17.7%) are not marketable and to a lesser extent for regulatory reasons (5.9%). However, sharks were after grunts with 69% the second most often mentioned bycatch taxa during interview surveys. We found that small sized individuals of some of the most exploited species suffer high bycatch mortality because they are used as bait. Moreover, over half of interviewees perceived a historical decrease in bycatch ratios that was explained by a diversification of the catch composition due to the reduction in abundance of the traditionally most important target species. As some target species show signs of overfishing and to date there are no specific regulations for the finfish fishery in place, we recommend the investigation of different gear settings such as the use of different hooks and bait species. Furthermore, we suggest the integration of faster growing species to the local market as well as spatio-temporal closures, and minimum and maximum catch sizes for overexploited species in order to improve the selectivity and sustainability of the Galapagos handline fishery.', u'The University of Texas main campus is located at the heart of the city of Austin. The university campus can be used as \u201cliving\u201d laboratory to engage students, faculty, and the public in general, in science. The UTBiome (aka \u201cMapping the UTBiome\u201d) project, is a cross-disciplinary educational, research and outreach effort to (1) engage the community in the collection and analysis of environmental samples from campus environment, and (2) to create an open access web-based mapping platform to disseminate the environmental and microbiological data obtained. In this project, both indoor and outdoor environments are being interrogated to answer diverse scientific questions. Over 250 citizens from the university community have been involved to date in the collection of biological samples and environment metadata associated with key water quality metrics including temperature, nitrate, phosphate, dissolved oxygen, alkalinity, pH, turbidity and fecal indicator bacteria. A data management system was designed and implemented for both, \u2018online\u2019 data input through student\u2019s mobile phones and to facilitate sample tracking. In order to fully engage the students and the UT community, we envisioned an interactive and innovative workflow, involving technology, automation, and social media. The interactive mapping platform we have created allow users within and outside the university to access and download the results and associated environmental data by simply clicking on the interactive map. The comprehensive UTBiome map created in ArcGIS can be found in this website http://crwr-utbiome.austin.utexas.edu/utb_webapp/utbiome.html (or just http://tinyurl.com/UTBiomeMap). The online platform design offers access to the environmental information, providing resources for students, faculty and the general public to learn more about the environment that surrounds us.', u'Artemisinin is accumulated in wormwood (Artemisia annua) with uncertain ecological implications. Here, we suggest that artemisinin is generated in response to biotic/abiotic stress, during which dihydroartemisinic acid, a direct artemisinin precursor, quenches singlet oxygen (1O2), one kind of reactive oxygen species. Evidence supporting artemisinin as a sink of 1O2 emerges from that volatile isoprenoids protect plants from biotic/abiotic stress; biotic/abiotic stress induces artemisinin biosynthesis; and stress signaling pathways are involved in the biosynthesis of volatile isoprenoids among plants as well as the biosynthesis of artemisinin in A. annua. In this review, we address the ecological implication of glandular trichome-sequestered artemisinin as a sink sink of biotic/abiotic stress-triggered 1O2 , and also summarize the cumulating data on the transcriptomic and metabolic profiling of stress-enhanced artemisinin production upon eliciting 1O2 omission from chloroplasts and initiating retrograde 1O2 signaling from chloroplasts to nuclei.', u'It is nearly 50 years since Dijkstra argued that goto obscures the flow of control in program execution and urged programmers to abandon the goto statement. While past research has shown that goto is still in use, little is known about whether goto is used in the unrestricted manner that Dijkstra feared, and if it is \u2018harmful\u2019 enough to be a part of a post-release bug. We, therefore, conduct a two part empirical study - (1) qualitatively analyze a statistically representative sample of 384 files from a population of almost 2 million C programming language files collected from over 11K Github repositories and find that developers use goto in C files for error handling (80.21 \xb1 5%) and cleaning up resources at the end of a procedure (40.36 \xb1 5%); and (2) quantitatively analyze the commit history from the release branches of six OSS projects and find that no goto statement was removed/modified in the post-release phase of four of the six projects. We conclude that developers limit themselves to using goto appropriately in most cases, and not in an unrestricted manner like Dijkstra feared, thus suggesting that goto does not appear to be harmful in practice.', u'Reproducibility and reusability of research results is an important concern in scientific communication and science policy. A foundational element of reproducibility and reusability is the open and persistently available presentation of research data. However, many common approaches for primary data publication in use today do not achieve sufficient long-term robustness, openness, accessibility or uniformity. Nor do they permit comprehensive exploitation by modern Web technologies. This has led to several authoritative studies recommending uniform direct citation of data archived in persistent repositories. Data are to be considered as first-class scholarly objects, and treated similarly in many ways to cited and archived scientific and scholarly literature. Here we briefly review the most current and widely agreed set of principle-based recommendations for scholarly data citation, the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles (JDDCP). We then present a framework for operationalizing the JDDCP; and a set of initial recommendations on identifier schemes, identifier resolution behavior, required metadata elements, and best practices for realizing programmatic machine actionability of cited data. The main target audience for the common implementation guidelines in this article consists of publishers, scholarly organizations, and persistent data repositories, including technical staff members in these organizations. But ordinary researchers can also benefit from these recommendations. The guidance provided here is intended to help achieve widespread, uniform human and machine accessibility of deposited data, in support of significantly improved verification, validation, reproducibility and re-use of scholarly/scientific data.', u'Agent based modelling framework successfully models real life problems that support simulation with diverse strategies and mechanisms devoid of the restrictions set by mathematical tractability. Union of game theory and agent based modelling has elucidated the dynamics of different social and economic scenarios. In this study, we present our efforts to develop an agent based model through embracing a customized version of the deferred acceptance algorithm. This study considers two widely adopted admission process scenarios i.e. partially and fully centralized as a case study, wherein a University acts as a nodal bureau and admits students to affiliated colleges. In this paper, an agent based model has been developed in the Netlogo simulation environment, which advocates fully centralized procedure and simulates deferred acceptance algorithm. The simulation results in a strategy-proof, optimum and stable allocation of available seats in the admission process.', u'Adult large-bodied theropods are often found with numerous pathologies. A large, almost complete, probably adult Allosaurus specimen from the Howe Stephens Quarry, Morrison Formation (Late Kimmeridgian\u2013Early Tithonian), Wyoming, shows multiple pathologies. Pathologic bones include the left dentary, two cervical vertebrae, one cervical and several dorsal ribs, the left scapula, the left humerus, right ischium, and two left pedal phalanges. These pathologies can be classified as follows: the fifth cervical vertebra, the scapula, several ribs and the ischium are traumatic, and a callus on the shaft of the left pedal phalanx II-2 is traumatic-infectious. Traumatically fractured elements exposed to frequent movement (e.g. the scapula and the ribs) show a tendency to develop pseudarthroses instead of callus healing. The pathologies in the lower jaw and a reduced flexor tubercle of the left pedal phalanx II-2 are most likely traumatic or developmental in origin. The pathologies on the fourth cervical are most likely developmental in origin or idiopathic, that on the left humerus is infectious or idiopathic, whereas left pedal phalanx IV-1 is classified as idiopathic. With exception of the ischium, all traumatic / traumatic-infectious pathologic elements show unambiguous evidences of healing, indicating that the respective pathologies did not cause the death of this individual. Alignment of the scapula and rib pathologies from the left side suggests that all may have been caused by a single traumatic event. The ischial fracture may have been fatal. The occurrence of multiple traumatic pathologies again underlines that large-bodied theropods experienced frequent injuries during life, indicating an active predatory lifestyle, and their survival perhaps supports a gregarious behavior for Allosaurus. Signs of infections are scarce and locally restricted, indicating a successful prevention of the spread of pathogens, as it is the case in extant reptiles (including birds).', u'Prey availability and human-carnivore conflict are strong determinants that govern the spatial distribution and abundance of large carnivore species and determine the suitability of areas for their conservation. For wide-ranging large carnivores such as cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) suitable conservation areas beyond protected area boundaries are crucial to effectively conserve them both inside and outside protected areas. Although cheetahs prefer preying on wild prey, they also cause conflict with people by predating on especially small livestock. We investigated whether the distribution of cheetahs\u2019 preferred prey and small livestock biomass can be used to explore the current potential suitability of agricultural areas in Botswana for the long-term persistence of its cheetah population. We found it gave a good point of departure for identifying priority areas for land management, the threat to connectivity between cheetah populations and areas where the reduction and mitigation of human-cheetah conflict is critical. Our analysis showed the existence of a wide prey base for cheetahs across large parts of Botswana\u2019s agricultural areas which provide additional large areas with high conservation potential. Twenty percent wild prey biomass proved to be possibly the critical point to distinguish between high and low predicted levels of human-cheetah conflict. We identified focal areas in the agricultural zones where restoring wild prey numbers in concurrence with effective human-cheetah conflict mitigation efforts are the most immediate conservation strategies needed to maintain Botswana\u2019s still large and contiguous cheetah population.', u'The origin of recent parallel outbreaks of the high pathogenicity H5N8 avian flu virus in Europe and in Japan can be traced to a single source population, which has most likely been spread by migratory birds. By using Bayesian coalescence methods to analyze the DNA sequences of the virus to find the times for divergence and combining bird migration data we can show the most likely locations and migratory pathways involved in the origin of the current outbreak. This population was most likely located in the Siberian summer breeding grounds of long-range migratory birds. These breeding grounds provide a connection between different migratory flyways and explain the current outbreaks in remote locations. By combining genetic methods and epidemiological data we can rapidly identify the sources and the dispersion pathways for novel avian influenza outbreaks.', u'A systematic research was conducted for the isolation and identification of undesirable microorganisms in food products using molecular approach. The result revealed the presence of Yersinia aleksiciae and Pseudomonas fluorescens strains in Australian pasteurized milk and mixed salad respectively. Y. aleksiciae grouped as lacking virulence marker and is regarded non-pathogenic. P. fluorescens has been identified as a marker of spoilage of ready-to-eat vegetable salads. This study confirms the rapidity and sensitivity of 16s rDNA analysis in identifying strains which contribute in early monitoring, accurate analysis and control of microbial risks in food products. The described methodology has special relevance in food quality control and safety.', u'This paper present a Genetic Algorithm(GA) approach for clustering data metric of computational performance measures collected from vmstat and sar tools. The proposed work models the genes, chromosomes, species and environment based on the dataset and presents an algorithm to analyze patterns and classify the records. The proposed method submits the performance information to an N-Dimensional Histogram in order to obtain the distribution of data that is used as input to the cluster initialization. The individual from each species undergoes successive crossover, mutation and selection operations to improve and evolve the initial population to a given environment state. The fitness-function is determined by the N-Dimensional Euclidean distance. The selection method is based on the Roulette-Wheel Selection, Elitist Selection and Truncation Selection. The results presented were obtained from seven test scenarios.', u'The Crested Ibis  Nipponia Nippon  formerly occurred throughout East Asia, but since 1981 its unique population has been confined to a narrow area in Central China. During 2004-2005, 23 Crested Ibises were experimentally reintroduced to an isolated basin in Qinling Mountains, where they and their offspring exhibited variation in reproduction never observed in wild population. Crested Ibis has been considered to be a monogamous species, and breeding pair is solitary and territorial in breeding season. However, 3.4% of breeding females exhibited polyandry and 43.1% of nests were observed in colony in the reintroduced population during 2006-2014. The mating system flexibility is likely related to male-biased sex ratio in the small isolated reintroduced population, due to greater dispersal capacity by female. The colonial nesting is attributed to the availability of large nest trees and abundant food supply. First nest failure in reintroduced population occurred much earlier than that in wild, which resulted in significantly higher probability of renesting. The phenotypic plasticity in Crested Ibis may play important role in the restoration of this critical endangered species under a changing environment, and future reintroductions provide opportunity to further understand the degree and cost of adaptive phenotypic plasticity in Crested Ibis.', u'Russula senecis, a worldwide distributed mushroom, is exclusively popular among the tribal communities of West Bengal for food purposes. The present study focuses on its reliable taxonomic identification through macro-, micro-morphological features and DNA barcoding, confirmation of its systematic placement by phylogenetic analyses, myco-chemicals and functional activities. For the first time, complete Internal Transcribed Spacer region of R. senecis has been sequenced and its taxonomic position within subsection Foetentinae under series Ingratae of the subgen. Ingratula is confirmed through phylogenetic analysis. For exploration of its medicinal properties, dried basidiocarps were subjected for preparation of a heat stable phenol rich extract (RusePre) using water and ethanol as solvent system. The antioxidant activity was evaluated through hydroxyl radical scavenging (EC50 5 \xb5g/ml), chelating ability of ferrous ion (EC50 0.158 mg/ml), DPPH radical scavenging (EC50 1.34 mg/ml), reducing power (EC50 2.495 mg/ml) and total antioxidant activity methods (13.44 \xb5g ascorbic acid equivalent/mg of extract). RusePre exhibited antimicrobial potentiality against Listeria monocytogenes, Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Furthermore, different parameters were tested to investigate its chemical composition which revealed the presence of appreciable quantity of phenolic compounds along with carotenoids and ascorbic acid. HPLC-UV fingerprint indicated probable existence of at least 13 phenolics of which 10 were identified (pyrogallol> kaempferol> quercetin> chlorogenic acid> ferulic acid, cinnamic acid> vanillic acid> salicylic acid> p-coumaric acid> gallic acid). Result from the present work suggests that the fraction, RusePre, may open novel prospect as a functional ingredient in antioxidant supplements and in drugs to treat infectious disease.', u"Probabilistic topic models are a class of unsupervised machine learning models used for understanding the latent topics in a corpus of documents. A new method for combining geographic feature data with text from geo-referenced documents to create topic models that are grounded in the physical environment is proposed. The Geographic Feature Type Topic Model (GFTTM) models each document in a corpus as a mixture of feature type topics and abstract topics. Feature type topics are conditioned on additional observation data of the relative densities of geographic feature types co-located with the document's location referent, whereas abstract topics are trained independently of that information. The GFTTM is evaluated using geo-referenced Wikipedia articles and feature type data from volunteered geographic information sources. A technique for the measurement of semantic similarity of feature types and places based on the mixtures of topics associated with the types is also presented. The results of the evaluation demonstrate that GFTTM finds two distinct types of topics that can be used to disentangle how places are described in terms of its physical features and more abstract topics such as history and culture.", u'In this opinion piece, we outline two shortcomings in experimental design that limit the claims that can be made about concept learning in animals. On the one hand, most studies of concept learning train too few concepts in parallel to support general claims about their capacity of subsequent abstraction. On the other hand, even studies that train many categories of stimulus in parallel only test one or two stimuli at a time, allowing even a simplistic learning rule to succeed by making informed guesses. To demonstrate these shortcomings, we include simulations performed using an off-the-shelf image classifier. These simulations demonstrate that, when either training or testing are overly simplistic, a classification algorithm that is incapable of abstraction nevertheless yields levels of performance that have been described in the literature as proof of concept learning in animals.', u'We report a method to cause cell death by remotely heating microparticles by induction heating, this technique could be used to remove vascular deposits and thrombosis. In this preliminary work, we used micrometer size spherical (ferromagnetic) particles and (pure) iron particles to heat remotely macrophages using inductive heating. Iron particles achieved maximum temperatures of 51 \xb1 0.5 oC after 30 minutes of inductive heating, while spherical particles achieved a maximum temperature of 43.9 \xb1 0.2 oC (N=6). The therapeutic outcome was determined by monitoring cell re-growth for 2 days following inductive heating treatment. The initial density of cells in the first day prior to induction heating was 105,000 \xb1 20,820 cells/ml (N=3). 24 hours after induction heating this number was reduced to 6,666 \xb1 4,410 cells/ml for the spherical particles and 16,666 \xb1 9,280 cells/ml for the iron particles. The second day the cells grew to 26,667 \xb1 6,670 cells/ml and 30,000 \xb1 15,280 cells/ml respectively. Compared to cell cultures with iron and spherical particles that were not subjected to induction heating, we observed a 97% reduction in cell count for the spherical particles and a 91% reduction for the iron particles after the first 24 hours. After 48 hours we observed a 95% reduction in cell growth for both spherical and iron particles. Induction heating of microparticles was highly effective in reducing the macrophage population and preventing their growth.', u'One of the very few snail taxa that display genetic antisymmetry (that is, roughly equal mixes of genetically determined clockwise [D] and anticlockwise [S] coiled individuals within a single population) are the circa 35 species of the tropical tree snail subgenus Amphidromus. Previous work has shown that this may be due to a particular type of sexual selection, in which sperm transfer is improved in copulations between the two mirror-image morphs. However, it is not yet clear why so often significant deviations from 50:50 proportions are found. Modelling studies show that population structure will affect the degree by which the dimorphism is skewed towards the morph associated with the recessive allele. In this study, we mapped the proportions of sinistrals (PropS) in 56 demes in A. inversus on the Malaysian island of Kapas. We also mapped population density, predation rates, and several measures of vegetation structure. Our results show that PropS amounts on average to 0.65, but across the island it varies from 0.30 to 0.85. Density and overall predation are inversely correlated. A general linear model selection procedure results in the proportion of sinistrals to be positively correlated with density and predation on dextrals. We find no overwhelming evidence for a role for drift in explaining the deviations from equal S:D proportions, but we do argue that further study of crab-snail interactions may be warranted.', u'Despite the increasing availability of chemicals, the number of New Drug Approvals (NDA) from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) remains unchanged. The number of chemical structures available online via web-based open source applications will reach the symbolic 1 billion in the 10 next years. However, for no apparent reasons, the number of NDA accepted yearly has not changed in the past 25 years. One of the emerging paradigms of  Big Pharma  is that the more we know about molecular mechanisms and cell signaling pathways, the less we understand how to use this knowledge to make New Chemical Entities (NCE). Moreover, the annual number of pharmaceutical patents collected in the OCSE database has virtually not increased. Unexpectedly, the number of patents originating in the USA is decreasing significantly, while Asia is doing very well. The comparison between the number of NCEs and the American investment in Research and Development (R&D) in the last 35 years shows that to obtain a new drug blockbuster, the total investment is  quasi  4 USD billion. One of the peculiarities is the inverse relationship between the investment in R&D and the continued shortfall in productivity. A main reason for this decline is that the quality of scientific reasoning done by experienced chemists is too often replaced by  Big Data  . It is time to change the role of chemistry in  Big Pharma  and to re-position it as the central science to progress and to lead to much needed innovation.', u'We have investigated the relationship between research group size and productivity in the life sciences in the United Kingdom using data from 398 principle investigators (PIs). We show that the number of publications increases linearly with group size, but that the slope is modest relative to the intercept, and that the relationship explains little of the variance in productivity. A comparison of the slope and intercept suggests that PIs contribute on average 5-times more productivity than an average group member and using multiple regression we estimate that post-doctoral researchers are approximately 3\u2013times more productive than PhD students. We also find that the impact factor and the number of citations are both non-linearly related to group size such that there is a maximum. However, the relationships explain little of the variance and the curvatures are shallow so the impact factor and the number of citations do not greatly depend upon group size. The intercept is large relative to curvature suggesting that the PI is largely responsible for the impact factor and the number of citations from their group. Surprisingly we find this non-linear relationship for post-docs, but for PhD students we observe a slight but significant decrease in the impact factor. The results have important implications for the funding of research. Given a set number of Pis there is no evidence of diminishing returns in terms of the number of papers published and only a very weak cost to very large groups in terms of where those papers are published and the number of citations they receive. However, the results do suggest that it might be more productive to invest in new permanent members of faculty rather than additional post-docs and PhD students.', u'Concurrent decision-making model (CDM) of interaction networks with more than two antagonistic components represents various biological systems, such as gene interaction, species competition and mental cognition. The CDM model assumes sigmoid kinetics where every component stimulates itself but concurrently represses the others. Here we prove generic mathematical properties (e.g., location and stability of steady states) of n-dimensional CDM with either symmetric or asymmetric reciprocal antagonism between components. Significant modifications in parameter values serve as biological regulators for inducing steady state switching by driving a temporal state to escape an undesirable equilibrium. Increasing the maximal growth rate and decreasing the decay rate can expand the basin of attraction of a steady state that contains the desired dominant component. Perpetually adding an external stimulus could shut down multi-stability of the system which increases the robustness of the system against stochastic noise. We further show that asymmetric interaction forming a repressilator-type network generates oscillatory behavior.', u'The sequencing, assembly, and basic analysis of microbial genomes, once a painstaking and expensive undertaking, has become almost trivial for research labs with access to standard molecular biology and computational tools. However, there are a wide variety of options available for DNA library preparation and sequencing, and inexperience with bioinformatics can pose a significant barrier to entry for many who may be interested in microbial genomics. The objective of the present study was to design, test, troubleshoot, and publish a simple, comprehensive workflow from the collection of an environmental sample (a swab) to a published microbial genome; empowering even a lab or classroom with limited resources and bioinformatics experience to perform it.', u'A wide range of techniques on ligament reconstruction have been proposed, summarized in three main categories: The direct suturing or indirect reconstruction of the ligament using adjuvant devices, the \u201cbiological ligament \u201d substitution with the use of autografts or allograft and the \u201cartificial ligament substitution\u201d, with polyester fibers. We propose a new orthopedic screw, the Flexy Screw (FS) and the FS technique for repairing unstable joints due to ligament damage. The tools used for the FS insertion and removal, is all included in the overall flexyscrew system (FSS).In this work we have particularly developed the FS technique for the scapholunate ligament rupture (SLR). The value 18.03N/mm (SD9.6) for the linear elastic mean stiffness for the SLIL, and 14.4N/mm for the FS, furthermore the FS max load 138N at 10mm, in comparison with the average elastic limit of 47N at 3mm for the SLIL are considered satisfactory. Furthermore, the FS technique is aiming to be applied in a wide spectrum of unstable joints needing \u201cligament substitution\u201d, because, as a mechanical orthopedic device can be adapted in order to simulate more closely the physiological mechanical properties of the ligaments.', u'Purpose: Belief conflict has been hypothesized to contribute to increased stress and burnout syndrome among healthcare workers. However, tests on this hypothesis have been limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of belief conflict on stress and burnout syndrome in healthcare workers using structural equation modeling (SEM). Method: A sample of 488 participants (4.3% physicians, 32.4% nurses, 16.2% occupational therapists, 10.7% physical therapists, 36.4% other) responded to a questionnaire based on the Assessment of Belief Conflict in Relationship-14 (ABCR-14), Stress Response Scale-18 (SRS-18), and Japanese Burnout Scale (JBS). These data were examined using descriptive statistics and a causal sequence model. Results : The hypothesized model exhibited an excellent model fit (RMSEA = 0.041, CFI = 0.937, TLI = 0.933). The results suggested that belief conflict has positive causal effects on stress and burnout syndrome: standardized total effect = 0.676 (S.E. = 0.041, Est . /S.E. = 16.334, p-value = 0.000, 95% CI = 0.411; 0.646), standardized total indirect effect = 0.221 (S.E. = 0.031, Est . /S.E. = 7.066, p-value = 0.000, 95% CI = 0.115; 0.231), standardized direct effect = 0.455 (S.E. = 0.048, Est . /S.E. = 9.497, p-value = 0.000, 95% CI = 0.257; 0.455). Conclusion: This study indicated that healthcare workers suffer stress and burnout related to belief conflict. Therefore, assessment of belief conflict in healthcare workers, followed by appropriate intervention where indicated, would be beneficial in preventing stress and burnout.', u'The reality of larger and larger molecular databases and the need to integrate data scalably have presented a major challenge for the use of phenotypic data. Morphology is currently primarily described in discrete publications, entrenched in non-computer readable text, and requires enormous investments of time and resources to integrate across large numbers of taxa and studies. Here we present a new methodology, using ontology-based reasoning systems working with the Phenoscape Knowledgebase (KB), to automatically integrate large amounts of evolutionary character state descriptions into a synthetic character matrix of neomorphic (presence/absence) data. Using the KB, which includes more than 55 studies of sarcopterygian taxa, we generated a synthetic supermatrix of 1051 variable characters scored for 639 taxa resulting in over 145,000 populated cells. Of these characters, over 76% were made variable through the addition of inferred presence/absence states derived by machine reasoning over the formal semantics of the source ontologies. Inferred data reduced the missing data in the variable character-subset from 98.5% to 78.2%. Machine reasoning also enables the isolation of conflicts in the data, i.e., cells where both presence and absence are indicated; reports regarding conflicting data provenance can be generated automatically. Further, reasoning enables quantification and new visualizations of the data, here for example, allowing identification of character space that has been undersampled across the fin to limb transition. The approach and methods demonstrated here to compute synthetic presence/absence supermatrices are applicable to any taxonomic and phenotypic slice across the tree of life, providing the data are semantically annotated. Because such data can also be linked to model organism genetics through computational scoring of phenotypic similarity, they open a rich set of future research questions into phenotype to genome relationships.', u'Biological data analysis is frequently performed with command line software. While this practice provides considerable flexibility for computationally savy individuals, such as investigators trained in bioinformatics, this also creates a barrier to the widespread use of data analysis software by investigators trained as biologists and/or clinicians. Workflow systems such as Galaxy and Taverna have been developed to try and provide generic user interfaces that can wrap command line analysis software. These solutions are useful for problems that can be solved with workflows, and that do not require specialized user interfaces. However, some types of analyses can benefit from custom user interfaces. For instance, developing biomarker models from high-throughput data is a type of analysis that can be expressed more succinctly with specialized user interfaces. Here, we show how Language Workbench (LW) technology can be used to model the biomarker development and validation process. We developed a language that models the concepts of Dataset, Endpoint, Feature Selection Method and Classifier. These high-level language concepts map directly to abstractions that analysts who develop biomarker models are familiar with. We found that user interfaces developed in the Meta-Programming System (MPS) LW provide convenient means to configure a biomarker development project, to train models and view the validation statistics. We discuss several advantages of developing user interfaces for data analysis with a LW, including increased interface consistency, portability and extension by language composition. The language developed during this experiment is distributed as an MPS plugin (available at http://campagnelab.org/software/bdval-for-mps/', u'The genetic code defines the relationship between a protein and its coding DNA sequence. It was presumed that most frameshifts would yield non-functional, truncated or cytotoxic products. In this study, we report that in E. coli, a frameshift \u03b2-lactamase (bla) gene is still functional if all of the inner stop codons were readthrough or replaced by a sense codon. By analyzing a large dataset including all available protein coding genes in major model organisms, it is demonstrated that in any species, and in any protein-coding genes, the three translational products from the three different reading frames, are always similar to each other and with constant ~50% similarities and ~100% coverages, and the similarities is predefined by the genetic code rather than the sequences themselves. It is likely that a coding gene can be translated into three isoforms from each of the three reading frames, we propose a new gene expression paradigm, \u201cone transcript, three translations\u201d, which is an amendment to the traditional \u201cone gene, one/multiple peptides\u201d hypotheses. Finally, we concluded that the genetic code was optimized for frameshift tolerating in the early evolution, which endows every protein coding gene a character of shiftability, an inherent and everlasting ability to tolerate frameshift mutations, and serves as an innate mechanism for cells to deal with the frameshift problem.', u'The natural, pre-human, abundance of most large predators is unknown due to the lack of historical data and the poor understanding of the natural factors that control their populations. We assessed the relationship between the biomass of predatory reef fishes and several anthropogenic and environmental variables to (1) predict among site variability in predator abundance in response to both human impacts and natural factors, and (2) estimate historical baselines of fish predator biomass in the absence of humans. We hypothesized that predatory fish abundance declines with human influence but is also strongly associated with natural environmental variability. We assessed the biomass structure of reef fishes at 39 sites over three years across the greater Caribbean. Using generalized linear mixed effect models, we examined the relationships between the biomass of predatory reef fishes and a comprehensive set of 29 anthropogenic, physical, spatial, biotic, and management-related covariates. We used the best explanatory models to predict the biomass of fish predators in the absence of humans. Predatory reef fish biomass was higher in marine reserves but strongly negatively related to human impacts, especially coastal development. Over 50% of the variability in predator biomass, however, was also explained by non-human factors including reef complexity, ocean productivity, and prey abundance. Comparing site-specific predicted values to field observations suggests predatory reef fish biomass has declined by 80-95% in most sites, even within most marine reserves. Bottom-up forces are critical (yet often overlooked) drivers of reef fish communities across gradients of human exploitation. This suggests that we could underestimate historical biomass at sites that provide ideal conditions for predators or greatly overestimate that of seemingly predator-depleted sites that may have never supported large predator populations due to suboptimal environmental conditions. We highlight areas that are natural \u201chot spots\u201d of predator biomass that can be targeted for strategic protection and restoration.', u'Background: A study by White et al. found that population disease burden predicted preference for attractive politicians in U.S. congressional elections. Aim: We aimed to replicate this finding using data from the United Kingdom. Method: We regressed rated sexiness of elected members of parliament on health metrics from their constituencies: life expectancy, infant mortality, and self-rated health. Results: None of the health metrics predicted rated sexiness of members of parliament. Conclusion: Further investigation is needed to verify whether the proposed relationship is important and whether it is moderated by other factors such as cross-cultural differences.', u'The goals of this research were to explore alternative agriculture management practices in both greenhouse and field trials that do not require the use of synthetic and/or inorganic nutrient amendments but instead would emulate mechanisms operating in natural ecosystems, between plant and Soil Microbial Communities (SMC), for plant nutrient acquisition and growth.\nGreenhouse plant-growth trials, implementing a progression of soil conditions with increasing soil carbon (C) (C= 0.14% to 5.3%) and associated SMC population with increasing Fungal to Bacterial ratios (F:B) ( from 0.04 to 3.68), promoted a) increased C partitioning into plant shoot and plant fruit partitions (m=4.41, r2=0.99), b) significant quantities of plant photosynthate, 49%-97% of Total System New C (CTSN), partitioned towards increasing soil C c) four times reduction in soil C respiration (CR) as F:B ratios increased, starting with 44% of initial treatment soil C content respired in bacterial-dominant soils (low F:B), to 11% of soil C content respired in higher fertility fungal-dominant soils (Power Regression, r2=0.90; p=0.003).\nPlant growth trials in fields managed for increased soil C content and enhanced SMC population and structure (increased F:B) demonstrated: a) dry aboveground biomass production rates (g m-2) of ~1,980 g in soils initiating SMC enhancement (soil C=0.87, F:B= 0.80) with observed potentials of 8,450 g in advanced soils (soil C=7.6%, F:B=4.3) b) a 25-times increase in active soil fungal biomass and a ~7.5 times increase in F:B over a 19 month application period to enhance SMC and c) reduced soil C respiration rates, from 1.25 g C m-2 day-1 in low fertility soils (soil C= 0.6%, F:B= 0.25) with only a doubling of respiration rates to 2.5 g C m-2 day-1 in a high-fertility soil with an enhanced SMC (F:B= 4.3) and >7 times more soil C content (soil C= 7.6%).\nEnhancing SMC population and F:B structure in a 4.5 year agricultural field study promoted annual average capture and storage of 10.27 metric tons soil C ha-1 year -1 while increasing soil macro-, meso- and micro-nutrient availability offering a robust, cost-effective carbon sequestration mechanism within a more productive and long-term sustainable agriculture management approach.', u'Documented fatalities of bats at wind turbines have raised serious concerns about the future impacts of increased wind power development on populations of migratory bat species. However, for most bat species we have no knowledge of the size of populations and their demographic trends, the degree of structuring into discrete subpopulations, and whether different subpopulations use spatially segregated migratory routes. Here, we utilize genetic data from eastern red bats (Lasiurus borealis), one of the species most highly affected by wind power development in North America, to (1) evaluate patterns of population structure across the landscape, (2) estimate effective population size (Ne), and (3) assess signals of growth or decline in population size. Using a large dataset of both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA variation, we demonstrate that this species forms a single, panmictic population across their range with no evidence for the historical use of divergent migratory pathways by any portion of the population. Further, using coalescent estimates we estimate that the effective size of this population is in the hundreds of thousands to millions of individuals. Our results showing high population connectivity and gene flow among populations of eastern red bats provides valuable context for understanding levels and patterns of mortality, and indicate that monitoring and management of eastern red bats must integrate information across the range of this species.', u'Purpose: The purpose of this study is to identify the impacts of occupational dysfunction on depression in healthcare workers (nurses, physical therapists, and occupational therapists) in hospitals.\nMethods: Healthcare workers responded to a questionnaire based on the Classification and Assessment of Occupational Dysfunction (CAOD) and Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). CAOD and CES-D were examined using the following methods: descriptive statistics, exploratory factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), and a causal sequence model.\nResults: CFA of CAOD had 16 items and 5 factors (CFI=0.958, TLI=0.946, RMSEA\uff1d0.092). CFA of CES-D had 20 items and 4 factors (CFI=0.950, TLI=0.942, RMSEA=0.060). The results suggest that occupational dysfunction had positive causal effects on depression (CFI=0.926, TLI=0.920, RMSEA=0.059).\nConclusion: This model refers to the relationship between depression and occupational dysfunction. Therefore, assessment and intervention on classification of occupational dysfunction for healthcare workers would be beneficial in the prevention of depression.', u'Background: Exercise at moderate intensity may confer neuroprotective benefits in multiple sclerosis (MS), however it has been reported that people with MS (PwMS) exercise less than national guideline recommendations. We aimed to determine predictors of moderate to vigorous exercise among a sample of older Canadians with MS who were divided into ambulatory (less disabled) and non-ambulatory (more disabled) groups. Methods: We analysed data collected as part of a national survey of health, lifestyle and aging with MS. Participants (n=743) were Canadians over 55 years of age with MS for 20 or more years. We identified \u2018a priori\u2019 variables (demographic, personal, socioeconomic, physical health, exercise history and health care support) that may predict exercise at moderate to vigorous intensity (>6.75 metabolic equivalent hours/week). Predictive variables were entered into stepwise logistic regression, adding and deleting correlated variables until best fit was achieved for each of the two groups (ambulatory and non-ambulatory). Results: Seventy-seven percent (77%) of participants in the ambulatory group (n=351) and 35% of the non-ambulatory group (n=392) were classified as exercisers. In the ambulatory group, exercise predictors included degree of disability (OR 1.95, 95%CI 1.18-3.25), depressive symptoms (OR 0.51, 95%CI 0.29-0.89) and perseverance (OR 1.8, 95%CI 1.04-3.10). In the non-ambulatory group, exercise predictors included degree of disability (OR 5.3, 95%CI 3.22-8.71) and perseverance (OR 2.1, 95%CI 1.27-3.54). It was also notable that the factors, age, gender, years with MS, co-morbid conditions, social support, health care support and financial status were not predictive of exercise. Conclusions: This is the first examination of exercise and exercise predictors among older, more disabled PwMS. Disability and perseverance are major predictors of exercise participation (at moderate to vigorous levels) in both ambulatory and non-ambulatory groups. Presence of depressive symptoms was only predictive in the ambulatory group. Our results suggest that more exercise options must be developed for people with greater disability. Perseverance and depression are both characteristics that are modifiable and are potential targets for exercise adherence interventions.', u'', u'Selenoprotein P (SEPP1) distributes selenium (Se) throughout the body via the circulatory system. The Se content of SEPP1 varies from 7 to 18 Se atoms depending on the species, but the reason for this variation remains unclear. Herein we provide evidence that vertebrate SEPP1 Sec content correlates positively with Se requirements (R2=0.88). As the Se content of full length SEPP1 is genetically determined, this presents a unique case where a nutrient requirement can be predicted based on genomic sequence information.', u'Carcinoma of the prostate is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy and the third leading cause of mortality in New Zealand men, making it a significant health issue in this country. Global distribution patterns suggest that diet and lifestyle factors may be linked to the development and progression of this cancer. Twenty men with diagnosed prostate cancer adhered to a Mediterranean diet, with specific adaptations, for three months. Dietary data, prostate-specific antigen, C-reactive protein and DNA damage were evaluated at baseline after three months of following the diet. A significant reduction in DNA damage compared to baseline was apparent, with particular benefit noted for overall adherence to the diet (p = 0.013), increased intake of folate (p = 0.023), vitamin C (p = 0.007), legumes (p = 0.004) and green tea (p = 0.002). Higher intakes of red meat and dairy products were inversely associated with DNA damage (p = 0.003 and p = 0.008 respectively). This small study demonstrated that a high-antioxidant diet, modelled on Mediterranean traditions, may be of benefit for men with prostate cancer. Protection against DNA damage appears to be associated with the diet implemented, ostensibly due to reduction in reactive oxidant species. These findings warrant further exploration in a longer trial, with a larger cohort.', u'Background. Urine can be a better source than blood for biomarker discovery since it accumulates many changes. The urine proteome is susceptible to many factors including anesthesia. Pentobarbital sodium and chloral hydrate are commonly used anesthetics in animal experiments.\nMethods. This study demonstrated effects of these two anesthetics on the rat urine proteome using liquid chromatography\u2013tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS).\nResults. With anesthesia, the urinary protein-to-creatinine ratio of all rats increased two fold. The relative abundance of 22 and 23 urinary proteins were changed with pentobarbital sodium or chloral hydrate anesthesia, respectively, as determined by label-free quantification. Among these changed proteins, fifteen had been considered as candidate biomarkers such as uromodulin, sixteen had been considered stable in healthy human urine, which are more likely to be considered as potential biomarkers when changed, such as transferrin.\nDiscussion. The pattern of changed urinary proteins provides clues to the discovery of urinary proteins regulatory mechanisms. When determining candidate biomarker, anesthetic-related effects can be excluded in future biomarker discovery studies. Since anesthetics take effects via nervous system, this study is the first to provide clues that protein handling function of kidney may possibly be regulated by nervous system.', u'A catalyst meeting on sexual selection studies was held in July 2013 at the facilities of the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in Durham, NC. This article by a subcommittee of the participants foregrounds some of the topics discussed at the meeting. Topics mentioned here include the relevance of heritability estimates to assessing the presence of sexual selection, whether sexual selection is distinct from natural selection, and the utility of distinguishing sexual selection from fecundity selection. A possible definition of sexual selection is offered based on a distinction between sexual selection as a frequency-dependent process and fecundity selection as a density-dependent process. Another topic highlighted is a deep disagreement among participants in the reality of good-genes, sexy-sons, and run-away processes. Finally, the status of conflict in political-economic theory is contrasted with the status accorded to conflict in evolutionary behavioral theory, and the professional responsibility of sexual-selection workers to consider the ethical dimension of their research is underscored.', u'Crustacean intersexuality is widespread and often linked to infection by sex-distorting parasites. However, unlike vertebrate intersexuality, its association with sexual dysfunction is unclear and remains a matter of debate. The \u2018Demon Shrimp\u2019, Dikerogammarus haemobaphes, an amphipod that has invaded continental waterways, has recently become widespread in Britain. Intersexuality has been noted in D. haemobaphes but not investigated further. We hypothesise that a successful invasive population should not display a high prevalence of intersexuality if this condition represents a truly dysfunctional phenotype. In addition, experiments have indicated that particular parasite burdens in amphipods may facilitate invasions. The rapid and ongoing invasion of British waterways represents an opportunity to determine whether these hypotheses are consistent with field observations. This study investigates the parasites and sexual phenotypes of D. haemobaphes in British waterways, characterising parasite burdens using molecular screening, and make comparisons with the threatened Gammarus pulex natives. We reveal that invasive and native populations have distinct parasitic profiles, suggesting the loss of G. pulex may have parasite-mediated eco-system impacts. Furthermore, the parasite burdens are consistent with those previously proposed to facilitate biological invasions. Our study also indicates that while no intersexuality occurs in the native G. pulex, approximately 50% of D. haemobaphes males present pronounced intersexuality associated with infection by the microsporidian Dictyocoela berillonum. This unambiguously successful invasive population presents, to our knowledge, the highest reported prevalence of male intersexuality. This is the clearest evidence to date that such intersexuality does not represent a form of debilitating sexual dysfunction that negatively impacts amphipod populations.', u'We describe a variant nerve in a human cadaver patient that parallels the course of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN). Like the normal left RLN, the variant nerve branches from the vagus nerve and wraps around the arch of the aorta, but it passes anterior and medial to the ligamentum arteriosum (= fetal ductus arteriosus) instead of behind it like the normal RLN. After recurring around the aorta, the variant nerve joins the esophageal plexus and also appears to connect to the cervical sympathetic chain. The bilaterally paired RLNs supply innervation not only to the larynx but also to the upper parts of the trachea and esophagus, in particular those parts derived from the 4th and 6th pharyngeal arches. We hypothesize that in this case, some of the nerve fibers to the trachea and esophagus were pulled down into the torso by the 4th embryonic aortic arch (= the arch of the aorta in adults), but passed cranial to the 6th embryonic aortic arch (= fetal ductus arteriosus). From where it recurs around the aorta to join the esophageal plexus, the variant nerve is very similar to the pararecurrent nerve in dogs, so there is at least a partial precedent in another placental mammal. Understanding the relationships of the embryonic pharyngeal and aortic arches and their adult derivatives is crucial for correctly identifying the RLN, especially when imposter nerves, like the one documented here, are present.', u'Introduction. Blossfeldia liliputana Werdermann (Cactaceae) is known as the tiniest cactus with a distribution from southern Bolivia and to mid-west Argentina. Due to the inconspicuous habitus, little was known about the environmental effects on its distribution. The main objectives of this study were to describe the distribution of B. liliputana in Jujuy province, north-western Argentina, and to identify abiotic and biotic environmental parameters affecting the numerical abundance of B. liliputana populations.\nMaterial and methods. Using existing information about ecology and previously described growth sites, we localized populations of B. liliputana and counted the number of above ground stems (hereinafter referred as \u201cheads\u201d) within plots of 10cm2. A set of environmental data was derived from direct measurements, laboratory analysis and literature. Descriptive and multivariate statistics were used to infer habitat requirements.\nResults. We found seven locations with B. liliputana populations at Jujuy. Average populations size per plot ranged from four to 22 heads. B. liliputana prefers shaded rock crevices made of shale and slates and a annual mean temperature below 14\xb0C and a annual precipitation lower than 200 mm. Seed dispersal by ants was not observed.\nDiscussion. Although even after extensive field survey as much as seven locations were found, the cactus is not scarcely distributed rather the habitat is located in hardly accessible areas. Our findings suggest that B. liliputana is a habitat specialist adapted to extreme environments.', u'Recently, a number of protocols extending RNA-sequencing to the single-cell regime have been published. However, we were concerned that the additional steps to deal with such minute quantities of input sample would introduce serious biases that would make analysis of the data using existing approaches invalid. In this study, we performed a critical evaluation of several of these low-volume RNA-seq protocols, and found that they performed slightly less well in metrics of interest to us than a more standard protocol, but with at least two orders of magnitude less sample required. We also explored a simple modification to one of these protocols that, for many samples, reduced the cost of library preparation to approximately $20/sample.', u'The Brazilian Pampa biome is currently under constant threat due to increase of agriculture and improper management of urban effluents. Studies with focus on the assessment of impacts caused by human activities in this biome are scarce. In the present study we measured stress-related biomarkers in the muscle tissue of tadpoles of the leaf frog Phyllomedusa iheringii as a tool for the assessment of potential aquatic contamination in selected ponds (S1 and S2) nearby agricultural areas in comparison to a reference site. A significant decrease in acetylcholinesterase activity was observed in S2 when compared to S1 and reference. The levels of total-hydroperoxides were increased in S2 site. In parallel, increased activity of the antioxidant enzymes catalase, superoxide dismutase and glutathione S-transferase were observed in S2 when compared to S1 and reference. Based on the results, we drawn attention to the harmful effects caused by indiscriminate use of pesticides on the Pampa biome borders. Our study also validates Phyllomedusa iheringii as a valuable organism for field-based ecotoxicological studies. M', u'Members of the plant genus Selaginella are often considered living fossils, as extant taxa are virtually indistinguishable from 300 Ma fossils. In contrast, the brush-footed butterflies are a relatively recent radiation, having diversified primarily within the last 60 Ma. Satyrs are among the most derived of these butterflies, likely radiated ~35 Ma and are known primarily for their high diversity and propensity to feed on grasses and sedges. In contrast to its close relatives, the Neotropical satyr genus Euptychia also feeds on Selaginella, which is thought to be nutrient poor. Using no choice feeding experiments, I compared growth rates Costa Rican E. westwoodi that were offered two species of Selaginella, to those that were offered Lasiascis rusifolia, a grass commonly fed upon by close relatives. I discovered E. westwoodi larvae fed on two species of Selaginella and there was no difference in mass gained between the two species. However, larvae refused to feed on L. ruscifolia and lost mass over the course of the trial and expired unless they were transferred to Selaginella. To the best of my knowledge, these are the first data to report larval performance of the butterfly genus Euptychia or any Selaginella feeding insect. . Though far from conclusive, these results support the proposition that Euptychia have lost the ability to feed on other host plants and are now specialized on grasses.', u'The distortion of neural signals by powerline noise from recording biomedical devices has the potential to reduce the quality and convolute the interpretations of neural data. State of the art electrophysiology employs band-stop filters with which powerline noise are attenuated to low-amplitudes. Due to the instability of neural signals, the distribution of signals filtered out may not be centered at \\(50/60Hz\\). As a result, self-correction methods are needed to optimize the performance of these filters. Since powerline noise is additive in nature, it is intuitive to model powerline noise in a raw electrophysiological recording and subtract it from the raw data in order to obtain neural data. This paper proposes a method that utilizes this approach by decomposing the recorded signal and extracting powerline noise via blind source separation and wavelet analysis. The performance of this algorithm was compared with that of a band-stop finite impulse response filter. The proposed method was able to expel sinusoidal signals within powerline noise frequency range with higher fidelity in comparison with the mentioned band-stop finite impulse response filter, especially at low signal-to-noise ratio.', u'Background. Depression is among the most common mental health problems. Depression interferes with daily functioning and quality of life. Many factors can contribute to depression and air pollution can initiate or intensify symptoms of depression.\nMethods. Case-crossover method was used to study associations between emergency department (ED) visits for depression and ambient air pollution. The statistical analysis was applied for patients of different ages.\nResults. Positive and statistically significant results, (communicated as odds ratios), were obtained for exposure to ambient carbon monoxide and ED visits for depression.\nDiscussion. The presented results support the hypothesis that recent exposures to ambient levels of air pollutants can contribute clinically significant worsening in depression symptoms leading to ED visits. As the results suggest the associations are age dependent.', u'Recent discoveries demonstrated that the southern continents were a cradle for the evolutionary radiation of dryolestoid mammals at the end of the Cretaceous. Moreover, it becomes evident that some of these early mammals surpassed the K/T boundary in South America, at least. Notoryctes is a poorly known living mammal, currently distributed in the deserts of central Australia. Due to its extreme modifications to fossoriality and peculiar anatomy, the phylogenetic relationships of this genus were debated in the past, but most recent authors agree in its marsupial affinities. A comparative survey of the anatomy of Notoryctes reveals the poorly sustained marsupial affinities for the genus and striking plesiomorphies for a living mammal. Surprisingly, Notoryctes exhibits similarities with dryolestoids. Dryolestoids were a diverse and mainly mesozoic mammalian group phylogenetically nested between the egg-lying monotremes and derived therians. In particular, Notoryctes share a number of shared features with the extinct dryolestoid Necrolestes, from the Miocene of Patagonia. Both taxa conform a clade of burrowing and animalivorous dryolestoids that survived other members of their lineage probably due to their peculiar habits. Accordingly, Notoryctes constitutes a \u201cliving-fossil\u201d from the supposedly extinct dryolestoid radiation, extending the biochron of the group more than 20 million years to the present day. The intermediate phylogenetic position of Notoryctes has the pivotal potential to shed light on crucial anatomical, physiological, ecological, and evolutionary topics in the deep transformation from egg-lying to placental mammals. This finding, together with the Australian monotremes, constitutes the second example of early mammals that survived in Gondwana well after the KT boundary.', u'A given amino acid sequence can be encoded by a huge number of different nucleic acid sequences. These sequences, however, prove not to be equally useful. The choice of sequence can significantly impact the expression of an encoded protein. As regards the importance of protein-coding sequence and promising industrial and medicinal applications of Clostridium histolyticum collagenase, this study examined the codon optimization of the Col H gene so as to enhance collagenase expression in Escherichia coli (E. coli). The coding region of mature Col H gene was optimized according to the codon usage of E. coli using Gene Designer software (DNA 2.0). The results revealed that relative frequency of codon usage in Col H gene was adapted to the most preferred triplets in E. coli in such a way that codon usage bias in E. coli was enhanced after codon optimization. Similarly, the higher level of collagenase expression was more likely the result of substituting rare codons with optimal codons. As has been reported elsewhere, the findings from this study suggest that codon optimization provides a theoretical improvement in Col H gene expression in E. coli. In spite of that, experimental research is needed to confirm the improvement.', u'In order to adapt control efforts to the moving target of malaria, new ways of rapidly processing and using data are required to produce usable information. Portable electronic devices with software applications, collectively known as mHealth, are increasingly used to assist health services and manage patient information. Here we describe the development of an mHealth system, using mobile phones, for data collection and analysis in resource-constrained environments. The system overcomes many of the difficulties presented by other mHealth systems. An asynchronous, Internet connection-independent data collection system, similar to web-based architecture, is proposed. Reporting and advanced statistical and epidemiological analysis, with external data integration, such as environmental datasets, is demonstrated by a pilot assessment of the system in Mozambique. We argue that this technology can provide the entomological and epidemiological information needed for sensible decision-making processes and the development of public health policies regarding malaria control.', u'Research that uses stable isotope analysis often involves a delay between sample collection in the field and laboratory processing, therefore requiring preservation to prevent or reduce tissue degradation and associated isotopic compositions. Although there is a growing literature describing the effects of various preservation techniques, the results are often contextual, unpredictable and vary among taxa, suggesting the need to treat each species individually. We conducted a controlled experiment to test the effects of four preservation methods of muscle tissue from four species of upper trophic-level reef fish collected from the eastern Gulf of Mexico (Red Grouper Epinephelus morio, Gag Mycteroperca microlepis, Scamp Mycteroperca phenax, and Red Snapper Lutjanus campechanus). We used a paired design to measure the effects on isotopic values for carbon and nitrogen after storage using ice, 95% ethanol, and sodium chloride (table salt), against that in a liquid nitrogen control. Mean offsets for both \u03b413C and \u03b415N values from controls were lowest for samples preserved on ice, intermediate for those preserved with salt, and highest with ethanol. Within species, both salt and ethanol significantly enriched the \u03b415N values in nearly all comparisons. Ethanol also had strong effects on the \u03b413C values in all three groupers. Conversely, for samples preserved on ice, we did not detect a significant offset in either isotopic ratio for any of the focal species. Previous studies have addressed preservation-induced offsets in isotope values using a mass balance correction that accounts for changes in the isotope value to that in the C/N ratio. We tested the application of standard mass balance corrections for isotope values that were significantly affected by the preservation methods and found generally poor agreement between corrected and control values. The poor performance by the correction may have been due to preferential loss of lighter isotopes and corresponding low levels of mass loss with a substantial change in the isotope value of the sample. Regardless of mechanism, it was evident that accounting for offsets caused by different preservation methods was not possible using the standard correction. Caution is warranted when interpreting the results from specimens stored in either ethanol or salt, especially when using those from multiple preservation techniques. We suggest the use of ice as the preferred preservation technique for muscle tissue when conducting stable isotope analysis as it is widely available, inexpensive, easy to transport and did not impart a significant offset in measured isotopic values. Our results provide additional evidence that preservation effects on stable isotope analysis can be highly contextual, thus requiring their effects to be measured and understood for each species and isotopic ratio of interest before addressing research questions.', u'Without controlling outdoor transmission, the goal of elimination of malaria is unlikely to be reached. This is particularly the case in places like Cambodia where people spend considerable amounts of time away from houses at night. Metofluthrin is a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide with a high vapor action at ambient temperatures and has been developed as a long lasting insect repellent device that works without the need to apply heat. Emanators of 10% of metofluthrin were therefore tested in landing collections against potential malaria vectors from three areas of the country (Pailin, Pursat and Koh Kong). One to four emanators were hung on wire 1m off the ground on one or four sides of a square 1.5m from collectors. Collections were also undertaken with Furvela tent-traps. 2086 hrs of landing collection were undertaken in Pailin, 528hrs in Veal Veng and 320 in Kroh Salau. Rate ratios were used to determine the significance of the difference between collections. The principal anophelines collected varied between locations. Anopheles minimus s.l. was the most common mosquito in Pailin, An. maculatus s.l in Veal Veng and An. sinensis in Kroh Salau. Among all species collected in Pailin landing rates were reduced by 50% (95% CI 55-44%) when a single emanator was used and by 58% (95% CI 63- 52%) when four were used. The effect was greater in An.minimus s.l 51% ( 95% CI 54-47%) and 70% (72%-66%) respectively. A similar result was obtained in Pursat, where 67% (95% CI 66- 42%) reductions were observed when four emanators were in use, but no significant reduction was observed in Koh Kong. Although the results show promise it is argued that the product needs further development.', u'The purpose of this project was to understand fecal microorganism contamination in the Bronx River within New York City and how it is affected by combined sewer overflow (CSO) events. Nine sites along the Bronx River were sampled throughout the summer of 2014 during wet and dry weather conditions. The samples were analyzed for enterococcus fecal indicator bacteria (FIB) concentration. The data revealed that wet weather enterococci concentrations are as 3 to 28 times greater than dry weather concentrations. The highest enterococci concentrations were found where the river enters Bronx County from Westchester County and near a storm water outfall. The positive correlation shown between the amount of rainfall and the FIB concentrations verifies that CSO and storm water discharges are a major source of FIB contamination in the river.', u'BACKGROUND: Homeless veterans have complex healthcare needs, but experience many barriers to treatment engagement. While information technologies (IT), especially mobile phones, are used to engage patients in care, little is known about homeless veterans\u2019 IT use. This study examines homeless veterans\u2019 access to and use of IT, attitudes toward health-related IT use, and barriers to IT in the context of homelessness.\nMETHODS: Qualitative interviews were conducted with 30 homeless veterans in different housing programs in Boston, MA. Inductive thematic analysis was used.\nRESULTS: Most participants (90%) had a mobile phone and were receptive to IT use for health-related communications. A common difficulty communicating with providers was the lack of a stable mailing address. Some participants were using mobile phones to stay in touch with providers. Participants felt mobile-phone calls or text messages could be used to remind patients of appointments, prescription refills, medication taking, and returning for laboratory results. Mobile phone text messaging was seen as convenient, helped participants stay organized because necessary information was saved in text messages. Some reported concerns about the costs associated with mobile phone use (calls and texting), the potential to be annoyed by too many text messages, and not knowing how to use text messaging.\nCONCLUSION: Homeless veterans use IT and welcome its use for health-related purposes. Technology-assisted outreach among this population may lead to improved engagement in care.', u'The production of recombinant proteins such as the fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) is the key to establishing their function in cell communication. The production of recombinant FGFs in E. coli is limited, however, due to expression and solubility problems. HaloTag has been used as a fusion protein to introduce a genetically-encoded means for chemical conjugation of probes. We have expressed 11 FGF proteins with an N-terminal HaloTag, followed by a tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease cleavage site to allow release of the FGF protein. These were purified by heparin-affinity chromatography, and in some instances by further ion-exchange chromatography. It was found that HaloTag did not adversely affect the expression of FGF1 and FGF10, both of which expressed well as soluble proteins. The N-terminal HaloTag fusion was found to enhance the expression and yield of FGF2, FGF3 and FGF7. Moreover, whereas FGF6, FGF8, FGF16, FGF17, FGF20 and FGF22 were only expressed as insoluble proteins, their N-terminal HaloTag fusion counterparts (Halo-FGFs) were soluble, and could be successfully purified. However, cleavage of Halo-FGF6, -FGF8 and -FGF22 with TEV resulted in aggregation of the FGF protein. Thus, HaloTag provides a means to enhance the expression of soluble recombinant proteins, in addition to providing a chemical genetics route for covalent tagging of proteins.', u'The perspectives and practices of health care workers (HCWs) regarding disclosure to HIV-infected children have not been adequately investigated ten years after the roll-out of pediatrics antiretroviral therapy (ART). The aim of the study was to examine the opinions of HCWs about disclosure to HIV-infected children and determine their role in disclosure to children accessing ART in centers in South Africa. This was a cross-sectional survey using a semi-structured questionnaire among HCWs in ART centers at three hospitals and 48 primary health facilities in two provinces in South Africa. Of the 206 HCWs, 140 (68.2%) were nurses, 44 (21.5%) were lay counsellors, and 4 (2%) were doctors. The majority (n=183, 89.3%) felt that disclosure benefits children and they should be told about their HIV status. Over half (n=93, 51.4%) recommended 11-18 years as the appropriate age to disclose. Half (n= 99, 48.5%) said that caregivers should take the lead to disclose, 87 (42.7%) said that disclosure is a shared responsibility of caregivers and HCWs, and 18 (8.8%) said HCWs should lead disclosure. HCWs perceived their role as that of preparing the caregiver for disclosure and the child to understand the disease. However, the lack of guidelines and training on disclosure counselling for children affects their ability to fully participate in disclosure to children. There is a need to adopt t he World Health Organizations\u2019 disclosure guidelines for children and adapt them to the local cultural and community contexts and train HCWs to guide, support, and assist caregivers in their disclosure to HIV-infected children.', u'Scaffolding errors and incorrect traversals of the de Bruijn graph during de novo assembly can result in large scale misassemblies in draft genomes. Nextera mate pair sequencing data provide additional information to resolve assembly ambiguities during scaffolding. Here, we introduce NxRepair, an open source toolkit for error correction in de novo assemblies that uses Nextera mate pair libraries to identify and correct large-scale errors. We show that NxRepair can identify and correct large scaffolding errors, without use of a reference sequence, resulting in quantitative improvements in the assembly quality. NxRepair can be downloaded from GitHub; a tutorial and user documentation are also available.', u'Introduction: A safe and effective transition from hospital to post acute care is a complex and important physician competency. Milestones and Entrustable Professional Activities (EPA) form the new educational rubric in Graduate Medical Education Training. \u2018A safe and effective discharge from the hospital\u2019 is an EPA ripe for educational innovation. Methods: The authors collaborated in a qualitative process called, mapping, to develop a Q-sort exercise to be distributed to participants at an Association for Program Directors in Internal Medicine (APDIM) workshop on milestones for transition of care. We analyzed the Q-sort results to rank the milestones in order of priority. We then applied this ranking to 3 innovative transitions of care curricula: Simulation (S), Discharge Clinic Feedback (DCF) and TRACER (T). Results: We collected 55 game boards from faculty units at the APDIM workshop. We report the prioritized milestones by Q-sort from the APDIM workshop. From the total 22 milestones, the simulation innovation identified 5/22 milestones, discharge clinic 9/22 milestones and tracer 7/22 milestones related to the EPA. Milestones identified in each innovation related back to one of the top eight prioritized milestones 75% of the time; thus more frequently than the milestones with lower priority. Discussion: We demonstrated that three unique innovations in transitions of care map to the top prioritized Q-sort milestones related to that EPA. Milestones for competency based assessment can be used to guide the development of innovative curricula in transition of care medicine.', u'Purpose: The authors proposed that introducing real patients into a pathology classroom early in medical education would help integrate fundamental principles and disease pathology with clinical presentation and medical history. Methods: Three patients with different pathologies described their history and presentation without revealing their diagnosis. Students were required to submit a differential diagnosis in writing, and then they were able to ask questions to arrive at the correct diagnosis. Students were surveyed on the efficacy of patient-based learning. Results: Average student scores on the differential diagnosis assignments significantly improved 32% during the course. From the survey, 72% of students felt that patient encounters should be included in the pathology course next year. 74% felt that the differential diagnosis assignments helped them develop clinical decision-making skills. 73% felt that the experience helped them know what questions to ask patients. 86% felt that they obtained a better understanding of patients\u2019 social and emotional challenges. Discussion: Having students work through the process of differential diagnosis formulation when encountering a real patient and their clinical presentation improved clinical decision-making skills and integrated fundamental concepts with disease pathology during a basic science pathology course. o', u'Although modern baleen whales still possess a functional olfactory systems that includes olfactory bulbs, cranial nerve I and olfactory receptor genes, their olfactory capabilities have been reduced profoundly. This is probably in response to their fully aquatic lifestyle. The glomeruli that occur in the olfactory bulb can be divided into two non-overlapping domains, a dorsal domain and a ventral domain. Recent molecular studies revealed that all modern whales have lost olfactory receptor genes and marker genes that are specific to the dorsal domain, and that a modern baleen whale possess only 60 olfactory receptor genes. Here we show that olfactory bulb of bowhead whales (Balaena mysticetus, Mysticeti) lacks glomeruli on the dorsal side, consistent with the molecular data. In addition, we estimate that there are more than 4,000 glomeruli in the bowhead whale olfactory bulb. Olfactory sensory neurons that express the same olfactory receptor in mice generally project to two specific glomeruli in an olfactory bulb, meaning that ratio of the number of olfactory receptors : the number of glomeruli is approximately 1:2. However, we show here that this ratio is not applicable to whales, indicating the limitation of mice as model organisms for understanding the initial coding of odor information among mammals.']