[u'The taxon Beloniformes represents a heterogeneous group of teleost fishes that show an extraordinary diversity of jaw morphology. I present new anatomical descriptions of the jaw musculature in six selected beloniforms and four closely related species. A reduction of the external jaw adductor (A1) and a changed morphology of the intramandibular musculature were found in many Beloniformes. This might be correlated with the progressively reduced mobility of the upper and lower jaw bones. The needlefishes and sauries, which are characterised by extremely elongated and stiffened jaws, show several derived characters, which in combination enable the capture of fish at high velocity. The ricefishes are characterised by several derived and many plesiomorphic characters that make broad scale comparisons difficult. Soft tissue characters are highly diverse among hemiramphids and flying fishes reflecting the uncertainty about their phylogenetic position and interrelationship. The morphological findings presented herein may help to interpret future phylogenetic analyses using cranial musculature in Beloniformes.', u'Saccharification of polysaccharides releases monosaccharides that can be used by ethanol-producing microorganisms in biofuel production. To improve plant biomass as a raw material for saccharification, factors controlling the accumulation and structure of carbohydrates must be identified. Rice SUB1A-1 is a transcription factor that represses the turnover of starch and postpones energy-consuming growth processes under submergence stress. Arabidopsis was employed to test if heterologous expression of SUB1A-1 or SUB1C-1 (a related gene) can be used to improve saccharification. Cellulolytic and amylolytic enzymatic treatments confirmed that SUB1A-1 transgenics had better saccharification yield than wild-type (Col-0), mainly from accumulated starch. This high saccharification yield was developmentally controlled since juvenile transgenic plants yielded 200-300% more glucose than Col-0. We measured photosynthetic parameters, starch granule microstructure, and transcript abundance of genes involved in starch degradation (SEX4, GWD1), juvenile transition (SPL3-5) and meristematic identity (FUL, SOC1) but found no differences to Col-0, indicating that starch accumulation may be controlled by down-regulation of CONSTANS and FLOWERING LOCUS T by SUB1A-1 as previously reported. SUB1A-1 transgenics also offered less resistance to deformation than wild-type concomitant to up-regulation of AtEXP2 expansin and BGL2 glucan-1,3,-beta-glucosidase. We conclude that heterologous SUB1A-1 expression can improve saccharification yield and softness, two traits needed in bioethanol production.', u'Mercury (Hg) is a bioaccumulating trace metal that globally circulates the atmosphere and waters in its elemental, inorganic and organic chemical forms. While Hg represents a notorious neurotoxicant, the underlying cellular pathways are insufficiently understood. We identify amyloid protein aggregation in the cell nucleus as a novel pathway of Hg-bio-interactions. By mass spectrometry of purified protein aggregates a subset of spliceosomal components and nucleoskeletal protein lamin B1 were detected as constituent parts of an Hg-induced nuclear aggregome network. The aggregome network was located by confocal imaging of amyloid-specific antibodies and dyes to amyloid cores within splicing-speckles that additionally recruit components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Hg significantly enhances global proteasomal activity in the nucleus suggesting that formation of amyloid speckles plays a role in maintenance of protein homeostasis. RNAi knock down showed that lamin B1 for its part regulates amyloid speckle formation and thus likewise participates in nuclear protein homeostasis. As the Hg-induced cascade of interactions between the nucleoskeleton and protein homeostasis reduces neuronal signalling, amyloid fibrillation in the cell nucleus is introduced as a feature of Hg-neurotoxicity that opens new avenues of future research. Similar to protein aggregation events in the cytoplasm that are controlled by the cytoskeleton, amyloid fibrillation of nuclear proteins may be driven by the nucleoskeleton.', u'Long-term field studies of primates are critical for our understanding of life history and the processes driving changes in demography. Here, we present the first long-term demographic data for the northernmost population of the mantled howler monkey (Alouatta palliata). We followed 10 groups of howler monkeys living in a highly fragmented landscape between 2000 and 2011. Forest fragmentation did not seem to play a major role in the dynamics of our population, as the population size remained relatively stable over the 10-year study period, and birth rates and inter-birth intervals were comparable to those of howler monkeys at other sites. Moreover, dispersal events were commonplace, particularly secondary dispersal (individuals emigrating from groups that they had previously immigrated into), which supports the suggestion that this may be an important component of the reproductive strategy of the mantled howler monkey. Finally, we found a marked effect of seasonality on the population dynamics of our study population. In particular, the period of lowest temperatures and resource scarcity between November and March was associated with higher mortality and reproductive inhibition, while the period of resource abundance between April and May was associated with the majority of conceptions and weaning of offspring. This, in turn, could be influencing dispersal patterns in our study area, as male howler monkeys seem to time some of their immigrations into new groups to coincide with the start of the period of higher fertility, while females preferentially joined new groups several months before the onset of this period.', u'This thesis describes the work that has been carried out in connection with my Masters at the University of Copenhagen. This work has led to new dispersion and hydrogen bond corrections to the PM6 method, PM6-D3H+, and its implementation in the GAMESS program. The method combines the DFT-D3 dispersion correction by Grimme et al. with a modified version of the H+ hydrogen bond correction by Korth. This work also included the implementation of the new HF-3c method in GAMESS and its interface with the fragmentation method FMO. Overall, the interaction energy of PM6-D3H+ is very similar to PM6-DH2 and PM6-DH+, with RMSD and MAD values within 0.02 kcal/mol of one another. HF-3c also shows interaction energies within the same order of accuracy as the PM6 based methods. The main difference is that the geometry optimizations of 88 complexes result in 82, 6, 0, and 0 geometries with 0, 1, 2, and 3 or more imaginary frequencies using PM6-D3H+ implemented in GAMESS, while the corresponding numbers for PM6-DH+ implemented in MOPAC are 54, 17, 15, and 2. PM6-D3H+ and FMO2-HF- 3c in GAMESS was used to optimize two small proteins which resulted in a much more reliable structure compared to the reference structures, than PM6-DH+ in MOPAC, most likely due to the different optimization algorithms associated with the programs. The PM6-D3H+ method as implemented in GAMESS offers an attractive alternative to PM6-DH+ in MOPAC in cases where the LBFGS optimizer must be used and a vibrational analysis is needed, e.g., when computing vibrational free energies. While the GAMESS implementation is up to 10 times slower for geometry optimizations of proteins in bulk solvent compared to MOPAC, it is sufficiently fast to make geometry optimizations of small proteins practically feasible.', u'Organisms often respond in similar ways to environmental or spatial gradients, particularly at large spatial scales, but patterns at finer scales and across ecotones are less certain. It is important to understand these relationships at multiple spatial scales, as managers often need suitable surrogate taxa for conservation and monitoring purposes. We explored whether community concordance at the river-riparian interface was decoupled by increasing anthropogenic stress (a gradient of local land-use intensity) at 15 sites over three years within the LTER site, Rhine-Main Observatory, a low mountain river system in central Germany. We assessed concordance between four organism groups: riparian spiders and carabid beetles, benthic macroinvertebrates, and combined aquatic macrophytes and riparian plants. This represented three different linkages: (1) predator-prey, (2) direct competition, and (3) habitat associations. While there were no correlations in richness patterns, multivariate community structure was highly concordant between all groups. Anthropogenic stress strongly reduced links between riparian spiders and carabid beetles, likely resulting from their shared resource requirements. However, increasing concordance occurred between plants and other groups. We posit that patterns may be resulting from two processes: (1) linkages between directly competing species decouple with increasing anthropogenic stress, and (2) stronger coupling may occur between habitat providers and dependent species when overall habitat complexity is reduced. These results highlight the complex manner in which anthropogenic stress can influence ecosystems and the importance of considering community structure when exploring biodiversity patterns in basic and applied ecological research, particularly at small scales and for surrogate taxa development.', u'The Apodini swifts in the Old World serve as an example for a recent radiation on an intercontinental scale on the one hand. On the other hand they provide a model for the interplay of trait and distributional range evolution with speciation, extinction and trait transition rates on a low taxonomic level (23 extant taxa). Swifts are well adapted to a life mostly in the air and to long-distance movements. Their overall colouration is dull, but lighter feather patches of chin and rump stand out as visual signals. Only few Apodini taxa breed outside the tropics; they are the only species in the study group that migrate long distances to wintering grounds in the tropics and subtropics. We reconstructed a dated molecular phylogeny including all species, numerous outgroups and fossil constraints. Several methods were used for historical biogeography and two models for the study of trait evolution. We finally correlated trait expression with geographic status. The differentiation of the Apodini took place in less than 9 Ma. Their ancestral range most likely comprised large parts of the Old-World tropics, although the majority of extant taxa breed in the Afrotropic and the closest relatives occur in the Indomalayan. The expression of all three investigated traits increased speciation rates and the traits were more likely lost than gained. Chin patches are found in almost all species, so that no association with phylogeny or range could be found. Rump patches showed a phylogenetic signal and were correlated with Indomalayan distribution. Apodini swifts performed long-distance migration whenever they expanded their range to temperate latitudes during warm periods, repeatedly in the Pleistocene.', u'Small non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) represent a diverse group of gene regulatory factors that can posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression in response to various stimuli during brain development and differentiation. Subsets of ncRNAs and miRNAs in particular, are very specifically expressed within the central nervous system and participate in the regulation of important brain functions. miRNAs are essential for the postmitotic survival of neurons, and therefore might play a role in neuroprotection. A number of miRNAs have been reported to be dysregulated in several neurodegenerative diseases implying that they can contribute to pathogenesis. Furthermore, in light of the neuroprotective properties of some miRNAs, these small RNA species may themselves be the focus for drug development. Here, we review recent studies that imply a link between miRNA role in the regulation of ubiquitine-proteasome pathways and neurodegeneration and discuss how increased knowledge of miRNAs might serve the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.', u'Foraging honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) routinely travel as far as several kilometers from their hive in the process of collecting nectar and pollen from floral patches within the surrounding landscape. Since the availability of floral resources at the landscape scale is a function of landscape composition, apiculturists have long recognized that landscape composition is a critical determinant of honey bee colony success. Nevertheless, we are aware of no published studies that present quantitative data relating colony success metrics to local landscape composition. We employed a beekeeper survey in conjunction with GIS-based landscape analysis to model colony success as a function of landscape composition in the State of Ohio, USA, a region characterized by intensive cropland, urban development, deciduous forest, and grassland. We found that colony food accumulation and wax production were positively related to cropland and negatively related to forest and grassland, a pattern that may be driven by the abundance of dandelion and clovers in agricultural areas compared to forest or mature grassland. Colony food accumulation was also negatively correlated with the ratio of urban:crop area in sites dominated by urban and agricultural land cover, which does not support the popular opinion that the urban environment is more favorable to honey bees than cropland.', u'Geminin has a dual role in the regulation of DNA replication: it inhibits replication factor CDT1 activity during the G2 phase of the cell cycle and promotes its accumulation at the G2/M transition. In this way Geminin prevents DNA re-replication during G2 phase and ensures that DNA replication is efficiently executed in the next S phase. CDT1 was shown to associate with SKP2, the substrate recognition factor of the SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. We investigated the interplay between these three proteins in cancer cell lines. We show that Geminin, CDT1 and SKP2 could possibly form a complex and propose the putative regions of CDT1 and Geminin involved in the binding. We also show that, despite the physical interaction, SKP2 depletion does not substantially affect CDT1 and Geminin protein levels. Moreover, we show that while Geminin and CDT1 levels fluctuate, SKP2 levels, differently than in normal cells, are almost steady during the cell cycle of the tested cancer cells.', u"In this preliminary effort, we use a commercially available and chemically modified tube to selectively capture circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from the blood stream by immobilizing human anti-EpCAM antibodies on the tube's interior surface. We describe the steps required to modify a tube into a cancer cell capturing device. Using these simple modifications, at this proof-of-concept stage of development, we were able to capture about 85% of cancer cells from suspension and 44% of cancer cells from spiked whole blood, the capture percentage being dependent on the tube's length and the number of cancer cells present. Previous work by other researchers has focused on extracting small blood volumes and capturing CTCs with complicated micro-fluidic devices for diagnostic purposes. In addition, prior results of other researchers point to a possible reduction in metastasis achieved by removing CTCs from the bloodstream. We believe that with the utilization of appropriate tube lengths and procedures, we can ensure capture and removal of nearly the entire CTC population in whole blood. Following whole blood flow through the tube, the tube can be trypsinized to release the captured live CTCs for further analysis and testing.", u'The COMBINE archive is a digital container format for files related to a virtual experiment in computational biology. It eases the management of numerous files related to a simulation study, fosters collaboration, and ultimately enables the exchange of reproducible research results. The CombineArchive Toolkit is a software for creating, exploring, modifying, and sharing COMBINE archives. Open model repositories such as BioModels Database are a valuable resource of models and associated simulation descriptions. However, so far no tool exists to export COMBINE archives for a given simulation study from such databases. Here we demonstrate how the CombineArchiveToolkit can be used to extract reproducible simulation studies from model repositories. We use the example of Masymos, a graph database with a sophisticated link concept to connect model-related files on the storage layer.', u'International air travel has already spread Ebola virus disease (EVD) to major cities as part of the unprecedented epidemic that started in Guinea in December 2013. An infected airline passenger arrived in Nigeria on July 20, 2014 and caused an outbreak in Lagos and then Port Harcourt. After a total of 20 reported cases, including 8 deaths, Nigeria was declared EVD free on October 20, 2014. We quantified the impact of early control measures in preventing further spread of EVD in Nigeria and calculated the risk that a single undetected case will cause a new outbreak. We fitted an EVD transmission model to data from the outbreak in Nigeria and estimated the individual reproduction number of the index case at 9.0 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 5.2-15.6). We also found that the net reproduction number fell below unity 15 days (95% CI: 11-21 days) after the arrival of the index case. Hence, our study illustrates the time window for successful containment of EVD outbreaks caused by infected air travelers.', u'There is an increasing need to validate and collect data approximating brain size on individuals in the field to understand what evolutionary factors drive brain size variation within and across species. We investigated whether we could accurately estimate endocranial volume (a proxy for brain size) as measured by computerized tomography (CT) scans, using external skull measurements and/or by filling skulls with beads and pouring them out into a graduated cylinder for male and female great-tailed grackles. We found that while females had much stronger correlations than males, estimations of endocranial volume from external skull measurements or beads did not correlate with CT volumes at a standard that surpassed our strict criteria. We found no accuracy in the ability of external skull measures to predict CT volumes because prediction intervals from data points overlapped extensively. We conclude that we are unable to detect individual differences in endocranial volume using external skull measurements. These results emphasize the importance of validating and explicitly quantifying the predictive accuracy of brain size proxies for each species, and each sex, under consideration.', u'Abstract: Rubella is a vaccine-preventable, mild rash-inducing viral disease with complications that include a spectrum of birth defects in the developing foetus, especially if the infection is acquired in the early months of pregnancy. Consequently, the primary objective of global rubella control programmes is prevention of congenital rubella infection and associated birth defects often collectively referred to as congenital rubella syndrome.Despite the availability of safe and effective vaccines, and elimination of rubella virus in many developed countries substantial commitment to rubella control has not been demonstrated in the developing countries. This study appraises immunity to rubella, and consequently makes appropriate recommendations aimed at facilitating effective control. A cross-sectional sero-surveillance study was carried out among 272 consenting ante-natal clinic attendees in south-western, Nigeria. Prevalence rates of 91.54% and 1.84% were recorded for anti-rubella virus (anti-RV) IgG and IgM respectively. Also, 90.7% and 92.3% of the women aged \u226430 years and \u203a30 years respectively had detectable anti-RV IgG. No significant association (p=0.94) was recorded between anti-RV IgG detection and age of the women. Previous exposure and susceptibility of significant fraction of the population to rubella infection were confirmed. Considerable political commitment and promotion of free rubella immunization specifically for women with childbearing potential were recommended.']